The philosophical magazine.
London, England : Taylor & Francis, 1798-c1977.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/uva.x002266030
                              Public Domain, Google-digitized
                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                              We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                              meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                              free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                              in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                              heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                              of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                              copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                              of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                              need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                              address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                              produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                              on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                              the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                              or used commercially. The images are provided for
                              educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.





PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                        (AND JOURNAL:
                               COMPREHENDING
         THE VARIOUS BRANCHES OF SCIENCE,
                 THE LIBERAL AND FIN£ ARTS,
                              GEOLOGY,
                          AGRICULTURE,
            MANUFACTURES AND COMMERCE.
                BY ALEXANDER TILLOCH,
         M.R.I.A. M.RA.S. Munich, F.S.A.       Edin. and Perth, &c.
   "  Nec aranearum sane textus ideo melior quia ex se fila
vilior quia ex alienk libamus ut apes." Just. Lips. Mtiuit.
                                    VOL. LI.
    For   JANUARY,        FEBRUARY, MARCH, APRIL,            MAY,
                                  JUNE, 1818.
                                 ION DO      Im
       printed BT RICHARD         AND ARTHUR TAYLOR, SHOE LANE:
   And sold by Cadell and Davies ; Longman. Hurst, Rees, Okhx, and
        Brows; Highley • Suerwoqd and Co.; Harding ; Under
            wood, London: Const able and Co Edinburgh! Brash
               and Reid, Duncan, and Pen man, Glasgow: and
                          Gilbert a::d Hodges, Dublin.

  \
227555

                     CONTEN                    T     S
          OF THE FIFTY-FIRST VOLUME.
OiV   Flax-steeping, and its Effects       on the Colour and         Quality
  of the Flax.       . .     . .       . .        . .      . .         . .    3
Supplement    to Mr. Benwell's Paper on the Value of increas
   ing Life Annuities, in our Number for September 1817.                      6
Aeronautics applied to Meteorology \              ..       ..          ..     9
An Analysis of Sea-water; with          Observations on tlw Analysis
  of Salt -brines.       ..                 ..                  ..      10,91
Cn Dry -Rot.         , .     .  .      . .       . .       . .               25
Observations on the Temperature of the Ocean and Atmosphere,
  and on the Density of Sea-water, made during a Voyage to
   Ceylon.                                                                  27
Remarks on the Geological Principles         of Werner, and          those   of
  Mr. Smith.         ..     ..         ..        ..       ..          ..    .36
On the Question    " Whether     Music is necessary to the Orator —
  to  what Extent, and how      most  readily attainable?" 38, 181,
                                                                   321, 455
On the Case   of Miss Margaret MacAvoy.                  . .          . .   44
Account by M. Chev. Dupin, Corresponding Member of the
  French Institute, &c. of an Aurora Borealis observed at Glas
  gow thel9th of'September, contained in aLetter to M. Arago.
                                   .                                        47
On the Atomic Theory,          ..       ,.         .,       ..      81,161
On the Identity of Water-Spouts and Whirlwinds.                    . .     103
On the Origin of Hot Springs. ..               ..      . .         ..107
On the Probability of Meteorolites being projected from the
  Moon. — Galvanic and Electric Experiments.                       ..      109
                                                       '
Vol. 51. No. 242. Jz/ne 1818.                  a               Description

                            CONTENTS.
Description of Mr. Edmund           Turrell's      improved       Drawing
   Board and T Square.                .,      ..        . .        ..114
On Chemical Philosophy.                                     117, 335), 425
Chemical Examination of some Substances used in Ceylon as
   Remedies against the Bites of venomous Serpents.                .. 122
Remarks on the Case      of Miss M'Avoy. ..             ..         ..    123
Case of an American Girl       — deaf, dumb, and blind.            ..    129
On a Plan for properly observing Fire- Ball Meteors. . .                 130
Mr. Smith's     Geological Claims stated.     . .       ..          ..   173
On the Nautical Almanac.              . .     ..        ..         ..186
Meteorological Retrospect for     the last  Half of the Year 1817.        1S9
On the Influence which the Increase or Diminution              of the   Polar
   Ice has on the Climates of other Latitudes. . .                 . .    199
On a Case   of Formation of Ice on an Alkaline Solution.                 201
On supposed Lunar Projectiles, on Aeroliths;               and on Notices
   of Comets.        . .     . .      . .     . .        . .        . .  203
 Geological   and Mineralogical     Survey   of Part of      the Yorkshire
   Coast.   . .              ..       ..      . .       ,  ,       . .   206
On tfie transverse Strength and Resilience       of Timber.         . .  21  f
Account of Antiquarian       Researches    in Egypt    by M. Belzoni,
   charged by the British      Government     to make Collections for
   the British Museum,       ..       ..      ..        ..          ..241
On the Use    of ike common Thermometer as a Hygrometer, and
   Description of a Self-registering Hygrometer.                   . .   243
Report of (he Committee appointed to superintend the Experi
   ments of Dr. Sickler, for the Purpose of proving the Effi
   cacy of a Method proposed by him, for utiroliing and deci
   phering the Herculaneum Manuscripts.                 . .        . .   248
Anatomical Description of the Fir Tree.               . .          . .   256
Receipts for Enamel Coloursi and for staining and gilding Glass.
                                                                         263
On the Resilience   of Materials ; with Experiments.               .  .  276.
On the Expeditions to the North Pole. . .               ..         ..    279
On extinguishing    of Fires in Buildings.    . .       . .        .  .  28?
On the Preparat ion and Use of Copal Famish as a Vehicle pre
  ferable to Oil for the Purposes of the Painter.                  . .   289
On the Saltness    of the Atlantic  Ocean                                29 1

                             CONTENTS.
On the Practicability      of a   direct Passage over the North Pole.
                                                                   294, 330
On the first Principles    of Music.     .  .    ..       ..         .  . 306
On the Geological History        of Loch Lomond.          ..        . .   327
Description of Mr. Henry Tritton's imprdved apparatus for
   Distillation.     ..       ,,         . .     ..                       352
Account of a Shower       of Meteoric    Stones which fell in   the County
   of Limerick. . .            . .       . ,     . .      . .        . .  355
Observations    on the   Letter of Mr. Friedlander on the actual
   State of Magnetism in Germany . ..                 ..             .. 358
Observations     and Experiments          on oxy sulphuretted      Muriatic
   Acid.     ..      . .       ..        ..      . .      . .        . .  366
On the Kaleidoscope.           .,        ..      ..       ..         ..   376
On   the Pressure  of the Earth     against Revetements and Retaini?ig
   Walls                                                                  401
 On the   Seeds  of Plants                                                404
On a new Mode       of Artificial     Congelation.    . .       . .       411
 On the Height    of the Aurora Borealis from        the    Earth.        422
 On the Necessity of Animal Decay.               ,.       . .         . .  423
 Experiments made in France upon the Use of distilled Sea-
   Water for domestic Purposes, and its Effects upon the Con
   stitution when taken as a Beverage. . .                . .        . . 433
 On the Dry-Rat.                                                          435
 On   the Electric Properties of Metals, and the absolute Positive
   and Negative Electric Powers of various Substances.                    438
Process practised in the Establishment of Syoise sur Seine to
   extract Vinegar or Acetic Acid from Wood.               . .        . . 439
 On a new and expeditious Method of naming at sight the Roots
   of complete    Cubes under Ten Figures.            ..         , .       443
History of Dr. Brewster's Kaleidoscope,                with Remarks on
   its supposed Resemblance to other              Combinations of plain
   Mirrors,           , ,       , ,       ,                                445

                          CONTENTS.
Notices respecting New Books.       49, 133, 217, 308, 381, 461
Proceedings  of Learned  Societies.  57, 139, 221, 31 1, 390, 4G4
Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles. 63, 146, 228, 312,391,
                                                              465
List of Patents                     71, 154, 234, 315, 394, 468
Meteorological Takes,     73— SO, 157—160, 237—240,317—
                                      320, 397—400, 470—173
                                                            THE

                                THE
     PH      ILOSO PHIC A L MAGAZINE
                  AND JOURNAL.
I.   On Flax-sleeping, and its Effects on the Colour and Qua
           lity of the Flax. By Gavin Inglis, Esq.
                          To   Mr. Tilloch.
Dear Sir, — Xk     you consider the following observations on
flax-steeping worthy of a place in your valuable Magazine, I will
thank you to insert then;.      They are the substance of an
swers furnished by me to inquiries made upon that subject by
G. Thomson, Esq. of the Trustees Office, Edinburgh.
   When in Dumbartonshire in 1801, reducing to practice the
process of bleaching by steam, I had a few spindles of yarn given
me to prepare for weaving.       There was in the sleekness of the
thread something that attracted my attention.        Having soaked
it over-night in warm water to prepare it for steaming, I was
much surprised at the change of colour, and the quantity of co
louring matter dissolved in the water. It was then washed, wrung;
and soaked in a weak a!ks!ine ley, and laid for steaming over
some brown linens. After steaming the usual time, the covers were
taken off.    The yarn was found to have attained a degree of
whiteness I never had before observed under similar circum
stances.    It was washed in the stream so long as any colouring
matter came from    it, and laid to the grass for two daj's. I  re
member well the colour was such as to impress me with a strong
belief that some great and important discovery might be the re
sult of accurately following up the process this flax had gone
through and immediately made inquiry of the lady to whom the
         ;    I
yarn belonged, who informed me she had           from
                                                  it   aperson she
named, in the. neighbourhood    : to this individual   I made the
same application, and traced the yarn to have been purchased at
a Kilmarnock fair.
   Here the matter rested till the nest season of lint pulling.  I
had  aparticular wish to trace   possible the matter to its source,
                                if
and conceived the best plan would be to traverse that part of the
country, from Stirling towards Kilmarnock.      My time was far
  Vol. 51. No.237. Jan. 1818.                 A   2             too

                                                                         -
4                 On Flax-steeping, and its Effects
too limited ; but I saw as much as to satisfy myself that the
secret with regard to the bleaching, lay entirely in pulling the
flax before it was too upe; and I also found that this great ad
vantage might again be lost by improper watering.
    I saw the flax in all its stages, from the pulling to the drying
after watering ; and upon inquiry I uniformly found the greenest
pulled was intended for the finest purposes, and that the whitest
flax, after drying, had been watered in the hum.            They were
very particular in watering,    and   did  not allow it  to remain so
long in the water as I had been led to believe necessary, from the
practice here ; nor did they spread it on the grass after watering,
as is the mode in this quarter, but dried it all from the water, by
what is termed hutting.
    As bleaching alone was my object, my inquiries respecting the
different shades of colour after watering were very particular ;
and I uniformly found that the white flax had been watered in the
burn, and the dark-coloured in ponds dug where water could be
most conveniently obtained.       When I mention a burn, it must
be understood to be a stream so small as to require a dam being
necessary to receive the water into a Temporary pond to cover
the flax.
    The succession of clean water, 1 conceive, prevents the deposi
tion of colouring principles, to be hereafter mentioned, by wash
ing or carrying them away, after being extracted from the flax,
which I had afterwards an opportunity of proving, in a pond so
constructed, which produced remarkably white flax, while the
same flax, from several stagnant ponds dug in the same ground,
filled with water from the same spring,was very dark in the colour.
     In following up these observations, my situation in life did not
then admit of experiments to the extent the importance of the
subject would have required.       I shall, however, narrate these, so
far as they extended. The result satisfied me, that the watering
of flax must vary with local circumstances, and every where de
pend on the means afforded by springs, streams, moss, or marsh,
that may be in the neighbourhood         of the flax-field, so long as
the present mode of culture is followed ; and the colour of the
flax after watering very much depend on the following causes:
    The ripeness of the flax before pulling.
    The state of putridity of the stagnant water.
    The minerals the water may contain.
    Whether it is steeped in a pond dug, or one formed by damming
a small stream or rill.       Or, if a succession of parcels of flax
 (which     is sometimes  the  case) be watered in the same pond,
where every succeeding parcel must partake of the contaminating
dye produced by the fermentation of the former.
     In the course of my observations, I found the quantity and
                                                              solubility

                on the Colour and  Quality of the Flax.                 5
  solubility of the colouring matter in proportion to the degree of
ripeness ; and in the ripest, on a principle I never till then knew
to have an esistence in flax, viz. iron, which may be said to
 abound in ripe flax.
     In unripe flax I found the colouring matter soluble in water ;
 but this matter became less and less soluble, till the water made
 little or no impression upon it.    The time necessary for flax to
 macerate must in some measure depend on the weather, but
 more on the state of ripeness than most practitioners seem to be
 aware of.                              .          .
     In unripe flax the juices of the plant are in a mucilaginous
 state; hence its solubility in water.    If flax is watered in an un
 ripe state, the mucilage, from its solubility, tends greatly to facili
 tate the process of watering, by promoting the fermentation.
 But if the flax is allowed to stand on the ground till it has at
 tained a rusty-brown colour, and the seed fully ripened, the
juices of the plant are then changed from mucilage to resinous
 matter, and certainly no longer soluble in water, so far as the
 resin is concerned, unless assisted by solvents.
     In this stage, instead of having a large portion of mucilage
to expedite the fermentation, the resin defends the flax for a
time against the effects of the water, and the fermentation must
proceed by slow degrees ; consequently the time necessary to
steep flax must vary according         to the ripe or unripe state of
the flax when pulled. What would sufficiently water unripe flax,
 would hardly penetrate the outer rind of the ripe ; and the time
 required for the ripe would entirely destroy the other.
     The choice (where a choice can be made) of the water, and
 the ground into which ponds are to be dug, or the rill or stream
 into which the flax is to be laid, is certainly of the highest im
 portance, for the colour, quantity and quality of the fla::.
     That very great improvements may be made in the mode of
separating the flax from the rind and boon, so as to render that
process less offensive, far safer, and equally effectual, I have no
doubt whatever. But before promulgating any speculative theory
on a subject of such importance to the nation, would it not be
 laudable in the Honourable Board of Trustees to cause a full
 series of experiments on a fair scale, to be made and followed
up bv some persons of skill and observation, which would set the
 matter at rest, solve all doubts on so important a process, and
furnish the farmer and flax-grower with such instructions that he
could not err.
     The presence of iron in the plant was discovered in my at
tempts to bleach flax, by different modes, to ascertain whether
 there existed any other principle beside mucilage, resin and oil,
in what stage the juices became insoluble in water, and to
                                  A3                              what

6     Supplement lo the Value     of increasing Life Annuities.
what extent these substances existed, with a view to ascertain
the safest strength of alkaline applications to be tised in the
different processes of bleaching.       Alkalies are the common sol
vents used by bleachers; but      I did not conceive them altogether
adapted to my present purpose. I took alcohol, and succeeded in
bleaching to a very beautiful whiteness flax in its unripe state
and in its early stages; but as the flax ripened, its power lessened.
I exposed full ripe flax to the action of alcohol, both in a liquid
state and in the state of vapour, till I satisfied myself of having
extracted all the resinous matter; — still a colour remained.          I
subjected it to the action of an oxymuriate, and was astonished to
see the presence of iron so strongly indicated.         I took another
quantity of this full ripe flax, and boiled it in a ley of prussiate of
potash, prepared by calcination of common potash with green
whins: from this it was washed, and immersed in oxymuriate of
lime, which produced a beautiful light blue.          This experiment
I repeated till I produced, by apparently the same process, on
the unripe flax a beautiful white, and on the full ripe a fine, full,
Prussian blue.        This explained in a most satisfactory manner
many of the phenomena of bleaching I never before could com
prehend, and appeared to me a most wonderful work in nature, —
the formation of a metal in the juices of a plant, whose ex
istence was not detected, by the same means, in the same plant,
only fourteen to twenty days younger than where its presence
 became so manifest.
    Tan also exists in flax, and is very soluble in water.
    In steeping flax, the water in the pond becomes impregnated
 with tan. n,he process of fermentation comes on, in the pro
 gress of which the iron is acted upon.        The iron and tan corn-
 bine, precipitate, and form an almost indestructible dye. ,
     Thus, by inattention to the steeping of flax, the labour and
 expense of bleaching are greatly increased. The linen loses much
 of its strength and durability by the necessary process of bleach
 ing, and destroying a colour which, by due care, might be pre
 vented from ever fixing itself.      With esteem, I remain,
                                  Dear sir, yours sincerely,
 Strathendry Bleachfiekl,                              GaVIN INGLIS.
       Dec. 10, 1817.
 II.   Supplement lo Mr. Benwell's Paper on the Value of in
   creasing Life Annuities, in our Number for September 1817.
                              To Mr. Tilloch.
  Sir, — From        the circumstance of having changed the original
 form of the theorems for determining the values of increasing
                                                                    life

         Supplement    to ike Value  of increasing Life Annuities.      7
 life   annuities (inserted in number 233, for September) it has
 happened that the symbolic characters denoting the operations
 to be performed upon the respective quantities which compose
 them, have inadvertently been misplaced, and in one instance en
tirely omitted. As a consequence thereof, the theorems are liable
 to he misinterpreted, and their practical solutions at variance
 with the conditions and process of investigation upon which they
 have been established.       These corrections, although apparently
minute, but really essential, will first engage my notice; when I
also beg to avail myself of the opportunity to offer some ad
ditional theorems applicable to the purpose above, and which
will appear to be much more commodious, and better adapted
to computation than those which they properly represent; and
so far as regards this object, the only difference between them is,
that the latter are not dependent for their numerical results on
the tables of single and joint lives, being derived from the cele
brated hypothesis of M. DeMoivre, as the present ones s'milarly
are by its aid from the real prob abilities of life, and which conse
quently will applyto any tables of observations whatever. It there-
fV,re follows as a distinction, that in all cases of real practice the
formule now inserted should be employed in preference to those
alluded to. — I now proceed to the corrections.
      In the first theorem the sign ( should be put before 6(a+l)
in order to connect it with the following quantity, the significa
tion being that the whole thus included within the parenthesis
is to    be incorporated with the expression x .
      The second requires no other observation than its being cor
rectly printed.
     In the third theorem the sign — is omitted ; it ought to be
                                    / thus
                                  '
 put before the factor - —                  keeping distinct by its pro
 per index of operation all the quantities forming the expression
 to the right from those composing that on the left.
     In the fourth and hist the sign ( should he removed from be
 fore the 6 and set on the left of the factor — !— , since the two
sets of quantities      connected   thereby are also to be combined
 with the expression X.
     And further note, The general term in the pentagonal series       Y
should have — n, and not —1, as printed.
     With respect to the supplementary part of niv design :
     Put A AA for the value of an annuity of      £\  on the given sin-
 tile, and two equal joint lives.       AA'.A' the values of the same
 lives each one .\ear older.
                                    A4                              Now

ti      Supplement to the Value     of increasing Life Annuities.
      Now let the theorems in the paper referred to,            as they occur
in order, be severally denoted by P.           Q.R.S.     (—   .      the ex
 pectation of the given life receiving          £la    year hence ; c. c' the
 complements of the same, and of a life one year older. Then
alter effecting the necessary substitutions, and by reduction, the
resulting equations may be lepresentecl as follows ;
              eA + B-D + c-l. + <5.(A-AA)--^j- ^B-—
                                                                 -    )
        P =
 B being the value of      an annuity     1. 2.   3. 4. for the tern; certain
 equal to c, and     D that of  £\    for like term.
                                                   ,  —1
          Q= c(A-AA) + c'.(A'-AA')              .
                                                  ^x.
      Now    if P' denote the value as found by the fust formula for
 a life   1 vear older than A, we shall obtain
                                            — l
                              oA+{V>S)8x
                                    a
                    And,S=oP+p,-,;1
       Any given sum being proposed to be advanced in lieu of an
  equivalent increasing life annuity, one general instance of the
  utility of these formule then would be, to assign what the ratio
  of the series should be, because allied in principle to that which
  determines the value of the annuity sought ; and I conceive there
  is a numerous class of individuals in the speculative order of so
  ciety, and of others having no prospective views as to the future
  disposition of their property, but who, prudently contemplating
  a time of adversity happening, would be induced to stipulate for
  the grant of an annuity beginning with some small annual payment,
  and increasing upwards, so that it is rendered an object the more
  inviting as the duration of life is prolonged. These persons, it may
  be imagined, would infer a peculiar policy in this mode of assur
   ance, independent of the pleasing reflections it must inspire at a
   season (as we perceive but too commonly evidenced) when human
  nature hath to recount the sublunary ills of an eventful and che
   quered life. I aim not at objects merely speculative and curious,
   but practically advantageous.
       Yet I am sensible of an existing cause that tends to counter
   act a spirit of stimulus for life annuity business in a quarter where
   most naturally it would be expected, arising from the tables at
   this time so indiscriminately resorted to being verv defective and
   ill-suited thereto; and indeed its objects, at first confined to the
                                                                     chartered

                 Aeronautics applied to Meteorology.                 9
chartered companies, we have seen usurped and persevered in to
an improvident extent.          Hence it is these instruments of ana
lysis may remain dormant as speculative truths, till, by the ac
cession of more copious and efficient auxiliaries, the practical may
be said to keep pace with the mathematical means.
     Having been prevented by particular circumstances from pay
ing earlier attention to this matter, if you will have the goodness
to allot it a place in the next number of the Philosophical Ma
gazine, it will confer an obligation upon, Sir,
                           Your obliged and humble servant,
 Haberdashers' Place, Hoxton,                   Jas. Benj. BkNWELL.
        December 12, 1817-
 I II. Aeronautics applied to Meteorology.        By T, Forster, Esq.
                               To  Mr. Tilloch.
 Sir, —     I had   for a long time suspected, from the direction of
 the flving clouds, that the currents of air which occupied the
 higher regions of the atmosphere came down afterwards, and
 blew over the earth's surface in the same direction as they had
 previously blown above.         To ascertain this fact, I observed at
 tentively   the various   directions of small air-balloons made and
 sent up by my brother.         Out of more than twenty experiments,
 I have selected the following as confirming this fact : — they were
 made in different years, and in different times of the year.
     In October 1809, a gas-balloon three feet seven inches dia
 meter, on ascending, first moved with an E. wind; at the height
 of {about) 500 feet it got into a NN.W. current; and lastly, at
 a much greater altitude got into a strong gale from SW., which
 carried it into Cambridgeshire.         The succesive changes of the
 wind next the earth as indicated bv the weathercocks were E.,
  NNW., and SW.
      I have minutes of nine experiments made during the two con
 sequent years (1810 and 1811), in which each balloon got three
  currents, whose directions became successively the directions of
  the currents next the earth within the space of thirty-six hours.
      In four other experiments marie in the same years, two of the
  balloons went uniformly in one direction, and the wind remained
  steady for several days.      The other two experiments failed; that
  is to say, the currents indicated by them did not come down,
  or else they came in the night-time, and were unobserved.          Of
  late years, not being stationary in one place, I have not made
  so many experiments ; and I have only accurately observed four
  balloons made by my brother, whereof three got four, and the
  other got two currents of air : out of these only two were fol
                                                                  lowed

   10                  An Analysis of Sea-waler ;
  lowed by successive currents next the earth in the same direc
  tion.
      Yesterday he launched from Clapton a middle-sized inflam
  mable gas-balloon, at three o'clock P.M., the smoke and wea
   thercocks indicating a W. wind.            The balloon consequently
  went in an E. direction ; but at the height of what on a rough
  guess might seem to be above five or six thousand feet, it got
  into a NW. gale, and seemed carried toward SE.              At half after
  four the smoke from the chimneys indicated the same wind,
  though so gentle as hardly to be perceived, and which did not
  move the common weather-vanes.
      The last experiment confirms also an observation which I
  have before made, by means of the movement of the higher
  clouds; namely, that when the thermometer is below the freezing
  point with a southerly wind, there is then a northerly wind blow
  ing above it. — We have offered a small reward for the balloon,
  and shall be obliged to any person who may communicate where
  it fell, that we may ascertain its ultimate direction.
      I hope to communicate in future more accurate details of
  aeronautic experiments on wind; and I merely communicate the
  above to excite persons in different places to make corresponding
  observations.     The small balloons are easilv made of varnished
  paper; they    are  preferable to those sent up with rarefied air, as
  they ascend higher and keep up longer.             But the rarefied air-
  balloons are capable, when made large enough, of indicating se
  veral currents of air.
      Besides the above experiments of which I have minutes, my
  brother has sent up a great many balloons, and has almost al
  ways observed 'hem moved by two or three currents:. a circum
  stance which shows how little these machines (notwithstanding
  the sanguine assertions of some French writers) can ever be de
  pended on as instruments to convey intelligence               to armies
  where the ordinary means of communication may have been in
  tercepted by the enemy          I am, sir, yours, &c.
     Walthamstoiv, Dec. 12, 1817.                           T. ForstEK.
  IV. An Analysis of Sea-water ; with Observntiom on the Ana
     lysis of Sail-brines.    By John Murray. M. D. F.R.S. S.*
  The      composition of sea-water has been variously stated by
  different chemists, not only with regard to the proportions of the
 salts which it holds in solution, but with regard even to the in
  gredients themselves.
      • From the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh for 1816.
                                                                According
»

       with Observations    on the   Analysis of Salt-brines.          1 1
   According to Lavoisier, it contains muriate of soda, muriate
of magnesia, and muriate of lime, sulphate of soda, sulphate of
magnesia, sulphate and carhonate of lime.      The proportions he
assigns are, in  a pound  of  water, (French weights) 126 grains
of muriate of soda, 14f grains muriate of magnesia, 23 grains
muriate of lime mixed with muriate of magnesia, 7 grains of
sulphate of soda and sulphate of magnesia, and S grains of sul
phate and carbonate of lime*.
   Bergman gives a very different statement.       He found only
muriate of soda, muriate of magnesia, and sulphate of lime ;
the proportions in a Swedish kanne, which is equal to about flA
English pints, are 2 ounces 433 grains of muriate of soda, 3S0
grains of muriate of magnesia, and 45 grains of sulphate of
lime f.   Reducing them to English weights, they are equal, in a
pint of water, to, muriate of soda 241 grains, muriate of mag
nesia 65-5, sulphate of lime 8       This, however, is with regard
to water from the Canaries, containing 1 part of saline matter
iu about 23 j of water.      Reducing it to the proportion of the
water of our shores, that of about 1 to 30, the proportions will
be, muriate of soda 186-5, muriate of magnesia 51, sulphate of
lime 6 = 243-5 grains.
   Bergman's analysis is evidently incorrect in the omission of
sulphate of magnesia, which every other chemist has obtained,
and which is known to be extracted even on a large scale. And,
what is singular, this did not arise from his not being aware that
it might be present.    On the contrary, he made an experiment
to discover it ; and even now, in reviewing his method, it is not
apparent how he had been deceived.           Me evaporated to dryness,
and treated the dry residuum with alcohol, by which he found
muriate of magnesia to be dissolved ; lie then washed the resi
dual matter, consisting chiefly of muriate of soda, with a small
quantity of warm water, by which, as he remarked, if any sul
phate of magnesia were present, it ought to have been dissolved.
But this water showed no signs of the presence of this salt, either
in taste or by precipitation, and contained nothing but a small
portion of common salt.       Now unquestionably, in this way, sul
phate of magnesia ought to have been discovered ; or if it should
be supposed that it does not originally exist, but that sulphate
 of soda is the primary ingredient, still the method employed was
 equally proper to discover this latter salt.      The only supposition
 that can be made   is,that, in   the first step of the analysis,  very
                                                                   a
 weak alcohol had been used in large quantity,            bywhich apor
tion of these sulphates would be dissolved, though still            it   is
 difficult to imagine that in this way they would be entirely abs
 tracted.
                 * Memoires del 'Academic des Sciences, 1772.
             f    Bergman's Essays, vol.   i.   p. 230.        Lavoisier's

  12                   An Analysis of Sea-ivater ;
     Lavoisier's analysis has been considered as incorrect in two
  circumstances, — in the finding muriate of lime, and sulphate of
  soda.     Neither of these has been discovered by other chemists ;
  and in a late analysis of sea-water by Vogel and Lagrange, one
  of the objects of experiment was to detect their presence, and
  the conclusions drawn were, " that sea-water contains no sul
  phate of soda," and
                            " no muriate of lime."         In this analysis
  the saline ingredients found in sea-water were the same as those
  assigned by Bergman, with the addition of sulphate of magnesia.
  In 1000 grammes there were found 25-10 grammes of muriate
  of soda, 3'5 of muriate of magnesia, 5'78 of sulphate of mag
 nesia, 0-20 of carbonate of lime and magnesia, and 0-15 of sul
  phate of lime*.
     Some other recent analyses have been given ; that by Lich-
 tenbergh is noticed by Vogel and Lagrange, from a German
journal, as approaching to their own ; and that of PfaiF, in which,
 as in Lavoisier's analysis, there is found a portion of muriate of
 lime.
     It is obvious, that there remains a degree       of uncertainty with
 regard    to the ingredients of sea-water,   sufficient  to give interest
 to a new analysis.      The  principle, too, which I have illustrated
 in a preceding paper, on the Analysis of Mineral Waters,— that
 the substances obtained are not always to be regarded as the
 original ingredients, but frequently as products of new combina
 tions established by the analytic operations, may contribute to
throw light on the conclusions to be drawn, and seemed to me
to admit of being applied to the explanation of some of the pre
ceding results. This led to the experiments of which I now pro
pose to give an account.
     The peculiarity in the results of Lavoisier's analysis, and with
regard to which the others differ from him, is the obtaining, as
ingredients of sea-water, portions of sulphate of soda and muri
ate of lime.      Applying the principle now referred to, it is ob
vious that, in an analysis by evaporation, the composition of
these salts would be subverted by their reciprocal action ; neither
of them would be obtained ; but by mutual decomposition they
would 'be converted into muriate of soda, and sulphate of lime.
Sulphate of lime is accordingly obtained in all these aualvses,
and probably has this o-igin.
    But, admitting this, how had muriate of lime, and sulphate of
soda, been procured by Lavoisier ?          This, supposing the result
accurate, can only be ascribed to some peculiarity in his process,
by which their mutual action had been prevented, and their di-
  tinct existence preserved. The method he employed was to
                    * Thomson's Annals, vol. iv.
                                                 p. 200.
                                                                evaporate

          ivith Observations on the Analysis            of Salt-brines.             13
evaporate   sea-water to dryness ; during the evaporation, sul
phate and carbonate of lime were precipitated, and were with
drawn : the dry saline mass was lixiviated with alcohol ; and
the ley being poured off clear, was found to hold in solution mu
riate of magnesia and muriate of lime ; the undissolved matter
was then heated, with a mixture of two parts of alcohol and
one of water, by which it was almost entirely dissolved ; it de
posited, however, on cooling, a white powder, which was found
to be sulphate of soda, and sulphate of magnesia, and it retained
dissolved the muriate of soda of the sea-water with a portion
likewise of muriate of magnesia.
    Now a portion of sulphate of lime was obtained in this pro
cess, which, according to the view I have stated, was probably
produced by the mutual decomposition of sulphate of soda and
muriate of lime.     But it is also possible, that this decomposition
might not be complete.       I had formerly found, indeed, that when
a liquor containing these two salts is evaporated, their decom
                                    * ; it spemed
position is not entirely effected                   possible, therefore,
that portions of both might remain undecomposed in Lavoisier's
process ; the alcohol applied to the solid matter would remove
the muriate of lime, and thus the sulphate of soda would re
main.    To elucidate the whole subject, therefore, it seemed best
to repeat Lavoisier's analysis as he had performed                 it,
                                                             and ascer
tain the actual results.
   A. Four pints of sea-water of the Frith of Forth, taken up
near Leith, at  a  distance from any fresh water, were evaporated
by  the heat of      sand bath
                     a             the evaporation being continued
                                    ;
untila  pellicle of salt formed on the boiling liquor.            preci  A
pitate subsided during the boiling, which being washed, weighed
when dry 25 grains.
    B. The liquor was evaporated to dryness, and the saline mass
was dried thoroughly by           continued heat of about 150°;
                                  a                                               it,
weighed 1025 grains.       To separate the salts composing                        it it
was submitted to the action of alcohol.        About     ounces of
                                                               4                   al
cohol of the specific gravity of 840 were poured upon                in      it      a
bottle, and allowed to temain       over    forit12 hours, being   occa
sionally agitated    ;and when poured off an ounce of the same
alcohol was added, and after frequent agitation, and being kept
over it for some hours, was poured off, and added to the former.
    C. The residuum, when dried, weighed 890 grains                   135    ;
grains  had  therefore  been  abstracted, consisting chiefly   of earthy
muriates.
    D. The saline matter was digested with ounces of weaker
                                                        9                a
spirit, composed of       of alcohol and
                          2                   of water, heat being ap
                                                 1
plied to   it   bya sand-bath nearly to ebullition, with frequent
                         * Transactions,   vol. vii. p. 475.
                                                                         agitation   ;

  14                   An Analysis of Sea- water ;
  agitation; and the liquor having been poured off while hot,
  4 ounces more of the same diluted alcohol were added, heated
  as before, and after it had become clear by subsidence, this li
  quor was added to the other.       The greater part of the saline
  mass, consisting chiefly of muriate of soda, was thus dissolved.
     E. The residue was submitted to the action of successive
  quantities of a still weaker spirit, composed of 'A of alcohol, and
  4 of water, aided by heat, with the view of dissolving the sul
  phate of magnesia and of soda.         A solution was obtained of a
 strong saline taste.
     F. To abstract these salts more completely, the residue was
 lixiviated with small successive portions of warm water ; a solu
 tion having a similar taste was obtained.
     G. There was left at length a powder, soft, light, tasteless,
 and insoluble.
     It now remained to examine these products more minutely, to
 determine their nature, and estimate precisely their quantities.
     The powder obtained in the first evaporation, A, consists, ac
 cording to Lavoisier, of sulphate and carbonate of lime.              It
 weighed when dry 25 grains ; it was submitted to the action
 of a very dilute alcohol, acidulated with muriatic acid, which
 excited effervescence ; this being poured off, and the residue be
 ing lixiviated, and dried, weighed 22 grains.        It was sulphate
 of lime, and absorbed water with avidity, becoming solid and
 dry.     The liquor poured off, afforded by evaporation a saline
 deliquescent matter, which, heated with sulphuric acid, gave
 products equivalent to 1-7 grain of carbonate of magnesia, and
 1-2 grain of carbonate of lime.
    The solution B, obtained by the action of the stronger alco
 hol, ought to have contained, according to the results of Lavoi
sier's analysis, muriate of magnesia and muriate of lime.             A
small portion of it was diluted with distilled water, and a few
drops of a solution of oxalate of ammonia were added, but
caused no precipitation, nor even any opacity.             The liquor,
therefore, contained no muriate of lime.       It was distilled to dry
ness.      The dry matter deliquesced on exposure to the air ; be
ing   lixiviated with alcohol, a small portion of muriate of soda
remained undissolved, which was adtled to the solution D. The
liquor being evaporated so far as to be of an oily consistence,
afforded, on cooling, muriate of magnesia in prisms.              This,
dried until it had no appearance of moisture, weighed 145 grains.
Decomposed by sulphuric acid, it afforded 105-9 grains of dry
sulphate of magnesia, equivalent to 83-5 of real muriate.
    The solution D had a strong saline taste, and, in cooling, had
deposited muriate of soda in cubes on the sides of the bottle.
A little of it being diluted with distilled water, oxalate of am
                                                                 monia

           with Observations      on the  Analysis   of Salt-brines.    15
 nioiiia did not impair the transparency.            Carbonate of potash,
 and muriate of barytes, produced a turbid appearance.             The en
tire liquor was submitted to distillation, until the alcohol was abs
tracted, and was then evaporated in an open bason, until crystals
formed in it while hot.           These were cubes of muriate of soda,
and this     salt continued to be afforded by successive evaporations.
The last product deliquesced a little on exposu-e to the air, in
dicating the presence of muriate of magnesia ; and the remain
ing liquor afforded by evaporation a deliquescent saline mass :
both these were washed with repeated portions of alcohol ; mu
riate of magnesia was thus obtained, which dried, weighed 17 '3
grains, and which, converted into sulphate, gave 12-4 grains,
equivalent to 9-7 of real muriate.           The matter not dissolved by
the alcohol, being dissolved in wate", afforded by slow evapora
tion sulphate of magnesia in prisms, which dried, weighed 6-3
 grains.      The crystallized muriate of soda, dried at a heat of
 200', weighed 580 grains.
    The solution E deposited, on standing, after twelve hours, cry
 stals in flat striated prisms, having every appearance of sulphite
 of soda, and which, on more minute examination,                were found
 to be so : freed from sensible moisture, they weighed 18 grains.
 The liquor diluted with distilled water, was not sensibly affected
 by oxalate of ammonia ; it became slightly turbid with subcar-
 bonate     of potash, and with muriate of barytes.           The alcohol
 was drawn off by -distillation ; being then submitted to evapora
 tion, a crust of muriate of soda formed on the surface, and cry
 stals in cubes were deposited ; additional portions of them were
 obtained by successive evaporations, atid the liquor continued to
 afford a crust of muriate of soda on its surface, while hot, until
 it was almost entirely evaporated.            A small portion of liquor
 remained,      which,   on  cooling, afforded   prismatic crystals of sul
 phate    of  magnesia, which,      freed  from    moisture, weighed S-9
  grains.     The muriate of soda dried, weighed 170 8 grains.
     The first portions of the aqueous solution F had deposited
  crystals of sulphate of soda on cooling ; and the whole quantity
  being partially evaporated, yielded an additional         portion, "he
  crystals   of   both,  freed from   adhering moisture, weighed 44"2 -
  grains.     The liquor being further evaporated, cubes of muriate
  of soda were formed on the sides of the capsule, while it was
  warm, and by continuing the evaporation, a quantity of this salt
  was obtained, which weighed when dry 12-3 grains.                A small
  portion   of  liquor remained, which, by    further evaporation, yielded
 crystals of sulphate of soda to the amount of G grains, with cry
 stals of muriate of soda 2 grains.
     The portions of muriate of soda obtained in the preceding ex
  periments amounted to 765-1 grains.             None of them, however,
                                                                       were

 16                   An Analysis of Sea-water ;
were perfectly pure.      Their solutions became turbid on the ad
dition of sub-carbonate of soda, and of muriate of barytes, indi
cating the presence of sulphate of magnesia, or of muriate of
magnesia and sulphate of soda, and probably indeed of portions
of all these. The whole was submitted to the action of highlv-
rectified alcohol for twelve hours, with repeated agitation ; the al
cohol acquired a bitter taste : being poured off, and distilled, it
afforded muriate of magnesia, which, heated with sulphuric acid,
gave a product equivalent to 6 2 of real muriate.           The residual
salt still gave indications of the presence    of sulphate of magnesia,
bv the tests of muriate of barytes and sub-carbonate of soda.
The difficulty is so great, of separating a small portion of a salt
from a large quantity of another, where the difference in their
solubility is not considerable, that instead of attempting to re-
move the sulphate of magnesia by further crystallizations, it was
decomposed by adding to the solution sub-carbonate of soda ;
the precipitate was collected, and converted into sulphate of
magnesia by the addition of sulphuric acid.         This, dried at a low
red-heat, weighed 16 grains, equivalent to 33 crystallized.           The
salt had been previously exposed to a red- heat, when it weighed
744-5 grains.      The above quantity of sulphate abstracted from
this, leaves as the real quantity of muriate of soda 728-5 grains.
    The powder G was soft, light, and tasteless.              It weighed
when thoroughly dried 7'5 grains.        It might be expected to be
similar to the powder A, and was therefore subjected to the same
treatment.     Diluted alcohol, acidulated with muriatic acid, ex
cited effervescence ; the liquor poured off afforded by evapora
tion muriates equivalent to 2-8 of carbonate of magnesia, and
1 -3 of carbonate of lime.     And the remaining sulphate of lime
dried, weighed 3 grains.
    By this analysis, then, the substances obtained        from 4 pints
of sea-water, and their proportions, are as follow       :
    Muriate of soda,        ..              ..             72S-5 grains.
   Muriate of magnesia real,              83-5
                                            97
                                          _6;2
                                          99-4               99-4
   Sulphate   of magnesia crystallized,     6-3
                                            8-9
                                          33
                                           48-2, or real,      23-5
   Sulphate of soda crystallized,          18
                                          44-2
                                           6
                                          68-2, or real,       30-2
                                                                 Sulphate

          with Observations on the Analysis           of Salt-brines.        17
     Sulphate of lime, real,         . .         22
                                                                 25 grains.
     Carbonate of lime,
                                                                 2-5
     Carbonate    of magnesia,
                                                 4-5           4-5
   The two last ingredients might be accidental products, from
the decomposition of muriate of magnesia and of lime.      Mu
riate of magnesia is decomposed by heat ; a portion of its acid
is expelled ; and the magnesia separated in consequence of this,
will absorb carbonic acid, from the current of warm air applied
during the evaporation, or from the carbonic acid gas which the
sea-water itself contains, and which       not immediately expelled
                                           is'
by heat.     The   small portion of carbonate of lime might be pro
duced in a similar manner, or from the action of the carbonate
of magnesia on muriate or sulphate of lime.             accordingly
                                                             I
found, in    a subsequent analysis, that on adding muriate of ba-
rytes to sea-water, no carbonate but only sulphate of barytes                 is
precipitated, which proves that these conclusions are jusc.      For
the small portion, therefore, of carbonate of magnesia, the equi
valent portion of muriate of magnesia, 4-2, raising       to 103-6,
                                                                it
is  to be substituted.    If the lime which afforded the carbonate
existed in the state of sulphate, then the equivalent portion of
 this 3-4  isto be added to the sulphate actually obtained, making
it  28-4.    If   existed in the state of muriate of lime,
                 it                                              still  it
would, but for this change, have been converted in the progress
of the evaporation into sulphate of lime      the same substitution,
                                                 ;
 therefore,  isin this view equally to be made.     With these cor
 rections, and reducing the proportions to pint, the ingredients
                                                     a
 and their quantities will be as follow    :
            Muriate of soda,
            Muriate of magnesia.
            Sulphate of soda,
            Sulphate of magnesia, . .
            Sulphate of lime,
                                                  228-5
  The results of the preceding analysis are different from those
Ihad expected to obtain.      had supposed, that in Lavoisier's
                                 I
method, the sulphate of soda, and muriate of lime, which he
  Vol. 51. No. 237. Jan. ISIS.                        B   stated

   18                    An Analysis of Sea-water ;
  stated as ingredients, had been obtained from some peculiarity
  in the process by which their reciprocal action, and consequent
  transition into muriate of soda and sulphate of lime had been
  prevented ; and that in the common method of evaporation
  they are not obtained, because this mutual decomposition takes
  place.     It appears, however, that the results by Lavoisier's me
  thod are different from those he stated, and are such as pre
  clude this view.       No muriate of lime is obtained, and sulphate
  of lime is obtained in considerable quantity; of course, the sul
  phate of soda, which is also found, cannot be considered as be
  ing procured, in consequence of its decomposition by muriate
  of lime being prevented by any peculiarity in the process, and
  must therefore be ascribed to some other cause.
      Besides the peculiarity in this analysis of sulphate of soda,
  there is another singularity in the result, that little sulphate of
   magnesia is procured.       This salt, it is well known, is extracted
  in considerable quantity by the common process of evaporation
  of sea-water on a large scale, being obtained by boiling down
  the bittern, while, by this method, little or no sulphate of soda is
  obtained.
      The products of this analysis are thus so different from those
  usually assigned, and so different from those known to be af
  forded by the usual process of evaporation, that it became de
  sirable to perform the analysis in the common mode, so as to
  ascertain the actual results of it with precision, with a view to
  determine on what these differences depend.          This I accordingly
  executed.                                         ,
      A. Four pints of the same sea-water were submitted to eva
  poration in a sand-bath, and after the crystallization of the mu
  riate of soda commenced, the liquor was poured off at intervals
  from the salt deposited, and further evaporated.         This was con
  tinued as long as it appeared to afford no other salt on cooling
  than muriate of soda.       The latter products of this salt were less
  pure than the first, being deliquescent on exposure to a dry at
  mosphere ; they were therefore redissolved in water ; by evapo
  ration, the greater part was obtained crystallized, in a purer
  state, and was added to the other ; and the small portion of
"
  residual liquor was added to the residual liquor of the evaporated
  sea-water.
      B. By further evaporation, this liquor afforded crystals in
  slender prisms, which were permanent in the air, and which were
  found to be sulphate of magnesia; by repeated evaporations,
  successive crystallizations of this kind were produced, (small
  portions of muriate of soda being also obtained, which, after
  being washed, were added to the salt A) ; the products of the
  first crystallizations   were nearly pure ; those of the latter cry
                                                              stallizations

          ivitk Observations on the Analysis      of Sall-brines.      19
stallizations were less distinct     in form,  and were in part deli
quescent.
    C. The portion of liquor still remaining was evaporated, until,
on   cooling, it formed a congeries of slender prism?, which, ex
posed to the air, deliquesced, and soon passed to a state of
perfect solution,     a proof of their being principally muriate of
magnesia.
    The products thus obtained, consisted, first, of muriate of soda
A ; secondly, of sulphate of magnesia B ; and, thirdly, of mu
riate of magnesia C.        These, however, could not be supposed
to be pure, and they were, therefore, submitted to further ex
amination.
    D. The muriate of soda A, gave indications of the intermix
ture of magnesian salts; the solution of a minute portion of it
in distilled water becoming turbid on the addition of carbonate
of soda.     It was also to be presumed, that there would be mixed
with it any sulphate or carbonate of lime deposited during the
evaporation.       It was therefore redissolved in water.      There re
mained undissolved a residue, which, when thoroughly dried,
weighed 22-6 grains.        The salt was again procured by evapo
ration, but it was still not perfectly pure.         Its dilute solution
gave a milkiness      with carbonate of soda; and oxalate of am
monia and muriate of barytes rendered it turbid, indicating the
presence either of a little muriate of lime with sulphate of soda,
or magnesia, or of sulphate of lime with a portion of sulphate or
 muriate of magnesia.        The whole was redissolved in distilled
water; a powder, similar in appearance to the insoluble residue
of the former solution, remained undissolved,             which, when
thoroughly dried, weighed 10-3 grains.          To the clear solution a
portion of alcohol was added, not sufficient to cause any preci
pitation of muriate of soda ; it produced a slight turbid appear
 ance, and after some hours a powder had subsided, which, after
being washed with water, was tasteless : it weighed 1-5 grain.
 The muriate of soda, obtained by evaporation, weighed, when
 dried, 7 IS grains.     Being still not entirely pure, it was reserved
 for another operation.
    E. The insoluble residues collected in the preceding operations
 being put together, were submitted to the action of alcohol, aci
 dulated with muriatic acid, to remove any carbonate of lime, or
 of magnesia. Effervescence was excited ; the liquor being poured
 off, and the insoluble residue of sulphate of lime being washed
 with a little water, weighed, after exposure to a heat nearly equal
 to ignition, 26-3 grains.      The alcoholic solution, with the ad
 dition of the small portion nf water with which the sulphate Oi
 lime had been washed, afforded, by evaporation, a matter which
 entered readily into fusion, and which, treated with sulphuric
                                     B 2                             acid

20                     An Analysis of Sea-water ;
acid, gave 5-6 of sulphate, equivalent to 4'3 of carbonate of mag
nesia, and 3 of sulphate, equivalent to 2-2 of carbonate of lime.
I have already observed, however, that no carbonic acid is de
tected in sea-water by the test of barvtes ; these carbonates,
therefore, are, as before, to be considered as products of the eva
poration, arising from the decomposition of. muriate of magnesia,
and of muriate or sulphate of lime.        The one, but for the de
composition by which it is produced, would have appeared a&
sulphate of lime; it increases, therefore, the proportion of that
ingredient to 29 3 grains.     The portion of muriate, equivalent
to the other, that      4-4 grains, % may be added to the quantity
                           is,
of that salt obtained     the subsequent steps of the analysis.
                               in
   F. The products of the different crystallizations li, consisting
chiefly of sulphate of magnesia, with portions of muriate of
magnesia, were left exposed to the air for some days, and the
liquor formed from them              by
                                 deliquescence was poured off oc
casionally, and added to the solution of muriate of magnesia C.
The residues were then washed with pure alcohol, to abstract
more completely any muriate of magnesia.          The portions re
maining undissolved, were dissolved together in water.           By
evaporation, they     afforded  sulphate  of  magnesia  in bevelled
prisms;     byfurther evaporation, muriate of soda in cubes was
obtained ;   and      by
                     successive evaporations, there were thus pro
cured sulphate of magnesia in crystals, 46        grains; and mu
                                                           6
riate of soda 39 grains.         small portion of liquor remained,
                                     A
which, containing chiefly muriate of magnesia, was added to the
liquor C.
   G. This liquor C, to which      the portion of liquor formed by
deliquescence from       had also been added, was evaporated to
                           B
dryness.    Itwas then submitted to the action of successive por
tions of alcohol, employing, first, the alcohol with which the
saline matter     had been lixiviated, and afterwards pure alcohol.
                  B
These liquors, poured off from       portion which remained undis
                                          a
solved, were evaporated to dryness        the dry mass was dissolved
                                              ;
in water, and,        by
                       second evaporation, afforded
                           a                              congeries of
                                                                a
prisms of muriate          of
                         magnesia.    Dried         heat of 150°, the
                                                      by   a
weight amounted to 156 grains. Converted into sulphate of
magnesia      the addition of sulphuric acid, the product weighed,
             by
after being dried at      low red-heat, 99-2 grains, equivalent to
                                 a
78'4 of real muriate of magnesia.
    H. ' The matter which remained undissolved                 by
                                                        the alcohol        G
was dissolved in distilled water.     The solution was evaporated,
until, by   afurther spontaneous evaporation in          warm apart
                                                               a
ment, crystals were successively formed        these were sulphate of
                                                  ;
magnesia, and, in general, bevelled prisms.          The whole freed
from moisture weighed 48"6 grains.            small portion of liquor
                                                  A
                                                                    remained,

             with Observations   on the   Analysis of Sall-lrines.     2  i
   remained,    which, when evaporated, gave a deliquescent saline
i mass :    by slow  evaporation 2-6 grains of muriate of soda were
  obtained from      it; the remainder yielded muriate of magnesia
  equal to 3 grains.
       I. The crystals of sulphate of magnesia obtained by the       suc
  cessive   evaporations, were not all equally well formed ; and after
  they had been left exposed to a dry air for some time, some of
  them became quite efflorescent, while others did not.              The
  former were picked out, and each portion was redissolved in
  water.      By a new crystallization, there were thus obtained 72
  grains of sulphate of magnesia, and 185 of sulphate of soda.
      K. The muriate of soda obtained in the preceding steps
  amounted in all to 759-6 grains.          After exposure to a red-heat,
  it weighed 752-4 grains.        It has already been stated, that it
  was not perfectly pure ; its solution being rendered milky, both
  by sub-carbonate      of soda and muriate of barytes. The separa
tion of the sulphate of magnesia, which this chiefly indicated,
  was not to be completely looked for by solution and crystalliza
  tion.     Subcarbonate of soda was therefore added to the solution
  as long as any precipitation      took place ; the precipitate, heated
  with a sufficient proportion of .sulphuric acid to redness, gave
   16-4 sulphate of magnesia, equivalent to 33-7 of the same salt
  crystallized.     The former quantity abstracted from the weight of
  the muriate of soda, reduces it to 736 grains.
      This analysis, then, affords the following ingredients, and
  their proportions in their real state :                               :
             Muriate of soda,           ..       ..    736 grains.
             Muriate of magnesia,      . .       . .    85-8
            Sulphate of magnesia, ..              ..    51  "2
             Sulphate of soda,         . .       . .      S
             Sulphate of lime,          . .       . .   29-3
  Or, reducing them to a pint of the water,
             Muriate of soda,          ..        ..    184 grains
             Muriate of magnesia,      . .       . .    21-5
             Sulphate of magnesia,     . .       ...     12 8
             Sulphate of soda,          . .       . .     2
            Sulphate of lime,          . .       . .      7'3
                                                       227-6
       By the two modes of analysis now stated, different results have
   been obtained.      There are common to both as the principal
   products, muriate of soda, and muriate of magnesia.         But in the
   one, sulphate of magnesia, with only a small proportion of sul
   phate of soda, is procured.        In the other, sulphate of soda in
   a much larger quantity, with only an inferior proportion of sul
   phate of magnesia, is obtained.          How is this diversity of re
    sult to be accounted for ?    •
                                     B   3                             As

22                           An Analysis of Sea-water ;
     As the relative quantities of           salts are thus varied, and
                                                     these
are indeed nearly altogether dependent on the kind of analysis,
it is obvious that one or other of them must be an original in
gredient, and the other must be a product of decomposition.
If sulphate of magnesia is the original ingredient ; then, when it
is not obtained, or is obtained only in very inferior quantity,
while sulphate of soda is procured in its place, it must be held
that it is decomposed ; and the only decomposition that can ac
count for these results                is,
                             that from the mutual action of muriate
of soda and sulphate of magnesia,             which, while portions of
                                                               by
them are removed, corresponding portions of sulphate of soda
and of muriate of magnesia are formed.            On the other hand,                          if
sulphate of soda       the original ingredient, then, when
                            is                                         not          it   is
obtained, or      obtained only in small quantity,
                       is                                  must be held        it
that   it    decomposed
            is               and the only decomposition of
                                      ;                               that           it
can here take place, must be from the action of muriate of mag
nesia,   bywhich, while quantities of both these salts are removed,
corresponding quantities of sulphate of magnesia and muriate of
soda will be produced.
    Of the two analyses, the one in which sulphate of soda prin
cipally    obtained,
            is            that in which the solvent action of alcohol
                                 is
is  employed";   the other,     which therein     the mere separation of
                                                                     is
the salts         by
                evaporation   and  crystallization,       that which af   is
fords scarcely any of       but    place of
                                  it,           insulphate of magnesia.
                                                                    it
Now,    it   to be observed, that in both of these the preliminary
             is
operation of evaporation to dryness          the same.     Since sulphate
                                                           is
of soda, therefore,       not obtained
                                 is            this operation,  by     ob           it   is
vious, that, even on the assumption of its being the original in
gredient of sea-water,      must, in the progress of the evaporation,
                                      it
be decomposed               by
                      the muriate of magnesia, and converted into
the sulphate of magnesia        and hence, in the subsequent solvent
                                           ;
action of the alcohol,        which     by   obtained,
                                                     it    ismust be re        it
formed.     And, on the other hand,         sulphate of magnesia
                                                          if           the               is
primary ingredient, and        obtained as such
                                           is           the evaporation,  by
it remains to be explained, how           converted in the subsequent
                                                     it   is
solution      the alcohol into sulphate of soda.
              by                                        The whole ques
tion, therefore, resolves itself into the nature of the action of the
alcohol, producing sulphate of soda          and of this  ;   perceive no       I
other solution than that which        have now to illustrate.
                                                 I
    The fact, however           to be explained, or to be reconciled
                                      it   is
with the doctrine of chemical attraction giving rise to combina
tions or decompositions according to the strength with which                                  it
is exerted, seems to be established             an induction too strict
                                                                by
and extensive to admit of doubt, that these results are often de
termined          by
                the force of cohesion, in such          manner, that in   a
principles acting on each other, those on which this force ope
                                                                     rates

         with Observations on the Analysis of Salt-brines.           23
rates most powerfully, in relation to the fluid which is the me
dium of action, are combined together.        So much is this the
case, that, as Berthollet has justly remarked, we may, from a
knowledge of the solubility of the compounds which substances
form, predict what combinations will be established when they
act on each other ; those always combining which form the least
soluble compounds.      So far the influence of this has been illus
trated by this able chemist.      But it appears to me to admit
of further extension, so as to afford a solution of the present
question.
   If the force of cohesion can so far modify chemical attraction,
as to establish among compound salts dissolved in any medium,
those    combinations whence the least soluble compounds are
formed, we are entitled, 1 conceive, to conclude, that the re
verse of this force, that  is, the power of     solvent, may produce
                                                 a
the opposite effect, or cause the reverse of these combinations to
be established.     Suppose muriate of magnesia and sulphate o
soda to be dissolved in water, and the solution to be concen
trated  by  evaporation, the combinations of sulphate of magnesia
and muriate of soda being on the whole less soluble in water,
this circumstance of inferior solubility, or the force of cohesion
thus operating, may determine the formation of these, and, ac
cordingly, their formation   is  found  by experiment to take place.
But suppose sulphate of soda and muriate of magnesia to be dis
solved  by   the aid of heat in alcohol so far diluted as to effect
their solution, then those combinations will not be established
which existed    in the watery solution, because, on the whole, sul
phate of magnesia, and muriate of soda, are less soluble in alco
hol, even in this diluted state, than sulphate of soda and muriate
 of magnesia.     These latter compounds will, therefore, remain
undecomposed.        But further, this may give rise, or, rather, must
give rise,  in conformity to the principle above stated, to the re
verse effect ;  so that, suppose sulphate of magnesia and muriate
of soda to be submitted to the action of this diluted alcohol, aided
 by  heat, the solvent power considered, in relation to the reverse
combinations, may cause the change in the state of these com
 pounds, and their transition into muriate of magnesia and sul
 phate of soda.
    In the analysis of sea-water, then,     by
                                             the first of the methods
 above described, the evaporation may either,        sulphate of mag
                                                     if
 nesia and muriate of soda are the original ingredients, afford
 them undecomposed in the solid state        ;or,     muriate of mag
                                                     if
 nesia and sulphate of soda are the ingredients,        may cause,
                                                          it         by
 the influence of the force of cohesion, the formation of sulphate
 of magnesia and muriate of soda.       But when the solid mass      is
 submitted to the action of alcohol, its operation, as         solvent,
                                                               a
                                    B   4                          may,

24                        An Analysis of Sea- water ;
may, on the same principle, cause the reverse combinations to
take place, of muriate of magnesia and sulphate of soda ; the
quantity of this sulphate being, of course, equivalent to the quan
tity of sulphate of magnesia ; and the quantity of muriate of
magnesia formed, being added to the quantity of that salt which
the sea-water contains as a primary ingredient.                  Thus is ex
plained the diversity of          results obtained by the two modes of
analysis ; and this diversity itself affords an excellent illustration
of the change of combination which may be produced in mineral
waters by analytic operations, and a very conclusive proof that
the substances obtained by the analysis are not always to be re
garded as the original ingredients, since here they are varied ac
cording to the mode in which the analysis is performed*.
     * The small portion of sulphate of soda obtained with the sulphate of
magnesia, in the second analysis, may have been formed by the action of
the alcohol, which, though employed much less extensively than in the first,
was still introduced to a certain extent.     Or it might originate from other
circumstances independent of this : for a similar result, I have been informed,
sometimes occurs in the large way, sulphate of soda being procured in
boiling down the bittern of sea-water to obtain its sulphate of magnesia, or
in purifying this sulphate. The circumstances on which this depends, it
may be difficult to assign with perfect precision ; but it probably arises from
the relative quantities of the different salts, and their tendency to crystalli
 zation, as influenced by the state of concentration, and the temperature.
 That both of these have a considerable effect on the combinations established
in a compound saline solution, has been sufficiently shown by the experi
 ments of Berthollet and others. A striking proof of it was derived from
 the very salts which are the subject of the present observations, in a singu
 lar case of affinity, first observed by Scheele, and afterwards confirmed by
 Gren: that of muriate of magnesia and sulphate of soda, which decompose
 each other in a concentrated solution at a high temperature, producing mu
 riate of soda and sulphate af magnesia ; but, at temperatures below 32%
 the reverse effect takes place, muriate of soda and sulphate of magnesia
 reacting, and being converted into sulphate of soda and muriate of mag
 nesia.    This singular case is evidently owing to the relation of the solubi
 lity of these salts to temperature. Muriate of soda has its solubility little
 increased by heat, of course little diminished by cold ; sulphate of soda is
  in this respect precisely the reverse : hence, at an elevated temperature,
 muriate of soda is the less soluble salt ; and this determines its formation
 and separation from a compound solution, containing its elements ; at a
 low temperature, again, sulphate of soda is the less soluble salt; and this
  equally determines its formation, of coui se occasions the reverse decom
  positions.   Now, according to the proportion of saline ingredients, and ac
  cording to the state of concentration, and the temperature favouring the
  tendency of certain salts to crystallization more than others ; it is easy to
  conceive, that in a compound solution, differ*nt combinations may be esta
  blished, as these circumstances vary, and thus products may be obtained,
  under certain conditions, which are not obtained under others. Although
  sulphate of magnesia, therefore, is usually obtained by evaporation from
  sea-water, sulphate of soda, at some stages of the operation or under pecu
  liar circumstances, with regard either to relative quantity of the elements,
  or to temperature, may likewise be formed.
                                                                      Lavoisier

                             On    Dry-Hot.                                    25
    Lavoisier had stated muriate of lime as having been obtained
in his analysis, being dissolved with the muriate of magnesia in
the alcohol with which the solid matter obtained by evaporation
had been lixiviated.     I found no trace of it ; and its presence
after the evaporation to dryness, does not seem compatible with
that of either sulphate of soda, or of magnesia.      Yet if the pre
ceding reasoning be just, it is possible that alcohol, by its solvent
action, might cause its reproduction to a certain extent from
sulphate of lime.     On the other hand, the entire insolubility of
sulphate   of lime in  alcohol, might prevent it from being acted
on ; this  is even more probable ; and the result stated of mu
riate of lime being obtained, is therefore, in all probability, to
be ascribed to error, principally perhaps to its not being distin
guished sufficiently from muriate of magnesia, the quantity of
which is stated by Lavoisier .evidently too low.
                           [To    be continued.]
          V. On Dry-Rot.          By Mr. John Shillibeer.
                           To    Mr. Tillock.
          If                                       Plymouth, Dec. 12, 1817.
            on perusing the letter which is below, you should
think proper to give it room in your Magazine, it will be greatly
esteemed.   It has been submitted officially to the Navy Board,
and the writer of it has received the thanks of the Board for the
communication.
                I am, sir,
                           Your friend and constant reader.
                       "   Walkhampton,     near Plymouth,     Oct. 25, 1817-
     " Hon. Sirs, — The dry-rot  which has made its appearance in
His Majesty's navy having excited general attention, I have been
led to reflect, not only on the cause which has produced          but    it,
the probable mode of its prevention      and the result of these re
                                            ;
flectionsI  shall beg to lay before the Honourable Board.
   " Any cure for the dry-rot in timber when once           infected,
                                                               it   is
I  believe, has not yet been found     and the disease appears to
                                        ;
prevail more in the oak than in any other timber      but the reason
                                                           ;
is to me evident, as on account of the value of its bark the mode
of treatment    is very different to that of any other class.     To
effectually prevent  the appearance  of the dry-rot, the tree  should
be cut down about the end of December, or the commencement
of January, and left with its bark on, instead of being cut down
in  April, and having its bark stripped off, which     the mode ge
                                                             is
nerally pursued in this country.     From the great consideration
of the bark the durability of the timber has been lost sight of,

 26                         On  Dry -Rot.
and the oak is invariably felled immediately after the tree has
recommenced its growing — when its pores are open and ex
tended to receive the great quantity of sap which is thrown from
the roots up into the trunk and branches of the tree. At this
period the tree is soft and easy to be cut, and the bark separates
from the trunk with great facility.     In this state it is left to sea
son.    The sap which should have returned into the roots is
dried by the sun ; but the pores of the timber never close them
selves again; nor does the tree become that solid mass it was
before.     The pores remain open, and soon become infected
 with this pernicious disease, which I have no idea can be eradi
cated.
    " Now, if a tree be let stand until the vegetation has entirely
 ceased (say Christmas), the sap will have returned into the roots;
the pores which had been opened ki the spring to receive it will
be naturally closed ; — the bark, which would have separated with
ease, will be found inseparable ; and the tree when cut and sea
soned (for a comparatively short time) will be so hard and im
penetrable as to prevent the disease from ever affecting it. The
bark under such circumstances becomes a solid mass and secures
the tree from injury, and consequently prevents the introduction
of the dry-rot.
    " If the Honourable Board will compare the difference between
two trees of the same age which have grown in the same wood,
 (the one being cut down in the spring and barked, the other cut
down at Christmas and left with its hark on,) it will be strikingly
obvious ; the former will be soft, open, and coarse-grained ; the
latter close-grained and solid.
    " The miners for their machinery always prefer timber which
has not been barked.       The millwright for the wheel which is
exposed constantly to the water, chooses timber cut at Christmas,
because it will last at least as long again as that which is cut in
April.    The farmer even for his barn-floor cuts his timber at
Christmas, and sacrifices the bark; and because a floor made of
such materials will last for ages, when another will in a few years
be unserviceable. In many old buildings, but particularly churches,
erected prior to the time when bark became so enhanced in
value, the timber is still firm and solid, or only impaired from
great age and the worms.        In buildings of a more recent date
the oak timber has perished altogether.       If then a mill-wheel,
a barn-floor, or any machinery made of timber cut down at
Christmas be so durable, it is but a natural conclusion that a
ship built of such materials will derive a similar advantage.           I
have no hesitation in saying that, if there be two ships built, the
one of timber cut in January, the other of timber cut down in
April, the former will be firm and solid when the latter will be
                                                                entirely

 Observations on the Temperature      of theOcean and Atmosphere. 27
entirely unfit for use — that the one shall (or perhaps may) be
infected with the dry-rot — the other free from such disease.
    " I have conversed with men of great experience and knowledge
in timber, and the result has always gone to strengthen my opi
nion, that the oak timber has not degenerated ; but that the
dry-rot is given it by the improper mode of cutting it down and
preparing it for use ; and I am firmly persuaded that, in a ship
built of timber so prepared, this destructive disease will never
make its appearance.
    " I could expatiate on this subject, and adduce the opinions of
others to qualify what 1 have stated ; but I think it will require
little argument to show that a tree cut down in its natural state,
aud seasoned in the mode I have described, will be a more solid
substance, finer-grained,      and consequently less liable to be in
fected with any disease, than that of a tree cut down, imme
diately stripped of its bark, and left exposed to the elements,
from which, in fact, the disease is absolutely engendered.
    " In making these suggestions I have been actuated by the good
of my country; and if they should ultimately prove to be founded
on a solid basis, and that benefit will result from them, I feel
great confidence that they will, by the Honourable            Board, be
 appretiated accordingly; and,
                             "I  am, Hon. Sirs,
                                         " Your obedient servant,
 "  To the Hon. the Commissioners                John Shilubeer,
    of  the Navy,  &c.   London.             1st  Lieut. Roy. Marines."
     " P.S. A   small reduction in the tax on leather would prevent
 an inconvenience to the public from any rise in bark, and the ex
 penditure of the navy would be considerably reduced. — J. S."
     *#* I have   been  just informed that orders are issued not to
 receive timber into the   Dock-yard that has been barked ; — if so,
 and it be   attended  with success, these suggestions of Lieut. S's
 will reflect great credit on him.
 VI. Observations     on the Temperature of the Ocean and Atmo
     sphere, and on the Density of Sea-water, made during a
     Voyage to Ceylon.       In a Letter to Sir Humphry Davy,
     LL.D.    F.R.S.    By John Davy, M.D. F.R.S.*
 My    dear Brothkr, According             to the promise contained in
 a  former letter, I proceed to give you a short account of the ob
 servations which I made during my late voyage from England to
 Ceylon.     At present, I shall confine myself chiefly to three to-
       * Fiom the Transactions of the Royal Society for 1817, part ii.
                                                                       pics,

 28    Observations on the Temperature       of the Ocean and
 pics, the specific gravity of the water of the ocean, and its tem
perature, and the temperature of the atmosphere ; subjects of
some importance in the natural history of our globe ; and in
which, I know, you are interested.          Incidentally I shall notice
 the height of the barometer, the direction of the winds, and the
state of the weather.
    For the sake of brevity, I shall present the principal results of
my observations in the form of a Table, to which I shall add some
explanatory notes and general remarks.
    [The form of our pages does not admit of our inserting, at
length, the table here alluded to, which fills three quarto pages ;
but this is the less necessary, as the remainder of the paper is
devoted to a detail of the experiments and thSir results — some
of which, especially what relates to the diminished temperature
of sea-water in shallows, are highly deserving of the particular
attention of nautical men, as serving to announce the approach
of land. — Edit.]
    In all the experiments on the' density of sea-water, the re
sults of Which are recorded in the journal, the water used was
taken from the surface of the ocean, in a large clean bucket.
The results introduced before we passed the equator the first
time, were procured at sea; the remainder, from 0° 12" south
lat. to Ceylon, were obtained on land from experiments made on
specimens of water preserved in well-corked phials.         In the ex
periments on board ship,     as soon as the water was drawn, its tem
perature was ascertained, and then it was immediately weighed.
The balance employed was not very delicate, for a very delicate
instrument does not answer at sea, on account of the ship's mo
tion; however, it was pretty readily affected by 1-1 0th of a
grain.     The glass vessel in which the water was weighed, was
such a one as is commonly used at home; its capacity was equal
to about tfOO grains.       In the experiments on shore, the same
vessel was used, but a different balance, one of a more delicate
construction.     I have chosen the temperature S0° Fahrenheit,
for which I have calculated all the results, because it is nearly
the mean annual temperature of this place, and nearly the mean
at sea, in the intertropical regions.
    The experiments made at sea I do not of course value so
much as those made on land : considered, however, merely as
approximations to the truth, which I am sure they are, the re
sults favour the general conclusion already formed by some phi
losophers, that the ocean resembles the atmosphere in being
{ccpteris paribus) of nearly the same specific gravity throughout.
    And further, they lead to the conclusion, that the slight varia
tions of specific gravity observed, do not regularly conform to
the difference of temperature.
                                                                  That

            Atmosphere, and on the Density     of Sea-water.        29
    That the specific gravity of the water of the ocean, in all its
parts, however remote, should be nearly the same, is easily ex
plained ; it is indeed what might be expected from theory.           It
is more difficult, it appears to me; to account for the slight va
riations; I may remark, they appeared to me greatest when the
sea was rough and agitated ; and once the specific gravity of
the water seemed diminished by a heavy fall of rain, viz. in Iat.
4° north, and in long.       183 18" west, where we experienced a
quick succession of tropical squalls.
    Whether there is a specific gravity peculiar to the water of
each zone, as a modern traveller of high authority endeavours to
prove, I am greatly in doubt.         From my own experiments, in-
which I cannot but put some reliaVice, 1 feel much inclined to
infer the contrary, and especially from those made on land, which
I know to be perfectly accurate.          Several of these agree in
giving    the  same  specific gravity  to specimens of water taken
from parts of the ocean very remote from each other : for in
stance, the water from lat.'O0 12" south, and 22" 36" south,
and that from 34° 25" south, and the water that washes the
shores   of Colombo.                                          i
    For ascertaining the temperature of the air and of the water
of the ocean, I used delicate pocket-thermometers,       the bulbs of
which projected about an inch from the ivory scale.        In the ex
periments on the temperature of the ocean, the water was tried
the instant it was drawn, before it was affected by the air.       To
find the temperature of the air, I always chose the coolest part
of the ship on deck, and always put the instrument in the shade,
and exposed it to the wind, taking care not to bring it near any
surface that had the power of radiating much heat; circumstances,
I need not remark, of importance to be attended to, and, in
consequence of the neglect of which, the temperature at sea, in
the intertropical regions, has by most observers been overrated.
    During the greater part of the voyage, observations were made
every two hours, on the temperature both of the air and of the
water ; and with the kind assistance of the mates of the ship,
 Messrs. Sleight and Powell, intelligent and obliging men, they
 were carried on during the night as well as the day.
    I am not aware that the law of the diurnal variation of the
 temperature of the atmosphere at sea, has been described by any
 writer. From the numerous observations, which I had an op
 portunity of making, between and bordering on the tropics, it
 appeared to me perfectly regular at a great distance from land,
 when the weather was fine, and the wind steady.        In these cir
 cumstances,    I found the air at its maximum temperature        pre
 cisely at noon, and at its minimum towards sunrise.      I shall give
 in illustration of the fact two instances from my note book.
                                                                 April

 30      Observations on the Temperature             of the Ocean and
  April 2d. S. lat. 21° 3".        W. long. 27° 27".         Wind E. by S.
           Hour.       Temperature.          Hour.       Temperature.
                                                             o    </
              6  A.M.     78                     8          78
              8           79                   10           78
            10            79,  5               12           77,75
            12            80                     2  A.M.    77,75
              2  P.M.     79,25                   4         77, 5
              4           79                     (5         77,   5
              0           78,  5
  April 5th.      S. lat. 24" 22".   W. long. 26" 27".          Wind      ENE.
        Hour.          Temperature.        Hour.         Temperature.
         6   A.M.         76                     (i         77,
          8               77, 5                  8          77
        10                7 »,25               10           77
        12                79,75                12           76,
         2   P.M.         78, 5                  2  A.M.    76,
         4                77,75                  4          76
   Here we perceive the variation of the temperature of the air,
following the course of the sun, pretty considerable whilst it is
above the horizon, and very insignificant during the night ; and
this, I may remark, is a general fact at sea, and one of the prin
cipal features of difference between the temperature of the at
mosphere over the land, and over the ocean.
   The law of the regular variation of temperature is frequently
interrupted.       Even in fine weather, when the air is not in mo
tion, it is subject to interruption.          During a calm, the variation
of temperature is nearly the same as on land, the maximum de
gree of heat not being at noon precisely, but some time after,
and for the same reason ; because there is an accumulation of
heat, and not only in the ship, but actually in the water itself,
as I may show by noticing the temperature of the air and of the
sea, during even a short calm, hardly of twenty-four hours du
ration.
            August 7th. N. lat. 2° 10". E- long. 76° .37'
           Hour.                 Temp. of Air.                Of the Sea.
                                     o   //                       0    il
            6  A.M.                 78,5                         80
           8                        79,5                         81
         10                          80,5                        81,5
         12                         82                           S2,5
           2   P.M.                 82,5                         83,5
           3                         8.2                         83,5
           4                        81,5
   But the law     is more remarkably
                                            interrupted during storms and
                                                                      unsettled

                    Atmosphere,            and   on the     Density         of Sea-water.                   31
unsettled weather,                    as a   couple of instances will be sufficient to
prove.
                        March 17th. N. lat. 4°.                  W. long. IS3 30".
       Hour.                                 Weather.           Temp, of Air. Of the Rain-water.
           3     A.M.                   Clear                         SO
                                        Rain approaching                    77                    76
                                                                ..74
       1 1
       1   lh 30                        Just passed                                               73
       12                               Cloudy       ..                     79
           1
           4
                  P.M.
               March 27th. S. lat.
                                        After a shower
                                                     10°
                                                           ..75             76,5
                                                           30". W. long. 24° 25".
                                                                                                  76
                                                                                                  74
           Hour.                             Weather.                                  Temp, of Air.
                                                                                                    "
               5        A.M.               Fair        . .                       . .          7°9
                                 .         Rain approaching                                  78
            9 8 7 6 6
                             .                                                   .   .
                        30   . .           Raining heavily                       . .         75,
                             ..            Rain just ceased                                  76,    5 5
                             . .           Sunshine              . .             .   .       79,25
                             .   .         Raining               . .              . .         76
           10                ..            Cloudy                ..                          79,
                                                                                                    5 5
           12                ..            Fair     80,          ..              ..
   The showers in each instance were accompanied       hard gusts                            by
of wind, and thunder and lightning.    The rain-water, the tem
perature of which was ascertained, was collected in a glass as                                               it
ran from the awning.
   The equatorial regions appear to be particularly subject to                                                    .
storms, violent rain, and electrical phenomena,     the effect of
which, in diminishing the temperature, seems to afford a na
tural explanation of the comparative coolness, both of the atmo
sphere and the ocean, that we experienced each time we passed
the   line.
  The temperature of the                has been asserted
                                                    sea,   it     some                              by
writers,      subject to little or no diurnal variation.
                  is                                         That this
remark      far from correct,
               is                 evident froai the slightest inspec
                                                    is
tion of the Meteorological Journal             an opinion that could
                                                            :   it     is
be formed only from hypothetical views, ill-founded.         The fact,
as the Journal exhibits,                      is,
                                that the diurnal change   of  the tem
perature of the sea       very nearly as great as that of the incum
                                      is
bent atmosphere.        From all the observations        could make,                     I
when the circumstances were most favourable to accurate results,
when the weather was fine, the sea smooth, and the land at a
great distance,      appeared to me, that the maximum tempera
                                 it
ture   isabout three in the afternoon, and its minimum towards
sunrise.      shall give a single example in detail.
                 I
                                                                                                          April

32      Observations on the Temperature               of the Ocean and
          April 5th. S. lat. 24° 22". W. long. 27° 8".
          Hour.       Temp. of the Sea.         Hour.        Temp. of the Sea.
            8   A.M.        79,25                 8                79, 5
           10               79, 5                10                79
           12               79, 5                12                78, 5
            2   P.M.        80                    2    A.M.        78
            4               80, 5                 4                77,75
            6               SO                     6               76
     Like the atmosphere, the         ocean         to irregularities of
                                               is subject
temperature.          This fact is proved by the Journal in an ample
manner.      The causes which produce these irregularities may be
divided, very generally, into three kinds, — tempestuous weather,
shoals, and currents.
    Independent of other modes of operation — and they are various
in tempestuous weather — superficial currents appear to be esta
blished in the course of the prevailing winds.          If the wind be
from a cold quarter, the temperature of this current is compa
ratively low, and vice versa.       This fact is manifest in the effect
of the gales we experienced between the 7th and 12th of April,
during which time, being south of the equator, and the wind
blowing from the south, the temperat«re of the sea was consi
derably reduced.
    Where the sea is shallow, it is now a well-established fact*,
that the temperature of the water is comparatively low ; an im
portant circumstance, highly deserving the attention of the prac
 tical navigator ; it may forewarn him of a bank in tire darkness
of night, when nothing else would indicate                   it,
                                                      and put him on
his guard when approaching low shores and shallows, time
enough to avoid their dangers.         In advancing towards the Cape
 of Good Hope, and         doubling that promontory, and in making
                           in
 Ceylon,  I   collected some observations on this subject, the re
sults of which    I   shall now introduce.     On making Table-bay,
 before  land  was   to be seen, there  was   decided
                                                  a    fall of the tem
perature of the water, viz. from above 60 to 58, thus,
          May     1   1th. S. lat. 34° 1".     E. long.      17°   51" at
          8     A.M. the temperature of         the water was 62,5
          10                 ..           ..            ..           62,5
          12                  ..          ..            ..           61,5
          2
           5
                P.M.         ..
                             ..           ..
  * Observed by Dr. Franklin, Mr. J. Williams,
                                                        ..60
                                                        ..           61
                                                        &c.— See Williams's Ther-
mometrical Navigation. Philadelphia 1/90.
                                                                                 10

          with Observations on the Analysis    of Salt-brines.     33
        Hour.                                   Temperature.
                                                      o    //
         10                                          58
         12                                          58
          2 A.M.                                    58,5
          4  Land in sight                           59
          7 About twenty miles from land             58
          8                                      '   57
        10                                           56
         12                                          56
          2 P.M.                                     55
          4                                          56
          8 In soundings                            56,5
        10                                          56,5
        12                                           55
          4 A.M.       . .                           55
          6                                          56,5
                                                     56,5
    During these two days we were gradually approaching land,,
 at the average rate of about two miles an hour.       The observa
 tions were continued, till we were within about two miles of the
 shore.    The observations I made on leaving the bay, corre
 sponded with the foregoing, as nearly as could be expected, con
 sidering the track was not precisely the same, and the cold sea
 son more advanced.                                             „  f-
 June 3d.     8  A.M. Half a mile from land, temp, of water 53
             10        About three miles from land             54,25
              2  P.M. Off Robin  Island, nine miles from
                   Cape Town, in ten fathoms water             55,25
              4           ..      ..        ..                 55,25
             12           ..      ..        ..                 54,  5
               2  A.M.            ..        ..          ..     54,  5
              8           ..      ..                    ..
                                                        ..57
                                                               57, 5
                          ..      ..        ..
                                                        ..60
             10
             12          ..       ..        ..
              2 P.M.              ..        ..          ..     61
              4          ..       ..        ..                 6Z
    Before four in the afternoon we were out of sight of the Cape
of Good Hope, and in deep water.
    In approaching Ceylon, and particularly the southern sjiore
of the island, where the mean annual temperature appears to be
about 803, little or no change of temperature could be expected
on entering shallow water ; yet we experienced a manifest
change, a reduction of at least two degrees on coming into
soundings.      When we were in north latitude 5° 17", and east
longitude by chronometer 79° 42", the temperature of the water
    VoK51.No.237. Jan. 1818.                 C                 began

34                     An Analysis of Sea-water;
began to fall ; in the morning at eight, it was 78° b" and at ten
at night it was 76° 5".          Next morning, land was discovered.
   From the observations, in general, on the temperature of the
water, recorded in the Journal, there is reason to believe, that du
ring the whole voyage we were frequently encountering currents.
Many of the results stated, are scarcely to be explained on any
other hypothesis.         When the temperature of the water became
suddenly    reduced,     I  inferred we were either in a current from
the poles,     or   over  some   high ground in the bed of the ocean ;
and the former conclusion was almost constantly confirmed by
other observations.         And on the contrary, when the temperature
of the water experienced a sudden increase, I inferred that we
were in a current flowing from the equatorial regions.                  The
only   current    we  passed,   that appears to  me   to require particular
notice, is the well-known one that flows round the bank of La-
 gullas, from the south-east coast of Africa.           It is marked in all
 charts, and it has been pretty minutely, and very scientifically,
described, and its course explained, by Major Rennell; but hither
to, I believe, no notice has been taken of its high temperature,
 or of the effect which I believe it has, in producing a curious
 phenomenon on the summit of the Table-mountain, not yet ac
 counted for, viz. a dense covering of mist called the " table
 cloth," which universally appears when the wind blows from the
 south-east.       I shall copy from my notes, taken at the time, the
 observations I made in crossing this current.
             June 10th. S. lat. 35° 57". E. long. 24°.
           Hour.       Temp, of the Sea.        Hour.       Temp, of the Sea.
                                   "
             6  A.M.         61               11              67"
             8               71, 5            12              67
            10               70,  5             1 A.M.        67
            11               70                 2             67
            12               68                 3             61
              1  P.M.        68,  5             4             61
              2              67,  5             5             64
             4               68                 6             66,75
              5              67                 7             66
              6              66,  5             9             67
              7              67               10              67,  5
              8              67               12              66
              9              67                 2 P.M.        67, 5
            10               66,75              4             65, 5
    Now, judging from the change of temperature, we appear to
 have suddenly passed from the bank of Lagullas into the cur
 rent that flows round its borders.           Major Rennell, I believe,
                                                                   observes,

           with Observations on the Analysis           of Salt-brines.     35
   observes, that at the border   of the bank the current is strongest ;
   the high temperature     of  the  water there, at least ten degrees
   above the neighbouring      seas, is readily accounted for on that
  idea.   We appear to have continued           in the current     seventeen
  hours, the course the ship was going was nearly due              east, her
  average  rate  7'65  miles an   hour;   and hence,     supposing   we were
  sailing immediately   across   the  stream,    as  probably   we  were,   or
  very nearly, its width may     be  inferred  to   be  about  130  miles ; a
  distance little differing from that commonly assigned to it.
  Having traversed this current, we seem, from the low tempera
  ture of the water for two hours, to have been passing a bank
  twelve miles wide, and then to have entered a second current
  running in the same direction as the first.
      I have alluded to a connexion between these currents and
 the covering of dense mist, that occasionally occurs on the Ta
 ble-mountain, called the "Table-cloth."                 The connexion is
 evident, and readily explained.        The phenomenon only presents
 itself when a cold wind blows, viz. the south-east.              This wind
 must condense the aqueous vapour rising from the warm current,
 and carry it towards the land.         During the short stay we made
 at the Cape, I once had an opportunity of seeing the mist ad
 vancing; it came rapidly over the surface of the sea, which it
 entirely concealed, whilst the air above was perfectly clear ; it
 soon reached the land, spread along the coast gradually, ascended
 the mountain, and there remained almost stationary, enveloping
 the summit, sometimes increasing and descending on the opposite
 side overhanging Cape Town, and sometimes diminishing                    and
retreating.     That it should remain so nearly stationary on the
top of Table Hill, whilst the south-east wind continues, is not
surprising, considering the height of this hill, 3582 feet above the
level of the sea, its precipitous sides, and the extensive surface
of its top ; nor is it strange, that it should rarely descend, ex
cept when the wind blows hard, taking into account the situation
of the ground beneath, sheltered and warm, and the site of a
large town, from which a current of hot air must be constantly
rising.
     I cannot conclude  without insisting with       Mr. Jonathan Williams
on the use     of the thermometer at       sea ;  if  commonly employed,
and the observations     made with it recorded, a general knowledge
might soon be obtained of the average temperature of all parts
of the ocean, and a fund of curious and useful information might
be collected,    especially respecting currents and shoals, that to
practical navigators could not fail of being highly serviceable.
    In another letter, I propose communicating to you the obser
vations I have collected on the temperature of man and other
animals in different climates.         The experiments were made du-
                                     C  2                                ring

36                Remarks on the Geological Principles
ring my voyage, and during my stay at the Cape, and the Isle
of France, and my residence at this place.
                                          I   remain, &c.
Colombo, Nov. 3, 1816.                                                    John Davy.
VII.      Remarks on the Geological Principles of Wbrner, and
              of Mr. Smith. By Thomas Tredgold, Esq.
          those
                                To   Mr.      Tilloch.
Sir, — In     the last number of the Edinburgh Review it is stated,
that " it has been proved (and Werner was the first to make
the observation) that the masses or strata that constitute the
surface of the globe, present themselves in groups or assem
blages, the members of which are generally associated, whenever
they occur, and are so connected as to exhibit a certain unity of
character.
    " To such assemblages Werner gave the name of formations ;
and his doctrine (or hypothesis, if this latter term be preferred)
is,  that the exterior     of
                           the earth consists      series  ofthese for
                                                               a                  of
mations, laid over each other, in         certain determinate order.
                                                a
Not that the whole series          anywhere complete
                                     is                   but that the    ;
relative place of its several members           never departed from.
                                                          is
Thus, in series A, B, C, D,
             a                      may happen that
                                     it                 or C, or both,    B
may    be occasionally wanting,    and consequently   D  be found im
mediately above       A; but the succession    never violated, nor the
                                                          is
order inverted, by the discovery of        above the formations
                                                 A                    or                B
C,   or D, nor of     Babove those that follow     &c."        it,
      "The only rival claimant to this doctrine, that we know of,
is  Mr. William Smith, the publisher of the Geological Map of
 England that has recently made its appearance — work which                   a
it  would be unjust to mention without adding, that             of great      it   is
and original value,; indeed, regarding        as the production of an
                                                     it
 unassisted individual, of most extraordinary merit. For although
 the publication of this map was delayed till the year 1815, we
have no doubt that Mr. Smith's acute and laborious researches
originated entirely from the facts which came before him in ex
amining the stratification of England many years ago and that                     ;
he was then, and long afterwards, wholly unacquainted with what
 had previously been done           Werner. The opinions of Mr.
                                      by
 Smith, however, so nearly coincide with the doctrine of forma
 tions which we have just stated, that        would be difficult to ex
                                                    it
press them     in any other terms *."
    From this quotation        appears, that this eloquent writer
                                it                                                          is
                      * Edinburgh Review, No. lvii.            p.   71.
                                                     *.
                                                                                        better

                      of Werner, and       those  of Mr. Smith.               37
 better acquainted with the results than with the principles on
 which Mr. Smith has proceeded in his researches ; otherwise he
 certainly would not have considered them to be the same as
 those of Werner.           It is true that the one supposes his formations
 are laid over one another in a determinate order, and the other
 has observed the same in the series of British strata ; but the
 law of succession, of Werner, is purely hypothetical ; that of Mr.
 Smith is the result of multiplied observations, and has been
found to be correct as far as relates to the British strata.
      Werner's law of succession, which he pretended was universal,
evidently flowed from his hypothesis of the formation of the earth ;
an hypothesis which sets both reason and experience at defiance.
The progress of inquiry would, however, have verv soon shown
its fallacy in the hands of any other person than Werner. But
he saw that his law was not the law of Nature, — various strata
were found to succeed one another in a different order from what
he had assigned them in his hypothesis : this however was easily
remedied by creating a distinction without a difference ; and the
formation was termed a newer, or an older formation, as the
case required.         Thus, we have new granite and old granite, and
the same of other substances : — besides, in the class of forma
tions which Werner calls transition, there appears to be no re
gular order of succession whatever ; for Dr. Thomson says, " they
all alternate with each other, sometimes one sometimes another
being undermost*."              But even the classes of Werner do not al
ways succeed one another in the order which Werner assigned
them ; granite being sometimes found above strata which con
tain petrifactions f.
      Also, there is nothing more evident than that the Wernerians
 are without any fixt principles of tracing the structure of the
 earth ; for they are always in doubt and difficulty — even in those
places where they constantly reside, and where the tracing the
 strata presents no difficulty whatever % : they write as mineralo
 gists, but certainly not as geologists ; — they say a formation oc
 curs in this or that country, (seldom pointing out the place with
 the least precision,) and that it is probally of the primitive, trans
 ition, or flcetz class of formations — almost always as if the rock
 occurred in detached patches, — seldom describing it as a con- ,
 tinued stratum ; and, instead of attempting to show the struc
 ture of the country (on which this far-famed hypothesis is
 founded) by maps and sections, the Wernerians content them
 selves with giving a string of technical terms connected by ex
  pressions which are scarcely to be understood §.
     • System   of Chemistry, iii. 558. ed. 1817-         t Thomson's System
  of Chem.  iii. 558.           % Professor Jamieson's Elements of Geognosy
 iii. 205.        § See th,e Description of the Hartz. Reg. Elem. Geog. iii. 71
                                         C3                              How
                       .

 38           " Whether     Music is necessary to the Orator, —
     How different is the course which Mr. Smith has pursued in
 his attempt to develop the structure of his native country ! His
 principles have arisen wholly out of his own observations on the
 strata of England ; and I am not aware that he has attempted
 to found any general system of geology upon his discoveries. He
 has ascertained that certain shells are peculiar to certain strata*;
 and, with the help of this and some other principles equally
 original, he has succeeded in tracing the principal features of the
 structure of England ; and by selecting a series of strata (many of
 them in other respects insignificant)           he has been able to lay
 down on his Map the principal outlines of the geology of England
 and Wales.
     If the results of Werner's researches had borne the least ana
 logy to those of Mr. Smith, we might have supposed them to
 have been conducted on similar principles ; but it is too evident
 that the Wernerians search only for evidence to support a fa
vourite hypothesis, while Mr. Smith attempts to describe the
real state of the earth's surface.
                          I am, sir, yours, &c. &c.
Jan. 14, 1818.                                     Thomas Trkdgold.
VIII.     On the Question " Whether Music is necessary to the
    Orator — to what Extent, and how most readily attainable ?'*
    By Henry Upington, Esq.
                        [Continued from Vol. L. p. 327.]
                                To  Mr. Tilhch.
I                                          Blair's Hill, Cork, Dec. 17, 1817-
    perceive that my last letter, which treated of ancient music,
was inserted in your Magazine for November ; and in pursuance
of my inquiry " Whether Music is necessary to the Orator, — to
what Extent, and how most readily attainable ?" I have now to
present you with some observations on our harmonical system.
 I cannot assure you that they are altogether new, for I am well
aware that few ideas deserve the epithet " original ;" yet, such
 as they are, I shall submit them to your consideration.
     Having taken it for the present as granted, that the Greeks
were truly correct in acknowledging the fortrth as the only per
fect concord f, my next inquiry was — Why that concord has been
rejected by the moderns ; while the subordinate fifth, and its
inferior associates the thirds, have constituted (at the expense of
   *  See his " Strata identified," &c.
   .f The term
                 " perfect concord" appertains to that note alone, which be-
ing struck in conjunction with any given fundamental and its upper octave
shall constitute— not the most decided jingle, but the most intimate rela
tion of both.
                                                                  perfection)

           to what   Extent, and how most readily attainable?"                         39
perfection) the basis of our harmonical edifice? I surveyed then
our common chord with attention; and soon recollected an obser
vation which I had somewhere read or heard of, viz. that it (our
common chord, the basis of our system) is composed of an hetero
geneous mixture, which passes for proportion, but which nothing
short of custom could have reconciled to ears naturally chaste
and susceptible of sublimity.
    Whether, and how far, this charge can be established is the
first object for discussion.    Let us represent our chord major
by the letters C E G c, and the respective relations of the whole
will stand as follows :
                 E is related to C as a 3d major.
                     G   ..                  C ..      5th.
                   c     ..       ..         C ..      8th.
                 G    . .    .. E . .                  3d minor,
                 c    . .    . . E ..                  6th minor,
                 c    ..     .. G ..                   4th.
   Thus it would appear that within our chord major are con
tained no less than six various relations — a 3d minor, 3d major,
4th, 5th, 6th minor, and an octave.
   The same or nearly the same may be said of our chord minor.
It consists of two thirds (both minor and major), a 4th, 5th,
6th major, and an octave ; — and so far the accusation of " he
terogeneous" is not without foundation. To this accusation, how
ever, I cannot yield my unqualified assent, as will be shown in
the sequel ; and in the mean time, then, I shall proceed.
    How happens it that the fourth, all perfect as it        cannot          is,
find   situation within these chords — Because the total derange
       a                                           ?
ment of our partial proportions must follow: insert           in its          it
place, (between the major 3d and fifth,) and does       not become  it
a  semitone to the former, and a second to the latter — discords         ?
too gross for even the Hottentot to suffer.    View    between the  it
minor 3d and 5th, and does        not become the second of both?
                                        it
Such      the fact.
         is
    But why should we not estimate      given fundamental, its 4th,
                                                   a
6th, and 8th, viz.       Ac as perfect chord
                         C
                         F             a          Here lies one, and
                                                           ?
    not the only defect of our harmony.   We are dependent upon
    the extraneous circumstance of a contiguous third for the very
    existence of our key-note    as in the present case, where
                                  ;                                 the            A
                                    we cannot force ourselves to ac
                                      C F,
    sixth becoming   a third to
    knowledge the fundamental         sooner submitting even to
                                           ;                                       F   it
    self — or, what
                  is  tantamount, to the octave below it.
       What shall now be said to the agency of forte            and      If  F         A
    be struck with greater force than C,   the matter    still  is P
                                                               more  ef
    fectually decided —  C   completely banished from its situation.
                             is
       This proceeding indeed,    Imean the operation of forte, will
t                                       C      4                equally

 40            " Whether       Music is necessary to the Orator,
 equally affect our common chord whether major or
                                                                  minor, and
 must prove to every dispassionate person that our
                                                             tonical relations
 are in a considerable degree at the
                                            mercy of our forte and piano;
 — for  if,  in our chord major for instance,
                                                     consisting of  C   E   G
                                                                            c
 we strike our 3d and 5th, viz.            and G, in the slightest degree
                                           E
more /orcibly
                   than C, all   ischaos — our genera are confused, and
                 w,th difficulty be
C   itself Ov."                      acknowledged.        This being an in
disputable fact so £°»st»ntty       verified  in our  military bands, when
the 8ds and 5ths are executed                French horns, — are we not
                                               by
warranted in supposing that first-rate ears, were they habituated
not only to the most delicate shades of forte, but to the cog
nisance of tonical relations, in defiance of noise, must feel dissa
tisfaction even from the best possible execution of our common
rchord ?     They could not           in
                                     all probability tolerate the over
powering of the 3rd, or more particularly the 5th,             by   the com
parative    noise   of the   fundamental;     neither  could they satisfac
 torily acknowledge, even with equality of forte, that funda
 mental as the predominant.              Guido himself was so sensible of
 this imperfection, that he banished the 5th from his counterpoint.
 — Has the Benedictine excelled us              ?
     There    isnot perhaps any musical question which has excited
 from time to time more strenuous contest than the hannonical
 value of this very concord, all moderns insisting on its pre
 eminence.       Let us therefore investigate the source of that au
 thority by which      if it
                           is  supported — the doctrine of vibration—
 whose principle,      I    conceive the matter rightly, attaches the
 highest value to that string whose vibrations shall most fre
 quently coincide with those of the unison or base.
     That the periodical coalescence of any two or more given
 sounds in their passage to the ear should produce a greater volume
 or a greater degree of condensation, and consequently              a greater
 degree of loudness, may be readily conceived.              Time too, more
 or less perfect, may be comprehended               by
                                                     the comparatively re
 gular or irregular movement of bodies             but time and forte are
                                                    :
 as remote from tone, which           the origin of concord and discord,
                                      is
 as the most opposite things in nature.          Experience indeed would
 seemingly     withhold   altogether   from  vibration  — or, in more per
 spicuous language,     from    undulatory   motion  —  the property of va
 ried intonation for undulation
                   ;                       but an ordinary effect, which
                                           is
 sound in its passage through the air must necessarily produce —
 an effect too, whose circumstances every puff of wind must ever
 lastingly confuse.
     Whatever the nature or manner of transmission of those par
 ticles may be, which after being thrown off             by
                                                         the vibrating body
 arrive at the ear, has not been hitherto discovered — and yet,;
 that our organ of perception has been gifted              the Creator with
                                                          by
                                                                           the

         to   what Extent, and how most readily attainable ?"                                41
the faculty     of comparing, through the medium of the ear, the
relative magnitude or number, or perhaps the peculiar arrange
ment of those particles, equally as the proportions of a picture
through the medium of the eye, appears too reasonable to dis
pute.    This is all we can offer upon the subject.
   To obviate the allegation of partiality, I shall meet the advo
cates of vibration upon their own ground :' but, acting much more
fairly than they have done, I shall not content myself with the
selection of some half-a-dozen of the most favourable numbers :
on the contrary, I shall follow up their own plan of calculation
throughout the scale, and present to you in regular order the result.
   Dr. Rees, in his recent Encyclopedia, article Concord, has
given us the modern table, from the octave to the minor 6th in
clusive, rating the octave as 60; viz.
              Octave =      string, value 60 coincidences.
              5th                         30
              4th         =|              20
       Major 6th       =      .§•         20
        Major 3d       = 4-               15
         Minor 3d         =   -jj-                           12
         Minor 6th        =   f-                             12
   Here the calculation ceases    and for the best of reasons — be
                                          ;
cause it  fallacious.
           is            Let us take then every interval upon the
scale; and reduce      to a common standard,
                        it                         dividing the nu  by
merator into that number which represents the octave-^such
being the uniform process            *.
Wherefore, sup-
                       Octave =
                    ^
                                                         string, value lOOOcoindences.
  posing the     J
Then shall follow in"l
                          5th =                   *                   500
  regular gradation     J         4th             3
                                                                     333
                        Major 6th                                    333
                        Major 3d                                     250
   Minor 3d             on our       ~1
                                     .J
                  (as                                                200           All har-
          public tables)      .
                                                                                    monical
         Sharp (or Major) 4th                                        200       >
                                                                                    equiva
                     Minor 6th                "
                                                  T                  200
                                                                                    lents
                                                                                        !
                       Seventh            '•      JS.                200
                                                  8 9
                         Second                                      125
      Sharp (or Major) 7th                        -8-                125
                                          >
                                                  iT
                    Semitone                      TI                     66
                                              l     ft
 Minor 3d (as really found
                                        }¦
   on well-tempered                                                      58!
                                                  1
                                                  7
                                                  To                           !
   pianos)
    * As the denominators are supposed to hate some trifling influence upon
 the value, the preference  given by the Doctor to the lowest.
                             is
                                                                                      I   fear,

42            " Whether Music         is necessary to the Orator, —
     I fear, sir, that I am tediously minute ; and yet I cannot dis
 miss the question without still further exposing its incongruity.
 In a word then — If the fraction 1 -7th, 1 -9th, or any other dis
 cordant fraction whose numerator is a unit, were submitted for
 examination by this hitherto infallible rule, must it not prove an
equivalent, or nearly an equivalent, to the octave ?
     So much for the vibratory doctrine, which ever since the day of
 Galileo has been implicitly acknowledged.               That this doctrine,
 however, is not only fallacious, in its application to musical in
 tervals, but also calculated to mislead — and that too for the so
litary purpose of exalting the fifth, in opposition to the unani
 mous declaration of ancient Greece, appears too evident indeed.
 But what more eligible doctrine shall we substitute in its stead ?
 That of rational calculations — the pleasure of harmony as well as
 of simple melody being obviously derivable from certain though
 hitherto imperfectly defined proportions.
     For the ascertainment then of the relations between tone and
 tone, I would thus proceed — considering the string like any other
 integer as the root.
     First. I would lay down a series of numbers in duple pro
gression, commencing with unity — as thus, 1.2. 4. 8.
     Secondly. I would take the lowest terms of the series ; viz.
 1 and 2 ; and representing the string by 2, I should be driven by.
 necessity to acknowledge the unit as its most intimate relation.
 Hence the base or unison =2, and its octave =1.
     Having thus obtained the numbers 2 and 1 as my extremes, I
 cannot find an intermediate integer ; and must therefore resort
 to the second and third numbers of the series ; viz. 2 and 4.
 Now, taking the number 4 as the base, and 2 as the octave, the
third integer is wanted, which shall spring from these two con
jointly, as from a common root.              For the production of this new
integer     I am   necessitated    to  add  the numbers 4 and 2 together,
and divide their product by the lower term 2, generating by this
operation the required number 3, which is neither more nor less
 than the mean *.
                 . Hence the Base = 4
                               Fourth = 3 i. e. a f string.
                               Octave = 2.
    A fourth integer between the base and octave is next re
 quired ; which integer, and nothing but which, shall spring from
    * Not the common mean between two ordinary extremes, but that supe
 rior that primary mean which, springing from the purest geometrical source,
 becomes   the origin of arithmetical progression.
    Extend to infinity the series 1.2.4—3. 6. 12, or any other equivalent
 series, and the result is similar ; for the addition of any two adjacent terms
divided by the less, shall produce the original mean, viz. 3. Ex. gr. 6-(-12=
 18, which divide by 6, and the product is 3, as required.
                                                                            the

           to what         Extent, and how most readily attainable?"                              43
the conjoint operation of the other three : but this being unat
tainable from any duple series commencing with unity, we must
necessarily resort to the comparatively imperfect series of 3, 6,
and 12, whose geometrical proportions, if the unit were prefixed,
would be totally destroyed, the numbers 1. 3. 6. and 12 being
in no acknowledged proportion at all.
   We must submit then to this comparative imperfection ; and
changing the numbers 4, 3 and 2 into their representatives 12,
9, and     let us multiply the extremes together, and divide the
           fi,
product bv the mean as thus,      ;
                      Base = 12
                  X    by   Octave         =    6
                Fourth =9) 72 (8: which
                -r-   by                          the fourth num     8    is
ber required   and being equal to 2-3ds of the whole string 12,
                  ;
isequivalent to that interval in music called the fifth. The four
numbeis therefore obtained       these various procedures, are
                                               by
                                 12    .   9   .    S   .   6
        In music = Base 4th. 5th. 8th.
     Were   still further intended to create the number next in
            it
 value to the 5th from our materials 12. 9.                     for the
                                                                     8.
                                                     (12 and         6               6
 harmonical creation of numbers being equivalent), we should, in
 my opinion, generate neither from 12 and         nor from    and 6*,9,            8
-whose proportions are as       to     while the simpler, and conse
                                       4        3   ;
 quently more perfect generative proportions of to           are to be         3
 found; viz. in 12 to                                                              6 2
                             or in8, to 6.   Now, 12 and
                                                9             being in
 this instance equal, our choice must rest between the numbers
9    and  8
          ;  to the former of which, viz.      as the better concord,
                                                                9,
 we must give precedence;      —  and therefore the minor 6th which
is   equal to 7ft (the mean between          and      must be held, in
                                                            9             6)
  harmonical value, as the successor of the fifth.
     To retrace our subject —The octave springs of necessity frSm
                                       :
 unity, called in music the fundamental; from the fundamental
  and its octave in conjunction proceeds the fourth     from the con           ;
 joint operation of the fundamental, its octave and its fourth, pro
  ceeds the fifth   and from the octave and the fourth alone
                      ;                                             ge                       is
  nerated the minor 6th.
     These few and very simple operations are, in my mind,         suf                    a
  ficient guidance for the analysis of our musical numbers — and                         ;
  hence therefore     shall venture, in my next letter, upon the for
                           I
  mation of a table which shall comprehend every individual inter
  val within our octave.
                             [To be continued.]
   * Intervals approximating in value to our thirds                       and sixths may be ge
 nerated between these, — but are not in modern use.
     +   That    is   —
                      7§               5
                            equal to — of the whole string 12.
                                                                                         IX.      On

                                 [    44     ]
      IX. On    the Case    of Miss Margaret MacAvoy.              By
                           A Correspondent.
                             To   Mr.   Tilloch.
 Sir,  -T    he   case of  Miss MacAvoy has excited so much atten
 tion that I trust a few remarks upon Dr. Renwick's statement *
 will not be deemed incompatible with the subjects of your Ma
 gazine.    I must candidly confess that I undertook the perusal
 of the above-mentioned work under the influence of strong pre
judice ; but" I closed it with very different impressions: there
 are indeed some suspicious circumstances of sufficient weight to
 induce an impartial reader to suspend his assent till the case is
 established beyond the possibility of doubt ; but I think the sub
ject far too important to be treated with levity, and to call for a
 closer and more impartial investigation than appears yet to have
 taken place.     The chief grounds of disbelief are founded upon
 the frequent suspension of her supposed powers, and consequent
 mistakes in ascertaining colours, printing, &c. : and one or two
 instances are mentioned with a candour highly creditable to Dr.
 Renwick (who appears to have no other view than the elucidation
of truth), which certainly strongly savour of imposition; but these
 are counterbalanced by others of a still stronger description, in
my opinion, in favour of the reality of the existence of these pre
tended powers.        In the first place, there is no assignable cause
for the deception practised; the health of the young woman is so
deplorable and precarious, that worldly motives can scarcely be
 advanced; and pecuniary ones are, it is generally understood,
equally out of the question, as she receives no remuneration,
and is not in circumstances to require it.           In addition to this,
Dr. Renwick's character (for if there is imposition he must be a
confederate) is at stake; he can gain little or nothing by inducing
the world to believe, and he must lose every thing the moment
the fraud is detected.        Those who have read the book will, I
think, be inclined not to judge too decisively of Miss MacAvoy; be
cause with a pulse often at 160, and a habit of body reduced to
the last degree, she occasionally declares that a power depen
dent upon strength of nerve suddenly leaves her, particularly if
exposed to any agitating cause.         But my object in troubling you
with the annexed remarks, is not to defend either Dr. Renwick.
or Miss MacAvoy, neither of whom have I ever seen; but to
offer some observations which appear to coincide with a theory
I had previously formed respecting the extraordinary powers
possessed by animals and insects, resulting I conceived from a
   * For the             of this statement, see subsequent account of New
             particulars
Books.
                                                                     high

           On the Case    of Miss Margaret MacAuoy.                 45
high state of irritability in the nervous system ; in consequence
 of which, so far from wondering at the publication of a case some
 what analogous    in a human being, my astonishment has often
 been  excited, that in the enlarged practice and advanced state of
 medical and anatomical knowledge, no instances have before been
produced which could throw light upon so interesting a subject.
Now, in reading Dr. Renwick's statement, it struck me that
the same theory by which I had endeavoured to<account for the
powers of animals and insects might be applicable to the case in
question ; namely, the action or influence of caloric.      We know
that by the intervention of a prism the solar rays are divided into
their calorific, colorific and deoxidizing proportions.     It will be
readily admitted that the calorific division would probably have
the greatest influence upon nerves rendered unusually sensible by
disease or other cause ; and such in the case of Miss MacAvoy
appears to be the fact. I proceed to an illustration :— Dr. Her-
schel's experiments prove that the most refrangible rays have the
least heating power ; and that the heating power gradually in
creases as its refrangibility diminishes ; the violet ray has there
fore the smallest heating power, and the red ray the greatest ;
accordingly the effect of the red ray ought to be much stronger
upon an irritable nerve than the violet which terminates the ca
lorific division.     On referring to Dr. Renwick's account there
is evidence that such is the fact. Page 59. July 25, " She told a
scarlet coloured cloth upon the back of her hand uncovered, but
she could not tell any other colour given her." Page 61, The red
and orange rays of the solar spectrum being thrown by a prism
upou her hand, she said it appeared like gold.           She felt the
spectrum warm. Theviolet rays were the least pleasant. PagelOQ,
" I prefer the brighter colours as they give a pleasurable feeling,
a sort of glow to my fingers, and indeed all through me.        Black
gives  me   rather  a shuddering feeling."    Again  : we  know   that
metals are the best conductors of caloric, but in very different
proportions ; according to Dr. Ingenhousz, they are classed in
the following order :— Silver, gold; tin, copper, nearly equal.
Platinum, iron, steel, lead, all much inferior to the others. If a
more rapid action of caloric can therefore be supposed to have-
a more sensible effect than a slower,       Miss MacAvoy ought in
the above order to be susceptible to metallic impressions, and we
find she is so most accurately.     P. 63, " The silver of a watch-
case felt finer than the gold of the seal ; but gold and silver had
 a much
         finer feel than steel or brass." In p. 109, her reply to
the question, What is the feeling you have of different           me
tals ? she repeats the remark :       " I feel gold and silver to be
more pleasant than brass, copper, or steel."       I have already re
                                                                ferred

46          On Ike Case     of Miss Margaret MacAvoy.
 fei red to p. 62, wherein she compares the red and orange rays
 to gold.
    Again : with respect to fluids, it is a known law that the nearer
 a liquid is to the temperature at which it boils, the greater is the
 expansion produced by the addition of a degree of caloric. In con
formity with which law she ought to be more alive to the impres
sions received from alcohol which boils at 176, than to water
whose boiling temperature is 212, and the proof is equally satis
factory; for, in answer to the question,         How do you know the
difference between water and spirits of wine, she replies " By
 the spirits of wine feeling warmer than the water." p. 110.
     I shall conclude these remarks with one observation more re
 specting glass.     She is asked, p. 1 10, " Do you feel the colours
                                                              "
equally well if two glasses are placed before the object ? She says,
" If these glasses are very close to each other, I feel the colour,
butjt appears more faint; but if they are placed at a distance
from each other, I do not feel the object."         This  is,
                                                           I    conceive,
what might have been expected from the nature of glass, which
is  known to be  a    bad conductor, though as       arecipient medium
for the rays of light it   is essential in other experiments.
    Such, sir, are the remarks       Ibeg to offer upon this extraor
dinary    case
            :   —  separately  considered    they may be of no great
weight,    but collectively they afford  at least curious coincidence
                                                 a                     ;
and    the further have attempted to follow them up, the more sa
                I
tisfactory has been the result.      This theory accounts for the cu
rious fact stated p. 83 Her powers appear to be evanescent, and
                       :
the caloric has not at all times its occasional influence upon the
nerves.     Accordingly, in feeling the colour possessed of the
smaller quantity — blue — ceases to excite, or but feebly.
                            it                                      The
colour therefore under inspection would appear to her to be im
mediately changed to black.         What are Dr. Renwick's words
"
                                                                       ?
    The last colour she told was Hue, and in an instant         it   was
Hack, and then the power        isgone      V
     If the coincidence be not purely casual, and the conclusions
above mentioned not erroneous,            would be desirable to try a
                                         by it
series of prismatic experiments         the light of  afull moon.    For
the lunar spectrum being devoid of caloric,      it  might be presumed
she would feel more difficulty in discovering its colours than when
submitted to the solar rays.     It might also be satisfactory to know
what impressions she received from the action of the solar pris
matic rays extending heyond the spectrum which are purely ca
lorific and colourless.  I    have been the more anxious to trans
mit these remarks to the public through the medium of your
Magazine, as    I   trust they may induce more scientific observers
to suggest experiments of       a more decisive nature.   I    am aware
                                                                     that

  An Account         of an Aurora Borealis    observed at   Glasgow.    47
that in the metropolis the whole is considered as an imposition,
and passed over in consequence as unworthy of notice.       But
surely as   long   as a   possibility exists of its not being a fraud; no
investigation which science can afford ought to be omitted in a
case which,    if
                true, will throw an important light upon some
phenomena which in our present state of knowledge are de
servedly ranked amongst the most interesting and curious in the
ceconomy of nature.
                      Your obedient servant,
                                                                   E. S.
X. Account by M. Chev. DuPiy, Corresponding Member of the
  French Institute, ksfc. of an Aurora Borealis observed at Glas
  gow the 19th of September, contained in a Letter toM. Arago.
  Communicated to the Academy of Sciences of the Institute of
  France, the 29th of Sept. 1817.
Yesterday,                                       Glasgow, Sept. 20, 1817.
                the 1 9th of September, a little before nine o'clock
at night, I went to visit the Observatory of Glasgow, which is
built on the summit of a hill to the north-west of the city.      I was
accompanied by Dr. Ure, a gentleman       of scientific celebrity, who
has principally contributed by his zeal and his cares to the for
mation of a Society, whose voluntary subscriptions have defrayed
the whole expense of erecting the edifice and purchasing the in
struments, which are numerous and very excellent.
   The night was fine, the moon and the stars were of a sparkling
brilliancy.   When we arrived at the Observatory the heavens
towards the north exhibited some whitish shootings, which be
coming less and less uncertain, soon displayed the appearance of
an aurora borealis.      We then ascended to the terrace above
the Observatory, in order to embrace at one view all the luminous
parts.   In enjoying for the first time this imposing spectacle, I
experienced an astonishment and pleasure which I cannot ex
press to you ; nor can I sufficiently prize my good fortune in see
ing one of the most beautiful phenomena of which this country
can boast.
    The light of the aurora borealis extended from the north in a
space terminated    by a vertical circle, the plane of which was
nearly perpendicular to the direction of the magnetic needle.
The zenith was the part least luminous — it seemed a centre from
which the streamers emanated, and which as they developed
themselves became more and more brilliant in proportion as
they approached the horizon.        However, they never descended
that length, but terminated irregularly at fifteen or twenty de
 grees above     presenting an angulous contour like those glories
               it,
 with which painters environ the throne of the divinity.
                                                                       The

48 An Account      of an Aurora Borealis   observed at Glasgow.
   The circumstances which struck me as most remarkable were
the play of the rays and their luminous undulations.      These rays
were projected in large groups which alternately approached and
receded from each other : at one time they seemed to rise in a
body, in the sheaf-like form of an immense rocket (comme des
gerbes d'artifice), and at another time to descend like a shower
of light. Independently of these general movements, each cluster
of rays presented a lateral movement, which could be distin
guished by the greater or less intensity of parallel rays: the
parts more or less luminous moved in lines paralle lto each other,    .
like regular waves ; and what was very remarkable, there often
appeared in the same cluster two opposite undulatory movements,
in such a manner that the masses of light and shade moved re
gularly in opposite directions one above the other without being
in ihi least confounded.
    The light was generally of a silvery white, or rather of a light-
orange hue : — the lower extremity of the clusters, however,some-
times emitted the prismatic colours, as red, yellow, and blue; at
one instant a slight green tint diffused itself over one of the
clusters. — These are all the observations I was able to make as
to the colours of the aurora borealis.
   During the first twenty minutes the appearances of the aurora
were faint; during the ensuing twenty-five minutes they were
brilliant and continually varying; afterwards the light gradually
vanished.    The longitudinal projection of the streamers and
their lateral movements first ceased, and then the rectilineal
figure of the rays became effaced.       Nothing now remained in
the heavens but a pale glimmering light like to that of the
Milky Way, its point terminating in a grand circular arch, con
cave towards the earth.     This light continued visible for about
an hour after the aurora.
   The sky did not seem so transparent as to entitle us to sup
pose that it was not charged with any vapour; but there were no
clouds visible, one small one only excepted, which appeared in
the hemisphere occupied by the aurora like a sort of rock, against
which the streamers played, indenting its edges but slightly. In
the intervals between the streamers the stars were distinctly per
ceivable, even at the time when the aurora was most brilliant;
but under the streamers as far as the horizon the heavens were
blackish, and the stars were not seen without difficulty.
                                                       XI.   Notices

                                [       49       ]
                  XI.   Notices respecting New Books.
A    Narrative of the Case of Miss Margaret MacAvoy ; with
     an Account of some Optical Experiments connected with it.
     By Thomas Renwick, M.D. Physician to the Liverpool
     Infirmary.     4to. pp. 111.
Hints to Credulity ; or, An Examination of the Pretensions of
  Miss M. MacAvoy, occasioned by Dr. Renwick's Narrative
     of her Case.       By Joseph Sandars. p. 69.
The     subject of this case is stated by Dr. Renwick to have been-
born on the 28th     June 1800. A hooping cough with which she
was attacked when an infant, was succeeded by an affection of
the eyes which severely afflicted her, and was attended with a
very considerable and constant discharge of a bloody watery jluid.
Her friends despaired of saving the eyes, but no professional means
were employed for some time; the disease gradually increased,
and the exposure to light caused insupportable pain.         When the
eyelids   were raised up, the eyeballs appeared  as one  mass  of blood,
A friend recommended Johnston's golden ointment, which was
made use of with great benefit ; and In a short time the pain and
irritability of the eyes were entirely rehiovcd.    She now gradually
recovered her sight ; perfectly with the right eye, but the left was
so weak she could scarcely open                  it,
                                            and saw every thing as          it
were through       amist.
   From this period until June 1815, she continued in          very va
                                                                    a
riable and infirm state of health.     On the 4th   of that month    she
is said to have been visited for the first time          Dr. Renwick.
                                                               by
He found her so much affected with giddiness as to stagger in
walking across the room.        With the left eye she could scarcely
distinguish any object,     and with the right for several days pre
vious to his visit every object at     distance appeared white
                                        a                           and ;
those which were near double.         On the 7th   of  June  she  could
not distinguish any object whatever, and appeared totally blind.
The pupils were considerably dilated, and did not contract upon
the  application of strong light.
   The succeeding passages of Dr. Renwick's observations we
shall give in his own words
    " August 2. Mr. Thomas, surgeon, and particularly exa
                                :
                                                           I
mined her eyes exposed to the light of        candle as near to the
                                                       a
eye as possible without burning her, but without observing the
slightest contraction or dilatation of the pupil, or the least sensi
bility in the eye.     have frequently since this period thrown my
                        I
hand suddenly towards her face          have pretended to dash a
                                             ;
pbinted penknife at the eye       and have often applied the point
                                    ;
of  the finger in   quiet and steadv
                    a
                                    -
                                      manner as near as possible to
    Vol. 51. No. 237. Jan. IS 18.             D                   the

50                 Notices respecting New Books,
 the pupil, without observing the slightest sensation in the eye.
 Mr. Thomas assured me, he has more than once put his finger
 on the cornea itself, which then appeared insensible; but when
 he touched the eyelid or eyelash, she was instantly sensible of it.
 I have sat for a considerable time attending to her sewing, but
apparently indifferent about it ; and during these visits 1 have
examined her every action as minutely as possible, and I have
been satisfied she could not see.
    " August 31. I was induced to visit her again with Mr. Thomas
(from hearing from her step-father, Mr. Hughes, that she had
recently found herself possessed of certain powers of an extraor
dinary nature), and took considerable pains in examining the
eyes ; but we found little or no alteration in their general ap
pearance, except that the pupil was not quite so much dilated as
before ; but the light of a candle appeared to have no influence
upon it.     We found her father's account very accurate, and that
she really could read by the application of the finger to the
letters with considerable fluency.      As it was probable any other
person who had not the same opportunity of judging with Mr.
Thomas and me, might think it possible she could see, I thought
it right to bind something over the eyes, and I made use of a
Manchester cotton shawl which went twice round the head,
crossed at the eyes, and was tied at the back of the head as
firmly as she could bear it. I placed in her hand a number of a
folio bible, and she read very correctly one verse of a chapter in .
Genesis. I then requested to have another book, which hap
pened, to be a volume of the Annals of the Church.             I opened
it,  and she  read  to me several lines, with  the  alteration in  a pro
 per name of only one letter, which upon being           desired  to  read
 oyer again she corrected.   I  then turned to   a   few lines of  errata,
 and she read them correctly, only reading the letter   I    as an
                                                                 i     and
a   dot.  The mode she follows,     is to place her fingers upon the
 book, and, when she feels the letters, to proceed from the begin
 ning to the extremity of the word, and back again, until she
 names it; and so on, to the next word.           She often makes use
 of the fingers of both hands, particularly the fore-fingers, and
 when they are in good order, she will read from twenty-five to
 thirty words in half  a  minute.
     " On the following day, mentioned the circumstance tq a
                              I
 friend who was anxious to see     a  phenomenon of this kind, and
 he met me in St. Paul's square.          Miss MacAvoy again read
 over to us a   versein the Bible ;    afew lines in the Annals of the
 Church, and the title-page, mottoes, and several lines in             a
 12mo edition of Grahames Sabbath.         I   placed her fingers upon
a   blank leaf, and desired her to read.      The attempt was made,
 but she said she could not feel any letters.          Her fingers were
                                                                      then

                      Notices respecting New Books.                   51
  then placed upon another leaf, which she declared was also blank.
  I then desired her to feel the upper part of the leaf.     She did so,
 and said she felt something, but it was so confused she could not
 make out what it was.       The fact was, a lady's name had been
 written in the book, and when I took it from my library, I
 scratched the name out with a pen, so that it was not distin
 guishable to the eye." —
     " She distinguished the different colours of silk, of cotton, or
 of wool ; and the brighter and more vivid the colour, so much
 greater is the pleasurable sensation it affords.     If thev consist of
 many   colours  in the same  piece, she  will point out each coloury
and trace the line where it terminates.        If the silks are of that
kind called shot-silks, she will tell the colour of the ground as
well as the intermixture.      If the different pieces are besmeared
with oil, or any greasy substance, she cannot so easily distinguish
the colour ; but if it is nearly faded, she will point out where it
is faded, or where it is bright.     She can distinguish the colours
of the paintings of enamelled or varnished boxes, will trace the
outline of the figures, and will very generally state the subject of
the painting with a degree of accuracy which is surprising.          At
times, however, this feeling is suddeuly lost ; and after describing
colours, reading, &c. with great nicety, she will declare she can
not tell the colour, or will say it is black. When this is the case,
the fingers become extremely cold, and the power will often re
turn a-, the fingers become warmer." —
    "January 17, 1 S 1 7 i Ou this day she not only declared the
colour of different cloths, cotton and silk, but several pieces of
silk which were inclosed in a small phial bottle ; she traced with
her finger the edge of each ; and when another phial was given,
which did not contain any thing, she declared it to be empty.
Bottles of white glass, holding magnesia, red precipitate, red
oxide of mercury, and bark,' were separately given to her, and
she accurately named the colour, and told how high the bottle
was fiiled with each substance : — two small. bottles, the one con
taining water, and the other spirits of wine, were placed in her
hand ; — she said the first was colourless like water, and the se
cond was similar in colour, but had a different feel, being^niuch
warmer. * * * * * Soon after this period the Rev. Edward Glover
asked. her if she could tell the time of the day by feeling the
surface of the glass covering the dial plate of, a watch.          Her
answer was, she had never tried it.      A watch was given into her
hands ; she felt the surface of the glass, and very soon named
 the hour.    She was afterwards so exact, that she not only named
 the hour, but the number of minutes the minute-hand had passed
the hour.     Once I gave her my watch when the hour was twelve
o'clock.    She mentioned the hour, but observed there was only
                                 D 2                                one

52                  Notices respecting New Books.
one   hand ; the minute-hand being exactly over the hour,hand.
Mr. Glover assured me that for several days he was afraid of
speaking of the circumstance, lest he should be laughed at ; but
she so often repeated this experiment in his presence, and in that
of other persons, that he made no hesitation in mentioning it.
She told the colour of the different hands, whether they were
of gold or steel. She distinguished a gold from a silver watch.
Brass and copper were also submitted to her touch, and she im
mediately discovered the one from the other.               The colours of
various seals and stones, whether mixed or not, were correctly
named ; as well as those of gems ; but it was only the colour and
not the nature of the stone, unless she had before been acquainted
with it. The eyes were covered with gogglers*."
    Various other experiments are stated by Dr. Renwick ; but
 we cannot gather from them any thing new in addition to the
preceding observations, unless indeed we may except the follow
 ing, which is certainly novel enough.
    " Exp. xix. With her hands upon the window perceived two
 newly-cut stones of a yellow colour, lying one on the other against
 a wall on the other side of the street ; distance about twelve
 yards : also a heap of cast-iron railing piled upon each other.
 One of the company being dispatched to place himself upon the
ground, stones, rails, &c. she mentioned whenever he moved his
 position ; perceived him jump off the railing; mentioned the co
 lours of his dress correctly, only said that a plum coloured coat
 was black ; — mentioned two children accidentallv passing by at
 the timei    She said, they appear very small indeed ; the person
 who was sent appeared about two feet high when at the distance
 of twelve yards ; as he came nearer, she observed that she felt
 him grow bigger. All objects appear as if painted on the glass."
    Dr. Renwick has added to his Narrative, some " Remarks
 upon Miss MacAvoy's Case             but they are wholly of a medical
 nature, relating to certain convulsive affections to which the
young lady is subject.        " The peculiar power," says the author,
 "which she appears to possess of distinguishing colours, reading,
&c. with her fingers, are of so extraordinary a nature, as with
our present information to preclude all reasoning upon the sub
ject." In this we differ from the author. The powers ascribed
to Miss MacAvoy are to be sure extraordinary enough ; but, as
may be seen from the paper of an ingenious correspondent in a
 preceding part of this number, there is much less difficulty in
   * These
            gogglers are described as forming a complete mask coveriug the
whole of the face, except the nostrils and mouth. They were tied by se
veral pieces of tape at the back of the head, in almost every direction, and
two pieces of tape crossed each other under the nose, just below wheie a line
of cotton-wool was sewed in, ao as to prevent any ray of light from passing
upwards.
                                                                 reasoning

                      Notices respecting New Books.                   53
reasoning    about them than in ascertaining whether such powers
really  exist  at all.    Indeed Dr. R. himself elsewhere informs us
that, but
            " for the fact of blindness not being unanimously ugieed
upon, he would have endeavoured to have given an explanation
of some of the phenomena detailed above."
    The chief antagonist of the reality of the powers ascribed to
Miss MacAvoy is a Mr. ijandars, a merchant of Liverpool, the
title of whose pamphlet on the subject is also prefixed to this
notice.     Some facts contained in this pamphlet are certainly of
a very stubborn description ; and until contradicted or explained,
which the parties whose credibility is attacked will certainly
feel it their duty to do, if it is in their power, the case of Miss
MacAvoy must, notwithstanding               all that has been said and
believed about       it,
                       be considered as onlv one chapter more added
to the apocrypha of Philosophy.               The spirit in which these
" Hints to Credulity" are written we are far from approving, —
as, relating to the individuals concerned, they are acrimonious,
and, with a view to the interests of science, more remarkable for
their egotism than philosophical acumen.             But at the same time
there   is   a veritableness and an explicitness about the Matter
of fact details contained in them, which entitles them to every
 attention.      A few of the more prominent passages we shall sub
join, and leave the case for the present in that state, in which       it
can only be allowed to remain,     if     these passages are true both in
 point  of fact,  and  of  inference.
    .
        " Particukus of what pasted on the \3lk October.
    "A number of experiments were tried on Miss M'Avov, in
 some of which she w       s   successful,
                                        in      others quite the reverse.
 She had two glass phials put into her hands, in one of which
was water, and in the other spirits of wine           ;   she named each
very accurately, which Dr. R. regarded as         a    very extraordinary
circumstance but upon examination,
                 ;                           it   appeared, that although
the phials might be of etpial weight, they were not of equal size,
 one being much longer than the other, and the corks were not
 (as they ought to have been) sealed with wax         ;  indeed they had
 not the least covering over them, to prevent any one, who had
a   peculiarlv fine sense of smelling, from ascertaining the diffe
 rence.  A    gentleman present gave into Miss M'Avoy's hands a
seal, and requested her to tell him the colour of         it
                                                           ;     he placed
 his hand between the seal and her face, and she declared the ,seal
 to be black, whereas      it  was white.     At the close of the experi
 ments,   another    person present expressed an opinion that Miss
 M'Avov could see; upon which Dr. R. proposed that the gold
 beater's skin and the adhesive plaster should be applied to that
 person's eyes, which was assented to, and uncommon pains were
 taken  by  Dr. R. in placing them, so as to prevent all possibility
                                   D3                                   of

 54                   Notices respecting New Books.
 of seeing.     When fixing them, Dr. R. said,         " Now close your
 eyelids,"   to  which    an answer   was returned  by some  one, " You
 were not to particular with Miss M.'Avov."            Howevei, the re
 quest was complied with, and when the bandages were properly
 placed, a watch was presented, and the hour was immediately
 pronounced ; a glove was given, and the colour was told ; a letter
 was produced, which was read with great facility, although the
 writing was very small." —
     " The coming and going of the power is a most convenient
 resource.     As Sancho savs of sleep, it covers her over " like a
 cloak."     Whenever any unusual means are adopted to blindfold
 her, she becomes agitated, she cannot proceed — the power goes.
 Her medical friends all agree in stating her to possess excessive
 sensibility; but may not the dread of detection produce this agi
 tation ?    It is ,surely as reasonable, (though not perhaps so cour
 teous)  to impute    it to this, as to a high indignant feeling of sus
 pected  integrity.   At other times, without being agitated, ^ie loses
 the power; every attention is paid to her, bandages are loosened,
 and coverings removed ; — after a short time experiments are re-
jsumed. and she succeeds : — Is it uncharitable to say, that in the
one case she was completely blindfolded, that in the oiher she
 was not ?      If, when she declared she always found it necessary
 that the breath of her nostrils should fall upon the object pre
 sented, she had stopped short at telling colours and reading with
 Iut fingers, she would have been less vulnerable ; but suddenly
 she evinced new powers, to which her breath could not by possi
 bility be necessary : she began to distinguish objects which she
 could neither touch nor breathe upon — she could not touch the
 dial-plate of a watch, yet she told the hour by feeling at the
 glass ; she began to name colours placed behind her back : of
 what use then was her breath ? — It could not in either case be
 of the least importance to the developeinent of these powers.
 When by putting out her feelers, (just as a snail protrudes its
 horns on issuing from its shell,) she distinguished through a win-
do w, and at the distance of twenty or thirty yards, men labouring
 at their vocation, the absurdity of the thing could have no pa
 rallel but iu the attempt to explain it by the intervention and in
 fluence of the breath.        This declaration regarding her breath is
 most important, and gives the key to the whole mystery.
     " Having shown that her breath is not always necessary to her
 performances, I shall proceed to show that this is not the only
 instance in which she proves too much.            Her followers say that
 her eyes are blind, and that she reads by the agency of her fingers !
 What is the nature of this agency ? If it be the sense of touch,
 she would be able to read in the dark as well as m the light ; but
 on one occasion, when Dr. Traill proposed that the room should

                    Notices respecting New Books.                   55
be   darkened, he was asked whether, as he could not read in the
dark,    it was reasonable to expect a blind person to do it ? Ad
 mitting that her fingers really can see, light is declared to be
 necessary ; but what is the process of her reading ?        Her fingers
 come in Close contact with the words ; she feels them, and most
 effectually obstructs the light.   If instead of touching the words,
 she held her fingers at a sufficient distance to admit the light,
 then the theory would be supported by one of the laws of vision ;
 here again " the good Lady promises too much." — -
    " In October 1816, Mr. Bradbury, author of Travels in Ame-.
rica, accompanied by a friend, visited Miss M'Avoy.           His friend
had seen this young lady several times before, and from witness
ing some experiments that were tried upon her, was of opinion
that she could see ; but being anxious that Mr. Bradbury should
also obsesve her, he prevailed upon him to visit her.            After a
few experiments, Mr. B. was so well satisfied that Miss M'Avoy
could see with her eyes, that he ceased examining her further,
and seated himself by the fire to wait until his friend was ready
to depart.      His friend made a few more efforts, to be convinced
whether the opinion he had previouslv entertained was well or
ill founded, and proposed, as   a   final test of her powers, that she
should determine, with her hand behind her back, the colour of
a  piece of cloth which he brought with him for that purpose.
    " After feeling it  for
                         a    short period, and being informed that
she was mistaken in the colour that she guessed          it to be, Miss
 M'Avoy requested permission to use her other hand, which of
course was instantly acceded to.       After some time had elapsed,
in   which she was unsuccessful in her efforts to determine the
colour, her mother, who was in the room, and had been engaged
in
    affixing leather to the goggles, handed them over to Mr. B,'s
friend, and asked his opinion, whether     it   was possible, in their
amended state, for   a   person to see with them     ? He unwarily put
them on him for few moments, to ascertain the point demanded,
                a
and when he took them off, he was surprised to find that Miss
M'Avoy could then state correctly tbe colour of the cloth.           He
shortly after took leave of her, as he was extremelv desirous of
learning from Mr. B. what had transpired, daring the time he
had incautiously put on the goggles. Mr. B. was equally anxious
to communicate      what he had observed during that period, in
which, although apparently heedless of what was passing, he was
an attentive observer.      Mr. B. then related, that as soon as his
friend had put on the goggles, he saw Miss M'Avoy rapidly glance
at himself and his friend ;    and acting as from an apparent con
viction of not being observed, she drew the cloth from behind
her back, gazed at  it   quickly, and restored  it to its former situa
tion, before the goggles were removed from his friend's eves.
                                D   4                             this

  56                 Notices respecting New Books.
  This fact Mr. Bradbury has related to several respectable gen
  tlemen, who are fully satisfied of his candour and integrity." —
      " Our experiments were now drawing to a close, when Mr.
 Steele, from London, entered the room, with a new kind of ap
              which appeared to possess all the necessary powers of
 paratus,
 interrupting sight, and yet admitting the needful communication
 of the fingers with the month; which was declared indispensable,
-for the purpose of breathing on them occasionally when touching
 the object the colour of which was to be identified.        This ap
 paratus     was nothing more  than  a small sheet of pasteboard, out
 of one side of which a circular piece was cut, so as to admit her
 neck. Being placed under her chin, the goggles were considered
 unnecessary, aud were removed; as there could be no doubt of her
  possessing the faculty of seeing with her fingers, if with this pro
jecting appendage she could describe objects, and tell the colours
  of them when placed beneath it. It was not our business to de
  termine if the Lady could see with her eyes ; our doubts only
  related to her possessing that faculty with her hands.       I think
  the first trial we made, under this new arrangement, was with a
  watch.      Now it happened that two gentlemen present had gold
  watches, very nenrly alike in size and fashion.        One of these
  was held carelessly, though designedly, at such a     distance  from
 'her face with the dial upwards, as to be seen, if she had the
  power and inclination to look at it. A few minutes elapsed in
   conversation, when it was proposed to put a watch into her
  hands, beneath the pasteboard ; and taking the one just alluded
  to for that purpose, I professed to give it her, but in fact put
  another watch into her hands, the fingers of which had been pri
  vately altered one hour forward.      She drew her fingers over the
   glass, and declared the time to a minute ; but observe, it was not
   the time of the watch she held in her hand, but the time of the
            /
   watch held concealed in mine, the one which had previously
   been placed carelessly at a distance with the dial upwards. This
   artifice she was not made acquainted with ; and an exclamation
   of " astonishing
                     "
                       being uttered by some one of the party, she
   concluded that every thing so far was right."
      Mr. Daniel Dowling, Master of the Classical,        Commercial,
   and Mathematical     School, Mansion House, Highgate, has just
   published" A Key to the latest Edition of Dr. Hutton's excellent
   Course of Mathematics."        The Course is in three volumes oc
   tavo, and the Key in one handsome volume to correspond.          The
   lucid manner in which Mr. Dowling has treated the several ma
   thematical and philosophical subjects in the Course, demonstrated
   the various propositions, and investigated the theorems, not only
   evinces that he possesses a thorough knowledge of those branches,

                            Royal Society.                          67
 but exhibits him    as a man well calculated   for the profession he
 has chosen, since no requisite is more essential in the formation
 of a school-master, than the art of conveying instruction.       The
,work is illustrated by 100 diagrams neatly cut on wood.          In a
 word, we are of opinion, that this book will be found to be what
 Mr.Dowling suggests in his Preface, "an acquisition to everyClass
 of Mathematical Students, and to Officers of the Army, Navy,
 and Honourable Company's service."
     Mr. Robert MacWilliam,       architect, has in the press    " An
 Essay on the Origin and Operation of the Dry- Rot; in which
  the source of the disease is investigated, with a view to establish
 the modes of prevention and cure on rational principles.       It will
 make a quarto volume, illustrated with plates ; and to it will be
 annexed suggestions on the cultivation of forest trees, with abs
 tracts of the forest laws from the earliest times.
     Dr. Kitchener has just published a Third Edition of his useful
 little work entitled " Practical Observations on Telescopes, Opera
  Glasses, and Spectacles."      We gave a short notice of this work
 on its first appearance in our Number for December 1814.
               XII.   Proceedings   of Learned  Societies.
                            ROYAL SOCIETY.
  On     the 20th of November the Croonian Lecture was read by
 Sir Everard Home, describing the changes which blood under
  goes in the act of coagulation. It resulted from some microscopic
  experiments, in which Sir Everard was assisted by Mr. Bauer,
  that 2,560,000 globules of human blood, when enveloped in their
  colouring matter (which he conceives to be something superadded
  to their proper substance) would be required to cover a square
   inch. He supposes that the globules possess a regularly organized
  structure : they were observed to range themselves in lines, which
   when examined and compared with the muscular fibre, under
  high magnifying powers, led to the conclusion that these particles
  are the constituents of the fibre.     The blood in coagulating as
  sumes a tubular texture, an effect produced by the extrication of
   gas during the coagulation.
      Nov. 27. A paper by Mr. Seppings on the strength given to
   ships by diagonal braces was read, and claiming for the author
   the originality of the invention.
      Dec. 1. The election of Office-bearers took place. — (See our
   Number for December.)
      Dec. 1 1. A Memoir by Captain Burney was read, On the Geo
                                                               graphy

  38                 Royal Society    of Edinburgh.
 graphy of the North Eastern part of Asia, examining the ques
 tion whether Asia and America are united ? which he concludes
 in the affirmative : of course that no north-west passage, so often
 sought for, exists.
     Dec. 18. A paper by James Smithson,Esq. was read, on the Co
 louring; Properties of certain matters. Among the substances ex
 amined were litmus, the colouring matter of violet, the blue paper
 employed to cover loaf-sugar, the blue of hyacinth, the mulberry,
 the corn-poppy, and sap green. Mr. Smithson thinks it probable
 that some vegetable colours may be produced by combining their
 principles.
    A  paper by Mr. John Davy was read the same evening, giving
 an   account of some observations made on Adam's Peak, in the
 Island of Ceylon.      The print of a foot of immense size which is
 shown on    the top of  this mountain as that of Adam, who is fabled
 to have fallen on this island when cast down from Paradise, Dr.
 Davy believes to be an artificial formation designed by priestcraft
 to impose on the vulgar. The mountain is above 6000 feet high,
 is composed of gneiss, and contains feltspar and garnets.
                    ROYAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH.
     On November 17th, the first meeting of the Society for the
 season, a paper on Muriatic Acid, by Dr. Ure of Glasgow, was
 read.   After giving a condensed view of the chlorine controversy,
 he proceeded to detail a series of experiments which he had ex
 ecuted last summer, for the purpose of deciding the opinions of
 chemists on this fundamental doctrine.      Having proved the com
position of dry sal ammoniac, in whatever way prepared, to be
identical, and to be definitely fixed, by the concurrence of his
own experimental results with those of M. Gav Lussac, at 32-3
ammonia + 6?'7 muriatic acid gas ; he exposed thin lamine of the
pure metals, silver, copper, and iron, ignited in tubes of green
glass out of contact of the air, to the action of the vapour of the
above salt in a state of complete siccity, and found in each case,
the metal converted into a muriate, whilst a portion of water,
nearly equal to one-sixth of the weight of the dry salt made its
appearance. Thus by the formation of muriates which require no
water of composition, Dr. Ure succeeded in liberating the water
of composition of muriatic acid gas and muriate of ammonia.
    The principle of his experiments is therefore totally different
from that of Dr. Murray's, recorded in his System of Chemistry,
and so keenly censured by Berzelius in his comparison
                                                              of the
old and new theory. " I combined," says Dr. Murray, " over
dry mercury, dry ammoniacal gas, with muriatic acid gas ; and
having collected the salt formed, I exposed it to heat in a retort,
and found water to be expelled, and condensed in the neck of
                                                                 the

                      Royal Society of Edinburgh.                      59
the retort.     The whole quantity from the details of the experi
ment, I found reason to conclude, amounted to about one-sixth
nearly, of the weight of the acid *." Tn direct opposition to this
statement, Dr. Ure found it impossible to obtain water by merely
heating, or passing over heated charcoal or quartz, the salt re
sulting from the union of the acid and ammoniacal gases, when
they were properly dried beforehand, as they ought to be ; thus
confirming the fidelity of Sir H. and Dr. Davy's experiments in
this particular, and the incorrectness of Dr. Murray's. Dr. Ure
infers from his experiments, that muriatic acid gas is composed
of an atom of dry acid, combined with an atom of water, like the
vapours of nitric and sulphuric acids ; and consequently that
chlorine is oxygenated muriatic acid. To his paper is subjoined
the description and drawing of a new exploding Eudiometer,
which he employed for analysing the gaseous products in the
above series of experiments ; and which uniting simplicity, safety,
and precision, it is hoped, may prove generally useful to che
mists, in pneumatic analyses by explosion f.
    An account of Dr. Ure's experiments was transmitted to Dr.
Wollaston on the 16th September, an abstract of them was
published in The Philosophical Magazine on the 1st October,
and the paper itself was left in Dr. Murray's hands on October
25th.      It having been suggested by some members of the So
ciety, after the reading of the paper, that it would be desirable,
if Dr. Ure would repeat his experiments, with the salt resulting
from gaseous combination, he accordingly did so ; and trans
mitted an account of his successful results to Dr. Murray, on the
26th November.           The second part of Dr. Ure's paper, con
taining the supplementary verifications, was intiusted to Dr.
Brewster on December fith, and by him immediately presented
to the Secretary of the Society.          This part contains a new and
striking demonstration         of the identity of the two differently pre
pared muriates of ammonia ; only that which results from gaseous
combination, being more powerfully absorbent of moisture, from
its finer state of comminution, is liable to greater fallacy, and
 less fitted for the above experiments than common sal ammoniac
 recently heated for some time to near its subliming temperature.
    By transmitting-dry muriatic acid gas over the ignited metals,
 Dr. Ure obtained likewise water, corresponding in quantity to
 the metallic muriate formed. The muriate of iron thus obtained,
 seems peculiar.      It is in small white scales, of a micaceous lustre,
 and appears to contain a smaller proportion of iron, and that
 in a lower state of oxidizement than the common green muriate.
 It is also demonstrated that the water formerly obtained by Dr.
         » System of Chemistry, edit. 1812, vol. ii.
                                                     p. 642.
         \  One of these instruments was exhibited to the Society.
                                                                   Murray

60                   Royal Society of Edinburgh.
Murray was the hygromelric and not combined water of sal
ammoniac ; for, as the whole ponderable matter of the two con
stituent gases is condensed into the salt, whatever water of com
position muriatic ac'd gas may be supposed to contain, has be
come an indispensable constituent of the solid ; and can no more
be separated by mere heat than the combined water of concen
trated oil of vitriol.    Nay, supposing that by intense ignition we
should resolve the salt into its ultimate elementary gases, still the
water would remain latent in the resulting muriatic acid gas, as it
did before the union, even according to Dr. Murray's own views.
    Dr. Ure is still inclined to consider his original experiments
on dry sal ammoniac, of which a notice was published in this
Magazine four months ago, as most decisive.
    Jan. 12, 1818. The continuation of Dr. Murray's Paper on
Muriatic Acid was read. In the preceding part of it the results
of experiments had been stated, whence it appeared that from
the action of metals on muriatic acid gas water is deposited This
is a result obviously incompatible with the doctrine in which
chlorine is considered as a simple substance, since, according to
that doctrine, muriatic acid gas is the real acid, altogether free
from water. As the opposite doctrine holds the existence of com
bined water in the gas to the amount of a fourth of its weight, a
portion of this may be supposed to be liberated by the action of
the metal. A difficulty however presents itself even on this view
of the subject. The action consists in the acid enabling the metal
to decompose the water and combine with its oxygen ; with the
oxide thus formed the acid unites, and no water remains to be
deposited, since none is liberated from its combination with the
acid, but what is spent in the oxidation of the metal. The pro
ducts therefore ought to be the same on this hypothesis as on the
other, namely, a dry muriate or chloride, and hydrogen gas.
     It was shown that the water obtained in the experiments
could not be derived from hygrometric vapour ; that it could not
be accounted for from the supposition of a portion of water being
combined with the acid in the gas beyond that which is strictly
essential to its constitution ; — and that it could not be ascribed
to any lower degree of oxidation of the metal being established.
One explanation remained, that it might arise from the forma
tion of a super-muriate, the quantity of water combined with the
quantity of acid, which forms a neutral muriate, being sufficient
for the oxidation of the metal ; so that if an additional portion
of acid entered into the combination, the water ot this might be
liberated.   It was accordingly found that the products in all
these cases were sensibly acid, and this even when any source of
fallacy, from a subversion of the combination by the agency of
water, was obviated. In the sequel another explanation was sug
                                                               gested

                    Royal Society   of Edinburgh.                        61
gested on a different view    of the subject, if this should not be
 considered as sufficient.
     Dr. Murray considered the results of these experiments as
 confirming, in addition to what he had before done, the fallacy
of the opinion in which chlorine is regarded as a simple sub
stance, which, with hydrogen, forms muriatic acid.       The oppo
 site opinion, that it is a compound of muriatic acid with oxygen,
 and that muriatic gas is a compound of muriatic acid and water,
 might be held to be established ; and it undoubtedly may be
 maintained.     But he has presented a different view of the sub
ject,   as being more  conformable to the present state of chemical
theory.
    The progress of chemical discovery has shown that oxygen
cannot be regarded as exclusively the principle which communi
 cates acidity.  The same property is in different cases commu
nicated by hydrogen ; and this fact he regards as affording the
only argument of any weight in support of the new theory of
chlorine.
    When water is obtained from muriatic acid g-as, it does not
necessarily follow that it has preexisted in the state of water. It
is equally possible, d. priori, that the elements of water may have
existed in the gas. On this view oxymuriatic acid will be a bi
nary compound of a radical at present unknown with oxygen,
and muriatic acid a ternary compound of the same radical with
oxygen and hydrogen.        And when muriatic acid gas is formed
from the mutual action of oxymuriatic gas and hydrogen, it is
simply from the hydrogen entering into the combination. In the
processes by which water is obtained from        the water
                                                 it,           formed
                                                                is
by  its hydrogen  and part of its oxygen  entering into  union.   The
same view he extends to the other acids which have been sup
posed to contain combined water. Sulphurous acid           the proper
                                                           is
binary compound of sulphur and oxygen sulphuric acid
                                             ;                     ter
                                                                    is
                                                                    a
nary compound of sulphur, oxygen, and hydrogen             and nitric
                                                           ;
acid is  a ternary compound of nitrogen, oxygen, and hydrogen.
   While each of these elements, oxygen and hydrogen, commu
nicates acidity, their combined action seems to do so in           still
                                                                     a
higher degree. Sulphur     with    hydrogen  forms     weak
                                                       a      acid  —    ;
with oxygen another acid somewhat stronger        —
                                                  ; with  oxygen   and
hydrogen one of still greater power.       Nitrogen with hydrogen
forms     acompound having no acidity    ; with oxygen in two pro
portions     forms oxides
              it          ; with oxygen and hydrogen         powerful
                                                                a
acid. Carbon with hydrogen forms compounds which are not
acid with oxygen in one proportion
    ;                                     itforms an oxide, in an
other   a weak acid ; with oxygen and hydrogen the different ve
getable acids which are of much superior strength.
   This explains the apparent anomaly which appeared in the old
                                                             doctrine

 62                    Royal Society  of Edbiburgh.
 doctrine with regard to oxymuriatic acid, that it is a weaker acid
 than the muriatic, though it has received an additional portion
 of oxygen.      It is so precisely as sulphurous acid is weaker than
 sulphuric.     The proper points of resemblance are the sulphu
 rous acid with the oxymuriatic, and the sulphuric with the mu
 riatic.    It was shown that oxymuriatic acid has a stricter ana
 logy to sulphurous acid than to any other body ; and that any
 deviation from this analogy arises from the large proportion of
 oxygen which the former contains.
    The relations of iodine, the analogy of which in some respects
 to those of chlorine has chiefly given predominance to the new
 doctrine, with regard to the latter accords perfectly with these
 views. The nature of the compounds of inflammable bodies with
 chlorine accords also better with them than with either of the
 other doctrines.      And they serve to explain a number of other
 facts connected with the action of acids and their combinations.
 They afford for example a solution of the difficulty which uave
 rise to the investigation — that of the production of water in the
 action of metals on muriatic acid gas.
    Dr. M. extended the same view to the constitution of the al
 kalis.   A'kalinity is as well as aeidity a result of the agency of
 oxygen, — the fixed alkalis, the earths, and metallic oxides, all of
 which contain oxygen as a common element, forming a series in
 which there is no well defined line of separation.         Ammonia
 stands insulated ; it contains no oxygen, yet its alkaline proper
 ties are energetic, an anomaly which has led generally to the be- -
 lief that oxygen must exist in one or other of its constituent
 principles.    It may he explained, however, on a very different
principle.     As hydrogen like oxygen communicates acidity, so it
 may like oxygen give rise to alkalinity. Ammonia therefore will
be a compound, of which nitrogen is the base, deriving its alka
line quality from hydrogen; and hence stands in the same rela
tion to the other alkalis that sulphuretted hvdrogen does to the
acids.    If the claim of the newly,discovered principle in opium
to the rank of an alkali be established, it may stand in the same
relation to the others that prussic acid or some of the vegetable
acids do to the acids.
     The fixed alkalies, barytes, strontites, and lime have been sup
posed to contain combined water essential to them in their insu
lated form. It is probable that the elements of water rather exist
in direct combination with their metallic base : that potash, for
example, is a ternary compound of potassium, oxygen, and hy
drogen ; and thus the entire class will exhibit the same relations
as the class of acids, some being compounds of a base with oxv-
gen, ammonia a compound of a base with hydrogen, and potash,
sodi, &c. compounds of a base with oxygen and hydrogen ; and
                                                                these

            Steam-Engines.        — Safely -lamp           Controversy.          63
these last, like the analogous order among the acids, exceed the.
others in power.    When an acid and alkali unite, the hydrogen
of both is expended in forming water.      The neutral salts, ac
cording to these views, will therefore be either sur-compounds of
two binary compounds, one of the radical of the acid, the other
of the radical of the base with oxygen, or they are ternary com
pounds of the two radicals with oxygen. The latter is the more
probable   opinion.
           XIII.    Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                      STEAM ENGINES IN CORNWALL.
From     Messrs. Leans' Report for December 1817, it appears
that during that monththe following was the work performed by
the engines reported, with each bushel of coals.
                                  Founds of water lifted        Loud per square
                             1 foot high wil h each bushel,     inch in cylinder.
25   common engines averaged                    22,409,878           various.
VVoolf's at     Wheal Vor             ..          29,467,621         17-2 lib.
Ditto           Wh. Abraham           ..          38,812,073         16 8
Ditto      ditto ..                   ..          27,236,924          476
Ditto     Wheal Unity                 ..          32,265,991         13-1
Dalcouth engine   ..                  ..          39,561,904         10 6
Wherd  Abraham    ditto               ..          31,060,512         10 9
United Mines engine                   ..
                              31,315,593                             17-3
Treskirby ditto         ..    38,187,872                             107
Wheal Chance ditto      ..    30,535,439                             15-1
Erratum in November Report                  ;")
  Woolf engine at Wheal Vor, ^29,693,9 15
           's
  read      . .    . .   . .           J
                SAFETY LAMP CONTROVERSY.
   In our Number for December, we alluded to     Report upon     a
the Claims of Mr. George Stevenson, relative to the Invention
of his Safety-lamp,          bythe Committee appointed at a Meeting
holden in Newcastle          on the 1st of November 1817; with an
Appendix containing the Evidence.
     In
      the same Number we laid before our readers the Resolu
tions passed at a General Meeting of the Coal-owners of the
Tyne and Wear, held at Newcastle on the 26th of November,
for the purpose of taking into consideration certain Resolutions.
passed at   aMeeting of the friends of Mr. George Stephenson on
the 1st of November, and which were inserted in our Number
for that month.
   The Resolutions of Mr. Stephenson's friends just alluded to,
are prefixed       by
                 way of Introduction to the Report of the Com
mittee on his claims.    The Report itself occupies thirteen 8vo
pages,  and there   added
                        is  to    an Appendix consisting of thir
                                           it
                                                             teen

64                       Safety -lamp Controversy.
teen pages, detailing the evidence on which the Committee have
founded their Report.
    Before proceeding to lay before our readers the observations
which we mean to submit to them on this Report, we shall, as
intimately connected with the subject, first insert the following
exposure.
An Exposure of the               of an Opinion given in the Form
                           Falsehood
     of                  Meeting of certain Persons in Newcastle,
          a Resolution at a
   Nov. 1,     1817, Charles J. Brandling, Esq. in the Chair*.
   Sir Humphrv Davy's attention was first called to the subject
of the prevention of explosion from fire-damp by the Rev. Dr.
Gray.   Towards the end of August 1815, he visited the neigh
bourhood of Newcastle, that he might become acquainted with
the causes and operations of fire-damp, and learn from the mi
ners themselves what was wanting for their security; and he
stated to some of the gentlemen who offered him their assistance
on this occasion, his hopes, that a chemical examination of the
properties of fire-damp, might furnish to him some means
of procuring or guarding a light so as to prevent it from firing
the inflammable air.     From August 1815, till the beginning of
October, the subject occupied his attention as an object of spe
culation.   In the beginning of October he commenced his ex
periments   on fire-damp, and before the end of the third week            -(-
in that month, discovered certain facts respecting that inflam
mable substance, which enabled him to expose         light in safety
                                                           a
to an explosive atmosphere, and to mtike an apparatus, which
he immediately named        safe-lamp. These facts were, " that
                              a
the fire-damp was the least inflammable of explosive elastic
fluids, and that certain cooling influences of inexplosive elastic
fluids, as azote and carbonic acid, or of solid surfaces, as small
tubes, arrested its explosion." He made no secret of these facts         ;
they were immediately communicated to various scientific per
sons, and letters respecting them were written to the President
of the Royal Society, the Lord Bishop of Durham, the Rev. Dr.
Gray, and the Rev. John Hodgson        so that
                                          ;        the end of Oc
                                                       by
tober or the beginning of November they were pretty generally
known. The application of these results was obvious; but mul
tiplied and delicate experiments were required to determine all
the circumstances necessary for security, and to ascertain the
best methods of reducing them to practice        and Sir H. Davy
                                                     a ;
knew too well the dreadful consequences of      failure, to put any
rude and imperfect instruments into the hands of the collier. His
first lamps were made with small apertures below, and larger
            * From the Durham County Advertiser.
          f   Sir H. Davy can fix the 18th, from various   evidence.
                                                                       ones

                        Safety-lamp Controversy.                 *   65
 ones   above, and the flame burnt in them at a distance from the
 apertures with diminished light, and was extinguished in ex
 plosive mixtures by the azote and carbonic acid formed in com
 bustion.    He next used systems of safety-tubes and safe-air ca
 nals, both below and above ; and he gradually increased the
 number, and reduced the length of his tubes and canals, till he
 was led to adopt a tissue permeable to air and light, and imper
 meable to the explosion of fire-damp, even when red-hot.            He
 first made air-feeders and chimneys of this        tissue,  and   then
 adopted it as the guard of flame.       From the first sitting of the
  Royal Society, the 9th of November that year, he regularly com
 municated the progress of his researches to that illustrious body ;
 and before the 31st of December 1815, he presented to the mi
 ner the wire-gauze safe-lamp, which not only affords a safe light
 in explosive atmospheres, but which even consumes the element
 of destruction.
     This simple statement, which might be increased ten>-fold by
 authorities and details, is given for the purpose of contradicting
 an opinion which has appeared in the form of a resolution of
 certain persons at Newcastle, Charles J. Brandling, Esq. in the
chair ; to this effect : — " That it is the opinion of this meeting,
That Mr. George Stevenson having discovered the fact that ex
 plosion of hydrogen gas will not pass through tubes and aper
 tures of small dimensions, and having been the first to apply that
principle in the construction of a safety-lamp, is entitled to a
public reward."
    To show that there is any foundation for this opinion, it ought
                 '
 to be proved,
     1st. That the first lamps which this person sold as safe-lamos
were founded upon the principle of explosion not passing through
tubes and apertures of small dimensions.
     2dly.That this person had made, and communicated to credible
witnesses, a practical demonstration of this principle before the
middle of October 1815, or had published it before November
 1815.
    Now the lamps which Mr. G. Stevenson sold in January 1816,
had in them neither safety-tubes nor safety-apertures.         One of
three bought for the Wallsend colliery is preserved in the Royal
Institution.    It is furnished with holes from one-eighth to one-
tenth of an inch in diameter, connecting an air chamber below,
and has a chimney with holes in it of from one-third to one-
fourth of an inch in diameter above, and it produces the explosion
of explosive mixtures almost as readily as a common candle. The
apertures are too many and the flame too near them, to render it
safe by a diminished circulation   of air; and infinitely too large
to render it safe by the cooling effects of their sides.     The first
    Vol. 51. No.237. Jan. 1818.              E                   lamp

   66                  Safety-lamp Controversy.
  lamp of this kind was produced in public on December 5, at New
  castle, (three weeks after it was known there that Sir H. Davy
  had made a safety-lamp with small apertures, and was believed to
 be safe by the persons who saw it,) because the flame was extin
 guished in it by admitting unmixed fire-damp, or carburetted
 hydrogen ! which would have been the case had it been a com
  mon lantern.
     Having shown that the lamps sold by Mr. G. Stevenson in Ja
 nuary 1816 have in them no principle of security, it is hardly ne
 cessary to prove, that he could not have discovered and applied
 a principle of security before the middle of October 1815.
     It may, however, be proper to examine some statements that
 he has made, or that have been made for him. It was said, but
 not published till September 1816, that he showed a lamp having
 three capillary tubes to his employer, Mr. Lambert, on November
  17th, and tried it before him with hydrogen ; and Messrs. C. and
 R. Brandling state for him, that he tried a similar experiment be
 fore them November 24th.           There can be no doubt that these
 trials were conducted as those of December 5th, at Newcastle, by
 throwing unmixed fire-damp into the lamp, and therefore they
 can have been of no value ; and it is eertain that a light could
 not be supported, if fed with air by capillary tubes or by safe tubes
 of the length and figure of those engraved in his pamphlet *
 published in 1817; and besides, a fortnight before this period,
 Sir H. Davy's fact that explosion of fire-damp would not pass
 through certain small tubes was known at Newcastle, and a week
 before his paper had been read at the Royal Society.
     Mr. George Stevenson himself asserts, that he tried an experi
ment with a lamp furnished with what he calls a tube and a slider,
on October 21, 1815, and that he had tried the lamp with the
three tubes November 4th ; but he did not publish this account
till September 1816 ; and the Rev. John Hodgson states that he
had circulated, about the 2d or 3d of. November, manuscript
copies of notices of Sir H. Davy's discoveries, which were com
municated to him briefly the 19th of October, and fully the 30th
of October 1815, amongst the viewers of the neighbourhood;
so that even if it be allowed that Mr. George Stevenson began
his experiments on capillary tubes the 4th of November, still, at
the time, he might have heard of Sir H. Davy's facts respecting
them.
     With regard to his experiments on a lamp with a tube and a
slider, this apparatus must be regarded as original ; but it never
could have been founded upon any idea of safety-tubes or safe
apertures, and never could have led to such an idea; for the
flame of a wick placed as his is figured in 1817, round a tube,
    * A Description of the Safety-lamp, &c. Baldwin, Cradock, and Joy.
                                                                  could

                         Safety-lamp Controversy.                           67
 could not have been supported with air, except by an aperture
fifty    times too large to have been safe, and the wick is too near
 the source of air to have produced safety by the production of
 azote and carbonic acid.
      When he first showed his lamp of December 5, he did not pre
 tend to have discovered any principle of security, nor was any
 stated for him ; nor in September 1816, when he first published
 his experiment of October 21, 1815.
      Mr. R. W. Brandling, in September 1816, however, in speak
ing of his lamp of November 24, states for Mr. G. Stevenson, that
 he had embraced the idea two months before, " that hydrogen
gas admitted into a lamp in small detached portions might be
consumed by combustion."                                                      ;
     Allowing   this  to be  his  principle,  if an incorrect   idea   can be
called a principle, it becomes easy to explain his experiments
with the tube and the slider.           The slider is an apparatus fitted
to detach : — the substitute of a person ignorant of chemistry for
the ingenious water valve of Dr. Clanny.
     To go back two months, would give the conception of this idea
on the 24th of September, when he must have heard that Sir
H. Davy was engaged in the inquiry respecting a safe light.
     From November, all that can be traced in his views, is a rude
attempt to identify his own crude notions and unscientific prac
tical efforts with the results and principles of Sir H. Davy.
     In 1817, he has made a lamp which is a coarse imitation of
one of Sir H. Davy's earlier lamps ; but provided with his safety-
 screw, his safety-trimmer, and safe apertures and canals below,
and a chimney-top of the saifie structure as wire-gauze above ;
yet even this apparatus, such is the want of chemical information
of the constructor, is highly dangerous — it is furnished with a
thick glass cylinder*, which breaks soon after the lamp is intro
 duced into an explosive atmosphere.
     It would be wasting time to show by minute details how little
Mr. G. Stevenson's evidence is to be confided in.
     In December 1815, when his original ideas, if he had any, and
researches, if he bad made any, must have been fresh in his mind,
he could give no account of them; and in 1816, the first idea that
 he is said to have embraced, was that of burning detached por
 tions of hydrogen;      but in 1817 every thing is perfectly clear to
 him, and he states, that experiments which he had been making
for four years, led him to the discovery of the principle of the
non-trainmission of flame through small apertures ! !
    • The Messrs.
                    Brandling, it is well known, do not use this lamp, but Sir
H. Davy's.
                                      E   2                             That

68                      Safety -lamp Controversy.
   That Mr. G. Stevenson's pretensions as the inventor of a safe-
lamp are unfounded, has been sufficiently proved ; but even if he
had been a real and independent discoverer, still his dates of trials
upon lamps, taken even upon his own assertions, are posterior
to those of Sir H. Davy ; whose results were witnessed by men
of science, and communicated by letter, before this person can
be even imagined to have made an experiment.
   The opinions of a few country gentlemen connected by family
ties, and deriving their information from persons who do not
know the difference between hydrogen and fire-damp or carbu-
retted hydrogen, can have no relation to the history of science ;
and can never destroy, in the scientific world, the knowledge
that Sir H. Davy is the discoverer of the " principle that explo
sions from fire-damp * in close vessels can be arrested by systems
of tubes and apertures, and by metallic tissues permeable to air
and light, and that he was the inventor of the safe-lamp on this
principle."
   Sir H. Davy      has thought   it his duty to expose the falsehood
of the opinion expressed in the Resolutions of the Messrs. Brand
ling.   Had they claimed a public reward for the persons named
in their resolutions, upon any other ground, if he could not have
encouraged    it,he should have been silent.
   After the foregoing exposure, but few remarks are called for
on the Report of Mr. Stevenson's Committee            On perusing           it,
it    difficult to say whether most surprise
     is                                              produced
                                                     is           theby
nature of the evidence, or        bythe conclusions drawn from         it   by
the Committee.
   Two tinmen are brought forward to prove that Mr. G. Ste
venson ordered certain lamps which he says were^ tried the 21st
of October and 4th of November 1815 but Mr. Hogg, the first
                                              ;
of these tinmen, fixes no date, and only says Mr. Stevenson or
dered a lamp from him some time in September or October, which
        fortnight    making: and Mr. Matthews, the other tinman,
                    is in
was   a
whose evidence        of the first importance, as intended to relate
to   alamp with pretended capillary tubes, asserts that he merely
recollects making some trifling alteration in       lamp, but he does
                                                     a
not know what or when.
   * The late Mr. Tennant discovered that
                                            explosions would not pass down
wards in gas-light burners of small dimensions, when an explosive mixture
issued from them was fired in the air. Mr. Tennant did not publish his disco
very, and Sir H. Davy did not hear of   it till after" he had made his experi
ments on the powers of small tubes to arrest explosions and he has quoted
                                                          ;
Mr, Tennant in his first paper on fire-damp, and by mistake connected Dr.
Wollaston, who only witnessed his experiments, with Mr. Tennant.
                                                                            It

                                                                      'i
                         Safety-lamp Controversy                 .                       69
     It is evident from all that Mr. Stevenson has said in his evi
dence, and from every thing that has been said for him, that his
original idea was to burn the fire-damp, or, as he and the Com
mittee choose to call      it,   hydrogen, from blower, at small tube
                                                       a                   a
or tubes in   a     vessel so confined that the whole current of the
blower could not be fired from it.              This explains every thing
" his burning the hydrogen in detached portions," the top of
                                                                                         ;
his apparatus being open to admit air, and his putting his tube-
lamp in the current of      a     blower.
    That he had no notion of the nature of explosive mixtures, or of
explosions not passing through small apertures, till long after Sir
H. Davy's researches were published,                   certain
                                                       is         and the best
                                                                     ;
proofs of   it    are found in experiments upon his early lamps               for
                                                                                ;
models of these, whenever they will burn in explosive mixtures,
instantly communicate explosion.
     Models of his two first pretended safe-lamps, that with the tube
of half an inch in diameter and slider, and that with the three
tubes of between -7th and l-8th of an inch diameter, and three
                     1
inches and   a     half long, have been made              Mr. Newman
                                                            by              and;
one of his own original aperture lamps                preserved
                                                       is         in  the Royal
Institution. Any person who will take the trouble to make ex
periments upon these lamps will find that they are exploding and
not sfl/i?-lamps.       They may be made to burn pure fire damp as
gas-light burners, when open at the top but in really explosive
                                                       ;
mixtures they are almost as dangerous as naked lights                       and;
Mr.    Stevenson's     own lamp,      sold     him
                                              by      in January 1816,     com-
muniCtiles explosion even when the larger apertures in the bot
tom are closed.
     As to the lamp now used in the Killingwoith collierv,                     in
                                                                               it   is
reality    one   of  the  first   forms   of  Sir    H.  Davy's    lamp.    Mr.
Stevenson does not deny all the details of the piracy on which
the Committee thought proper to question him.
     However the Committee may be deceived,                      their want of
                                                                     by
chemical information, in confounding large apertures with small
ones, the powers of long curved tubes with {hose of short straight
 ones in    feeding flame, and the difference between tubes of half
 an inch in diameter            with sliders, and systems of tubes of
1  - 10th of an inch, in arresting explosions              yet upon the ques
                                                            ;
 tion of dates they have not any excuse of this kind to plead. They
 quote a    letter of Sir H. Davy to the Rev John Hodgson, of the
  19th of October, as containing      a   passage relating to his (Sir H.'s)
 lamp    with   apertures   above   and  below     ;but omit the passage re
 lating to his discovery that explosive mixtures will not fire                           in
 small tubes; and they refer to Mr. Stevenson's experiments prior
 to the 21st of October, as      if   he had been trying experiments on
                                                 '*
                                      E   3                                  the

70                   Safety-lamp Controversy.
            i
the powers of tubes to arrest explosion ; whereas he says him
self that his experiments were on putting ont blowers by burning
candles to windward of them ; and that the first trial which he
made with any lamp, and which was any thing hut a safe lamp,
was on October 21.
    The question of priority is as clearly against the Committee
as every other part of the case.  It would indeed be wasting time
to dwell longer upon the subject ; for, other circumstances apart,
a complete refutation of the Report of the Committee is to be
found in a comparison of Mr. G. Stevenson's pamphlet, with his
evidence, which seems to have been given upon oath.       The per
forated tops, safety-trimmers, cylindrical form, and perforated ex
ternal case of his first two lamps, imagined to make them look
like the wire-gauze lamp, are allowed to have had no existence;
and it is certain that he showed no lamp, even in private, except
to persons who may be considered as his assistants, till towards
 the end of November ; and then he showed a lamp to gentlemen
who have not come forward to state what experiments were made
with it ; but who must from the newspapers have been at the time
acquainted with Sir H. Davy's researches: and it is remarkable
that after this time, tubes, and a top open above, were changed
for small apertures below, though not safe ones, and larger ones
above      an apparatus the very same in construction        as Sir
H. Davy's first lamp, of which a notice was communicated by
the Rev. Dr. Gray, and the Rev. John Hodgson, to a large meet
ing of the coal-trade November 10.
    As to the evidence of some of the members of the Literary        /
and Philosophical Society of Newcastle, respecting experiments
with a lamp in the month of December 1815, the Committee
might as well have brought forward experiments made last week.
But enough of this.
    The labours of the Committee, however, have been of essential
benefit to Mr. Stevenson ; for we find that on Monday the 12th
of January 1818, at a numerous assembly of Mr. Stevenson's
friends, and which was attended by some noblemen and gentle
men of great respectability, Mr. Stevenson was presented with a
"beautiful tankard," (silver we suppose,) "and about sevenhun-
dred pounds" subscribed by Messrs. Brandling and their friends.
No person can be sorry that the exertions of any individual to
serve the cause of humanity, should have met with so ample a
reward, however much the attempt to rob the real inventor of
the safety-lamp of the merit of his singular and unhoped for dis
covery, must be reprobated by every real friend to science.
    That Mr. Stevenson might, in September 1815, have been
thinking about lamps for preventing explosions in mines, fur
                                                              nishes

                           Lectures. — Patents.
 nishes no argument in favour of priority of invention, any more
 than Sir H. Davy's cogitations in August would establish his
 priority, had he not actually been first in publishing his principles.
 Many were turning their attention to the subject, as Dr. Murray
and Dr. Clanny ; and if the object of the Committee was to re
ward priority and ingenuity, why did they pass over the latter of
these gentlemen, who actually did produce a lamp that might have
been of real use to the miner, had a simpler and better not been
discovered by Sir Humphry — a lamp which owed its origin nei
ther to accident nor plagiarism, but to reasonings founded on
science, and the deductions of a philosophical mind.
                                LECTURES.
    Mr. Bakewell will       commence his Series of Lessons on Geo
logy   at the  Argyle Rooms early in March, to be elucidated by a
magnificent suite of Rock Specimens recently collected by him
self, and by a great variety of new and original drawings, sections,
and models.
    Mr. Bakewell is also preparing for publication A Treatise on
 Practical Geology, with Plates : to which will be added, A Series
of Questions addressed to British Geologists on certain undeter
mined Parts of English Geology, &c.
    Mr. Dowling's Lectures on Natural Philosophy, As,tronomy,
and   Chemistry, begin after the Christmas Recess, on tlV 3d of
February.      The Lectures on Philosophy are illustrated by a com
plete set  of apparatus  ;  those on Astronomy, by machinery, ti ap
parencies, transit instruments,       and several very powerful te
scopes ; and the Lectures on Chemistry are rendered peculiar.^
interesting by numerous beautiful and useful experiments. These
Lectures are regularly delivered at the Lecture Room and Ob
servatory, Mansion-House, Highgate ; and Mr. Dowling spares
no pains to render them as effective as possible,
                                                     by familiarly ex
plaining the difficulties that occur, and by blending the utile cum
dulci.
             LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
   To Thomas Papps, of No. 4, Clayton Place, Keunington,
Surrey, for certain new improvements in certain books of account,
commonly known under the names or denomination of cash book,
bought- and -sale day books, or journal and ledger. — 19th De
cember 1817. — 2 months.
   To William Cleland, of Bolton Le Mores, in the county pala
tine of Lancaster, for his improvement in the bleaching of flax
and hemp, and also in the bleaching of
                                            yarn and cloth, or other
                                  E  4                          goods

  72             List of Patents for new Inventions.
  goods made of either of those articles.   — 20th December. — 6
  months.
     To Edward Cowper, of Nelson-square, in the county of Surrey,
 printer, for his certain improvements in printing-presses or ma
 chines used for printing. — 7th January 18 IS. — 2 months.
     To John Collier, of Frocester, in the county of Gloucester,
 engineer, for his certain improvements on a machine for the
 purpose of cropping woollen cloths of every description. — L5th
 January. — 2 months.-
    To John Lewis, clothier; William Lewis, dyer; and William
 Davies, engineer; all of Brimscomb, iathe county of Gloucester,
for their certain improvements on shearing-machines for shearing
and cropping woollen and other cloths that may require such
 a process; the same being further improvements on a patent ob
tained by John Lewis, for an improved shearing-machine,     dated
 the 27th day of July 1815. — 15th Jan. — 6 months.
    To Philip Taylor, of Bromley, in the county of Middlesex,
operative chemist, for his new method of applying heat in certain
processes to which the same method hath not hitherto been ap
plied; likewise for improvements in refrigerators. — loth Jan. —
6 months.
    To William Moult, of Bedford-square, in the county of Mid
dlesex, for his certain improvements in steam-engines. — 15th
Jan. — 6 months.
    To John Holworthy Palmer, of Regent-street, in the parish
of Saint John, Westminster, in the county of Middlesex,, gentle
man, for his new mode of purifying certain descriptions of gases.
— 15th Jan. — 6 months.
    To John Theodore Koster, in the county of Lancaster, mer
chant, for his new or improved method of building or construct
ing wheeled carriages ; and also for making wheels for carriages.
— 15th Jan. — 2 months.
    To James Fraser, of Long Acre, in the parish of Saint Martin
in the Fields, in the county of Middlesex, engineer and copper
smith, for his cooking machine, for the more simple and effectual
decomposition of salt-water, and to render the said salt-water
more useful to the general purposes of ships' crews, &c. at sea,
without any extra apparatus except the said cooking machine ;
or, in other words, its structure will answer the end of worm or
condenser and worm tub, &c. — 15th Jan. — 2 months.
    To Charles Brightly, of Bungay, Suffolk, printer, and Bryan
Donkin, of Grange Road, in the parish of Bermondsey and
county of Surrey, engineer, for their improved machine or print
ing-press for printing from types, plates, or blocks. — 17th Jan.
— 4 months.
                                                              To

                       Patents . — Astronomy . — Meteorology .                                        73
     To Marc Bambard Brunei, of Lindsay Row, Chelsea, in the
county of Middlesex, civil engineer, for his method or methods
for forming tunnels or drifts under ground. — 20th Jan. — 6 mo.
   To Hugh Ronalds, of Hammersmith, in the county of Mid
dlesex, gentleman, for his certain improvements in the art of
making leather. — 23d Jan. — 6 months.
   To Joseph Corty, of Harley-street, Cavendish-square, in the
county of Middlesex, merchant : in consequence of a communi
cation made to him by a certain foreigner residing abroad, he is
in possession of certain improvements on and additions to stills,
or the apparatus used for distilling, and also in the process of
distilling and refining. — 20th Jan. — 6 months.
   To Benjamin Wilson, of Abbey-street, Bermondsey, in the
county of Surrey, flax- manufacturer, for his new machine for
breaking, swingling, and preparing flax or hemp. — 23d Jan.— 6
months.
     To Richard Banks, of Hadley, in the parish of Wellington, in
the county of Salop, engineer, for his certain further improve
ments in wheeled carriages. — 23d Jan. — 6 months.
   To Thomas Calderbank, of Liverpool, in the county of Lan
caster, plumber, for his certain improvements in the working of
pumps and other machinery.
                             — 23d Jan. — 2 months.
              ASTRONOMICAL                    PHENOMENA, FEBRUARY 1818.
 D.   H. M.                                              D. H. M.
 1.  .         (I      in perigee                       17.20.4p       5        vf/*S3
 2. 6.53        (I     <}'   $                          18 16.37      O          enters       K
 2.10.32        <L                                      20. 1.42                        &
                                                                                v3 i;
                       er  f                                          S
10    20               oX                               22. 0.15                        m>
                                                                      <L 5 ([
      6        {
13. 5.56      Im       )     A   «   *   5'   S.   of   23. 4.    0             y       njj
                                     Cent.              23.17-50                        tig
13.    7.2O Em£                  d                                              8
              in apogee                                 25.   1.48                      n;j
13.     .                                                                       $ X
               ([                                                      ([
14.    8.36    8        t$                              25.21.24      d                 V\
15.    2.44            125       «                      27.   .      d          in perigee
               <[ ([
17. 5.44               v     n
                                              METEOROLOGY.
                                              To   Mr. Tilloch.
      Dear Sir, — was happy in understanding from you that ex
                             I
                                                         the ratio of
periments were making at Edinburgh, to ascertain
                                                        when ascer
quantity of rain caught at different heights; as that
                                                                   the
tained will materially assist the meteorologist in comparing
results of quantities of rain shown    gauges  in variousbysituations.
At present our information       very defective, as we know little
                                                   is
more than the fact that the quantity of rain caught at           small                            a
                                                             variation

 74                            Meteorology.
variation of height, — as between the top and bottom of a steeple
 or house, — is materially different. In the year 1767 some experi
 ments were made at Westminster.            Two similar gauges were
placed one at the top, the other at the bottom of the tower of the
Abbey, and it was found in the course of twelve months that the
 highest gauge received or caught only twelve inches of rain; while
 the one placed on the ground caught nearly double ; viz. twenty-
 two inches and a half.      Other experiments were made in different
 places, with the same general result ; which shows that the height
 the gauge is placed from the ground must be noted before com
 parative results can be deduced.        We are in want of the ratio of
 quantity caught    at  any  stated  height when compared with that
 which may     have falien  on the  surface of the earth beneath. One
 step has been made by Mr. Dalton, who has shown that a gauge
 elevated 150 feet from the ground, caught in winter one half, and
 in summer two-thirds as much as a gauge placed on the ground
 below.     Yet still the general ratio of height and quantity is
 wanting, and the ascertaining this question will be a valuable ac
 quisition to meteorological science.
    While this research is in progress, it may be agreeable. to your
 readers to have a periodical statement of the quantity of rain
 that falls, and at the same time the quantity of evaporation that
 takes place from the surface of water.
    The apparatus with which these observations are made, con
 sists of a rain-gauge or ring (such as used by the Royal Society)
 of twelve inches in diameter ; the water caught in this area is
 measured in lamina? of the one-thousandth of an inch thick, and
 the area of the ring.
    The evaporating instrument consists of a vessel of the same
area as the rain-gauge, viz. twelve inches diameter and five inches
 deep, and is placed at the same height from the ground, and
consequently receives an equal quantity.of water as the rain-gauge.
 In the evaporator a known quantity of water is put, and the
vessel is left open to the action of the air and sun ; the surface
of the water being protected from the depredation of birds. &c.
by the intervention of a net of large meshes composed of fine
wire.     The registry of quantity of rain and evaporation is made
weekly on the same day and hour ; and the apparatus is fixed so
that the upper edges or gauge-rings are four feet from the ground.
    I shall now proceed to give you the observations made since
January 1817, and they will I trust prove sufficiently curious to
attract notice.     I am, dear sir, yours,
  Croydon, Jan. 1818.                                    H. LaWSON.
   [In the subjoined Table the heights are expressed in inches and
decimal parts.]
                                                              Months.

                                        Meteorology.                                         75
                                        Evapo                                           Evapo
          Months.             Uain.     ration.           Months.                Rain.  ration.
 1817.                                            1817.
Jan.    1  to 19              3- 133     0-530          13 to 20 July.          0-977   0-693
       19 to 26               0132       0-238          20 to 27                0-556   0-679
       26 to     2 Feb.       0-031      0-076          27 to 3 Aug.            0-561   0-785
        2 to .9               0-036      0-216           3 to 10                0-265   0-811
        9 to 16               0-712      01 93          10 to    17             0-785   0-818
       16 to 23               0-145      0-250          17 to   24              0-470   0-495
       23 to     2 March      0176       0-317          24 to   31               1056   0-525
        2 to     .9           1-440      0-269          31 to      7 Sept.      0013    0-661
        9 to 16               0003       0-289           7 to   14              0-319   0-420
       16 to 23               0-009      0-374          14 to   21              01   14 0-231
      23 to 30                0-325      0-303          21 to   28              0-354   0-411
       30 to     6  April.    0-016      0-751          28 to 5 Oct.            0010    0-269
        6 to 13               0052       0-449           5 to 12                0011    0-326
       13 to 20               0015       0-657          12 to 19                0-818   0105
      20 to 27                0056       0-631          19 to 26                0-283   0-083
       27 to     4 May.       01 39      0-500          26 to 2 Nov.            0-836   0-115
        4 to    11            0-844      0-867           2 to 9                 0-513   0-177
       11  to   18            0-440      0-849           9 to 16                 1-099  0-118
       18  to 25              2-205      0-500          16 to      1 Dec.       0-283   0-242
       25 to      1 June.     0-455      0-382           1  to     7            0-580   0039
         1 to    8            0097       0-937           7 to    14             0-691   0054
        8 to 15                1-026     0-546          14 to 21                 1-931  0-223
       15 to 22               0-000      1-203          21 to 28                0064    0-022
       22 to 29               0138       1114
       29 to      6 July.      1-023     0-669       Total in year    ....     25-349 22-227
         6 to 13              0057       0-815
                                         RAIN TABLE.
     The following is a statement of the quantity of rain which fell
 during the last year, at Carbeth (Stirlingshire), Greenock, Both-
 well Castle, and M'Farlane's Observatory, Glasgow, according to
  the indications of very accurate and uniformly made rain-gauges :
                                   Carbeth.     Greenock.  Bothwell.      Glasgoiv.
                                   Inches.       Inches.     Inches.       Inches.
              January    ....       4-696         4-622       3-405         2- 624
              February     . . .    4-562         4-342       3-628         3- 103
                                     4-61         4-725       3-67            •627
                                       .322         •21         .257            072
              May                    3- 371       2- 465      3-81           1- 93
                                     4- 405       31          2-92          2- 312
              July                   3- 246       3- 637      2- 1           1- 773
              August      ....       6-185        4- 676      3- 707        2- 854
               September     . .     2- 163        1-51        1-432          .629
               October    ....       1-35         1-23         1- 24          •892
               November      . .     4- 47        4-642        3-476        2- 546
               December      . .     5- 585       4-226       2- 904        3- 058
               Total inches     .  44-965        39-385      32-549     |  22-42
               Total in 1816       39-589        34-973      25-907        23-799
               Total in 1815       41-393        36-763       24-72      !  22-344

                                                                                     1
76                                    Meteorology         .
                           METEOROLOGICAL                TABLE
Extracted from the Register kept at Kinfauns Castle, N. Bri
  tain. Lat. 56° 23' 30".— Above the level of the Sea 129 feet.
                   Morning           Evening,            Mean         Depth
                  8  o'clock.        lOo'clock.        Temp'.             of
               Mean height    <>f Mean height nf by Six'.              Rain.
      1817.    Barom.    Xher.    Barom.    Ther.       Ther.      Inch. 100
                                                                  1
 January.       29-50    3841      29-55     38-71     39-580          1.75                  12
 February.      29-60    40-37     29-54    39-01      41-070          1-90                  17
 March-         29.57    3800      29-58     37-77     59-700          110                   11
 April.         30-18    43-86     30- 18   42-73      4i-6O0          0 50                     7
 May.           29-65    46-19     29-66    44-03      47-774          3-10                  13
 June.          29-67    5503      29-69    52-90      57-600          4-80 "                15
 July.          29-60    55-74     29-6 1   53-71      57-480          3-85                  20
 August.        29-57    53-87     29-55    52. 13     54-90"          5-25                  SO
 September.     29-84    51-30     29-83    51- 0      53-833          0-85                     9
 October.       29-95    40-06    29-96     39-77      42-130          1-55                    9
 November.      29-70    43-50    29-70     45-20      45-F00          2-70                  16
 December.      29-43    3409     29-45     34-06      35-548          3-66                  II
               29-685 45-035      29-691 44-260        46-751        31-01                 160        205
   the year.
                                ANNUAL RESULTS.
                                       MORNING.
             Barometer.                                      Thermometer.
        Observations.     Wind.                                 Wind.
  Highest, 6th April NE. 30-57                   25th    June, NW.          .      .                   68°
  Lowest, 18th Dec. SW. 28 40                     12th   Dec. W.           .      .                   28°
                                       EVENING.
  Highest,   6th April, SE. 3061                25th    June, N W.                        .      .    62°
  Lowest,    18th Dec. SW. 28-40                22.1   Dec.    NW.           .    .              .     15"
                    ....
     Weather.                     Days.             Wind.                                           Tunes
                                    205         N. andNE.         .     .      .       .      .         25
  Kain or Snow                      160
                                                S. and      SW.     .     .      .       .      .     133
                                    365
                                        —»—                                                           365
              Extreme Cold and Heat, by Six's Thermometer.
        Coldest, 23d December
        Hottest, 24th June
                                        .   .   .    Wind NW.
                                                    Wind SE.
                                                                       ...
                                                                       ...                   15°
                                                                                             76°
        Mean Temperature for 1817                                                           46°      75'
                      Result of Three Rain Gauges.                                          In. 100
     No.  1. On a conical detached hilt above the level               of the!
                                                                                                   4U
     —
               Sea 600 feet                                                         ]
         2. Centre of the Garden, 20 feet                                                   31-01
     —   3. Kinfauns Castle, 129 feet
                                                ...
                                                                                           23 56
               Mean     of the  3 Gauges                              ...                  32 99
                                                                                        METEORO-

                               Meteorology.                          77
Meteorological      Journal kept at Wallhamstow, Essex, from
             December      15, 1817,     January 15, 1818.
[Usually between  the Hours of Seven and Nine A.M. and the Thermometer
              (a second time) between Noon and Two P.M.]
Date. Therm. Barom. Wind.
December
15   38     29-54     W — SW. — Fine clear star-light morning; fine
     43                 sunny day ; showers ; a darkTiight.      Moon
                        first quarter.
16   39     29-62     SE. — Clear, and cirrostralus ; rain, and very
     47                 damp, dark, and rainy.
17   39     29-54     SW— W — SW. — Clear, high         ; cirrostralus
     42                 low; very fine day ; rain and wind.
18    43    28-98     SW. — Clear, and cirrostratus, and wind; very
      46                fine day; moon and star-light. -
19    42    29-88     SW— W. — Rain early; very fine day; showers
     46                 after 3 P.M.; wind and showers.
20    40    29-42     N. — Clear, and cirrostratus ; very fine day;
      40                cloudy, and windy.
21   30     29-55     NE. — Clear, and cirrostratus      .
                                                            hazy ; fine
      35                cold gray day; night cloudy.
22   31     29-50     NE. — Cumuli, and clear; fine sunny day;
     35                 cloudy, but light.
23   31     29-50     NE. — Cloudy; very fine day; cumulus, stars
      34                and moon.      Full moon.
24   30     29-66     N. — Gray, and white frost; very fine day;
     31                 clear, and cumuli.
25   31     29-98     N. — Gray morn; very fine sunny day; cumuli,
      35                and clear night.
26    27    30-00     N. — Clear; moon and stars at 7 A.M. ; very
     31                 fine day; moon and star-light.
27   87     29-88     SW. — Slight rain ; very fine sunny day; rain
     38                 and wind.
28   35     29-54     NW — N. — Clear morn; fine day; very cold;
     38                clear and cirrus ; star-light.
29    27    30-00     NW— N. — Clear, and windy; very fine day;
     30                 dark and windy.
30   35     30 00     SW. — dear, and cumuli; rain till after 3
     36                 P.M. ; stars, and mist. .
31    23    29-98     NW— SE. — Morn clear, moon-light, and
     32                white frost; very fine till after 2 P.M.;
                       then thick stratus, — so thick that people
                       lost their way, but it decreased after 4 P.M.;
                        dark night, and thin stratus.       Moon last
                        quarter.
                                                              January

78                        Meteorology.
Date. Therm. Barom. Wind.
  1   24   3000     NE. — Clear,   and white frost; fine sunny day;
      31              white frost on trees all day, the same as
                      yesterday  ; night bright star-light.
 2    31   30-00    NE. — Cumuli     and clear; set snow; damp;
      35              thaw, slight snow frequently; dark and windy.
 3    36   29-66    E — NE. — Snow      on the ground ; snowing ;
      36              then rain frequently all day ; dark and damp.
 4    40   29-44    SE. — Snow nearly gone off; some small rain ;
      44              fine sunshine ; bright star-light.
 5    44   29-54    SW — S. — Rain; very rainy day till aftar
      44              4 P.M.; bright star-light; aurora borealis
                      at midnight.
 6    35   29-88   W. — Cirrostralus, and clear; white frost;
      40             extremely fine day; star-light.       New moon.
 7    35   30-10    SW. — Cloudy and hazy ; gleams of sun, and
      39              cumuli ; dark, wind, and small rain.
 8    38   29-98    NW. — Clear, and windy; very fine day; star
      43              light.
 9    39   30-80    SW. — Hazy morn; frequent small rain; slight
      45              rain and wind.
10    48   29-98    SW. — Foggy    ; gleams   of sun ; fine day; dark
      53              night.
11    48   29-78    SW— S. — Foggy; frequent small rain        ;  dark
      49              and windy ; fine aurora borealis in the night.
12    39   29-66    W. — Perfect clear sky and wind at 71 A.M. ;
      42              very fine ; sun and wind ; rain, and wind.
13    48   29-87    SW — S. — Cloudy, windy, and small rain;
      40              damp, and windy ; and some rain ; cloudy,
                      and windy ; moon in a corona.
14    48   29-86   SW— W.— Small rain, and wind; at 1 P.M.
      51              weather-cock     agitated, and great       storm
                      of rain and wind, and floating vimlus east
                     ward ; bright sunshine 3 P.M. and clear
                     sky; cloudy night. Moon first quarter.
IS    50   29-60   SW. — Stormy,      wind, and cloudy ; showers,
      51             and wind; windy and cloudy.
                                                            METEORO-

                                  Meteorology.                                79
          METEOROLOGICAL            JOURNAL REIT AT            BOSTON,
                                 LINCOLNSHIRE.
     [The time of observation, unless otherwise stated, is at       1  P.M.]
          Age of
   1817.    the    Thermo     Baro       State of the Weather and Modification
          Moon       meter.   meter                  of the Clouds.
          DAYS.
Dec.   16      8     42-       29-88     Rain
  •                                      Fine
       17      9      43"      29-70
       18   :o       46-       29-81     Ditto
       19    1 1     43'       28-79     Rain
      20    12        36-      29-67     Cloudy
      81    13       34-       29-67     Fine
      S3 14           34-5     29-66     Ditto
      S3 full         33-5     29-66     Very fine
      24 16          32-5      29-88     Ditto — snow at night.
      25 17          32-       30-15     Ditto
      86    18       31-       30-18     Ditto
      27    19       33'      29-50 Ditto
      88    20       34'       29-85 Stormy
                        .      30-21 Very fine
      29 21          3
      30 22          32-       30 12 Ditto
      31    23        33-      30-16 Ditto
      Average      of the Year     1 S 1 7-
January            I  42-31    29-8486^
February....          46-714   29- 96
March                 47-07    29 9051
April                 50-      30- 3253
May                   55-03    29-8155
June                  66-016   29-94         V Therm.     Barom.
July                  64-63    29-877        / 53-03  =: 29-9*37
August                6V 1Q3 29- 8064
 September...         62-41 30- 0563
 October    ....      49-85    30076      1
 November      ...    5114     30-034     1
                                           -y
 December . .     .   38-4     29-68
 The greatest height of theThermom. 20th June                              j
                                                                 87° at 3 P.M.
 The least           ..       ..    ditto         21st   March   26       7 A.M.
 The greatest height of the Barometer 9th
 The  least      ..        ..       ditto
                                                       Jan.
                                                  7th April
                                                  8th Dec.
                                                              J
                                                              ~\
                                                                 30'05
                                                                 2871
                                                                      _
                                                                        METEORO

80                                                           Meteorology.
                                           meteorological table,
                                By          Mr. Cary, of the Strand,
                                                   For January 1818.
                        The nnometer.
                                                              Height of
 Days of                                                                                                  Weathe..
                     o'Clock,
                                                   -2   J:    the Barom.
                                Morning.
 Month.                                            V
                                           Noon.
                                                        .E<
                                                   =           Inches.
                                                        55
                     8                                                        a   =~
 Dec. 27 38                                40      38          29-68                 7            Fair
            28       40                    40      32            -70               6              Fair
            29       21                    33      35          30.10              10              Fair
            30       35                    43      3S          29-92                              Rain
                                                                                  0 0 0 0 6 0 0
            31       27                    29      28            -92                              Foggy
     Jan.   1        27                    32      30            -91                              Fair
                     35                    36      32            •90                              Cloudy
            '4 3 2
                     23                    36      37            -49                              Snow
                     39                    45      37            -42                              Fair
                     45                    45      36            -40                              Rain
            6 5                            42      35          30-00              12              Fair
                     35
            7        42                    46      47          2990                 8             Cloudy
                     39                    44      39          30-20              16              Fair
            9 8      40                    47      47          29-85                              Rain
                                                                                  0 0 0
            10       47                    52      50            •75                              Cloudy
            1
            1        49                    49      46            -70                              Rain
            12       39                    44      47            -95                              Cloudy-
                                                                                  0 0 0 9
            13       47                    53      47            -72                              Rain
            14       47                    .46     48            -75                              Rain
            15       47                    54      47            -59                              Cloudv
            16       47                    52      50            -75              14              Fair
            17       40                    43      37            -SO              24              Fair
            18       37                    44      36            -90              27              Fair
            19        29                   42      36          30 43              21              Fair
            20       34                    44      36            •15              29              Fail-
            21       40                    46      38          29-95              26              Fair
            22       35                    47      42            -50              27              Fair
                     36                    42      38            •49                              Stormy
                                                                                  0 0
            23
            24       35                    43      -37           -57                              Rain
            25       34                    42       45           -92              16              Fair
            26 40                          49      40            -70              10              Showery
                     N          B. The Barometer's              height   is   taken at one o'clock.

                                 [   81   ]
    XIV. On the Atomic Theory.          By William Higgins, Esq.
                             To  Mr. Tilloch.
  Sir, — .You will      oblige me by inserting in your Magazine,
 which is one of the least prejudiced channels of conveyance we
 have at present, the following paper.       The first part is only pre
 liminary   to  my theory respecting     the  connexion of light and
  caloric.
     According to our present knowledge of chemical philosophy,
 the four imponderable elements with which we are acquainted,
 viz. caloric, the electric fluid, light, and the deoxygenating rays
 which accompany light, are the only agents in the hands of Na
 ture to effect her operations, and to preserve ponderable matter
 in the state we constantly find it.      They are said to be impon
 derable, because hitherto they have been found to possess no
sensible weight; but as they are capable of uniting to ponderable
 bodies, they must gravitate towards them, and consequently must
 have some degree of weight, be it ever so small.
     Every one of the imponderable elements has important duties
to perforin; and although apparently clashing or opposite duties,
yet they all tend to uphold the great fabric of the universe, and .
to promote the grand and mighty objects of the Creator.
     Should all the substances of our globe be only influenced by
 attraction, there could exist in Nature but solid matter ; even our
 atmosphere would become a solid mass ; — animal and vegetable
 life could no longer exist, and the whole face of the earth would
 exhibit a dreary and inanimate scene.
     Caloric from its peculiar properties seems to be the agent em
 ployed by Providence to counteract such fatal effects ; to modify
 or check attraction, and in many instances to almost wholly over
 come it; and although these powers are constant antagonists,
their respective. and opposite forces are so balanced as to answer
all the purposes of life, or animated nature.
     We have every reason to suppose that caloric is a simple ele
mentary matter; it is a fluid universally diffused, and in excess
is capable of fusing or converting into the gaseous state all bodies
by removing more or less distant their particles,        or atoms, or
molecules, as it may happen, from each other, at the same time
that their temperature is most frequently increased.
    Caloric possesses the property of uniting to bodies chemically
without raising their temperature, or changing their state ; we
call it change of state in bodies when they pass from the solid to
the fluid state ; or from the fluid to the gaseous state. However,
substances in the same state and of equal temperature often
contain different portions of caloric: this perhaps depends upon
    Vol. 51. No. 238. Fell. 1818.               F                  their

82                        On the Atomic Theory.
their respective attraction       being more or less powerful for that
element.      Philosophers     attribute  it to their different degrees of
capacity for caloric ; this is merely expressive of the fact itself,
without accounting for it.
    We know that the particles of ponderable elements of various
kinds will unite to another imponderable element in different
proportions; and in most cases, it is true, this does not depend
upon a superior force of affinity : — for example, an ultimate par
ticle of azote will unite to more than twice the quantity of oxy
gen that those of sulphur, phosphorus or carbon will ; yet the
latter substances have by far a more powerful attraction to oxy
gen than the azote, for they will readily deprive it of all its oxy
 gen . probably this proceeds from the quantity of caloric or
electric matter which the compounds formed are capable of en
gaging round their respective atoms*. Be the cause whatever
 it may, it is a fact which I advanced twenty-nine years ago for
the first time, that the particles and atoms of ponderable matter
unite in various and definite proportions; and the same law holds
good respecting the chemical union of caloric to bodies : — it unites
to some ponderable bodies in larger quantities than to others f.
    Every single ultimate particle of elementary matter, even in
solid masses such as metals, is surrounded with an atmosphere of
caloric. Caloric thus attached to particles comes under the de
 nomination of specific heat, and is no doubt intimately, if not
chemically, attached, as it does not affect our senses or the ther
 mometer.
    When two ultimate particles unite chemically, they come' into
complete contact, and form one atom whose capacity for caloric
is rsss than its constituents in a separate or simple state ; hence
it is that caloric is liberated by chemical union. These atoms,
however, retain a sufficient quantity of caloric to furnish them
with atmospheres.
    When an atom, which consists of the most simple combina
tion, unites to another atom chemically, the compound molecule
governs still less caloric than its constituent atoms ; yet that
molecule is enveloped with an atmosphere of caloric.               Molecules
set bounds to chemical union ; molecules are as distinct or as
insulated from each other, notwithstanding their seemingly close
approximation in their liquid or solid state, as particles or atoms ;
or, comparatively, as the planets in our system in consequence of
their calorific atmospheres.
    Fluidity, flexibility, malleability, elasticity, and that vibratory
property which produces sound, depend upon the internal struc-
   * All bodies
                 naturally contain more or less electricity, but not in suffi
cient quantity to disturb their light and caloric.
   f  See my Comparative View.                                   .
                                                                        ture

                          On the Atomic Theory.                      83
ture and arrangement of solid and fluid substances which I have
now described ; even glass, although hard and very brittle, pos
sesses a considerable degree of elasticity, and is consequently very
sonorous.
      The ultimate divisions of ponderable matter are exceedingly
minute ; but those of the imponderable elements, such as caloric,
the electric fluid, and light, are so beyond calculation. The ut
most stretch of the human mind can no more estimate the size
of those particles, than it can measure infinite space or duration.
However, theit divisibility is limited, notwithstanding            their
amazing minuteness.          Probably a single ultimate particle of
caloric bears the same proportion, in its size and weight, to a
particle of oxygen, as the latter does to our globe : hence arises
the impossibility of ascertaining the weight of that element ; — it
is likely that a still greater proportion,   as to bulk and weight,
exists between light and caloric.
      From the foregoing considerations we can readily conceive the
nature and structure of the calorific atmospheres which are in
fluenced by particles, atoms, and molecules of ponderable mat
 ter.
      The caloric which solid bodies contain may  be partly set free by
 mechanical means: — instance; — when the malleable metals are
 quickly hammered or rolled between cylinders, their temperature
  is considerably increased.     This is occasioned by the closer ap
 proximation of their particles, which diminishes their capacity
 for caloric.    The temperature of gases is exalted by sudden com
 pression on the same principle.
      When certain solid bodies are made to act on each other che
 mically, more or less caloric and light are set free : — for example,
 when sugar and oxymuriate of potash are pulverized and mixed,
 a drop of sulphuric acid will produce a verv rapid and vivid de
 flagration, which will pass through the whole mass, be it ever so
 large.     When a spark is thrown into a mixture of nitre and
 charcoal a similar effect is produced.       Although the foregoing
 facts are strong proofs of the existence of caloric and light united
  to solid bodies, they are not to be compared with the following ;
  viz. nitre three ounces and a half, crude antimony two ounces,
  brimstone one ounce, all reduced to fine powder and well mixed,
  will deflagrate rapidly when a small spark is thrown in ; or the
   ignition may be commenced by means of two or three grains of
   oxymuriate of potash and sugar laid on the surface, and a drop
   of sulphuric acid suffered to fall on it. During the decomposi
   tion intense heat and dazzling light are set free.   In this process
   the nitrous acid of the nitre is decomposed, its oxygen unites to
   the antimony and sulphur ; the new compounds thus formed de
   manding less caloric than the nitre, the surplus is set at liberty.
                                  F  2                           There

84                       On the Atomic Theory.
   There is very little doubt, if any, but the whole of the caloric
of the gases which constitute nitrous acid is retained in this cu
rious substance; for when nitrous air condenses half its bulk of
oxygen gas, with more rapidity than most inflammable substances,
neither light nor heat is evolved, except indeed some increased
temperature occasioned by the action of the newly-formed acid
on the moisture suspended in the gases ; and when the acid is
again united to potash, very little caloric is given out.            It is cu
rious, as I first observed in my Comparative View, that nitrous
gas should be lighter than the gaseous oxide of azote, more
especially when the atoms of the former contain twice the quan
tity of oxygen : — this I attributed at the time to the different size
of their respective atmospheres of caloric and light conjointly.
But the most extraordinary difference in property between those
gases   is,that the gaseous oxide of azote which contains but half
the quantity of oxygen'contained in the nitrous air, will not unite
to oxygen when both are mixed             : perhaps (as 1   hinted at in my
 Comparative View)       this  depends upon    a    superior density or su
perior force      attraction of the atoms of the gaseous oxide for
                  of'
their calorific atmospheres, so as to prevent the particle of oxy
gen from passing through them.
    When muriate of ammonia and sulphate of soda, in fine pow
der, are mixed, they decompose each other, and new compounds
which demand less water are formed, and nearly a liquid mix
ture  is  produced.     This    isperfectly illustrative of the liberation
of caloric in the foregoing experiments, for the two salts are dry
before they are mixed.                                                 L
    The next way of setting free the caloric and light of bodies is
by means of the electric fluid for when
                                      ;          a   metallic wire or char
 coal is placed  in  the  way   of  that   fluid, circulated  by  a powerful
 Voltaic battery,   the  caloric   of  their  respective particles is   disen
gaged, and      prodigious degree of heat and light
                a                                           is  produced.
     Substances that retain their calorific atmospheres with the
 greatest force must be the worst conductors; because the electric
 fluid has to force its way          by
                                      removing the whole or a certain
portion   of    it,
                which    obstructs    its passage; and the quantity of ca
 loric thus dislodged depends upon the density or energy of the
 electric matter; for when      a spacers fully occupied     by   one fluid, it
 can only receive another       by  the expulsion of the former        ;  both
 cannot exist in the same space.            The quantity of caloric, say,
                                                                       I
 thus liberated depends upon that of the electric fluid            ;  and the
 effects    produces
           it          as  free  caloric,    depend   upon  the  size  of the
 masses through    which   it circulates.      Instance; —  the electricity  of
 a large cloud will melt   a  mass   of   metal,  whereas that   produced by
a   Voltaic battery will only fuse small wires. .
     Metals, charcoal3 and living animals and living vegetables are
                                                                           the

                          On the Atomic Theory.                               85
  the best conductors of electricity, as a sufficient quantity of their
  caloric is easily removed on its passage through them ; but a
  dead animal completely cold becomes a bad conductor.          All the
  dry metallic oxides are non-conductors, as their calorific atmo
 spheres are small and of course strongly attached to their atoms.
  Glass also, which consists of different oxides fused into one solid
  mass, is a non-conductor on the same principle. Yet glass be
  comes a good conductor when sufficiently heated so as to enlarge
 its calorific atmospheres, like dead animals while they retain a
  remnant of their vital heat*.
     The electric fluid moves with great velocity through metailicr
  bodies and charcoal, while the progress of caloric in those sub
 stances is comparatively very slow, and light is completely ob
 structed by them.       Light, on the other hand, passes with ease
  through glass, mountain crystal and calcareous spar, and other
 diaphanous bodies ; whereas, they in a 'great measure prevent
 the passage of caloric and electricity.      Hence it should appear
 that caloric, electricity and light are substances, and simple sub
 stances, totally different from each other.
     When the electric fluid is made to pass in a perfect vacuum
 no light or heat is produced, because this element does not pos
 sess those properties in its pure or simple state f.
     When a strong electric spark is passed in atmospheric air or
 in any gas, a flash of light is produced.      This is occasioned by
 the liberation of a portion of the specific heat, which resumes its
 former station again, round the particles of the air, the instant
the influence of the electric matter, which is very rapid and in
stantaneous, terminates.        The same effect is produced on the
large   scale of nature: —  instance; — thunder and lightning.
    * Dr. Thomson, as
                           usual, misrepresented my meaning on this subject,
page 60 of his Annals for July 1814.       His remarks are as follow : " If this
hypothesis were correct, the metals ought to he non-conductors, for they
have little specific heat ; and water and hydrogen ought to be the
                                                                       best con
ductors in nature, as they have the highest specific heats." I do not
                                                                          agree
with the Doctor in his positions : metals contain a prodigious
                                                                     quantity of
specific heat, and that heat is not so intimately united as that of water, ex
cept the small portion which is necessary to the fluidity of the latter ; and
when it is deprived of this portion and becomes ice, it is no
                                                                 longer a con
ductor.    In this respect it agrees with glass. Hydrogen contains a consi
derable quantity of specific heat, but much less than chemists
                                                                   suppose; yet
it retains it with greater force than the metals, and consequently is not so
good a conductor.      I now come to the point in which the Doctor attempts
to pervert my hypothesis. He insinuates that I meant that those
                                                                     substances
which contain the greatest quantity of specific heat are the best
                                                                    conductors ;
— no person but the Doctor himself could draw such an
                                                          inference. I founded
my hypothesis on the force of union of caloric to bodies, and not on the
                                                                          quan
tity which they contain ; and substances which contain least of it round
their particles or atoms, retain it, most frequently, with the greatest force.
f     See my Ezsay on the Atomic Theory, and Electrical
                                                             Phsenomena.
                                       F3                                 The

  86                      On the Atomic Theory.
     The phenomena of the aurora lorealis and fiery meteors, in
  our atmosphere, are occasioned also by electricity in the same
  way, that is by dislodging combined caloric.
     The heat and light discharged by the electric fluid, particularly
  by means of friction, confounded philosophers, and led them into
  many errors, and even to question the materiality of caloric ; at-
 tor&uting heat, like gravity, to a mere propertyof common or solid
 matter, inferring that it is produced by a peculiar vibration of their
 particles; and advancing many absurd notions respecting the elec
 tric fluid itself.   This obscure and far-fetched philosophy, so in
 consistent with the simplicity of the laws ef nature, appeared to
  me absurd and chimerical.        I have therefore advanced a doctrine
 which will account for all the phenomena attendant on electri
 city; and w*iich will also tend to establish the materiality of the
 imponderable elements, and to give them that station among the
 ponderable bodies to which they are entitled ; viz. their property
     U'iiiting with those bodies, and of dislodging one another from
ib.em, according to their different or respective powers.
     Having shown that caloric and the electric fluid are antagonist
  elements, we shall now consider how far caloric and light agree
  with each other ; and whether or not there exists any degree of
  attachment between those subtile elements.          From the variety
  of facts which have been adduced respecting the caloric and
  light disengaged during the chemical action of solid substances
  on each other, and also those evolved from substances by a
  powerful Voltaic battery, and even by the common process of
  combustion which takes place constantly before our eyes, — there
  can be very little doubt but those two elements existed in a la
  tent state in those bodies thus acted upon ; and we may also infer
  that they are constant and inseparable associates. It is true that
  solid and fixed bodies may be made very hot without the ap
  pearance of light; but as they become luminous when their tem
  perature is much exalted, no doubt but they contain combined
  light in their most obscure heat.       Some facts which will be re
  lated presently, show that these elements may exist in a free and
  separate state, or nearly so.
     Whenever caloric in a certain degree of concentration is dis- .
  lodged from bodies, no matter how, light is constantly produced.
  This is a fact which philosophers should attend to. Does light,
  whose particles are more minute beyond calculation than those
  of caloric, form atmospheres round the particles of the latter ?
  If so, are those atmospheres of light, by the concentration of
  caloric, so diminished by the condensation as to set a portion of
  it at liberty suflicient to afford illumination P and again, Do the
  particles of caloric, when they become less concentrated, or
  are removed to a certain distance from each other, engage the
                                                                 whole

                         On   the Atomic Theory.                        87
 whole of the light which they       gave out, so as to prevent    illumi
 nation ?
     W-e must draw the same line of distinction between free light
and combined light that we do between free caloric and com
bined caloric. The light of the sun comes to us partly combined
with caloric, but much of it is free. The same may 6e said with
respect to the light given out by burning bodies.            Caloric de
prives the light, which forms atmospheres round its ultimate di
visions, of the power of illuminating, on the same principle that
the ultimate divisions of ponderable matter deprive their natural
atmospheres of caloric of the power of heating.
    As all bodies contain caloric,     we have every reason to suppose
 that they also contain the matter of light ; for it is constantly
liberated, more or less intensely, during the rapid union of oxy
gen to most inflammable bodies, or by the union of certain in
flammable bodies to each other, such as that of sulphur and cop
per, sulphur and potassium, regulus of arsenic and potassium,
and potassium and tellurium, &c. without the agency of oxy-                 s
gen.
    The brilliancy of the light, however, under all circumstances,
depends on the intensity of the heat, or, in other words, upon
the degree of the concentration of the particles of caloric at the
moment of their liberation by the chemical union of ponderable
bodies.     In proportion as the caloric passes from the focus of its
concentration    by its particles  flying from each other more or less
distant, their capacity for absorbing        light is proportionally in
creased ; and consequently, as already mentioned, they recover
those atmospheres of light which they lost by their concentra
tion.
    The following well-known simple facts tend to support this
doctrine ; viz. If a patent lamp, or any other brilliant burning;
body, be suffered to go on in a small and well-closed room, the
temperature of the surrounding space is gradually exalted, at the
same time that the light in the room is not in the smallest sen
sible degree increased,' because it is absorbed by the expanding
caloric as fast as it is liberated from the concentrated caloric, on
the same principle that caloric is liberated by the compression
of gases, and absorbed again upon restoring them to their former
degree of expansion.       Thus it is that the light of bodies in the
act of brilliant combustion ceases the moment they are extin
guished, without any marked interval ; otherwise there would
 be a gradual diminution of light in the surrounding space before.
 it totally vanished.
    When a bright sun-beam is suffered to pass into a dark room
through a small opening, the instant that opening is closed by
an opaque substance the light vanishes, because its source is cut
                                 F 4                                   off,

  «8                     On   the Atomic Theory.
   off, and because the light of the beam in the room unites to the
   free calorie which accompanies it.
       It is probable, as Sir Isaac Newton and other philosophers
  supposed, that the particles of light, like those of ponderable
   matter, possess their repulsive and attractive poles, and that it is
   upon this account that they dart from luminous bodies in straight
   lines; and it is also likely, while in the act of moving or radi
   ating with velocity almost incalculable, that they are incapable of
   uniting to, the free particles of caloric which accompany them in
   their flight ; and that so soon as this rapid motion ceases, bv
   the interposition of opaque bodies, their particles may assume a
   new arrangement in relation to each other, which arrangement
   may enable them to unite the more readily to caloric, and pro
   bably to certain ponderable bodies ; and that by this union they
  become incapable of illuminating upon principles already ex
   plained.    Light diminishes in regular progression through a
'
  medium of uniform density as we recede from the luminous bodv,
   as Count Rumford has shown in a very ingenious way by means
  of his photometer, a very simple instrument. This is occasioned
  by the absorption of the particles of light as they move along.
   Indeed the feeble light we receive from the fixed stars, which are
   considered suns as bright as our own, affords a strong illustra
  tion of the subject.
      When the bright light of the sun, as it radiates immediatelv
   to us from that luminary, is collected into a focus by means of a
  large burning lens, prodigious heat and light are produced. Per
  haps the intensity of the illumination is increased by the libera
  tion of a portion of the combined light of the caloric from the
  concentration of its particles ; and it is also more than probable
  that the intensity of the heat is in some degree increased by a
  diminution of the combined or atmospheric light of the particles
  of caloric, so as to set them more at liberty.               -,
      When moon-light is treated in the same way by a lens, very
  brilliant light is produced in the focus, but no sensible degree of
  beat whatever ; yet by means of the prism, moon-light is sepa
  rated into the seven coloured rays.        Hence we may infer that
  the rays of light do not heat ; but I am inclined to believe that
  moon-light contains some small portions of caloric, yet sufficient
  to absorb all the light when its source is interrupted by opaque
  bodies.     Dr.Herschel the celebrated astronomer has shown that
  beat and light may be in some degree separated from each other,
  by placing a thermometer in the different coloured rays produced
  by the prism. The red ray being the least refrangible has the most
  beating power, and this power diminishes progressively according
  to the degree of the refrangibility of the different rays : conse
  quently the violet ray, which is the most refrangible, has the
                                                              smallest

                                  On the Atomic Theory.                           89
    smallest       heating   power      ;   close    to the boundary of the red ray
    was found a colourless ray, which produced the greatest heat,
    and this is a ray of caloric.   The heating power of the red ray
    and that of the violet are to each other as the following numbers :
    the violet      16; red 55.  These facts prove that the rays of the
    sun contain                   as well as free light : whether the co
                       free .caloric
     lourless ray of caloric       may contain some small portion of
     combined lights is a question not readily solved ; it is however
     very evident that all the rays contain more or less caloric, not
     withstanding the quantity separated by the prism.
        When a beam of the sun is reflected from one surface to an
     other, or from different surfaces, its power of heating is much
     diminished, which proves that caloric is separated from the light.
    This tends to prove that calorific rays are not so flexible as those
    of light, and that on the large scale of nature, the surface of the
    moon reflects most of it back again in straight lines to the source
    whence it received it, or else absorbs                        it,
                                                      so as to withdraw               it
     from the light, which from its amazing divergency illuminates
    the universe. The first hypothesis seems to be the most pro-
    liable.
        Many facts might be adduced to show that the light which
-   issues from burning bodies consists of radiant heat and the light
    itself barelv mixed, and they can readily be separated from each
    other to    acertain degree             by
                                     different reflectors.
           was from turning
          It                      my mind repeatedly the facts adduced
                                       in
    in this paper, that conceived the idea, that as free light and ca
                             I
    loric diverge from luminous bodies in company with each other,
    sudden darkness         occasioned
                             is               the instantaneous union of
                                                         by
    light to caloric, so as to form atmospheres round its particles; and
    in my opinion there       no other rational way of accounting for
                                  is
    it.
          The first part of this paper respecting electricalphenomena
and caloric          published four years ago
                       was                          in my Essay on the
Atomic Theory.          have only introduced that part of
                             I                                     here,    it
and in     different point of view, which relates to my doctrine of
               a
the connexion of light and caloric, which appears to me to be
perfectly new, according to the extent of my reading.                            It   is
founded on the Atomic Theory which             presented to the public
                                                              I
twenty-nine years ago.        At  that distant   period    felt that theI
principles     set out with were well founded, as the preface to the
                   I
work itself will sufficiently prove      there   had predicted what
                                                     :        I                       it
has ultimately led to      and yet we are told in the Monthly Re
                                  ;
view for May 1817, that          was not aware of the importance of
                                        I
 my own   ideas  on  the  subject    but    refer the learned author of
                                                 :        I
the paper on that subject to my Comparative View, which he
may have at Mr. Murray's, bookseller, Albemarle-street,            in its

90                         On the Atomic Theory.
 old garb, but it is the dress of the time in which it first issued
 from my hands*.       This learned writer states also, that I was
within a step of the doctrine in question, and wonders I had not
gone a little further.     I can assure him that, at this present mo
ment, 1 cannot advance a single step further: as to the doctrine
itself, it cannot he improved, although it may be more extensively
applied.     In another part of his critique he seems surprised that
 I should suffer it to lie by so long as twenty years without taking
any further notice of it \.     He should rather be surprised at the
want of .taste and judgement of scientific men at the time it was
written, and in that respect he would agree with my own feelings
on the occasion.
    I must not pass by unnoticed the following paragraph, taken
from the review of my Essay on the Atomic Theory J, &c. by
M. H. Gaultier de Claubry, a gentleman whom I only know by
his high character ; — it is as follows : " C'est ce qui rend son ide'e
plus importante, quoiqu'elle soit loin d'etre developpee comme
 M. Dalton l'afait depuis§."        I have proved in the above work,
and in many papers lately published in the Philosophical Maga
zine, that Mr.. Dalton erred most egregiously in the proportions
.of the elementary particles in sulphuric and sulphurous acids; but
particularly in those of gaseous oxide, nitrous gas, nitrous acids,
and nitric acid.
    I will now produce a curious specimen of errors still worse
 than the former : — Here they follow, as taken from the second part
of his work, plate V. Water is represented as consisting of a
single ultimate particle of hydrogen united to one particle of
oxygen ; — so far he is right. An atom of fluoric acid consists of
one of hydrogen and two of oxygen ; muriatic acid of one of
 hydrogen and three of oxygen ; and oxymuriatic acid of one of
hydrogen and four of oxygen.          Can any thing be more absurd
or more wild ? Yet he pretends to give the relative weights of
the compound atoms, although he is quite ignorant of their con
stituents.    Similar errors run throughout the whole work. How
snch a writer should be mistaken for a philosopher I cannot con
ceive ; and why he should be supposed to improve my theory is
equally inconceivable : were he to attempt to ridicule or rather
to caricature        it,
                   he could not accomplish his purpose more effec
 tually.    How Dr. Thomson and Dr. Henry, &c. could attempt
    *I thought until very lately that the work was out of print, there are
only   few copies to be had.
         a
     He will find on reading the preface to my Essay on Bleaching, that
    •f                                                                   I
have not neglected my offspring as he is pleased to call it.It  could not be
expected that should be continually puffing 'it off as quacks do their no
                 I
strums    was confident that
             I
             ;                itwould force its own way sooner or later, and
I was not disappointed in my expectations.
J    This work may be had of Longman and Co.        §   Journal de Physique.
                                                                         to

                    An Analysis of Sea-water ; &c.                              $4
to hand over my Theory to him is unaccountable.                      Probably    it
is because they do not perfectly understand it.
   The Atomic Theory is such that it could never originate but
from deep investigation and from a complete knowledge of che
mistry. With those qualifications a man could never be guilty
of gross   errors   ;   but the man who borrows his ideas and attempts
to apply them, is liable to commit mistakes every step as he moves
along, like the monkey who, as we are told, in attempting to
shave himself, in imitation of his master, cuts his own throat.
Imitation and originality are readily distinguished.      They can
only be confounded by partiality and prejudice.
                         I   am, sir,
                              Your very obedient humble servant,
Dublin, Jan.   12, 1818.                                    Wm. HlGGINS.
XV. AnAnalysis of Sea-water ; with Observations on the Ana
  lysis of Salt-brines. By John Murray, M.D, F.R.S.E.
                                  [Concluded from p. 25.]        .
T7he   question now remains for consideration, What is the real
composition of sea-water?      How far are the salts obtained in
either mode of analysis, those which exist originally in solution >
This question is evidently to be considered under the same point
of view as that which I have illustrated in a former paper, with
regard to the change in the state of combination, which may be
produced in the saline compounds existing in mineral waters, by
the analytic operations to which they are subjected.        We have
no strict evidence that the binary compounds which are obtained
are those which existed in solution', admitting even the principle
that binary combinations exist. On the contrary, there is every
probability that the substances obtained are often products of
the operation, arising from changes of combination which it
established.    And this is even placed in a more striking point of
view in the present case, as the ingredients obtained are actually
different, when different methods of analysis are employed.         It
 is,therefore, necesssary  to inquire further  what  the real compo
sition is.
    With regard to the sulphate of lime, which         the first sub
                                                            is
stance separated             by
                        the evaporation, the general views       have   I
already stated, give every probability to the conclusion, that              it   is
a product of the operation formed          the action of sulphate of
                                                  by
soda or of magnesia, during the evaporation, on muriate of
lime; that this last salt, therefore,    an ingredient in sea- water;
                                                is
                                                                   the

                      An Analysis of Sea-water;
 the proportion of it being the quantity equivalent to that of the
 sulphate of lime which the analysis affords.
     The small portions of carbonates of magnesia and lime which
 are obtained in the evaporation, I have already stated, are evi
 dently accidental products, from the decomposition of muriate of
 magnesia and muriate or sulphate of lime.
     The large quantity of muriate of soda leaves no doubt, if binary
 compounds at all exist in a state of solution, that it is the chief
 ingredient in sea-water, though the quantity of it may be af
 fected by the changes which occur from the actions of some of
 the other salts.
     A similar conclusion is to be drawn with regard to the muriate
 of magnesia. Though the proportion of it may be affected by the
 changes which occur in the analytic operations, still, from the
 quantity in which it is obtained, a considerable part of it must
 originally exist.
     The principal difficulty is with regard to the sulphate of mag
 nesia, and the sulphate of soda.      It has always been supposed,
 that sulphate of magnesia is an ingredient in sea-water, from its-
 being procured by evaporation ; and it is possible that it may
 be so.    But it is just as possible, a priori, that sulphate of
 soda may be the original ingredient, and that, during the eva
 poration, the mutual action between it and muriate of magnesia
 is favoured by the concentration, whence portions of both are
 decomposed, and corresponding quantities of sulphate of mag
 nesia and muriate of soda are formed.        Nor is there any thing
 connected with the mere results themselves, which proves which
 of these views is just.
     If the appeal be made to experiment, it is sufficiently esta
blished, that sulphate of magnesia mav be formed by the action
of sulphate of soda on muriate of magnesia. When these two
salts are boiled together in solution, a double decomposition takes
 place at least partially, and portions of sulphate of magnesia and
muriate of soda are formed.         On the other hand, the reverse
combinations may also, acccording to circumstances, be esta
blished.     We have seen reason to conclude, that they are so
from the agency of alcohol ; and even in an aqueous solution,
when certain proportions of the salts are used, they appear,
Tinder some circumstances, particularly that of a low temperature,
to take place to a certain extent.     But still these facts only show
what decompositions may occur from evaporation or other pro
cesses ; they do not prove what the actual state of combination
is in the original solution.
    It is obvious, that this is merely a case belonging to the more
general question, What is the state of combination in a com
                                                                 pound

       with Observations on the Analysis           of Sail-urines.              93
pound saline solution, and on what principle can it be determined
what are the binary compounds that really exist in it ? — a ques
tion of considerable importance, but one at the same time of
very difficult determination.
   When it is admitted that this cannot be inferred with certainty
from the actual products of analysis, the nest most obvious view
is, that it may be inferred from a knowledge of the real forces of
affinity, as, according to these, certain binary compounds must
 be formed ; and, as the state of the science does not afford any
certain estimate of the strength of attraction, the problem, it
may be concluded, is at present incapable of being solved.
   This conclusion, however, is by no means certain. Attraction
is so much modified in its operation by external forces, and com
binations are so frequently established from the influence of these,
that it is not clear that we should be able to determine what
combinations would exist in cases similar to those connected with,
the present investigation, from a knowledge of the degrees of
attraction, were we even in possession of it. It is rather, per
haps, from a knowledge of the influence of these external forces,
that an approximation to the solution of the problem is to be
 attained ; and an extension of the principle 1 have illustrated in
the preceding part of this paper, it appears to me may throw
 some light on the question.
     If the force of cohesion has so much power in modifying che
 mical attraction, as to change its results, and establish combina
 tions independent of the relative degrees of strength with which
 it is exerted ; and if the reverse of cohesion, that          is,
                                                           the power
 ofa     solvent, operates in establishing the reverse combinations,
 as, in considering the agency of alcohol in this analysis, there
 has appeared sufficient reason to conclude, then         will follow,
                                                           it
  that as in
           a     concentrated medium the least soluble compounds
  are formed,     so in
                    a     dilute medium the more soluble compounds
  will be established.      The power of the solvent     exerted with
                                                          is
  greatest effect on those which are most soluble        and hence,
                                                         ;                      if
  the reverse combinations even existed, this power must change
  them, and establish the others, precisely as the power of cohe
  sion acts with most energy on those which are least soluble, and
  thus causes their formation, when  it   isbrought to act with suffi
   cient force.    Hence will follow the simple rule           by
                                                            which the
  state of combination may be determined       that, in any fluid con
                                               ;
   taining the elements of compound salts, the binary compounds
   existing in
             it   will be those which are most soluble in that fluid            ;
                                                                     if by
   and the reverse combinations will only be established       its con
   centration favouring the influence of cohesion.   Thus,     we  con
   centrate
         a     solution containing sulphuric and muriatic acids, soda
   and lime, we know that, from the influence of cohesion, the
                                                                             binary

   4                 An Analysts of Sea-water;
binary combinations will be those of sulphuric acid with lime,
and of muriatic acid with soda. And on the saine principle, we
may infer that, in a dilute solution containing these elements,
the combinations will, from the influence of the power the re
verse of cohesion, that of the solvent action of the liquid, be
those of sulphuric acid with soda, and muriatic acid with lime.
 In a concentrated solution, containing muriatic and sulphuric
acids, soda and magnesia, sulphate of magnesia and muriate of
soda are formed ; and, on the same principle, in a dilute solu
 tion, there must exist sulphate of soda and muriate of magnesia.
    This principle, if just, is an important one, as enabling us to
determine the state of binary combinations in a saline liquor. I
 add, therefore, one other illustration of the reasoning on which
 it rests.
     Suppose that in a compound saline solution, that is, one con
taining more than one acid and one base, the acid and the base
 which have the strongest attraction, are those which are most
soluble, or form the most soluble compound ; the solvent power
of the liquid operating at the same time, will concur with this,
and favour their combination ; and anv other acid and base like-
wise present, will of course, at the same time, combine.           But
suppose    the more  powerful   attraction to belong to  those  which
form an insoluble compound, the solvent power counteracts this,
 and prevents the combination.       And the more this power is in
creased, which is done by increasing the quantity of the solvent,
the more will this be counteracted. The reverse combinations will
therefore be established by the operation of the opposite affini
ties.    Hence, generally speaking, in a dilute solution, the binary
combinations must be those which form the most soluble com
pounds, and very powerful attractions would be required to coun
teract this.
     Applying this principle to the composition of sea-water, or
rather to the question with regard to the sulphate of soda and
sulphate of magnesia, it is obvious, that the former is to be con
sidered as the original ingredient, and the latter as a product of
the evaporation ; for muriate of magnesia and sulphate of soda
are, on the whole, more soluble in water than muriate of soda
and sulphate of magnesia.       On the same principle it follows, still
more unequivocally, that the lime exists in the state of muriate
of lime, with a portion of sulphate of soda equivalent to the quan
tity of sulphate of lime which the evaporation affords. The salts,
therefore, really existing in sea-water, are muriate of soda, mu
riate of magnesia, muriate of lime, and sulphate of soda. The
quantity of muriate of soda is less than what is obtained bv eva
poration, for a portidn of it is formed by the decompositions
which occur j the quantity of muriate of magnesia is larger, as
                                                             a portion

         with Observations on the Analysis          of Salt-brines.            95
a portion of it is decomposed ; the quantity of muriate of lime
is inferred from the quantity of sulphate of lime ; and the quan
tity of sulphate of soda is determined from the quantities of sul
phate of magnesia and sulphate of lime obtained.      The propor
tions may thus be easily assigned.        Referring to the preceding
analyses, the  proportions   in a pint, according to this principle,
will be the following :
   According to the first analysis,
              Muriate of soda,         ..        170-2 grains.
                          magnesia, . .           30-6
                          lime,        . .         5-S
              Sulphate  of  soda,          ..     21-9
                                                    228-5
  According to the second analysis         :
           Muriate of soda,                . .      165-2
                           magnesia,           ..    31-6
            '
                           lime,           ..         5-9
                 Sulphate of soda,         . .        24-9
                                           227- 6
   If theopposite view be adopted, that the sulphate existing in
sea-water is not sulphate of soda, but sulphate of magnesia ;
then the ingredients and their proportions will be as follow:
   According to the first analysis,
             Muriate of soda,              ..
                                           188-3 grains.
                         magnesia,   . .•    16
                        lime,        . .       5-8
             Sulphate of magnesia, . .       1 8-4
                                                    228- 5
  According to the second analysis,
           Muriate of soda,                    ..    185-6
                            magnesia,          ..     15-2
                            lime,              ..      5-9
                 Sulphate of magnesia, . .            20-9
                                                    227-6
   But this view rests on no principle, and           is,   as   I   have stated,
less probable than the other*.
                                                                               The
   * There  is sometimes obtained in the large.way, from the products of the
evaporation of sea-water, a triple salt, which has not been noticed by che
mists, but which appears to be of definite composition, and     distinguished
                                                                 is
by peculiar properties, — a sulphate of magnesia and soda.           formed in
                                                                     It   is
purifying the sulphate of magnesia procured by the first evaporation from the
bittern of sea-salt. In this process the sulphate, which impure, both from
                                                            is
                                                                           the

  96                        An Analysis of       Sea- water    ;
       The difficulties attending the perfect separation of com
  pound salts from each other, by crystallization, even with the aid
 the intermixture of muriate of soda and muriate of magnesia, and perhaps,
  also, of sulphate of sbda, is dissolved in water, and by evaporation and cool
  ing is obtained crystallized ; a fresh quantity of it is added to the residual
  liquor, and by the necessary evaporation and cooling, a new crystallization is
  produced ; this is repeated for a third or fourth time ; and it is in these tetter
 crystallizations that this triple salt is formed, frequently in considerable quan
  tity, and usually at a high temperature, being precipitated even in the boiler.
  It crystallizes ir. rhombs, at firstirregular and semitransparent ; but by so
  lution in water, and a second crystallization, is obtained in more regular
  rhombs, truncated on the acute angles, on the obtuse angles and edges, ;md
  on the terminal edges, considering the rhomb as a four-sided prism, and trans
  parent. The crystals are permanent in the air: they are soluble in little more
  than three times their weight of water, at the temperature of 60° ; they do
  not undergo the watery fusion from heat, but 3uffer decrepitation. In these
  properties, this salt differs entirely from sulphate of soda, or sulphate of
  magnesia.                                                 ,
      To determine its composition, 20 grains reduced to powder were exposed
 to heat, raised gradually nearly to redness ; they lost from the escape of water
 5'6 grains. The residual powder was dissolved in water, and muriate of ba-
 rytes was added as long as any precipitation was produced. The precipitate
 dried at a red-heat, weighed 23-9 grains, equivalent to sulphuric acid 8-2
 grains.      To the clear liquor carbonate of ammonia was added, which did not
 impair the transparency; phosphoric Scid was then dropped in, which pro
 duced a copious precipitation.          The precipitate, calcined at a red-heat,
 weighed 5-3 grains, equivalent to 2'1 of magnesia, or 6-4 of sulphate of
 magnesia; the residual liquor being evaporated to dryness, the dry mass was
 submitted to heat, gradually raised, as long as any vapours exhaled ; it af
 forded, by solution in water and evaporation, muriate of soda in cubes, which,
 after exposure to a red-heat, weighed 6"4 grains, equivalent to 7'8 grains
                                                   ...
 of sulphate of soda. 100 grains of the salt, therefore, afford of
                        Sulphate of magnesia, - - - 32 grains.
                             1        soda,    -              39
                        Loss,         -- -- --
                        Water of crystallization,
                                  -
                                                      - - 28
                                                          -     1
                                                           "Too
     It afforded also a slight trace of muriatic acid ; its solution being in a very
 slight degree rendered turbid by nitrate of silver, probably owing to the in
 termixture of a little muriate of soda, as an extraneous ingredient.           This
accounts for the proportion of sulphuric acid, as inferred from the quantities
of the    bases, being a little larger than that directly obtained by the precipi
tation by muriate of barytes.
     The difference of crystalline form, as well as other differences of properties,
in the salt, from those either of sulphate of soda or sulphate of magnesia,
sufficiently prove that it is not merely an intermixture of the two, but that it
is of definite composition.       It deserves to be remarked, too, that it has not
the same relation to water that either of these salts has, or any mean
between them; the quantity of its water of crystallization being consider
ably less. Its taste is much less disagreeable than that of sulphate of sod;i
or sulphate of magnesia ; it might therefore probably be introduced with
advantage as a purgative salt, especially as it could be procured at a low
price ; and from its composition, it would afford a very good substitute for
the aperient mineral waters, which usually owe their activity to sulphate of
soda and sulphate of magnesia.
                                                                                  of

          uith Observations on the Analysis of Sail-brines.                97
of the action of alcohol, either        as a  solvent or a precipitant, are
so great,      that analyses executed in this mode can scarcely he
perfectly accurate.          And as it appears, if the preceding obser
vations are just, that there is no certainty in the conclusion that
the products of analysis by evaporation or crystallization are the
real ingredients, no peculiar advantage in this respect belongs to
this method, and just as much information is obtained bv dis
covering the acids and bases which exist in solution, and then
inferring, according to the most probable view, what the states
of binary combination are in which they exist.                 This kind of
analysis has the advantage, that it can be executed with much
more precision than the other : it is liable to fewer sources of
error, and, by finding the quantities, not of the compounds, but
of the elements, any error that is introduced is discovered, when
the binary compounds are inferred.             To ensure accuracy, there
fore, it was desirable to apply it to the illustration of the pre
sent subject, more especially as the preceding analyses, though
they do not differ greatly in the results, still, from these diffi
culties, do not exactly correspond.
     Different methods might be employ ed.             The following is the
one I have preferred.
     To a pint of sea-water, reduced by evaporation to nearly one-
fourth, at which state of concentration no crystallization nor de
position takes place, muriate of barytes was added as long as any
 precipitation occurred.         By a preliminary trial, it was found that
the precipitate gives no effervescence with muriatic acid, nor
suffers any change.         It was therefore sulphate of barytes. Dried
 by a low red heat, it weighed 4ti grains, equivalent to 14-4 sul
phuric acid.
     By this step the whole salts in the sea-water were converted
 into muriates.       It remained to discover and estimate the quan
 tities of their bases.
     To the clear liquor, oxalate of ammonia was added as long as
 any turbid appearance was produced.              The precipitate, washed
 and dried, by a heat of 150° continued for two hours, weighed
 $-5 grains.      Calcined with a low red-heat, it gave of carbonate
 of lime 5-2 grains.         This, dissolved with strong effervescence in
 dilute muriatic acid, and the product being heated with sulphuric
 acid, gave sulphate of lime, which, after exposure to a red-heat,
 weighed 7 grains, equivalent to 2-9 of pure lime.
     To the clear liquor \ armed, carbonate of ammonia was added,
 and phosphoric acid was dropped in* ; an abundant precipita
 tion took place of phosphate of magnesia and ammonia, and
 additional portions of the phosphoric acid, with such additions
    * I shall have to state in a subsequent
                                            paper, the peculiar advantages at
 tending this method of estimating the magnesia.
    Vol. 51.    No. 238. Feb. 1818,                  G                      of

98                    An Analysis of Sea-water ;
of the carbonate     as were necessary to preserve an excess of am
monia in the liquor, were added, as long as any precipitation
was produced.       The precipitate was converted, by calcination
for an hour at a red-heat, into phosphate of magnesia.               This
Weighed    37  grains,  equivalent to  14-8   grains  of  magnesia.
    The clear liquor was evapora ed to dryness, and the dry mass
was exposed to a heat gradually raised to redness, to expel the
 muriate of ammonia formed in the preceding operations.              Mu
riate of soda remained, which weighed 1 80-5 grains, equivalent
to 96-3 of soda, and 84-2 of muriatic acid.
     This gives the quantity of soda contained in the sea-water ;
 but it does not necessarily give the quantity of muriatic acid;
 for if more of this acid be present than what the soda can neu
 tralize, combined with portions of any of the other bases, (and
 from the former analysis this appears to lie the case,) this quan
 tity will be combined with ammonia in the preceding steps of
 the analysis, and is of course dissipated in the state of muriate of
 ammonia.
     This will appear, and the quantity be discovered by ascertain
 ing what proportion of these bases the quantity of sulphuric acid
 obtained by the analysis is capable of neutralizing, thus finding
 if any excess of them remain ; and, from the quantity of this dis
 covering the quantity of muriatic acid, which would be requisite
 for saturation, which of course is the quantity lost. 2-9 of lime,
 the quantity of this earth obtained by the analysis, neutralize 4- 1
 of sulphuric acid ; this deducted from 14-4, the quantity obtained,
 leaves 10 3, to neutralize which, 5'1 of magnesia are required ;
  this deducted from 14-S, the quantity of magnesia, leaves 9-7 ojf
 that earth; to neutralize this, 13' 5 of muriatic acid are re
  quired ; and this added to the 84-2 in the muriate of soda, gives
  97"7 grains as the total quantity of muriatic acid.
     The elements, then, of the salts, in a pint of sea-water, are,
  by this analysis.
                   Lime,           . .      . .        2-9 grains.
                   Magnesia,       ..       ..       14-8
                   Soda,                             96-3
                   Sulphuric acid,          .. ' 14>4
                   Muriatic acid, . .       . .      97-7
                                                   226-1
     The proportions of the compound salts may           be assigned from
  these, according to whatever view may appear most probable, of
  the state of combination in which they exist in sea- water, and
  thus" the results may be compared with those of the former ana
  lyses.
     Thus, supposing the elements to be combined in the modes in
                                                                    which

          with Observations on the Analysis                   of Salt-brines.           99
which they are obtained by evaporation, that       as muriate of      is,
soda,  muriate of magnesia, sulphate  of magnesia, and sulphate
of lime the proportions of these salts in pint, will be
         ;                                                   a
            Muriate of soda,         .,     180-5 grains.
                          magnesia,              . .               23-
              Sulphate of magnesia,              .   ,              15-5
                          lime,                  ..                  7-1
                                                                 226-1
   Supposing that the lime exists as muriate                      of lime, (which       is
the most probable conclusion with regard to                      it,) and further sup-
posing, that the sulphuric acid exists in the                     .state of sulphate of
magnesia, the proportions will be
            Muriate of soda,         . .                           180-5 grains.
                           magnesia                                 18-3
                           lime,             .   .                   5-7
              Sulphate    of magnesia,       ..                     21-6
                                                   226-1
     Or, lastly, supposing   that the sulphuric acid  exists the state      in
of   sulphate of soda, the proportions will be
               Muriate of soda,           . .      159-3 grains.
                          magnesia,       . .        35-5
               i           lime,          . .         5-7
               Sulphate of soda,          ..        25-6
                                                                 226-1
    These proportions differ somewhat, though not very materially,
from those found     bythe other modes of analysis.  The principal
differences consist in the quantity of magnesia and of sulphuric
acid being rather larger.    This   evidently to be ascribed to the
                                       is
modes of detecting sulphuric acid            by
                                        barytes, and magnesia                           by
phosphoric acid and ammonia, being so perfect, that the entire
quantities of them are found while, in the other modes, from the
                                ;
difficulty of effecting the entire separation of salts from each
other, a small portion of sulphate          of
                                       magnesia, or of muriate of
magnesia   and  sulphate  of soda, had remained with the muriate
of soda; and though subcarbonate of soda was employed to de
compose them, this decomposition         not altogether perfect.
                                            is                     In
the mode of analysis, too,    by
                               reagents, the presence of water    the              in
products can be more completely excluded and to this, probablv,
                                                         ;
is  to be ascribed the absolute quantity of saline matter being a
little less according to this analysis, than      in the others*.
                                                         it   is
                                                                                 •Of
  * In another analysis of sea-water, in which
                                                subcarbonate of ammonia
was employed to precipitate the magnesia,    solution of
                                                 a         being added to
                                                                      it
                                   G2                                 toe

 100                   An Analysis of Sea-waters
   Of the   different views which may be taken of the state of com
 bination of the elements, I have
                                     already inferred, that the one
 which supposes the sulphuric acid to exist in the state of
                                                            sulphate
 of soda, is the most probable ; and as the mode of               by
                                                         analysis
  reagents ia the most accurate, the last table
                                                 may be considered
  as that which exhibits the nighest
                                     approximation to the real com-
.ipasj'tion of sea-water, both with regard to its ingredients, and
their proportions.
    I had proposed to add a few observations on the analysis of
 salt-brines ; but as they are merely applications of the principles
 already illustrated, it is sufficient to state them briefly, or to no
 tice those whith present rather striking results.
    Klaproth has given a laborious investigation of the nature of
 these brinies; in the greater number of them, he states as ingre-
.dieats.i muriate of soda, muriate of magnesia, muriate of lime,
 ami 'sulphate of lime.    It is obvious that there are no just grounds
 whence this composition can be inferred; it is much more pro
vable, that sulphate of soda is the ingredient, and that, acting
  on a portion of the muriate of lime, it forms sulphate of lime.
     In other analyses, — in those, for example, of the salt-brines of
  Lorraine, by Nicholas*, — muriate of soda, sulphate of soda, sul
  phate of lime, muriate of magnesia, and muriate of lime, are
  enumerated as ingredients.         Here it is still more evident, that
  there is no proof of the previous existence of sulphate of lime ;
  on the contrary, as both muriate of lime and sulphate of soda are
  present, they must, in the concentration of the liquor by evapo
  ration, form by their mutual action muriate of soda and sulphate
  of lime ; and the quantity therefore of this sulphate which may
  be obtained, must have this origin.
 the water concentrated by eraporation, the clear liquor, after the subsidence
 of the precipitate being evaporated to dryness, the saline matter being ex
 posed to heat, to dissipate the muriate of ammonia; being redissolved in
 water the subcarbonate of ammonia again added, and this repeated for a
 third, and even a fourth time, the results gave the following proportions of
 the elements :
                        Lime,   ....
                        Magnesia,...        2-9 grains.
                                           13-
                       Soda                 97-6
                       Sulphuric acid,    . 15-2
                       Muriatic acid,     . 96-9
                                              225-6
    The principal difference here,   is the proportion of magnesia being some
 what smaller, evidently owing to its precipitation by the carbonate of am
 monia, even with the aid of the methods employed to promote     it,
                                                                   being im
 perfect.                                                         .
   • Aim. de Chimie,   t.xx.
                                                                           In

               with Observations   on the   Analysis of Salt-lrines.        101
    In general, when muriate of lime and muriate of magnesia are
stated as ingredients with sulphate of lime, no sulphate of soda
or sulphate of magnesia is found.       The reason is obvious, that
if either of these salts existed, it would react on the muriate of
lime, and form sulphate of lime.      But when muriate of lime is
not found, sulphate of magnesia,     or  sulphate of soda, is often
stated as an ingredient, obviously owing to the circumstance, that
 although a portion of muriate of lime has been present, so
                                                               as t;^
form sulphate of lime, there has not been a quantity suff c.leHt
to decompose the whole sulphate of soda, or sulphate 'of mag
nesia.
   A striking example of these facts is to be found in Dr. Henry's
analysis of the different varieties of sea- and rock-salt *.     In four
varieties of rock-salt, there were found small quantities of mu
riates of lime and magnesia, with a portion of sulphate of lime,
but no sulphate of magnesia ; while jn the different varieties of
sea-salt, British and foreign, there was no appreciable quantity,
and in some of them no trace whatever of muriate of lime, but
in all of them with sulphate of lime considerable quantities of
sulphate of magnesia.        In the latter, therefore, the muriate of
lime had been converted entirely into sulphate of lime from the
excess of sulphate of magnesia; in the former, from the defi
ciency of the sulphate, a portion of the muriate of lime had re
mained undecomposed.
    A result somewhat similar, arid which affords a very direct ap
plication of the same principles, is stated by Mr. Horner, in his
analysis of the salt-brine at Droitwich, compared with that of
Cheshire f.       The latter contains a little muriate of lime ; the
former contains none.        But, then, that of Droitwich contains
sulphate of soda and sulphate of lime ; there is every probability,
therefore, that its muriate of lime has been converted into sul
phate of lime by the sulphate of soda, which is in excess ; while-
in the Cheshire brine, as there is no sulphate of soda in excess,,
that      none after the evaporation, a portion of muriate cf lime
         is,
remains.
   There        a singular fact stated
                is                          Dr. Henry with regard to
                                               by
what     called fishery salt, prepared from salt-brine, which seems
        is
to admit of explanation only on these views.        He found the pro
portion of sulphate    of lime mixed with     to be less, as
                                                    it         was col
                                                                   it
lected at     later period of the evaporation; that drawn from the
                a
boiler, after two hours application of the heat, contained in ICO
parts 16 of sulphate of lime; that after four hours contained
only 11; and that after six hours only 8{.          Now      the water
                                                                if
of this brine held sulphate of lime in solution, the sulphate wou'd
begin to be deposited when the quantity of water was diminished
                                                Geological Transactions, vol. ii.
*
    Philosophical Transactions, 1810.       f
                                    G3                                        to

 102                      An Analysis of Sea-water ; &c.
to that extent that it was unable to retain the whole dissolved ;
and, in the progress of the evaporation, would continue to be
deposited proportional to this, to the end of     and the muriate   it,
of soda would be deposited in the same manner so that the pro        ;
portion between the two would continue nearly the same. But
ii the sulphate of lime did not exist in solution, but derives its
origin from the action of sulphate of soda on muriate of lime,
which these brines contain, this action would take place, when
a  certain degree of concentration of the liquor had been at
tained   ;the sulphate of lime would then be copiously deposited                          ;
but as the evaporation continued to proceed, its quantity would
be diminished, as the quantity either of sulphate of soda, or of
muriate of lime, became less and its deposition would cease
                                                  ;
when either of these salts was exhausted.
   This     placed in
             is          still clearer light,
                                a               an analysis of these
                                                               by
brines, after evaporation, to certain extent, compared with their
                                              a
original composition.          brine from Northwich was found by
                                      A
Dr. Henry to afford,         evaporation, saline matter, which, he
                                     by
inferred, contained   in 1000    parts, muriate of lime and muriate
 of magnesia in nearly equal proportions         parts, sulphate of lime
                                                           5
 19 parts, muriate of soda 974 parts.         But   the brine remaining
 after the separation of all the common salt, which              thought   it   is
 worth while to extract, afforded saline matter             evaporation,  by
 which he found to contain,          1000 parts, muriate of magnesia
                                              in
 35^ muriate of lime   32,   sulphate of lime      muriate of soda 927.
                                                            C,                                 i
 Here, in the progress   of  the evaporation,   the quantity of sulphate
 of soda, which may he considered        as  an  original ingredient of
 the brine, had been diminished             the decomposition arising
                                                      by
 from its action on the muriate of lime.         The liquor, therefore,
 after this,  afforded       further by
                                      evaporation,    along with     large           a
 quantity of muriate    of lime,     small quantity
                                              a       only of sulphate   of
 lime  ; while,    this sulphate
                    if             had  been  an  original  ingredient,                   it
 would have continued to be afforded at least in equal propor
 tion.
   Something     similar to this occurs in the evaporation of sea-
 water.       It   is    certain extent of evaporation, but while a
                        after   a
 large portion of liquor still remains, that the precipitation
                                                                      of sul
                                              the  concentration         suf
 phate of lime takes place that is,    after
                                          ;
                                                                                     is
 ficient to favour the mutual action of      the   sulphate     of  soda,  or
 sulphate of magnesia, and muriate of lime. After this,           the  quan
      diminishes  as the evaporation  proceeds,    till at last  not    trace        a
 tity
 of     or of sulphate of lime, remains
       it,                                     the bittern, which con
                                                           in
 sists of muriate   of  soda,  muriate  of magnesia, and sulphate of
  magnesia alone.      This curious  fact  has not been particularly
  noticed, though        in consequence of
                          it    is                that magnesia
                                                            it           pre         is
  pared from bittern on the large scale, perfectly pure.

          On thi Identity of Water-spouts and Whirlwinds.         103
    All these facts    seem scarcely to admit of any explanation, but
on the view that       has been stated, and they afford a strong con
firmation of it.     .
    XVI.    On the Identity    of Water-Spouts and Whirlwinds *.
Sir, — Tf      you think the following remarks relative to whirl
winds, or water-spouts, worthy of a place in your Journal,
you will oblige me by their insertion ; as the opinions of travel
lers, and also of philosophers, differ greatly concerning this na
tural phenomenon, and any information afforded, by attentive
observation,    may therefore be interesting,     if not useful.
    An old stager, in the last number of the Naval Chronicle, seems
to   be of the opinion of Theophilus Lindsay, and some other phi
losophers; viz. that in the phenomenon called a water-spout,
 the water descends in columns from the clouds upon the earth
 or sea, and does not ascend from the sea upward to the clouds,
 which I believe to be the common opinion.
     To corroborate his opinion, this writer gives an extract from
 a Scotch newspaper, stating, that a water-spout had descended
 and done considerable damage in a part of that countrv.
     In stormy weather, when the barometer is low and the atmo
 sphere light, if clouds which contain much moisture happen to
 impinge against any of the hills of an alpine country, they are
 certainly liable in such case to discharge their contents in
 heavy rains, which descending rapidly from the summits of the
 hills, rush with irresistible force down the valleys, carrying
every thing before them; and these local discharges of heavy
rain are commonly called waler-spmits by the neighbouring
inhabitants.       The Hawkesbury river in New South Wales is
sometimes subject to a rise of from twenty to thirty feet above
the natural level, by the sudden rupture of clouds on the summits
of the Blue Mountains.        About thirteen years ago a phenomenon
of this kind happened at St. Helena, when a cloud suddenly broke
upon the hill that forms the head of Rupert's valley; and al-
though'the bed of this valley is generally dry, the immense body
of water that rushed through it at this time, bore down the strong
line of stone ramparts, and carried some heavy pieces of artillery
into the sea.
    I think (although the last number of the Naval Chronicle is
not now before me) his correspondent considers the water
 spout seen at sea to be a similar, if not the same phenomenon
as this last mentioned, except that the white column in the cen
tre of the spout he considers to be a congregated mass, or body
                 •  * Fr*m the Asiatic Journal, No. 23.
                                    G4                             of

104       On the Identity         of Waterspouts   and      Whirlwinds.
of water,   descending;     from the clouds to the sea.      Now, as many
water-spouts       are   of  great diameter,    I am  decidedly of opinion,
that if the central white column were a body of fulling water
upon the surface of the sea, its noise would he heard many miles,
 if not many leagues, like the falls of Morency and Niagara, and
would sink, or destroy, any unfortunate ship which happened to
come in contact with its vortex; but, my experience compels
me to think otherwise, as I never heard the noise of any water
spout until very close to           it,
                                     and then, the noise resembled that
of steam issuing through small aperture of boiler, occasioned
                                   a                     a
 by  the whirlwind's rapid motion in disengaging water in the
gaseous form from the surface of the sea           : besides,    the central
                                                                  if
white column were         a  mass of falling water, its diameter ought to
increase    by  the resistance of the atmosphere in descending, and
consequently be greater near the sea than higher up towards the
cloud ;    but this probably never happens, as the diameter of a
water-spout, as well as the interior column,              greatest near the
                                                            is
impending cloud, and converges towards the sea.                 That whirl
winds, or water-spouts, may often differ much in formation and
appearance,      I  believe there can be little doubt       but
                                                              ;   have cer
                                                                  I
tainly more than once, both              ocular and tangible observation,
                                          by
been convinced, that whirlwind and water-spout are sometimes
                          a
one and the same phenomenon.               At one time, when dense clouds,
charged with electric matter, approached the ships in Canton
river, a    regular water-spout was formed             by  tube descending
                                                            a
from the cloud in the usual manner, and the whirlwind turned
one of the ships round at her moorings.           As this whirlwind passed
over the island, close to the village of Whampoait unroofed se
veral thatched houses, and tore the leaves from the trees, which
were carried up       a  considerable way into the atmosphere              by
                                                                         the
whirlwind, and at this time            had a dense appearance
                                       it                             but as
                                                                       ;
soon as     it  drifted over the land and came             contact with the
                                                            in
water    of the  river,   the white tube became very conspicuous in the
centre of the whirlwind, and the water seemed to be torn from
the surface of the river and carried upwards              small particles by
                                                         in
the whirlwind.         Had any light terrene bodies been floating in
the river at this time,       inthe path of the whirlwind, they certainly
would have been drawn upward like those which came into its
vortex when      it passed over the land.        This was certainly an ex
ample of the unity of whirlwind and water-spout.
                              a                                  At another
time a regular-formed water-spout was driven along bv the wind
till its exterior surface nearly touched the quarter of our ship,
when  I    plainly saw the water disengaged from the surface of the
sea with    a hissing noise, and carried upward in the gaseous form
by  the   ascending whirlwind, while the vacuum, or cavity, in its
centre, was very distinct, with heavy drops of rain falling down
                                                                        both

         On    the     Identity of Water-spouts and Whirlwinds.                    105
both from the interior and exterior
                                  sides of the ascending spiral,
where it was evident the power of the whirlwind was not ca
pable of carrying all the gaseous particles up into the cloud.
When     we were close to this water-spout        the white tube in the
centre was not visible, but only a vacant column, as mentioned
above ; which column, had we been a quarter or half a mile off,
would probably, by an optical illusion, have appeared, as usual,
like a white column of water.                                  \
    In the straits of Malacca I have sometimes seen upwards of a
dozen water-spouts at the same time, and have been near to se
veral.   Once I passed through the vortex of a whirlpool pro
duced by a water-spout beginning to form ; it was directly under
a dense cloud, from which an inverted conical tube was descend
ing when       we passed through the whirlpool        in the ship      :   this was
about twenty or twenty-five yards in diameter, and             the water was
Carried round by the force of the whirlwind over             it,   with           velo
                                                                           in a
city of about from three to four miles an hour, breaking                          little
waves with     hissing noise,
                   a                   by
                                  a portion of those waves being
torn away in the form of white vapour.        felt1 pleasing sensa
                                                         a
tion at the time, expecting when passing through the vortex of
an incipient water-spout, to be     close observer of
                                        a                completely
                                                               it
formed but whether the communicating force was destroyed
         ;                                                                           by
the ship passing through the vortex, or from           deficiency of
                                                           a
strength in the whirlwind,  or from some other cause,     dispersion
                                                                   a
of the phenomenon       soon followed.
    It would be needless to adduce more examples to exhibit the
affinity of the common water-spout, as observed at sea, and the
whirlwind     ;but   fully agree with the assertion, that there are
                        I
various kinds of whirlwinds, and, perhaps, also of water-spouts;
both the former and the latter, as has been observed, happen
sometimes in this country.        On the 27th June last, a remark
able case of the affinity of the water-spout and whirlwind was
observed      by
              many persons       the vicinity of ondon, among whom
                                  in              L
was the editor of the Monthly Magazine, and              description of
                                                          a
this phenomenon           recorded in the Philosophical Mflgazine,
                             is
No. 232, vol. 50. When            happened, very dark clouds had col
                                  it
lected over the adjoining country, and some stormy rain accom
panied    byseveral strokes of lightning followed this hurricane of
wind.
   The correspondent of the Naval Chronicle says, whirlwinds
occur very frequently when the clouds are high, the sun shining,
and the wind light       but, although whirlwinds do certainly hap
                             ;
pen at these times, yet they seem more dangerous and terrific in
their appearance when accompanied             dense and stormy clouds.
                                             by
I once observed      whirlwind upon the coast of Coromandel du
                         a
ring warm day, when there was little wfnd and no clouds, which
     a
                                                                earned

    106        On the Identity               of Water-spouts   and Whirlwinds.
    carried up a column of sand a great way into the atmosphere ;
    and if it had passed from the land to the surface of the sea, it
    no doubt         would    have           carried the water upward in the gaseous
    form, and probably a cloud would have appeared over it.
        Whirlwinds of a minor kind may be perceived almost daily; but
    these are only eddies of wind produced from obstructions of hills,
    cliffs, buildings, &c. to its regular course, and similar to whirl
    pools or eddies, in a river or strait, occasioned by the prominent
    parts of the land.
        Another kind of whirlwind like those last mentioned, is some
    times experienced to blow from valleys pr over high cliffs, down
    upon the sea.     Although this, as he remarks, may not happen
    in Gibraltar Bay, or in Table Bay at the Cape of Good Hope,
    yet in sailing close to high cliffs among the Eastern Islands. I
    have several times seen whirling gusts of wind descend and re
    bound from the surface of the sea, carrying the water in their
    vortex several fathoms upward in the form of spray.
       Previous to concluding these remarks, it may not be irrelevant
    to advert to the opinions of some of those who have written in
    early times on meteorology.      Pliny, in his Natural History, de
    scribing a sudden blast of wind or typhon, says, ' there riseth
    also upon the sea a dark mist resembling a monstrous beast, and
    this is ever a terrible cloud to sailors.  Another likewise called
    column or pillar, when the vapour and water engendered is so
    thick and stiff congealed, that it standeth compact of itself. Of
    the same sort, also, is that cloud which draweth water to        as             it,
    it were into    long pipe.'
       Aristotle,     in a
                     his third book on meteors, describes some of the
    causes of whirlwinds or typhon, and mentions that there are both
    descending and ascending whirlwinds.       Olympiodorus, his com
    mentator, in reference to Aristotle's definition of these words,
    says, and thus through continued vibrations,         spiral and in
,         '                                                          a
    volution of the wind       formed, proceeding from the earth as to
                                        is
    a cloud, and elevating any body with which          may happen to
                                                                    it
    meet — on the sea indeed ships, but on the earth animals or
    stones, or anything else which the half blow again suffers to tend
    downward.      This involution Homer calls hue Ha, but Aristotle
                                                               t
    typhon, in consequence of vehemently striking against as      were,        it
    and breaking solid bodies.    Sailors, however, call    syphon, be   it
    cause like a syphon     draws upward the water of the sea.'
                                    it
         If,
          however,        produced from cloud,
                             it    is                 originates as fol
                                                         a         it
    lows the cloud being on all sides condensed and inwardly com
          :
    pressed, fuliginous exhalation becoming inwardly multiplied and
    evolved     inmultiform manner, the cloud, from the violence
                     a                                                                    is
    suddenly  burst, and the inwardly evolved fuliginous exhalation,
    proceeds  out of         it,
                        preserving the same form which        had with    it

                       On the Origin   of Hoi Springs.                107
 in, viz. the spiral form. Afterwards the spiral thus tends to the
 earth like hairs that are curled, not from the imbecility of the
 secreting power, but from the pores being winding through which
 it proceeds, and from its being fashioned together with them. And
 these, indeed, are the causes why the spiral of the typbon at one
 time proceeds upivard from beneath, and at another downward
from on high. But the knowledge of these is two-fold ; for we
 know whether the spiral is moved upward from beneath, or down
 ward from on high, and in the first place indeed from the sight it
 self.     For since the spiral, viz. the typhon, is evident to the sight
 from the density of its parts, when we see it at one time proceed
 ing downward, and at another upward, we say that the beginning
 of the spiral    is from beneath ; but   if it is alone moved downward
 from on high, then it must be said that the beginning of it is from
 on high. In the next place, we know this from the bodies which
 are hurried away and elevated by the spiral. For, if the body is
 first turned from its proper position, and afterwards is moved
 obliquely and then elevated, we say that the typhon originate*
 from on high. — Your obedient, &c.
     October 10, 1817.                                             J. H.
 XVII.      On the Origin   of Hot Springs. By Gavin Inglis, Esq.
                              To  Mr. Tilloch.
 Sir,— In         vour truly valuable Magazine for November last,
 page 352, in a note to the paper on the Purification of Mercury,
 the hot waters of Lucca, Pisa, and Bath, are mentioned with the
 following remark :
                         " There are still persons who ascribe the hot
 baths to the influence of volcanoes ; but there is not the smallest
 trace of any thing like volcanic matter, or even any combustible
 substance, to be discovered within many miles of them.          Nothing
 that, either chemically or geologically speaking, could sanction
 the belief, that they owe their warmth to exhausted subterraneous
 volcanoes."
      It is certainly a matter of no small importance to science, to
 ascertain the true cause of such phenomena, and a great source
 of contemplative amusement to minds inclined to study the won
 derful operations of Nature, in the production of hot and even
 boiling waters from the bowels of the earth, of volcanoes vomiting
  fire in all its dreadful forms, accompanied with scoria and fused
 minerals of every description found in the vast cavities or great
 furnace of the mountains.
      I have long amused myself with ideas regarding the cause, in
  termission and prolongation of volcanoes; but whether these cor
                                                                  respond

 108              On the Origin  of Hot Springs.
 respond with, or differ from, the opinions of others, I know not ;
 as I do not remember to have even seen any cognate views or
sentiments published upon this subject.        I 'therefore beg leave
 to submit the outlines of my cogitations to your judgement ; and
 if you consider them worthy of a place, your inserting them will
 confer a favour.
    I do not conceive an effort of Nature equal to the production
 of volcanic matter necessary to bring forth hot or boiling water
 from the interior of the earth ; the temperature and properties
 of all springs must depend on the arrangement and quality of
 the superior and intervening strata, the porosity or scissures of
 the various layers, and the nature and quantity of the metals con
 tained in these strata.   I hold all mineral stratification, whether
 perpendicular, inclined or horizontal, on the mountain or in the
 valley, as *o many natural Galvanic piles, whose powers of de
 composition and deflagration must correspond with the number
 and composition of the natural plates: — hence the graduation of
 temperature and properties in hot, boiling or mineral waters issuing
 from these stratifications.    Where the stratification presents a
 pile of diminutive powers, a partial decomposition only, without
-deflagration, takes place.    The oxidable minerals take up the
 oxygen,   leave the hydrogen at liberty to act on the iron, the sul
 phur,  the  carbon, or whatever comes in its way : hence the sul
 phuretted and carburetted hydrogen gases that accompany these
 waters, and the iron in chalybeates; — or the hydrogen appears
 in the horrifying shape of inflammable gas in coal-mines or
 other underground workings ; or escapes through the loose su
 perior strata into the upper regions of the atmosphere, loaded
 with its mineral spoil?, where, exploding, it produces thunder
 and rain, and the elements, simultaneously collapsing to fill tip
 the vacuum, force into the centre the mineral particles carried
 thither by the hydrogen, in a state of extreme ignition, and pro
duce the meteoric sf,nes, &c. that fall from the clouds.
    While the diminutive piles are only producing hydrogen, mi
neral waters, hot-baths and boiling springs ; the great strata or
major piles are at work in the interior of the different regions
of the globe, and their effects brought to light by mounts Hecla,
Etna, Vesuvius, Strombolo, &c. And the deflagration of metals
and minerals produced by the artificial pile on the small experi
mental scale of the laboratory, are here produced in all the awful
majesty and glory of nature, infinitely beyond the reach of hu
man effort.      The intermitting of volcanic mountains must de
pend on the quantity of water contained in, or connected with,
the mountain, the component parts of which I conceive to he
the grand reservoir of combustion.      When the volcano ceases to
flame, it h when its anterior struggles have exhausted and dried
                                                                   up

Probability    of Meteorolites   being projected    from the Moon. 109
up all its waters ; it must then cease to act, until the mountain
is cooled down and receives a fresh surcharge of water, when it
may again be brought into action by its own Galvanic electricity.
    The eruptions of Mount Hecia are always most tremendous
after long frosts : when the mountain is, by the casement of ice and
frozen snow, hermetically sealed against the escape of hydrogen
through the sides and pores of the mountain, thereby adding Co
the ordinary stock of combustible materials, the unavoidable
consequence of increased ignition takes place.
    That the prolongation of volcanoes depends on the support of
combustion thus supplied, must appear evident when we consi
der the immensity of any other inflammable substance that would
have been necessary.
    Had the island of Sicily consisted of coal, Etna would have
consumed the whole long before this.
    Had Strombolo been a compound of the most oeconomicai
combustible materials, it could not have existed even at the time
it is first noticed by the writers of antiquity: the continued uni
formity of that volcano must be caused by its connexion with
the waters of the Mediterranean.             Its flame I consider a mere
gas-light, from a grand laboratory of nature at work for
 ages, filling up the immense cavities from whence the materials
 composing the mountains themselves have been drawn, with per
 haps new and previous combinations, or with the soda of the
 waters thus deflagrated.      It is not impossible that the prodigious
 salt-rocks and mines found indifferent places of the earth, mayowe
 their origin to such a cause; and may not these cavities now filling
 up, be to some remote successors of the human race, sources of
 emolument and wealth ?         Earthquakes I also conceive to be the
 consequence      of decomposition and deflagration by these Galvanic
 stratifications: but to what" distance their influence may extend
 it is impossible to conceive. The agitation of some lakes in
  Scotland during the great earthquake at Lisbon must have been
 occasioned by connected strata.         The troubling of the waters of
  Loch-Leven during and at the precise time of the shock at In
  verness, must have been connected with a similar cause.
                               I remain, yours truly,
    Jan. 3,  1818.                                         GaVIV InGLIS.
  XVIII.      On the Probability of Meteorolites being projected
    from    the  Moon. By Mr. J. Acton, and Capel Lofft, Esq. —
      Galvanic and Electric Experiments by Mr. Acton.
                              To  Mr.   Tilloch.
            _                                          Ipswich, Jan. 8, 1818.
  Sir, —    In   consequence of a communication I made to my re
  spected friend Mr. Capel Lofft relating to the meteor I observed

   1  10                      On Meteorolites,
  on the Sth ultimo, (an account of which you have kindly inserted
  in your valuable Magazine of last month,) an interesting con
  versation took place between us upon our meeting soon after
  wards, in which the probability of meteorolites being projected
  from the moon was amongst other things discussed ; from which
  subsequently resulted the inclosed interesting letter, affording me
  much gratification ; and, as being repiete with intelligence and
  ingenuity, will, I trust, he considered as deserving a place in your
  next number.       Notwithstanding the subject has frequently ar
  rested the attention of several eminent philosophers, who have
  deemed it no stretch of belief to account for the fall of stones to
  the earth, by their being projected from the volcanoes in the
  moon, — 1 acknowledge my total want of faith in so unlikely an
  occurrence ; nor have any arguments I have heard or read, at all
  lessened my conviction of their fallacy : and if I had needed any-
  further confirmations of iny opinion, the recent discoveries in
 chemistry respecting the decomposition of the alkalies and earths
  by electrical agency (as well as the circumstance of our having
 volcanoes upon our globe), would have been all-sufficient for such
  purpose.     It appears 'to nie quite as wonderful that ammonia
  should be capable of being reduced to a metal, as that meteoric
 stones should be formed in the atmosphere, one of the grand la
 boratories of nature.       The mind is lost in astonishment at con
  templating the    extraordinary   powers of galvanism and electricity
  in the combustion of metals, the decomposition of water, air,
  alkalies, earths, salts, and most other bodies submitted to their
 influence ; and it scarcely can be doubted, but the establishment
 of these facts must appear as extraordinary to such of our present
 chemical philosophers, who were in existence thirty years ago,
 as the phenomenon of stones being formed in our atmosphere,
 or thrown from our volcanoes: and thus judging from analogy of
 the efficient power of nature to produce such effects, they would
 unnecessarily, and I should think reluctantly, carry their imagi
 nation so far as the moon for aiv explanation of the causes.
      Having been lately engaged in some Galvanic and electric ex-
               I cannot resist this opportunity of informing you that
 feriments,
     succeeded in decomposing a small quantity of potash by a sin
gle battery of fifty double four-inch plates of zinc and copper
with glass partitions, and a mixture of one part of the common
muriatic acid of commerce and nine parts of water.              I made
use of the apparatus invented by Mr. Pepys, sometime since de
scribed in your Magazine, without the naphtha : the metal, con
sisting of three or four small globules, was found imbedded in the
alkali, and being placed under naphtha in a watch-glass was ex
tricated with a silver knife.       Solutions of Glauber salts and sul
phate    of silver were afterwards submitted to iu action, and de
                                                              composed

                   Galvanism, and Electricity.                     Ill
composed with facility, — the latter result having a most beautiful
and brilliant appearance of metallic curls.        Gold-leaf, tinfoil,
and small watch-pendulum wire were also deflagrated to a con
siderable extent — the wire gradually assuming first a red, then
a white heat, and lastly falling into globules.
    The cylinder of my electrifying machine is only eight inches
diameter, and ten inches long : hut by applying an excellent
amalgam and using every obvious precaution of having the whole
apparatus dry and in good condition, 1 have with the assistance
of Cuthbertson'a balance electrometer, and a single jar contain
ing about four square feet and a half of metallic coating, fused
eight inches of the smallest watch-pendulum wire I could pro
cure, with a very luminous and brilliant effect ; — with a modifica
tion of Lane's electrometer of my own adaptation I have drawn
pretty large sparks at a distance of four inches.
    I am induced to mention these circumstances, in consequence
of having often made the want of a larger apparatus a subject of
regret, not having then any idea these experiments would suc
ceed with one so small; and well knowing many persons are in
possession of apparatus of about the same size as mine, without
feeing aware of the effects they are capable of producing, I am
anxious some hint should be given to induce their owners to
bring them into useful action.      I have found that by breathing
into the jar, its capacity for receiving and retaining the electric
fluid is very much increased.
     I beg you will excuse my troubling you with these trifling de
sultory observations ; the only apology I can offer is the experience
 1 have had of their utility in my own pursuits.
    One more remark, and I have done. — Being in possession of
your excellent Magazine from its commencement, and observing
 it has now reached and completed fifty volumes, I do hope and
 entreat you will favour us with a general index to them. — I need
 not expatiate upon the great convenience of such an addition j
 it is too obvious; and whatever the expense may be, I am certain
 it would be met with alacrity by those who take your work.
 To be compelled to look through fifty volumes for an article, you
 must allow, is a trial upon the time and patience which a general
 index can alone remove.
                        I am, sir,
                                  Very respectfully yours,
                                                          J.  Acton.
     P. S. —A  few evenings ago, Mr. Lofft and I with some other
 friends were much delighted with looking through an excellent
 Cassagrain telescope, of a power of about 230, at Mars and some
 other of the heavenly bodies, which we observed to very great
 advantage, the objects being well defined, the field of view con
                                                             siderable,

 \ 12             On the Probability   of Meteorolites
siderable, with a concentration of light greatly exceeding any
thing of the kind we had ever before witnessed.         It is impossible
for words to do adequate justice to the excellence of this instru
ment.      It was constructed by Mr. Crickman, of this town, a
self-taught optician, who has for some time past been highly re
ported of, for the perfect manner in which he makes his specula
—particularly the finishing part of giving an exquisite polish, and
forming the most desirable and difficult to be obtained figure; —
as he has also been for making very superior microscopes.            He
has manufactured for me one of each sort at a reasonable rate,
with which I am entirely satisfied.       His rare abilities are well
known'    to  Major Kater,  and  several other   scientific gentlemen,
who have employed and approved him.        — I shall be much obliged
by your naming him in your Magazine, as soon as a convenient
opportunity offers.
    The dark dense cloud near the Sword of Orion was seen by us
to great advantage by the above telescope, as also a group of
spots near the centre of the sun's disk by Mr. Loffc.
                  Mr. Capel Lofft     to Mr. Acton.
                                               Ipswich, Dec. 30, 1817-
    Dear Sir,—     I have been thinking of our conversation last
 night respecting meteoric projectiles.
    Yours of the Sth at any rate we may safely say could not be
from the moon, it being then new moon (within less than twelve
Jiours after) and the moon consequently near one-third of our
earth's circumferential rotation below our horizon, and the vi
 sible path of the meteor from west to east ; in order to which it
 must have traversed a vast portion of the lower sky beneath our
 earth, corresponding to near 16000 miles of the earth's circum
 ference, before it would emerge above our horizon in the west
 ward.
    But we may consider the supposition generally.
    The moon is about thirty of our diameters distant from us,
 and we must appear at the moon a diameter of about two degrees.
 Now at the radius of 240,000, what probability is thereof a pro
jectile being thrown from the moon, to a point of a circum
 ference at this distance from her sufficiently near our position
 at the time to bring it to the earth, and prevent its falling back
 to the moon again ?
     It has an equal probability of being thrown to the side further
 from the earth, or at right angles to the earth, or at some other
 angle less than a right, but too great to admit of its falling to
  the earth: — the circumference on such a radius being about
  1,500,000.
     If projected from the moon so as to approach the earth at an
                                                                   angle

                      being projected from the Moon.                          1   ]3
  angle of 9° from the earth's place; this would amount to the
 distance of an arc of 36500miles and4£>= 18250, and 2^=9125.
 And this distance is far too great, and the obliquity of the line
of direction too much to admit of such projectile being attracted
 to the earth, and falling on it.
    Beside this, it must be projected with a force which would
carry it 234,000 miles in about 8", to carry it to a point where
 the attraction of the moon would no more than equal that of the
earth.     This is a velocity of very near 30,000 miles in a second;
while that of the comet of 1680, for some few hours at its peri
helion was only about S00,()QO- miles an hour =8000 miles in
 36"= 1000 in 4f°.
    A body projected with such force would appear to have less
than a momentary duration, if it even passed us vertically from
east to west, allowing it to be much larger than any projectile
from the moon can be supposed to be.            Its density and power
.of cohesion must be inconceivably great to prevent its being fused
and vanishing in vapour, or dispersed to atoms long before it
would reach the earth. And with such density, to what asto
nishing depth must it not bury itself?         And must not the force
and depth of such an explosion be sufficient to rend the moon
itself into fragments ? Nothing comparable happens in our voir
canoes on earth.       And supposing it projected even twenty dia
meters of the «ioon from her, or 43,000 miles, when it had
reached that distance or long before ; the probability            is,
                                                                that          it
would revolve round the moon as sub-satellite.
                                           a
  It   costs little to make suppositions as to any phenomena, till
the circumstances attending that supposition come to be ex
amined.
 I    agree with you, that  it   isinfinitely more probable that they
should be found in our atmosphere, or perhaps in some rare in
stances projected from mountains of our own.
                            I  remain, dear sir, Yours, &c.
  Ipswich, Dec. 30, 1817-                            CaPEL LoFFT. .
   The density of the moon according to Newton           as 21 to 17,
                                                             is
or as  7to 5-j to that of the earth.     This     so small an excess
                                                        is
that there  isno reason for supposing         density of lunar much
                                                    a
superior to terrestrial projectile masses. Their very slow rotation
and her nearly equal sphericity may account considerably for
this very superiority of density.       If be supposed that a lunar
                                               it
projectile may   be  invisible  on account   of its smallness till   hasit
approached    near  to   the  earth, the  velocity  which  enables    to it
overcome the moon's attraction        must  be  vast indeed, and further
increased   by its gravitation as      approached the earth, so that
                                      it
nearly all the difficulties would remain.
 ,   Vol. 51. No.23S. Feb. 1818.                        H                The

114                    Description   of an   improved
  The sketch underneath will illustrate this subject.
  E represents the earth ; M the moon ; OO part of the moon's
orbit.
  ab c the passage of the projectile in a parabolic curve toward
the earth.
   Its greatest altitude is marked in its course. Its extent of arc in
a parabolic curve of very moderate eccentricity ; the proportional
size of the earth and moon to each other, and to their distance
nearly.    The whole I think will prove how utterly void of appa
rent foundation the idea is of these projectiles from the moon
reaching us.     The semicircle round the earth includes a radius
of about 6000 miles.
   M M radius at which the projectile might revolve round the
ilioon.
XIX.      Description of Mr. Edmund Turrf.ll's improved        Draw
                      ing Board and T Square*.
Sir, —     The    invention of ruling machines in the art of copper
plate engraving, produced such a degree of perfection in the tints
ruled by them, that a corresponding degree of accuracy was
immediately required in all the other departments of the art,
wherever the use of the machine was introduced.
    But unfortunately for the credit of this department of the art,
a most general opinion was directly formed, that engraving done
with a machine required but little exertion in the artist to attain
perfection, and that nearly the whole secret lay in the possession
of a ruling machine : — Experience has most indubitably proved,
 that in general practice, the invention of a ruling machine, at
 the same time that it produced a portion of perfection in the
 tints ruled by  it, never before seen, presented     degree of diffi
                                                        a
 culty  in the drawing   and finishing department, such as had never
 been experienced.      Indeed, such an excess of difficulty as might
 have prevented its adoption in the hands of any other person
 than that of its most ingenious inventor.
    One of the most formidable difficulties which presents itself to
 an engraver of machinery and scientific subjects,      that of getting
                                                        is
a   correct outline tracing upon    the copper-plate.   To effect this,
 transparent oiled paper (commonly called tracing paper)       is used,
 for subjects of the free picturesque kind. But in plans, elevations,
 and sections of buildings, machinery, &c. such means are of lit—
  * From the Transactions     the Society for the Encouragonent
                             of                                 of Arts,
Manufactures, and Commerce, vol. xxxiv. — For these improvements Mr.
TurreU was voted the Society's silver medal, and five guineas.
                                                                     tlo

                          Drawing Board and T Square.             115.
tie or no use ; because, when such tracings are passed through
the rolling-press to transmit the outline to the copper-plate, its.
unequal expansion while under the process of wetting, and like
wise in its passage through the press, produces such a degree of
                                                                          '
error (especially when the ruling machine is to be employed) as-
to render such tracing completely useless.
    To obviate this evil, the engraver has no other resource than
to make a very correct outline reversed from his original drawing
upon thin bank post paper, and having smeared the back with
red chalk, carefully trace over each line, when the outline is laid
down upon the varnished copper-plate.
    I trust that it will appear evident from what has been said,
that much will depend upon the nicety of the outline thus made;
and as a means of insuring accuracy of form, and delicacy of
execution, I have found it necessary to improve the drawing
boards for such purpose.
    Whenever very thin paper is used for making outlines upon,
 (and which is absolutely requisite in the case I have alluded to,)
 considerable difficulty is found by the surface of the board giving
 way, wherever compasses are used for taking dimensions ; but
 more particularly in all cases where a number of concentric cir
 cles are to be described from the same point, the large holes
produced in the drawing rendering it very unsightly, at the same
time that all accuracy is destroyed by the centre hole frequently
shifting into a hollow produced by the grain of the wood.
    To avoid errors of this kind, I some years ago had recourse to
a drawing-board covered with a plate of copper, which answered
 tolerably well; but when a point was pricked through the paper,
it was scarcely visible, owing to the colour of the copper, which
being reddish, rendered the dot, or puncture, very indistinct,
 while the surface was likely to have a very unpleasant oxide pro
 duced upon         owing to the necessity of stretching the paper
                    it,
 while in   a wetted state.
    The drawing-board which          Ihave the honour to present,   is
 covered with       plate of rolled zinc, which may be had of almost
                    a
 any dimensions, at Mr. Knight's, in Foster-lane, Cheapside.
     As
      I   have made use of drawing-boards of this kind for nearly
  two years,    Ican speak with confidence of their advantages and
                                                                ;
I   can assure the Society, that those artists who may be inclined
  to sacrifice a small additional expense, to obtain the means of
  making their drawings with neatness and accuracy, will not be
  disappointed       they possess a board of this description.
                    if
     The advantages of zinc for this purpose      I have found to be,
  thatit   issoft enough to admit of the insertion of   a   point suffi
  ciently deep to be plainly seen, and yet hard enough to prevent
                                      H   2                         the

116 Description    of an improved  Drawing Board and T Square.
the point from going to any considerable depth, so as to permit
large holes to be made in the paper; and the drawing being com
plete, whatever holes are made in the zinc may be burnished
down by rubbing the thumb nail over them, which will suffic. entry
close them.
    When oxidation of the metal takes place, it should be suffered
to remain, because being white, it helps to render the thin paper
opaque, and consequently the lines drawn upon it will be the
more plainly seen.
    When the sides of the frame of a drawing-board are straight
lines and-nicely perpendicular to each other, parallel and perpen
dicular lines may be very correctly drawn with a good T square ;
but as wood is continually warping with every change of whether,
accuracy cannot be expected from such imperfect means.
    To prevent any error arising from this circumstance, I screw
 a solid rim of brass upon the upper surface of my frame, per
mitting it to project a small distance beyond the outer edges of
the wooden frame, so that the stock of T square may slide against
either edge.     This brass rim being dressed very true and at right
angles, will remain so for any length of time, as nothing but ex
traordinary violence can injure it.
    I can assure the Society, that the present invention has sprung
from necessity, originating in the very minute size of the en
gravings of the present day, added to which, a degree of accuracy
is required, that can only be attained by a corresponding improve
ment in the apparatus ; and for effecting such purposes, the
zinc plate may be applied to a common drawing-board, and the
brass rim to the frame; therefore those persons who possess a set
of drawing-boards may have them improved at a small expense.
    The same objection that applies to the frame of a drawing-
board, applies equally to a T square made with a wooden blade
and fixed immovably to its stock ; for if ever any injury happens
 to the fiducial or drawing edges, by a blow causing an indention,
or by the wood warping through a change of weather, it must
 remain, because the blade being glued fast to the stock, does
not admit of being corrected without considerable difficulty.
    The square which I have the honour to present, is so con
structed as to permit the blade to be withdrawn from the stock,
for the purpose of correction, should any accident occur to it ;
and the same means which permit the blade to be removed for
the purpose of correction and adjustment, enable the draughts
man to use it as a bevil at any angle, where it may be fixed by a
clamp and thumb-screw.
    Should objection be formed to the weight of this invention,
 I beg leave to state that the same may be made in ebony or box
                                                              wood..

                          On Chemical Philosophy.                                 1 17
 tvoodt which would tender it as light as a common square. The
 blade may be very easily set to a right angle by making it coin
cide with a line drawn on the arc for that purpose, where it may
be fixed by the clamp.
    Should any doubt arise as to the use of this improvement, I
shall be happy to attend a Committee of the Society, to explain
the difficulties that have given birth to it.
                        I am, sir,
                             Your most obedient servant,
No. 11, Gee-street, Clarendon-square.         EDMUND TCRRELU
      To C. Taylor,     M.D.      Sec.
      Reference to the Engraving                of Mr. Turrell's T     Square.
   Fig. 2, (Plate      shows
                        I.)      view of
                                    a        .square with an adjust
                                                    a   T
ing blade consequently
               :               can be set to any angle and fixed to
                                  it
the arc G,      the thumb-screw D.
                   by
   Fig.       3,
            represents    section of fig.
                              a               in which the action of
                                                     E, 2,
the thumb-screw D, and the clamp            may be more distinctly
seen, as likewise the screw            F,
                                   upon which the blade turns as                   a
centre.
  The screw      being withdrawn, permits the blade to be taken
                    F
out, and the edges repaired,  they should receive any injury from
                                       if
wear or accident.    The arc G, being divided into degrees, per
mits the blade to be placed at any angle where      may be fixed  it
 by the thumb-screw D.
 XX.       On Chemical Philosophy.                By Mr. Matthew Allen *.
                              Appendix to Essay          I.
The    reason why     have included the views noticed in Essay
                        I                                                         I.
under the title Chemical Philosophy,              not alone that the
                                                             is
consideration of electricity, galvanism, caloric, light, &c. are at
present more particularly investigated                  by
                                               the chemical philoso
pher, but  also because   believe
                              I    the word chemistry had originally
the most extensive meaning.       The  ancients  considered heat and
flame as the most prominent features in the operations of a
power, on which every motion, change, and phenomenon de
pended and hence
          ;           received innumerable names, all expressive of
                        it
     * Mr. Allen's First Essay appeared in our number for Feb. last (vol. xlix.
p.  81), and we expected before this time to have laid the continuation be
fore our readers. With the present communication we have received                  a
letter from the author, which gives but too distressing   reason  a  family(a
                                                           —
bereavement) for the delay in sending, the promised Essays Essays which,
from the one already before the public, and that introduced in our present
Number, we have every reason to think, will not only amuse but afford so
lid instruction.   •
                                         H3
                                            .       .
                                                                       •
                                                                           .... heat

 118                      On Chemical Philosophy.
  heat or flame, separately or combined. In this way all descriptive
   names are given; and the reason this power has had such an in-
                                    in it,
•
   finite number applied to        is, that as one grand cause produces
   all the infinity of effects     nature, the mind of man has been
   directed to one part of its operations at one period of the world,
. and to another part at someother time.              was in this way that
                                                            It
   the word attraction was introduced, and has been more particu
   larly adopted in modern times, because the mind was directed
   to Newton's theory of planetary motions, as well as to that of
  chemical affinity —
                    :     it  from these causes there appears, on
                               is                                        su        a
  perficial view, so much contradiction         the different systems
                                                       in               that
  have prevailed    in the world. This contradiction, however, arises
   not so much from direct and absolute error, as from the divisions
   and separations of that which         true —   is   :from dividing that
                                                            it   is
   which ought to be joined together; from some men at one pe
   riod directing their attention to one part of the operations of
   this power in particular, while others at another time have had
   their thoughts directed to an opposite point.           Thi9 has tended
  not merely to the exclusion of a comprehensive view of the whole,
   but each of these parts has been and still              carried     both
                                                                      is          by
   parties to the utmost extreme.        Such must for ever remain the
  fate of science and of every other subject, so long as terms which
  were originally descriptive of some partial and particular effect
  or peculiarity continue to be applied to          whole of which they
                                                            a
  form only part for though these terms may at first be received
            a       :
  m descriptive, they- are soon -considered as expressive of the nature
   and essence of the power, &c. of which they are thus arbitrarily
  adopted as signs.       Newton saw this in adopting the word at
  traction,   and  which   has, notwithstanding his anxiety to guard
  others against    it, become its present meaning in the common
  acceptation of the word.            from considerations of this nature
                                     It      is
  that I  have preferred the terms " The Grand Agent," <' The
  Grand Power,&c."           The proofs why conceive the word Che
                                                        I
  mistry    had  originally been    applied in the same way, are not
  merely   that such  words  as'chamiah, shaniah, lama, ftamma, and
 wn immense number of o'ther words, — all expressive of heat and
aflame, singly or jointly, throughout Asia and Europe^ — have such
  a striking resemblance to each otheri and in fact identity, con
  sidering the different shades of pronunciation         produced      sub        by
  stituting the letters         g,            w,  v, p,f,     &c.  for each
                          s,                 k,
                          c,          ch, sh,                              b,
  other; but several other considerations are connected with their
 views of the subject, and their notions of the general principles
  of science.   1    am aware of this view differing in some measure
 from that given in Dr. Thomson's History of Chemistry (last
 edition of 'his System), and any hitherto adopted.          have not ven  I
 tured to state this, however, without grounds, and grounds so
                                                                                extensive

                       On Chemical Philosophy.                            119
  extensive that it would be utterly impossible to state them in
 this place.   To trace the connexion of words with each other,
 their relation to science and mythology, and all this connected
 with the men of ancient times, is too alluring, too important, and
 too mighty a subject to enter upon lightly — at any moment and
 in any place.    I say this for the sake of asserting, that what I
 have said about others, or about names and definitions,has arisen
from feelings and motives very different from that of the vain,
flippant, carping, fastidious and wanton spirit of criticism, than
which nothing can be more contemptible ; but from a conviction
that no man has a right to control or withstand that of truth.
In the mean time I shall only remark on this subject, that I con
ceive the Arabians, gathering their notions from Eastern parts
of the world, were led to believe that, as the 'power expressed by
the word chamiah (to burn) was that which pervaded Nature
and produced all its transformations, they could, by discovering
its secret principles of operation, perform any transmutation they
chose ; and hence they called    it,   way of distinction, alckamiah.
                                       by
    Indeed, in the present day, notwithstanding the partial defini
tion given of this science, and its affected separation from other
branches of natural knowledge, every description we have of its
powers, its objects, and its applications, describes   it  not as an in
sulated portion of human knowledge, but as that, the professed
object of which   is to remove the veil from the face of Nature; to
exhibit the nature, properties, and changes of matter; and to
make us acquainted with that wonderful power which produces
them.     Here are the elements of science        ! Here     the centre
                                                            is
and circumference of    a   mighty  circle wherein    all science    in?-
                                                                     is
eluded.
                               Essay        II.
 I   come now to the second division of our subject, that of At
tractive Agencies a name which have chosen, and under
                       ;                      I
which I   class Electricity, Galvanism, Magnetism, Caloric
and Light; because, should        it   the mean time be objected,
                                        in
that they are not mere effects and phaenomeua,      as   conceive
                                                             I
they  are,   arising from the operations  of one power on  matter
variously modified, and placed in all possible circumstances;             it
will nevertheless be admitted, that they are powers so different
to those things commonly called substances; so highly attenu
ated, so universally diffused, of such essential importance in
nature, and so invariably and intimately connected with all the
phenomena of that power we have hitherto called Attraction,
thatI   think the name Attractive Agencies will apply better
than any one yet given them, not only as being more apposite to
my views of their powers and science, but even considered as
                                  H    4                         secondary

120                      On Chemical Philosophy.
secondary causes altogether unconnected with that power. Be
         in either light, the present state of science, and our ac
sides^
quaintance with these agencies in particular, render it necessary
to give them a separate and distinct consideration ; and in fact,
the consideration of these wonderful phenomena, — of electricity,
—of galvanism, — of magnetism, — of caloric, and of light, are
incomparably the most interesting, entertaining and brilliant
parts of the subject.
    I need not defend the propriety of this generic term, which
 I have for the present adopted* : — the reader will be convinced
it is the best I could have chosen, in connexion with attraction;
 the one cannot be altered without changing the other.               Nor is
 it necessary   to halt,  in  order   to point out the  defective   and  i 11*—
 assorted terms of imponderable substances, or immaterial              sub
stances, or impalpable substances, or ethereal matter, or radiant
 matter, and a variety of other terms which dissatisfaction and
 difficulty have given them.
     Innumerable facts prove that these Attractive Agencies are
 connected with attraction in the operations of nature, and so
 closely that they cannot be discerned to precede or follow each
 other ; and I deny (and shall afterwards prove) that they can be
 procured separately and isolated.           It is from a complete con^
 viction of these facts, that I shall, to avoid repetition, and when
 speaking in a more general manner, class them together under
 the terms, The grand agent, — Attractive agencies, — The princi
 ple or poiver of nature, &c.
      In my opinion, there are no changes in nature or art, no action,
 movement or operation, however slight or however produced, in
 which they may not be detected, in whatever light the reader
 may view them.        Whether as primary effects of distinct powers,
 or as agents, obeying and observing the laws of that power on
 which every thing depends, the name Attractive Agencies
 will apply. By considerations which will be gradually unfolded
 as I proceed in these Essays (which I hope to do monthly), I have
 been led to a decided conviction' — a conviction so strong that I
 know not what further proof could increase it — that electricity,
 caloric and light are merely effects and phsenomena arising from
 the nature of the substances on which, and the circumstances in
 which, the properties and energetic actions of one power are ex
  erted and applied; — that changes and phenomena differ not in
 kind, but in degree ; not in the power producing them, but in
 the nature and circumstances of its actions r— But of this in its
  proper place.
      In every system of chemistry, the intimate connexion of ca-
    * See Appendix to          I. above, from whence it will be evident that
                         Essay
 I conceive this term objectionable, &c.
                                                                       loric

                       On Chemical Philosophy.                          X 2(1
loric and light  is constantly remarked. Even since sorne apparent
differences have been more distinctly marked, not only has this
union been remarked, but also of both with electricity, " in a
way," says a celebrated author,
                                          " that indicates there is morse
in this than we yet understand, or shall perhaps be ever able to
comprehend."         If then the essence of attraction — of attraction
in the abstract  —  is placed beyond the reach of human sagacity, so
perhaps the most accurate conception we shall ever obtain of the
phenomena of electricity, caloric, and light, &c. may be incom
plete ; yet I conceive that we may approach very near to that of
accurate conceptions upon them.            I say so; not without being
aware    of this grand and dangerous error ; that whenever we at
tempt, on any subject, more than we ought, it only leads us into
fruitless controversy and confusion, so dangerous and so fatal to
man on every subject.          Though there remains much of science
to be discovered, there are limits we cannot pass ; and nothing m
more important than to know the limits which are assigned to
each of us.
    The name attractive agencies appears to me, however, more
applicable to those changes of which, all must allow, they are
either the cause which produces them, or inseparably connected
with that which does produce them, and therefore more descrip
 tive of the nature of their powers than any thing that we caw
 say upon them.
    Our acquaintance with the gases, and our means of exciting
the grand power of nature in the varied forms of electricity and
galvanism, may be considered as the most astonishing proof of the
highly advanced stage and state of the world. To l,ecome fami
 liar and conversant with things not palpable to any of our senses
in their ordinary state of existence, could never have entered
 into the cold calculations of reason ; nor can reason, proud as
 she is, calculate the number or measure the extent of those dis
  coveries and improvements that may yet meet us as we advance
 in our future progress — it is more than her province to say, Here
  you. may hope, but there you shall despair.
     We come now to the third division of. our subject, to which
  I have given the name of Passive Substances, which are those
  things or constituents of matter acted upon by attraction or
  attractive agenoies ; and I divide them into solids, FLums,
  and gases.       1 place passive substances          in this situation in
  this arrangement, and give them this appellation, because I con
  ceive they owe their subdivisions solely to this power, and the
  effects which it produces.           Without such a power and tlve
  agencies  it exerts  in the,  creation,  where would be our world, or
  any other ? Where would be the. grand scenes that creation now
                                                                   presents

 122       Remedies against the Bites          of venomous     Serpents.
presents to our view ? or rather, To whom would they be pre
sented ? Where would be the order or harmony, the beauty and
life of this magnificent display ? Where the powers of contem
plation and enjoyment ?
    I scarcely think I have any need to take up our time with
                                                   "
proving the superiority of this term over such as — material sub
stances," " ponderable substances," " inert substances,"       ins
                                                                                 "
inertice*, &c. &c."         .
   Passive substances, with their subdivisions of solids, liquids,
and gases included, have this general definition, " Every thing
which occupies space."       Now we can form no conception of
any   thing which  does not occupy space : — to occupy no space, is
to have no existence.     This definition therefore is improper ; be
cause it either intimates an impossibility, or must include every
thing, even infinitude itself, and of course electricity, galvanism,
caloric and light.    I propose this slight addition, which removes
these objections and qualifies      " Every thing which occupies
                                        it,                                          a
definable space."    This     the general definition for passive sub
                                 is
stances, including 'solids, liquids, and gases.        shall now offer
                                                              I
particular definitions to mark and distinguish them from each
other  ;  which has not hitherto been done, as far as know, with     I
that correctness or peculiarly appropriate description which de
finition requires.
   Solids have little or no tenuity and freedom of motion in
their parts and they differ from each other in weight, in hard
               ;
ness, in transparency, in form, and in colour.
   Fluids possess more tenuity and freedom of motion in their
parts; and they differ from each other in density, in colour, opa
city, and transparency.
   Gases possess most tenuity and freedom of motion in their
partsj they are also particularly distinguished               by
                                                      compressibility
and expansibility     and they differ from each other in weight,
                        ;
colour, and transparency.
XXI.   Chemical Examination              of
                                 some Substances used    Cey~              in
  Ion as Remedies against the Bites              of
                                      venomous Serpents.   By
  John Davy, M.D. F.R.S.f
It is  well known that certain substances or preparations are used
in India       the native empirics or snake charmers, for curing
               by
the bites of venomous snakes.        As some confidence has been
placed  in  these  nostrums, not  only           by
                                          the Indians but    some          by
of the European settlers,    was interesting to ascertain whether
                                 it
any real virtue belonged to them.      This object has been under-
           *   See first Essay on Vixidicia? Antiques. — Classical   Journal,
        f      Communicated by Sir H. Davy.
                                                                                taken;

                 Remarks on ike Case     of Miss, M'Avoy.         123
taken by Dr. Davy, who at present resides in Ceylon ; and he
has communicated the result of his researches (of which an abs
tract is here given) to the Asiatic Society of Calcutta.
     The snake stones as they are called, which Dr. Davy examined,
were   of three kinds.      One by minute analysis was found to be
merely calcined      bone  ; another was carbonate of lime coloured
Ly vegetable matter-, the third was a bezoar stone. Of these,
the two first had some adhesive powers when applied to the
 tongue; but the last had no such power.
     Dr. Davy decides that these stones are of no use whatever as
applied to the wounds produced by the bites of serpents; and
 he refers the pretended cures produced by them to Nature, or to
 the circumstance that they have been applied to wounds pro
duced by snakes which are not venomous.                           .- ,
     Of eleven different species of snakes which the author has ex
 amined, all of which were believed by the natives to be poison
 ous, Dr.. Davy found only three to be really so ; and the bites
 of two of these (the Cobra di copello and the Polonga) only are
 mortal, and that under very peculiar circumstances.
     Dr. Davy concludes by stating, that the sooner the belief in
 snake stones is exploded the better, as much time is lost in ap-
 piying.imagiuary remedies, and some lives are lost which might
 have been saved, and much suffering occasioned which might
 have been prevented by efficient means of cure.
     XXII.   Remarks on the Case     of Miss M'Avoy.       By Mr.
                           Egerton Smith *.
 IViIr.  E> Smith having been referred to by Dr. Renwick, the .
 advocate of Miss M'Avoy's pretensions, as one of the host of
 testimony in their favour, that gentleman has deemed it neces
 sary, through the medium of the public press, to enter into some
 explanation on the subject.        The following remarks extracted
 from his last letter will be found not undeserving of attention.
       Under the supposition that MissM'Avoy is not blind, the sim
  ple question will be — whether her sight may not be so much
  more acute than that of others, as to enable her to read a book
  of gmall print, when there is so little light that ordinary eyes can
  bafelv discern the leaves of the book ?
     " Experiments, which I have recently witnessed, have proved,
  that one person, when stationed at the furthest corner of a very
  long room, could read a book, of moderately small print, by the
  light of a single candle placed in the opposite corner of the room ;
  whilst some others of the company could barely make out the
                       * From the Liverpool Mercury.         s
                         h  -
                                                                  print

124            Remarks on     t/te Case   of Miss M'Avoy.
print at only one-sixth part of that distance from the light.
Here, then, in a small party, indiscriminately assembled, it is
shown, that one individual could discern an object by means of
one-thirty-sixth part of the light which was necessary to enable
another to see the same object. — This experiment was necessarily
limited, by the dimensions of the apartment : but, I am inclined
to believe, that the same gentleman would have succeeded in
reading at ten times the distance from the candle at which I
found it necessary to station myself for the same purpose : or,
In other Words, he could have read the print alluded to, when it
was illumined by the one-hundredth part only of that light which
I required to enable me to peruse the same print.
    " I have now before me a very extensive and most singular
work,. called Wonders of the Li t lie Worlds which contains about
700 pages, and abounds with cases as marvellous as that of Miss
M'Avoy.      As 1 have little faith in this apocryphal folio of Wan-
lev,it  would be unfair, in me, to adduce instances from his work         ;
or    could tell of one sharp-sighted    fellow, who could     see and
                                                            •
 I
discern out right 135 miles;' — of another, named Julianus,               a
monk, that,    '  for the space of seventy years, never lighted nor
had   a candle who nevertheless was used to read books through*
               ;
out in the darkness of the night — and of a third, who, when
                                        ;'
he was young, used, in the night-time, to           compose very ele-'
                                                     '
gant verses, and write them down exactly             by
                                                      the light which
issued out of his own eyes.'        know nothing on record resem
                                    I
bling the last feat, except    itbe in the memoirs of Munchausen,
where we read, that the hero having lost his flint, placed" fnV
head immediately above the pan of his fowling-piece, and, giving
himself smart blow, made his eye strike fire,' and thus
          a                             '                             ig
nited the powder.
   " To return to the subject, however, and to be serious:      It   of
                                                                     is
some consequence,   in  the investigation of the case of Miss M'Avoy,
to pay attention to the wonderful diversity which prevails in the
powers of the visual organs         and
                                    ;      cannot refrain from tran
                                             I
scribing the following curious circumstance, which has recently
appeared in the public journals.
   " In the conversation between some English gentleman and
      c
Bonaparte, at St. Helena; the former speaking of the Cossacks,
— Napoleon said, that they resembled the Bedouin Arabs in the
                          4
gift of vision 30 great in this respect was the faculty of the Be
               :
douins, that, when   in  Egypt, upon an occasion when he wished,
by means of his telescope, to observe          body of men that ap
                                                 a
peared    inthe horizon, he had scarcely levelled his glass, when         a
Bedouin, near him, recognised with his naked eye another Be
douin, and described his dress, &c. so as to distinguish the tribe
to which he belonged.'
                                                                " Now,

                    Remarks on the Case       of Miss M'Avoy.            125
     u Now,  is it not much more rational, as well as philosophical,
to   conclude that Miss M'Avoy possesses visual powers of an ex- .
traordinary description, than that she is gifted with a new or sixth
sense, unknown in the animal oeconomy; particularly, when so
many notorious facts militate against the latter supposition?
Some of the prominent suspicious circumstances, connected with
this case, were first stated in my letter to Dr. Renwick : and,
together with many more stubborn facts, were afterwards treated
at considerable length, and with much perspicuity, by Mr. San
ders in his pamphlet on the subject.           In consequence of these
awkward disclosures, many persons, who had previously yielded
the most implicit assent to all the wonders related of the voung
lady, have wholly, or partially, recanted; and, if I may be al
                                                                   '
lowed a homely phrase, have been anxious to ' hack out with
the best possible grace.         For my own part, my faith, even at its
crisis, was so very limited in degree, and of such transient dura
 tion, that I should not feel the slightest hesitation in making a
 full confession of its rise, progress, and decline.
     " I was first introduced to Miss M'Avoy by Dr. Renwick, a gen
 tleman for whom I entertained a respect and esteem, which hai
 not suffered the slightest abatement by any subsequent event:
 for I must confess, that I am wholly at a loss to understand,
 why a mere difference of opinion, upon a speculative point,
 should be allowed to disturb the social feeling that previouslv
 existed between individuals whose motives are undoubtedly above
  all suspicion, and can only be referred to a regard for the truth ;
 however thev may differ as to the best means of attaining their
  common object, — ror however opposed may be the conclusions
  they may draw from a different view of the same case.
      " I was assured by Dr. Renwick that Miss M'Avoy was actually
  blind ; a circumstance, which, as it would have been presumptuous
  in me to have denied         it,
                                from my, entire ignorance of such    sub
                                                                     a
  ject, obtained my ready belief. So long, therefore, as she confined
  the display of her talents to discovering the words of a printed
   hook, or the shades of cloths,       experienced less hesitation than
                                          I
   surprise in the   belief that    was
                                     it possible that she did possess the
   faculty of touch to t/iat degree.        then thought, and
                                              I                  Iam still
   of the same opinion, that there          nothing revolting to analogy
                                              is
   or common sense in the recognition of such            faculty, however
                                                         a
   rare its possession may be.
      "   It  most certain, for instance, that there
               is                                         is
                                                          a most material
   difference between the black       ink  with which    Inow write, and
   the white paper upon which             am writing.
                                          I             The printing ink
   used for books differs still more from the paper upon which such
 book      is   printedj   and; from its lubricous nature., must present less
                                                                     asperity

126                Remarks     on Ike Case     of Miss M'Avoy.
asperity to the touch than the paper.                  The simple question,
                                                                                '
therefore,   is,   whether this essential and substantial difference, the
existence of which none will pretend to deny,                ispalpable to, or
cognizable     by,   the human     touch
   " Implicitly relying upon the assurance of her professional at
                                           ?
tendants, that Miss M'Avoy was blind               and having seen her ex
                                                   ;
hibit her surprising feats, when she was so completelv bandaged,
that her eyes, had they been of the most perfect nature, could
not, asI     then thought-, have been of any avail — found  ;     I        im- -
                                                                              it
possible   to  withhold    my   belief,   that she   enjoyed    some   superior
 organs of touch,     by  which she was enabled to decipher the words
of printed book, and to ascertain various shades of cloth par
   a                                                                          ;
ticularly as the latter power has been admitted in the cases of
many persons who have been unquestionably blind.                     The sub
sequent pretensions of the young lady, when she began to tell the
time of the day       by   feeling at the watch-glass, and to identify
passengers      in  the street   by applying her fingers to the window-
glass, were so extremely preposterous — so much At variance with
 the attributes of touch — that       I    could not afterwards regard the
 whole performance in any other light than that of                  clever de
                                                                      a
ception,    in  which,   asI   expressed    myself  in  my  first letter,   the
                                                                              '
 eye was,   in   some   way  or  other,   concerned.*
   " Those persons who have been, or still continue to be, thorough
believers in the faculty of Miss M'Avoy, either refer the pheno-
menon to the class of miracles, or rest their faith upon one of
 two data, neither of which has been proved, and both of which
are strongly presumed to be false.             They take     itfor granted, in
the first instance, that she          is  actually blind; and, in the next
place, they assume, that,        if   this was not the case, she has, du
ring the experiments, been so completely blind-folded, bv the
application of bandages, gogglers, gold-beaters' skin, and other
means, as to render all access of light to her eyes absolutely im
possible. — Mr. Dale, who        is  a most complete ultra-M'Avite, and
who has designated her power the cut imilar faculty,' boldly
                                                '
maintains both these positions             ; and as he  is the latest as well
as the most devoted champion of the transparent theory,                   shall
                                                                          I
quote the following passages from letter of his — Upon inspect
                                           a                    •
                                                        :
ing her eyes, with that attention which her case demanded, felt               I
assured, that the visual power was completely gone.'                  Soon af
ter  which,    speaking    of  the gogglers used, he adds, these    c
                                                                            exI
amined, prior to their being applied           ; and, after they were firmly
fixed, I  was thoroughly satisfied, that even although she had ac
tually been in possession of the full and proper use of her eyes,
those organs could not possibly avail her,             in attempting, whils
thus hood-winked, to ascertain colours.'
                                                                          "
                                                                          I       have

             Remarks on the Case          of Miss MlAvoy.                 127
      "I
       have said, that neither of these data, so boldly adopted by
Mr. Dale and many others, have been established by such proofs
as a reasonable man has a right to demand, before he yields his
assent to a phenomenon         which violates all the known laws of
nature and philosophy.        It is notorious that many eminent pro
fessional   men have declared that she is not blind ; and there
are very strong grounds for believing that, whenever the band
ages, gogglers, &c. have been properly applied, the young lady
has not been able to exhibit her
                                            ' cuticular
                                                        powers,' and has
been   '  deserted by the faculty.'     We have the testimony of Mr.             v
Sandars corroborated by most respectable witnesses, to show that
other persons have been able to read, ascertain colours, and the
hour by the watch, with precisely the same apparatus applied to
their eyes as had been used by Miss M'Avoy: and I have found
to my great surprise, that it is scarcely possible by means of a
silk handkerchief, or shawl, to blindfold some persons ; probablv
owing to the prominence of the nose, the flatness of the cheeks,
or some peculiar conformation            of the face, — a circumstance
which I do not pretend to explain, although it has certainly as
tonished me ; because a simple bandage formed by a silk hand
kerchief places me in a state of utter darkness.
   " As the blindness of Miss M'Avoy.is denied by medical men,
who ought to be the most- competent judges of the fact, — and
as all the ordinary     modes of blindfolding her have been pro
nounced to be imperfect, or liable to suspicion,— it would na
turally tend to set the matter completely at rest, if some test
could be proposed, which, whilst it would impose no restraint
upon the lady incompatible with her own theory, if I may so call
it, would either silence her pretensions at once, or forever put an
end to tbe objections of the most querulous scepticism.            Such     a
test  I conceive to be extremely simple; and        I    shall evince the
sincerity of my own convictions upon the subject,            bycommitting
myself entirely to the issue of the trial        am about to propose.
   " has been repeatedly observed, that when any obstacle has
                                               I
       It
been interposed between the subject of her' examination and her
face, she has uniformly failed           of
                                        success: and she accounts for
this, by stating, that    it  necessary that there should be an
                               i9                                      un
                                                                      '
interrupted communication between her hands and the breath of
her mouth, or nostrils.'       Now, although this       is  considered      by
many     as a mere  subterfuge,     will,
                                    I     for  the sake  of argument, ad
mit that    it   really indispensable to her performance
                is                                               and shall
                                                                  ;
proceed to propose the test to which          I  have alluded.       mask
                                                                      A
shall be provided, to cover the whole face, and pass under the
 chin, — which latter circumstance             essential, in mv view of
                                              is
the subject, as      will prevent the possibility of any light passing
                     it
in  the direction suspected         by
                                    many persons.
                                                                      "   The

  1,28        Remarks on the Case     of Miss M'Avoy.
  .
    " The mask, of which    a rough outline is annexed,
contains no aperture for the eyes ; and the only
 passage for breathing is through the curved
tube, which, whilst it freely admits the breath of
 the mouth and nostrils, prevents the possibility
 of the access of light to the eyes, as light pro
ceeds in straight lines only.       The object of her
 examination may be stationed near the bell-mouth of this curved
 tube, where, whilst she is exercicing the ' cuticular faculty ,'
 she may breathe freely upon her hands; so that she will here
 have every condition for which she herself stipulates.
     " If she will consent to abide by the test of such a mask as this,
 it will remove all suspicion that she accomplishes her purpose by
 means of a small portion of light, which finds its way under the
 ordinary bandages, as I have seen most unquestionably proved to
 be practicable, in the persons of others, who have succeeded in
 reading, &c. when their eyes appeared to have been most com
 pletely blindfolded ; although they were mere novices, unprac
tised in siich manoeuvres, and made no pretensions to the ' cu
  ticular faculty.'
     " I feel so confident of the efficacy of the test I have proposed,
 that I hereby pledge myself to pay twenty guineas to the Trea
 surer of the Bljnd Asylum, if Miss M'Avoy, with such a mask
 en, can read a single line of moderately sized print, or writing,
 ,— and ascertain, correctly,    the shades of half a dozen pieces of
 eoloured glass:    the experiments to be conducted by a committee
of three, of whom Dr. Renwick may be one ; the others to be
appointed by myself.
     " In order that the funds of the excellent charity just named
piay be benefited by the experiment at all events, it is to be
hoped (hat some of the advocates for the 'cuticular faculty'
will have sufficient confidence in their cause, to enter into an en
gagement to forfeit a similar sum, should the experiment fail on
the part of the lady,
    " If this challenge should be accepted, I will provide the mask;
and should my conjecture prove unfounded, I shall consent to do
penance, if required, in a white sheet, with a lighted taper in
my hand, and, in that situation, to read a formal recantation of
my heresy, as humble and humiliating as the most sanguine en
thusiast in the caU3C can dictate.
                           " Yours lespectfully,
                                               " Egerton Smith."
                                                          XXIII.  Case

                               "    -
                                         [129-       ]
         XXII I.     Case      of an American Girl —deaf,       dumb, and     Hind*.
     If proofs     of vigorous intellect in the deaf and dumb are admi
      rable,- how much more wonderful are evidences of a similar na
      ture in persons who suffer the additional misfortune of' being
      blind     I-                            . .   ,       .    .  -
                                                                         r \a .
          I heard a benevolent lady mention the name of Julia Brace, a
      girl about eleven years old, living in the vicinity of Hartford, who
       is afflicted with the triple calamity of blindness, deafness,' and
    -
      dumbness} having lost the senses of sight and hearing, by^he
      violence of a typhus fever, at the age of four years. On visiting
    . her myself, I learned that the extreme poverty and the obscurity
      of her parents have prevented her from being known- or parti
      cularly noticed, except by the charitable ladies of the town, and
      a few gentlemen, who have been induced by motives of -curiosity
      to examine her conduct.         The following facts and little anec
                                                 '
      dotes'! relate for your amusements           r•:.-- v V r . .' /;ir:t           -:,
       J :Her form and features are regular and well            proportioned.
      Her temper         mild and affectionate.
                          is                       She     much attached ;to
                                                               is
      her infant sister, often passes her handover the mouth and eyesf
      of the child, in order to ascertain whether         crying, and soothes
                                                          it   is
      its little distresses with all the assiduity and success of a talkative
      or musical nurse.       All objects which she can readily handle^she
      applies to her lips, aud rarely fails of determining their character.
'
    If    any thing      too large for examination in this way, she makes
                          is
      her fingers the interpreters of the texture and properties, (and;                 is
      seldom mistaken.        She will beat apples or other fruit from the
    tree,   and select the best with as much judgement as        she pos     if
    sessed   the faculty of sight.  She  often  wanders in the field, and
     gathers flowers, to which she      directed
                                              is     the pleasantness of
                                                           by
     their odour.    Her sense of smelling     remarkably exquisite, and
                                                    is
     appears to be an assistant guide with her fingers and lips.
         Agentleman one day gave her a small fan. She inquired of her
     lips what     was
                     it  and on being informed, returned
                               ;                             to the gen it
     tleman's pocket.     The mother observed, that Julia already pos
     sessed one fan      she probably thought that another would be
                               :
    isoperfluous.    The gentleman gave the same fan to neighbour-      a
    ingsgirU whom Julia was in the habit of visiting.        She went                   a
    few days after, to visit her companion, whose toys she passed
    under the review of her fingers and lips and among other things,
                                                     ;
    the fan, the identity of which she instantly discovered, and again
    restored to the pocket of the gentleman, who happened to be
    present: -             "                     ..«...
                                                   ...
                  .-..«. .         .,                   „. .        r        .'
•    "
               From the Boston Intelligencer.
          Probably to discover whether the mouth be distorted, or there are any
          +-
     tears on the cheek. r• -ti     i     -                               .       ,
          Vol! 51. No. 238. Feb. 1818.                    I                           She

130    On a Plan for properly observing            Fire-Ball Meteors.
   She feels and admires mantle-piece ornaments, and never
breaks or injures the most brittle furniture, even in a strange
room.
   She is obedient as other children in general.     The jar of her
mother's foot upon the floor effectually prevents the commission
of a fault; but she easily distinguishes the stamping of one of
the children from that of her mother, and obeys or not, as she
pleases.
   Her parents, as you may well suppose, have not been able to
indulge her in dress ; but when she receives articles of clothing
or ornaments as presents, she is highly gratified to find that they
resemble in form and fashion those of her playmate.        She has,
as you perceive, a spice of female vanity !      At a tea-table, she
behaves with more gentility than many a miss who has the be
nefit of eyes, by which to adjust her motions and attitudes.
   A gentleman once made several experiments with a view to
satisfy himself whether she really had the discernment which
she was reported to possess.     Among other arts for effecting his
object, he pretended to carry away her infant sister.      She im
mediately  detected  the cheat,  by ascertaining  that his umbrella
remained upon the table.      She then went out of the door, and
picked the head of a large thistle in full bloom, brought it in,
smelling of it as she came, and offered it to the gentleman, ap
parently as a nosegay.     He reached out his hand ; but, instead
of giving it, she archly pricked his hand,     way of retort for his
                                                    by
freedom in testing her sagacity.
XXIV.     On    a   Plan for properly observing Fire-Ball Meteors.
                        By H. Clarke, LL.t).
                               To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, —    As     your correspondent      A. (Dec. 1817,
                                        J.                   469) seems
                                                              p-
very justly desirous of plan
                           a      for properly observing   the  fire-ball
meteors,  it   ispresumed that this gentleman may not be apprised
of that which was recommended and transmitted, as circular,        a
to the scientific public   bythe late Astronomer Royal Dr. N. Mas*
kelyne,  how    upwards  of thirty years ago. Having copy of this
                                                              a
paper  still in  my possession, and which      at this time,
                                               is               believe,
                                                                   I
rarely to be met with,     I have no doubt    but its insertion  (when
ever convenient)      inyour valuable Magazine, will meet with ge
neral approbation.
   As remark, however, on the Rev. Doctor's plan,
      a                                                         may not
                                                                   it
be superfluous to add, that whoever compares             with the ac
                                                         it
counts we find of the general appearances of these phaenomena,
which are copiously given in the French Philosophical Memoirs,
                                                                     and

          On a   Plan for properly observing Fire-lall Meteors.          131
    and    in the Transactions of our own Royal Society, (or, see Dr.
    Charles Hutton's Diet. Fire Ball.) will immediately perceive
    that a very material article is omitted therein ; and, indeed, one
    of the most essential for obtaining by induction a satisfactory
    theory of these meteors; which      is,at the time of observation to
    connect therewith— the known local peculiarities of the station
    or point of view respecting atmospherical pressure, refractions,
    &e.~— the thermometric and hygrometric affections, and particu
    larly the magnetic and electric indications at the same time.
    From this combination       may be then possible to form general
                               it                               a
    deduction upon true geological principles, and obviously resett
    ing from well-known natural causes.
                                I  am, sir, yours,
                                             '      &c.
       Islington, Jan.
                     7,  1818.                            H. Clarke.
    A Plan for oliervinothe Meteors called Fire-halls. By Nevil
           Maskelyne, D.D.F.R.S. and Astronomer Royal.
        Five meteors, of the kind which from their appearance are
    generally called fire-balls, have been seen of late, in the space of
.   tt few weeks, viz. on August 18, Sept. 2(i, October 4th, 19th, and
    29th, which seems to indicate that they appear more frequently
    than  is  commonly imagined.        The curious and extraordinary ap
    pearances which they exhibited,         show them to be deserving
    more attention than has been hitherto given them.          For want of
    a  series of proper observations, little progress has been made to
    wards accounting for their phenomena.             The greater part of
    thuse who have seen them, not being previously acquainted with
    the circumstances they ought to attend to, have made observa
    tions too imperfect to answer that purpose.      It   istherefore to be
    wished that all persons who may happen to see         a meteor, would
    attend to the following particulars, and set down their remarks
    ae soon as they can after they see        it,
                                               while the impression made
    by.the meteor   is   full and fresh in their memory, before   it   is   vi
    tiated by their own after-thouehts, or the accounts received from
    other observers.      Such after-thoughts may be of great use    :  but
    their own genuine original observations are chiefly to be wished
    for   by any one who  is  to calculate the tract of the meteor.
        The particulars to be attended to are these :—
        1st. The precise time of its appearance.
        2d. Its apparent altitudes and bearings at its first appearance,
    at its greatest elevation, at its bursting, and at its disappearance.
        3d.    Us figure, and the diameter of the body when at the
     greatest apparent altitude, compared with that of the sun or
     moon at the same altitude      ;  the brightness and colours of its
     light, and the degree of illumination which    it  gave; and to make
                                        12                       a   sketch

132    On   a   Plan for properly observing Fire-ball Meteors.
a sketch or drawing of the appearances before and after it burst,
or. any other of its appearances.
   4th. Whether both the body and the tail burst; and how
many part$ this bursting produced; and whether this happened.
before or after it arrived at its greatest apparent altitude; the
length of the tail before the meteor burst; and indeed every al
teration of its leugth they observe; whether the meteor appear
ed very faint at first,  and gradually grew brighter, or appeared
.very bright  at  once ; and whether it was extinguished suddenly,
 or by degrees.
    5th. How long the appearance lasted.
    6th. Whether a sound or sounds (as of an explosion) was heard
some minutes after its disappearance, and how long, and from
what point of the compass they thought it came.
    7th. The bearing and distance of the place of observation
 from the nearest market-town should be put down.
    N.B. As sound moves only at the rate of thirteen miles in a mi
nute, the observer should patiently wait for at least eight or ten
minutes, listening for the sound, for all meteors appear to be very
many miles indeed nearer to the observer than they really are.
     .
         . .   .       >  ,    Remarks.
    Curious persons may avail themselves of observations made
even by the most illiterate, by causing them to trace with a stick
the path which the meteor described in the heavens, according
to the best of their recollection.  The observations Would be bet
ter made, if you accompany the person to the very spot where
he saw the meteor, for there the neighbouring objects, such as
roads, houses, or trees, will much assist his memory.
    The apparent altitudes of the meteor are best found by a qua
drant (a common wooden one of three inches radius divided into
 degrees will suffice) which the person should direct to the points
in the heavens where the meteor appeared to him, if he saw          it,
or even to such points where the illiterate person above mention
ed pointed.      In like manner its bearings should be found by     a
compass.            .  ,
   To ascertain how long the appearance lasted, he should trace
over its path    the heavens with its proper velocity, while another
                 in
person  observes  the time   by
                             a   watch or clock that shows seconds;
or by the number of swings of      a temporary pendulum made by     a
musket ball or any small weight suspended                string of 39
                                                   by
                                                   a
inches long from the centre of the ball or weight, which will
swing seconds.     Without some such method as this, they will be
apt to estimate the time much longer than     it is.
  It  would be well   if those persons who happen to see   a   meteor
would put   down   the  time  by their watch  when it fiFst  appeared,
                                                                   or

                           Notices respectingNew             Books.                      133
qr was at its greatest altitude, or burst, or disappeared, and again
When they hear the sound; and, as common watches' are 'liable
to vary much in a few hours, that they would, as soon after as
may be., find the error of their watch by comparing it with a good
regulator ; for, if the exact times could be had at different places,
the absolute velocity of the meteor, the velocity of the sound
propagated to us from the higher regions of the atmosphere, and
the longitudes of places might be determined.
   Even in cloudy weather it might be useful to note the times of
accidental explosions, or any unusual sounds heard, with the
points of, the Compass from which they are thought to come<,
whether in the day or night, and of sudden illuminations of the
sky in the night, as they may prove afterwards to Tiave been
owing to meteors, and will serve some of. the purposes above
mentioned.
   These meteors generally leave a visible tract of faint light be
hind them, which gives time to observers to ascertain the' path,
either by the stars near             it,
                                or the observations of altitudes i'tid
bearings.    Meteors are sometimes seen in the day-light.
      may not be amiss to apprize observers, that estimations of
     It
altitudes made without an instrument are very uncertain, dwing
to the apparent figure of the sky being the segment of        sphere,         a
whose centre       greatly below the surface' of the earth
                     is                                       so that         ;
persons will be apt to judge an object which        near the horizon
                                                                is
to be much higher than it'is; at 23" of altitude, they may think 'It
at 45°; and to be       or near the zenith,' when with an instrument
                            in
itwould be found 10 or 20 degrees from it.        This points out tfie
necessity  for observers  to mention,  whether   they estimated their
altitudes, or observed them with an instrument.
Greenwich, Nov.       6,   1/83.                                          N. M.
                                                         n            i   <>  !.   >*i
                XXV.             Notices respecting New Books.
A     Voyage    to     Spitsbergen,         containing an Account of that
     Country,   of    the Zoology          ofthe North,  the Shetland Isles,
                                                             of
     and   ofthe Whale Fishery.   By John Laing, Surgeon. 2d
     Edition, 12mo, corrected and enlarged, pp. 165.                      <   '
In   the little volume before us, we have an interesting addition
made    to the natural .history of regions of which our knowledge
is as yet, comparatively speaking, but imperfect.       Mr. Laing
has been evidently     diligent and acute observer, and communi
                            a
cates the fruits of his observation        simple and perspicuous
                                                    in   a
manner.      The description which we subjoin of the Phocce class
of amphibious animals, all the accounts hitherto given of which
by y^oy^gers and naturalists are extremely confused, may betaken
as    favouraWe specimen of the work.                    *
                                                                                    "
     a
                                           I    3                                        The

134                        Notices respecting New Books.
    "The P/wccb* are the most numerous class of animals which
frequent Spitzbergen, where they are found in vast numbers.
Though the specific characters of each particular tribe are di
stinctly marked, their general resemblance           upon the whole, so
                                                                     is,
very striking, that the following      observations   may be applied to
them all indiscriminately.         In the scale of nature, the Phocae
hold an intermediate station between amphibia and perfect fish                                 ;
but nearer the latter than the former. The organization of other
amphibious animals, such as the beaver, castor, otter, &c. fits
thern better for living on the land than the water.         In this genus
the contrary takes place.        The arms and legs of the Phoce (if
we may employ these terms) are wholly enveloped in the flesh of
the animal, the hands and feet being alone protruded            these too        ;
are webbed, and are instruments evidently more calculated for
swimming than moving on land.
    " This unaptness of organization strongly displayed in the
                                                            is
painful motion of the animal, which, from the shortness of its
legs, has to rest at every step, on its belly, until       prepares for a   it
new advance.      Its agility, considering these defects,     indeed as          is
tonishing, and      certainly the effect of great exertion.
                       is
    " The eloquent and ingenious Buffon was of opinion, that the
Phoce approached to fish                 still more decisive criterion.
                                               by   a
*
   They are the only animals,' says he,         who have the foramen
                                                             '
ovale open, and who can therefore live without respiring, and to
whom water       as proper and suitable an element as air.'
                      is                                             The
oretic views appear to have here led this excellent writer        into an
error, as   it now well known that the Phoce cannot remain long
                 is
in the water without coming to the surface to breathe.
    " The Phoca vihdina,           the English termed seal, and by the
                                          by
French phoque,         the most common species of those animals in
                            is
the North, and       dispersed with some variety throughout the rest
                           is
of the Ocean. Its head large and flat the teeth strong, and
                                         is                      ;
so sharp, that       have seen
                       I             bite in two the handspikes with
                                              it
which the men were attempting to kill it; the tongue              forked              is       ;
and   it  well furnished with whiskers around the mouth
           is                                                      has                ;        al
most no external appearance of ears, but merely an aperture to
convey the sound to the sensorium          the eyes are small, and have
                                                        ;
a haggard appearance          the, neck thickens as
                                     ;                   approaches the    it
shoulder, the thickest part of the animal         from whence the body
                                                                 ;
gradually tapers in       cylindrical form, to the extremity, where
                                 a
 the hind legs are placed, between which             very short tail
                                                                 is
                                                                 a     the                 ;
fore paws consist of five fingers, joined together          a membrane,     by
 and furnished with very strong cylindrical nails; the hind paws
 are formed in the same way, except that the fingers are longer
  * Under this
               general appellation              I   include the seal, walrus, or morse,
dugon, &c.
                                                                                           thaq

                               Notices respecting New Books.                                      135
 than in the fore paws, and that the shortest of them are in the
 middle, and the longest on the outside of the paw.       The length
 of an ordinary full grown seal is about seven or eight feet; and
its thickness at the shoulder four or, five. It is covered with short
coarse thick hair, which varies in its colour with the different ages
 of the animal.
     "The flesh of the seal is of a reddish colour, and           the                 is,    by
 Greenlanders, accounted excellent food.       Our sailors esteemed
the entrails of young one which they dressed, as equal to those
                       a
of a hog.       seal will yield about twelve or fourteen gallons of
                   A
good oil their skins are very valuable, serving for covers to
              ;
trunks, vests, &c. and are now used to very considerable extent
                                                              a
in the manufacture of shoes. The Greenlanders, who depend                                         al
most entirely for subsistence on this animal, make their boots
and other articles of dress, as well as the inside of their huts, of
its skin.
   " The    seal      gregarious and polygamous animal.
                       is
                       a                                              never           Itis
met with at        great
                       a  distance  from   land,   but  frequents  the bays
and seas adjacent to the shore.             feeds promiscuously on most
                                                 It
sorts of small fish, but chiefly on the spawn of the salmon.
     "Fabricius differs both from Buffon and Pennant in asserting,
that the seal brings forth but one at           time, while they maintain
                                                          a
that     brings forth two*. At the time of parturition,
         it                                                          comes             it
on shore, and suckles its young there for about six weeks before
it takes thein to the water, where           instructs them in swimming.
                                                     it
Though naturally timid,       the female   defends   her young with great
boldness and spirit on other occasions they generally place their
                                ;
safety in flight      but  ; have sometimes seen them throw back
                                    I
stones and pieces of ice on the sailors who pursued them.
    " Seals delight to lie upon the ice, or on the shore, exposed
to the sun    f;   they there sleep very profoundly, and fall an easy
prey  to  the  sailors, who dispatch them                     by
                                                      blow on the nose.
                                                                   a
   " Their voice has been not unaptly compared Buffon to the               by
barking of hoarse dog; when attacked, they make more dole
                   a                                                             a
ful kind of noise.
     "Pliny expressly states this animal to be of docile and tract     a
able nature, and in this he        supported
                                        is          the more enlarged ex
                                                                  by
perience   of  modern    times.    The   seal  described      Dr. Parsons   by                    J
was taught    to  come   out of his tub,  and   return  to the water, at the
 command of its keeper, to stretch out its neck to kiss him, and
 to perform several other motions.
    " Seals have very delicate sense of hearing, and are very much
                           a
     *
     Perhaps Pliny has hit the truth,
                                         " Parit rmnquain, embus phtres* "Nat.
                                                                       ff
Hist. lib.    9.
               13.
               §
     Sternunt se somno diversce in littore Phocce. Georg. lib.
     +                                                                           4.
     Pennant's Quadrupeds, vol. ii. p. 2/2.
     X
                                             1   4                                     delighted

136                  Notices respecting New Books.
delighted with music.          The captain's son, who was a good per
former on the violin, never failed to have a numerous auditory,
when we were in the seas frequented by those animals ; and I
haVe seen them follow the ship for miles when any person was
playing on deck.         This fact was observed by the ancient poets*,
and is thus alluded to. by Mr. Scott, in his recent poem :
               *
                 Rude Heiskar's seals, through surges dark,
                 Will long pursue the minstrel's bark.'
     "  These animals, in swimming, constantly keep the Aeatf, and
often the whole body, as far as the shoulder, above the surface of
the water.       The first I saw was at a considerable distance, and
might easily have been mistaken for a man, though it was much,
liker a dog.
     "  BufFon has already remarked, that this animal had given(a
foundation to the poetic fiction of the Nereids in antiquity j and
perhaps we may add, to the no less fictitious mermaids of modern
times.
     "The Arctic walrus, or Triclwchus Rosmams of Linnaeus, the
other great variety of the Phoce, frequents the bays and shores
of Spitsbergen in vast numbers, though they are not now found in
such quantities as when the Europeans first navigated these seas„
The walrus is considerably larger than the seal, being sometimes
found eighteen feet long, and twelve round, where thickest                  f.
Their, characteristic difference, : however, consists in the walrus
having two very large tusks, or horns, like the elephants, pro
jecting from his upper jaw. These are sometimes found of an
extraordinary size, from two to three feet in length, and weighing
twenty pounds.         The tusks of the Spitzbergen walrus seldom at
tain this size, because there the animal is generally killed before
attaining its full growth.        It is only on the northern coast of Asi
atic Russia, or where they are not molested by hunters, that such
 tusks are found.        •
     "  With the exception of the tusks, the form of the walrus does
not differ materially from that of the seal.            Head round, with a
short nose; mouth small, with strong bristles; small red eves;
short neck; colour variable ; rest of the body similar to the seal ;
but its toes, especially in the hind feet, are much stronger.
     "  The walrus is monogamous, but in other respects its habits
are nearly the same with those of the seal.               It brings forth its
young in the same manner, preys on the same kinds of fish, and ,
like the seal, ascends the ice, (more rarely the land,) to bask in
the sun.
  ,..<f,Tbe Walrus is a very valuable animal, yielding frequently-half
a ton of oil, equally valuable with that of the whale.              The tusks
    * Apol. Rhod. lib. 1. Vol. Flac. lib. 5. Kn.440. Gaudcbant cartKhw Phocm,
   f   The largest we caught, was only thirteen feet long and seven round.'
                                                                          are

                    Notices respecting New Books.                    137
are said to be more valuable than those of the elephant, as being
more compact and hard, and consequently taking a finer polish';;
the skin, which is nearly an inch thick, is used to cover the masts'
or yards of ships, where they cross each other, to prevent their
being injured by the friction. It was formerly cut into ropes;
and Buffon tnentious its being used at Paris in the springs of car
riages,
   " The walrus becomes very furious when attacked, and the
whole herd join to revenge any injury an individual may have re
ceived.   If wounded in the water, they will sometimes surround
the boat, and attempt to sink her, by striking their tusks against
her sides and bottom."
The first Centenary of a Series of        concise and useful Tables' of
    complete Decimal Quotients: To which, is added, a Tabular
     Series, with the Equivalent Vulgar Fractions prefixed.          JSjb
     Henry Goodwyn. pp. 31.
    The author of this elaborate work, the ingenuity and accu
racy of which cannot be too highly praised, remarks in' illustra
tion of the conciseness with which the Tables have been made up.
that if the, quotients arising from each divisor and dividend had
been exhibited, they would, as ascertained by a well knOwri
arithmetical process, have amounted for this centenary to
                         100 x 101        2S
                              or             V=5050;
                         101 x 50          ;
whereas, the whole number of entered quotients is only 1522, S6
that, there is an apparent deficiency of 3528.          This very consi
derable diminution arises, in the first place, from expunging
under each particular divisor such of its appropriate dividends as
are not prime to it       r-and, in the second place, from the mode
in which the dividends are disposed in the tables. '' The useful
ness of such tables," adds the author, " will be obvious to all who
 are in the habit of applying decimals to the purposes of the arts,
sciences, or mercantile concerns."
     Lest it should be inferred, from the appearance of this work
 at a time when a bill is under the consideration of Parliament for
 the equalization of the weights and measures of the kingdom,
 that the author is an advocate for a decimal division, he states
 his opinion to he— that for common use the standards of both
 should be derived from 2 and its powers ; and where any inter
 vening weights or measures are necessary, that they should be
 expressed by products of that number.           It is shown in va'ri6us
  parts of  the  work,   that when   the divisor  is 2, or a power oF2,
 the decimal quotients uniformly terminate, or are perfect.         The
 sanie is. the case also with 5 and its powers— and when the
               prqjluct; of    or of a power of       by   or by a power
                                               2 2,
  divisoris-
           a              2                                5,
  of 5. While', therefore, the even number and Its powers seem
                                                                preferable

 138                   Notices respecting   New' Books.
 preferable as the basis of the distribution ; 5 and some of its
 powers, as well as some of the common multiples of these num
 bers, may be conveniently employed wherever their introduction
 may seem expedient.
    The division of weights and measures here submitted        we   is,
 believe, nearly the same as the one which has been recommend
 ed to the Committee of the House of Commons                   by
                                                        Professor
 Playfair and  Dr. Wollaston.
 The History     Whitby and Streoneshalh Abbey . By the Rev.
                 of
    George Young, with the Assistance     some Papers left
                                                 of                       by
    the late Mr. R. Winter, and some Materials furnished Itf
    Mr.   J.   Bird. Two volumes 8vo.
    A considerable portion of this work, as might be expected
from its title,    devoted to antiquities, statistics, and local his
                  is
tory; but some interesting remarks also occur on the mine
ralogy of this interesting part of Yorkshire, which we shall pro
bably lay before our readers     our next number.
                                    in
   The above mentioned gentlemen Messrs. Young and Bird are,
we are happy to say, preparing for publication by subscription,
a more extensive work in a quarto volume —           Geological Sur
                                                      A
vey of the Yorkshire Coast, illustrated with a Mineralogical Map
of the district, and numerous engraved sections of the strata.
    Mr. William Phillips will shortly publish the Third Edition of
 his little work, entitled " Outlines of Mineralogy and Geology
 with some additions.      From this edition however will be ex
 cluded the few pages annexed to the last, as " An Outline of
 the Geology of England and Wales        ;"which, together with the
 map accompanying          will
                         it,    shortly be published separately, but
 with large additions, under the title of "      ASelection of Facts
 from the best Authorities, arranged so as to form an Outline of
 the Geology of England and Wales, with a Map and Sections of
4he Strata, designed for the use of the Student."
    The First Part of a much-improved System of Arithmetic has
just been published      byMr. Dowling, of Highgate, author of the
Key to Hutton's Course of Mathematics, and Master of the
Mansion-House Academy.
   This little volume exhibits     great deal of novelty combined
                                     a
with a  degree of neatness and precision deserving of praise.
    The Stockholm papers announce the publication there of
Travels in England,       M. Broling, Counsellor of Mines. The
                          by
work, which consists of three volumes octavo, and      embellished
                                                          is
with 37 copper-plates,         is
                             represented as peculiarly interesting
in whatever relates to our industry, manufactures, and mines.
This work has gained the premium of the. Swedish Academy for
the best work published during the year; and the proprietors of
Forges subscribed for 300 copies.

                            [   139   ]
             XXVI.   Proceedings  of Learned   Societies.
                         ROYAL SOCIETY.
   Thursday, Jan. 8.   Part   of a paper by Dr. Brewster, On the
Polarization and Refraction of regular Crystals, was read. The
observations of Dr. B. are founded on experiments made upon
upwards of 160 different crystals, in the course of which Dr. B.
has discovered various new properties of light, which he promises
to communicate in a series of papers to the Society.
   Jan. 15. The remainder of Dr. Brewster's paper presented at
the last meeting was read.
   Jan. 22. A paper was read by Sir Everara Home, containing
some further Observations on the Fossil Remains of an Aninial3
on which two papers by Sir Everard Home have already appeared
in the Transactions of the Society.
    A part of a communication was also read from Captain Henry.
Kater, of a Series of Experiments made by him for determining
the length of the seconds pendulum in the latitude of London.
    Jan. 29. The reading of the Account of Captain Kater's Ex
periments concluded.
    Feb. 5. A paper on the Fallacy of the Experiments in which
Water is supposed to be produced by the Decomposition of Chlo
rine, was communicated by Sir H. Davy.
    In this paper Sir H. Davy shows, that when water appears
 during the action of muriate of ammonia or muriatic acid gas
 on metals, it either pre-exists in the substances used in its
known form, or is produced by the action of the hydrogen of the
 muriatic acid or of the ammonia in the metallic oxides of the
 glass ; or by the action of hydrogen in common air accidentally
 existing in the apparatus.
     Pure chlorine freed from vapour by muriate of lime yields no
 water when acted on by metals, and muriatic acid yields no water
 which Cannot be accurately accounted for by the circumstances of
 the experiment.     So that the author's theory of chlorine is sup
 ported and not overturned by experiments of this kind carefully
 made.
     Feb. 12. Another section of Dr. Brewster's communications
 On the Laws of Polarization and Double Refraction was read.
     Feb. 19. A paper by Mr, George Rennie jun., communicated
 by Dr. Thomas Young, was read, containing an account of a va
 riety of experiments made for determining the relative strength
 of materials,
     Feb. 26. A paper by The Rev. J. Brinkley, Professor of Astro
 nomy in the University of Dublin, On the Parallax of the Fixed
  Stars, was read in part— to be concluded at next meeting.
                                                              ROYAL

  140                       Royal Academy.
                           ROYAI. ACADEMY.            .    ,
    Monday, 16th February, Mr. Fuseli delivered his first Lecture
 upon Painting.       The Professor observed that as history, by de
 viating from its proper object, degenerates into biography, and
 swells to a huge catalogue of individual men ; so art, by a similar
 perversion, has its general process and advancement absorbed
 in the contemplation of particular genius, the nurselings of dif
 ferent schools.     The same process that distinguished the schools
 of Greece, marked the Italian ; it was the universal process of
 nature ; — preparation, establishment, decline.
    We owe the restoration of style to lus-relievo. It first pended
 between a copy of barbarity and an impotent imitation of the
 antique, till it found a basis in M'assaceio, though it continued to
 totter till the appearance of Leonardo da Vinci.       The powers of
this artist were never consistent. Sometimes he attained the sum
mit of excellence in character — sometimes was content with me
 diocrity — sometimes degenerated to caricature : his province was
 confined to the expression of male forms: the female was not
within the scope of his genius.       The ever exact similarity of all
his women makes them to appear daughters of one common
mother.       It was in Michael Angelo that art attained its full es
tablishment.       Whether his encomiasts or his critics were most
 capable of judging of his powers, is not determined ; yet both
 date from him the full perfection of art.      His were the stamina
of nature; his the real feelings of humanity: — as sculptor, as
architect, he attempted, and, above every other man, succeeded
in uniting, magnificence of plan and endless variety of subordinate
parts with the utmost simplicity and breadth.           The child, the
female, meanness, deformity,         were by him indiscriminately
stamped with grandeur; a beggar rose from his hand, the patri
arch of poverty; the hump of his dwarf is impressed with dig
nity ; his women are moulds of generation ; his infants teem
with man ; his men are a race of giants.           Sublimity of con
ception, grandeur of form, breadth of manner, are the elements
Of Michael Angelo's style.
    The milder genius of Raphael succeeded to the inspiration of
Michael Angelo : the latter had no infancy, or, if he had, we are not
acquainted with it ; like an oriental sun he burst upon us, in all
the splendours of perfection.      Raphael we view in infancy; Pro
priety rocked his cradle, Character ennobled his limbs ; by pro
found, precise, acute observations upon the aritiqus, and by sub
sequently as admirable application, he erected his fabric of excel
lence. Raphael's was the unrivalled province to embody effulgent
goodness, in the person of our Saviour.         Roundness, mildness,
and insipidity characterize his Madonas ; transcripts of the nur
sery, or servile copies of a face he liked.       When Raphael at
                                                               tempts

                            Royal "Academy,                         141
 tempts pure character, he stands unrivalled.        Design and style
 were the bases of the plans of these painters;      but the principle
of the Venetian was very different — colouring. Titian, its master,
 tdpied nature at first in a juvenile manner, till he learned breadth
 of fdrtn and colour from Giorge.        The Professor gave the cha
 racter of Titian with great energy and aeuteness, summing up
  by the observation, that he was the father of portrait-painting,
  and as yet in that branch has stood unrivalled; he was the first
   that united character and resemblance with dignity. — A national
"Character pervaded the brightest era of the Venetian school.
       The soft transitions from convex to concave, and the coalition
  of light and darkness by impereeptible Mendings are the elements
   of Correggio's style. This inspires his figures with grace, and
   to these their grace is subordinate : his was an incomparable hue
   ofcolbur, and suavity of form. Correggio was emulated by Par-
'migiand, though not always with equal consistency and propriety.
'
   While Michael Angelo was doomed to live and brood over the
"perversion of his style by the Venetian painters, death prevented
   Raphael from witnessing the gradual decay of his. — The com
   pact style of Polydoro, formed upon the antique, was the prin
   cipal meteor of merit, before the appearance of the Carracci,
   who founded at Bologna that electric school, which, by selecting
   the "beauties, correcting the faults, supplying the defects, and
   avoiding the extremes of the different styles, attempted to form
   a perfect system.     Among the various schools of the Carracci,
   tailed the school of Bologna, the art gradually declined from me
   diocrity to evanescence, from evanescence to oblivion..
       Thursday, 30th Feb; Mr. Fuseli delivered his second Lecture
   tn continuation.     It was observed, that the superior claim Which
   the effects of design have upon our attention, would seem to be
    powerfully implied by their duration; — words become obsolete,
   sounds- expire, colours fade; in forms alone, can idea be rendered
    permanent.
       Mr. Ftiseli said, that in the language of the art, the words
"
    copy and imitation were generally confounded, though essentially
    different in their meaning; precision of eye and obedience of
   hand being, in truth, the requisites of the former : while choice,
    directed by judgement and taste, constitutes the essence of the
   latter.    It had been said within the Academy, by the highest
   authority, that colour should be used as soon as possible by the
    student ; the Professor wished it particularly to be understood,
    that this was by no means intended to encourage incorrectness
    df drawing; it mattered little with what materials correctness of
    drawing was attained ; the accomplishment of it was indispensa
bly necessary. It had been said by the same authority, that if
    we mean to attain excellence of form, we must scrutinize the
 .
                                                              principles

     1 42                    Royal Academy.
    principles upon which the ancients worked.          Their ruling prin
    ciple was correctness.     The name of Apelles, in Pliny, is the
    synonym of unrivalled excellence ; but the enumeration of his
   works neither comprises exclusive sublimity of invention, the
    most acute discrimination of character, the widest sphere of
    comprehension, nor the best balanced composition; — correctness
   was his ruling principle.    That his excellence was built upon this
   firm basis is well known, from his famous and well-authenti
    cated contest with Protogenes ; from which we may deduce that
   the schools of Greece recognised colour, grace and taste, as
    ornaments, not substitutes of form, expression, and character j
    and that when they usurp that title, they degenerate into splendid
   faults.
       The Professor spoke of imitation under two heads : the first an
   imitation of nature as it is ; this class particularly applied to por
   traits, and to history, whose excellence was truth : — the second,
   an imitation of nature in a more extensive view; not distorted
   by passion, nor modified by disease; imitation of a superior idea
   of beauty culled from nature ; for we are no more able to form
 - an idea beyond nature than we can create a sixth sense.
        Mr. Fuseli lamented the frequency of the unsuccessful use of
   the opportunities afforded by the Academy ; and disapproved of
   the opinion largely entertained and countenanced by high autho
   rity, that the students when they entered theLife Academy shouhl
, copy servilely from the model.
       The Professor conceived it was then, that the students were to
   apply their taste and judgement, acquired in the Antique Aca
   demy; he particularly enforced the study of the skeleton, and
   the science of physiognomy.        With respect to the latter, some
   had ridiculously admitted its application in the parts, but not in
   the whole : take, added he, one quarter of an inch from beneath
   the nose of the Apollo, and the god is degraded into a common
   man !
       Mr. Fuseli then entered upon the great error of design — man
   nerism.     To follow him in the subdivision of this subject,
  would be too long for our space. Those mannerists who never
   consult nature but at second hand, and the paltry epitomists of
   nature's immense volume, were acutely reprobated ; — but the
  least pardonable of all mannerists were said to be those who
  stoop to meanness for the attainment of grandeur. The wretched
  taste of Albert Durer, in this respect, was inferior to the infamous
  caricatures of the great style by Goltzius and Spranger: Ra
  phael himself, in his former days, was under the influence of this
  base mannerism.        The lecture concluded with advice to the
  students; during which theProfessor observed, that the Arts were
  not children of necessity, nor the nurselings of fashion; but that

                 ttoyal Society-   of Edinburgh. — Linncean   Society.         143
.
     they are the offspring of fancy, the ornaments of society, the
    glory of men ; what none absolutely want, what all wish for,
    what few are able to attain : that a trusty labourer, an honest
    tradesman, an industrious hireling,&c. are more useful members
    of society, of more service to the state, than an artist of medio
    crity.
                            ROYAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH.
       January 14. Dr. Brewster communicated a very interest
    ing paper, consisting of extracts of letters from Mr. Boog to
    his father, the Rev. Dr. Boog of Paisley, giving an account of
    the recent discoveries respecting the Sphinx and the principal
    Pyramid of Egypt, which have been made by Capt. C. and Mr.
    Salt. By very laborious excavations, which were made in vain
    by the French Savans, these gentlemen have discovered that the
    Sphinx is cut out of the solid rock on which it was supposed
    merely to rest.    They found that the short descending passage
    at the entrance to the pyramid, which afterwards ascends to the
    two chambers, was continued in a straight line through the base
    of the pyramid, into the rock ujion which the pyramid stands.
    This new passage, after joining what was formerly called the well,
    is continued forward in a horizontal line, and terminates in a
    well ten feet deep, exactly beneath the apex of the pyramid, and
    at the depth of 100 feet below its base. Captain C. has likewise
    discovered an 'apartment immediately above the King's chamber,
    and exactly of the same size and the same fine workmanship,
    but only four feet in height.
       It is a curious fact that this very room over the chamber con
    tains the Sarcophagus, which        fully described in the Journal of
                                             i.s
    Mr. Davison (who was formerly British consul at Algiers), in
    serted in Walpole's Memoirs relating to European and British
    Turkey.jp. 354-357.       So far back as the year 1765, this gentle
    man discovered this chamber, on the 9th of July, of which he has
    given an accurate description.      Maillet, who was forty times in
    the Pyramid, had    not  seen      Niebuhr did not observe
                                       it;                            butit,
    afterwards heard of its existence from Mr. Maynard, the person
    who accompanied Mr. Davison in his visit to this pyramid          nor ;
    has     ever been explored       any person since, till Capt.
                                       by
                                                                         by C
            it
     and Mr. Salt's visit: its existence has even been doubted        Dr.
     Hales (Chronol.     3S-1).
                            i.    Bruce  alludes to  Mr. D.'s discovery.
                                   LINNJEAN        SOCIETY.
        Tuesday, Dec. 20, was read before the Society a Description
    of the island of Tristan da Cunha, with some account of its
    productions,       by
                    Dugald Carmichael, Esq. Captain in the 72d
.'.   . .                                                          regiment.

                                                        '
  »-<4                      Linna-an Society.       , \
 regiment.     Captain  C,   from motives   of laudable curiosity, so
 licited leave to accompany the expedition      from the. Cape, which
.sailed in the ship Falmouth to take possession of this very in
 teresting island, and which was provided with the necessaries
 for establishing a settlement there.        He gives a copious ac
 count of its natural history.     It is a solid rock rising abruptly
 from the sea in the form of a truncated cone, at an angle of 45
  degrees, 3000 feet, surmounted by a dome 5000 feet high, on
 which is a volcanic crater.     The lower part of the mountain is
 generally   surrounded   by clouds, and scarcely a day passes with
 out rain.    The whole is in a great measure covered with shrubs
 and with long grass to a considerable height. The animals which
 inhabit the island are two or three species of seal, various kinds
  of sea-fowl, and wild hogs and goats, which were probably left
 by some early navigators.      These as well as the vegetable pro
 ductions are fully described by Capt. C, who also gives an' ac
 count of a difficult and hazardous journey to the summit.          The
  animals are described as so tame that it was necessary to clear a
 path through the birds, which were reposing' On the rocks, hy
 kicking them aside; and one species of seal did not move when
 struck or pelted, and at length some of the company amused
  themselves by mounting them, and riding them into the' sea.
     Also an account of a new kind of wheat discovered in the
 United States, and peculiarly adapted to the climate, from its
 enduring the frosts without injury, in a letter from Governor H.
 de Witt Clinton.
     A letter was read from the Rev. Revett Sheppard, on a powder
 secreted by birds, of the same colour with their plumage. An ac
 count of this kind by Bruce has been ridiculed and discredited^
 as to certain birds ?n the mountainous districts of Abyssinia; but
 his assertion is remarkably confirmed by Mr. Sheppard's observ
 ing the same circumstance in a heron which he shot a few weeks
 since.
     Feb. 3. Observations by Mr. E. Burton on the Natural His
 tory and Anatomy of the Frigate Bird. — This bird is the Peli-
 eanus   Aquila, Linn.— ^called by seamen Frigate-bird, Man-of-
 war-bird, Sea-eagle, and Halcyon.          In vast numbers on the
 Island of Ascension.      Mr. Burton premises that the specimens
 procured by him differ materially frbm Lrthlasus's.       It' does not
                                                                    '
 swim, but takes its prey skimming the surface of the wate*. <It
 can only begin its flight by climbing to the edge of a precipice.
 Flies immense heights, and for hundreds of miles without a rest
 ing place. —The paper concluded by a minute description of its
 anatomy, compared with its habits, &c.
                                                               SOCIETY

               Society of Natural Knowledge of Zurich.                145
            SOCIETY OF NATURAL KNOWLEDGE             OF ZURICH.
      The Society of Natural Knowledge at Zurich met during the
  6th, 7th, and 8th of October 1817. The first prize offered by the
  Society presents a question of the highest interest.       Several men
  of learning have asserted, and several others have repeated after
  them, that the climate is become insensibly more rough and cold
  in the elevated parts of Switzerland.       In the absence of direct
  proof from thermometric observation, the four following cir
  cumstances have been urged as facts in support of the opinion
  alluded to :
      1. Historical evidence of many parts of the Alps having been
 once pasturage, which are now wholly unproductive.            2. Histo
  rical evidence and still remaining traces of the existence of forests
  above what now is the boundary of the vegetation of trees.          3.
 The progressive lowering of the line of permanent snow. 4. The
 progress made by the Glaciers in many parts of Switzerland.—
 The following is the question proposed upon this interesting sub
           "
ject : — Is it true that the Upper Alps of Switzerland are be
 come more rough and cold during a series of years ?"               This
 question requiring an answer by facts only, the Society requires
                        "
 of the candidates — 1 . That they shall collect the testimonies,
 ancient and modern, of the deterioration and decay of pasturage
 in the Upper Alps. 2. That they shall submit the authenticity
 of these testimonies to a critical examination.           3. That they
 shall distinguish the instances of ancient pasturage become ste
 rile by other causes than cold, such as the decomposition of
 impending rocks, avalanches, &c. 4. That they shall examine
 the historical evidence of the vegetation of trees existing above
the present boundary.         5. That they shall collect the greatest
possible number of observations relative to the height of the
boundary line of snow, and the epoch at which in different years
cattle have descended from the Upper Alps.            6. That they shall
bring    together   the observations  of a  series   of years on the in
crease and partial diminution of the Glaciers in the transverse
valleys, and their formation and disappearance in the higher re
gions.      Lastly, that they shall investigate the ancient limits of
certain Glaciers marked out by the fragments of rocks which
they drove before them."
     If to all these researches it were possible to add authentic de
tails respecting the neighbouring mountains of Savoy and the
Tyrol, it would be a great advantage towards the solution of the
general question.       The essays are to be written in German,
Latin, or French, and sent in to the President of the Society be
fore the 1st of January 1820.        The first and second prize of 600
francs and 300 francs are to be decided in the same year.
     Vol. 51. No. 238. Feb. 1817.                  K        XXVII.   In

                             [        146   ]
        XXVII.    Intelligence and Miscellaneous     Article).
                DEFENCE OF NAUTICAL ALMANAC.
         T                                               Feb. 9, 1819.
Sir,-*'- .L/ooking over your valuable Magazine for December
last, I was struck with the severe critique on the Commissioners
of the Board of Longitude and the Conductors of the Nautical
Almanac, in a letter of the 20th of that month, addressed to you
from the pen of Astranomicus.         I immediately, at my leisure
hours, began computations for the purpose of ascertaining the
truth or falsehood of that part of his letter (and to that part
 only I shall confine my observations) which contains what he
supposes corrections of astronomical       errors ; and after a very
minute investigation, it affords me no small degree of pleasure
and satisfaction in being able to refute and contradict his asser
tions with the utmost confidence.
    He first asks why the occultation of Mars in January (1S20)
is omitted ? Now, by very accurate calculations, I find there will
be no occultation ; but there will be, as the Nautical Almanac
states, a near appulse, and the moon and planet may apparently
be in contact on the northern limb of the moon.          He observes,
 secondly, also, that the true conjunction of Mars will take place
 twenty minutes later than is there stated. 1 should have readily
 allowed the propriety of this affirmation, provided Mars had at
 the time, a progressive motion in longitude as well as the moon :
 this not being the case, however, but, on the contrary, assuming
 an apparent retrograde one, the two celestial bodies will be in
 one and the same minute of a degree of the ecliptic, or in con
junction precisely at the time stated, viz. 'at twenty minutes
 past seven o'clock in the mbrning of the 2d January ; and I
 would advise Astronomicus by all means to make himself better
 acquainted with the subject in general, and, in the last instance,
 to get a knowledge of the difference between a progressive and
 apparent retrograde motion of a planet, before he again attempts
Jo bring the Nautical Almanac and its conductors into disre
 pute.    He again notices with an equal degree of positiveness,
 that the commencement of the solar eclipse in September is set
 down full one minute later than it ought to be. But there is no
 more veracity in this assertion than his former ones, its beginning
 being September 7, at 0h 24m 11s: and as to the omission of
 the point where (not when) the moon makes the first impression
 on the sun's disc, 49° 16' (not 48j°) from the vertex; it has not
 been usual to insert  it,nor    is   conceive, of any consequence
                                      it,
                                       I
  whatever, otherwise   the  late or the  present Astronomer 5-oyaI
  would, no doubt, have ordered its insertion.     Lastly, he observes
  that on casting his eye over the configurations of Jupiter's sa
                                                               tellites,

                        Sleam-Engines.         — Chemistry.                   147
   tellites for the month       of January, he finds the position of almost
   all of them erroneous.          This assertion is couched in terms of so
   broad a latitude, that it requires no other answer than that (I
   sincerely believe) it proceeds entirely from his unskilfulness and
   his inattention to Mr. Vince's directions relative to the computa
   tion of the configurations in the months of January and February
   in years called Bissextile.
                               I am, sir, your obedient servant,
   To   Mr. Tilloch.                                      Manchestriensis.
                       STEAM ENGINES IN CORNWALL.
      From Messrs.       Leans'     Report    {jpr January 1818, it appears
 -that during that month the following was the work performed by
  the engines reported, with each bushel of coals.
                                    Founds of water lifted    Load per square
                                1 foot high with each bushel. inch in cylinder.
 22 common engines averaged                  22,1SS,313           various.
 Woolf's at Wheal Vor                 . .    30,834,438           17-2 lib.
 Ditto          Wh. Abraham           ..     41,847,961           16-8
 Ditto           ditto      ..        ..     27,942,875            4-76
 Ditto          Wheal Unity           ..     31,900,613           131
 Dalcouth engine             ..       ..     42,622,141           11-2   .
 Wheal Abraham            ditto       ..     32,239,445           10-9
 United Mines engine                  ..     36,396,841           16-9
 Treskirby ditto           . .        . .    38,738,954           10-6
 Wheal Chance ditto                   . .    28,496,996             8-9
            OXALIC Adl>, FERMENTATION,                CELESTINE,   &C.
 Extract of      a Letter from Professor           Wurzer, of Marburg,          to:
                             Professor Van Mons.
     I  have lately found the oxide of iron and          a trace of the oxide
of manganese in a human calculus.                  I have met with both the
same oxides in pulmonary concretions, which a patient afflicted
with pneumonia, and 6"f which he was cured, had ejected.
     Our friend M. Dobereiner has found that the oxalic acid as'
well crystallized as effloresced (this last combined with a propor
tion of water); so that the oxalates even to that of lime are decom
posed by concentrated sulphuric acid, with which they bear a great
affinity. The oxalic acid resolves itself into equal volumes of car
bonic acid and gaseous oxide of carbon.                  As these proportions'
of volumes correspond exactly with those of the weights furnished
by atialysis of the acid, the oxalic acid may be considered as car
bonate of oxide of carbon — at all times as a combination which in
the free acid is maintained in composition by water, and in saline
combinations by oxide bases, and which of course ceases to exist
                                          K2                                 the

148           Oxalic Acid, — Fermentation,       — Celestine.
the. moment these combinations     are broken. Oil of vitriol is also
a-igood reactive, not only to discover the oxalic acid, but also to
determine the affinity; for the citric, tartaric, &c. acids, being
put in contact with the sulphuric acid at the ordinary tempera
ture, do not give any gas.
    New experiments on fermentation have convinced M. Dobe-
reiner that the smallest parcels of sugar concealed in anv liquid
may be discovered, and their affinity determined, by adding to
such liquid some grains of yeast and inclosing the mixture in a
vessel sealed with mercury. The fermentation, which at the tem
perature of from 15 to 20 degrees R. begins to manifest itself, and
continues as long as any sugar remains, occasions the disengage
ment of a quantity of bubbles of carbonic acid gas, from which
the quantity of sugar which the yeast has decomposed may easily
be calculated.    M. D. has found that five grains of sugar, dis
 solved in a half cubic inch or in a whole cubic inch of water, and
put in contact with some grains of yeast, uniformly resolve them
 selves into 4-7 cubic inches of carbonic acid gas and 2-57 grains
 of alcohol.    He considers the sugar to be a saline compound
formed of three affinities, or 3 x 7-7 of deutero-hydroid of carbon,
 and three proportions, or 3 x 20-7 of carbonic acid.    Alcohol ac
 cording to him is composed of three proportions of deutero-hy
 droid of carbon and a proportion of carbonic acid.
     You know that in the vicinity of Jena, celestine is met with in
 great quantities.     M. Doberenier has had occasion to ascer
 tain by a long series of experiments the stacchiometrique value
 of strontian.   He has found that the number representing that
 earth is 50, the hydrogen being 1 and the oxygen 7'5 ; but this
 number is exactly the arithmetic mean of those which represent
 the stacchiometrique value of lime (27-5) and of barytes (72-5),
i.e.      —   —- =   50.    M. Dobereiner       was      doubtful    for a time
as to the existence of strontian ; but this has satisfied him as
well by synthetic as analytical experiments.      A circumstance
still more remarkable     that the specific weight of sulphate of
                            is,
barytes (celestine)   also the arithmetic mean of that of pure
                       is
                                            H
                                            *   4   40
 sulphate of lime and of spath, viz.    ¦                =3-65   ;   which   is   still
a further proof that celestine      mixture of equal stacchiome
                                   is
                                   a
trique parts of anhydrite and spath.
  I  ought not to omit that M. Dobereiner has discovered a
considerable quantity of sugar in the aqueous extract of the root
of the alamits, obtained
          i                      the aid of a filter -press of Real.
                                  by
Fromsdorff,  in his analysis of the same root, speaks only of a
sweetish extract, which he describes as insusceptible of fermen
tation.
                                                                              TEST

              Test for Arsenic. — Northern Expedition.             149
                         TEST FOR ARSENIC.
    Mr. Hume of Long Acre,       who more than twenty-eight years
 ago directed the public attention to the excellence of silver as a
 test for arsenic, and has ever since continued improving the dis
 covery by a variety of relative experiments, has been again called
 forth in defence of the validity of the test, in consequence of an
 opinion thrown out by several professional men, on the occasion
of a recent trial at Launceston for murder by poison — that no
 thing short of the revivification of the arsenic into its metallic
form can or ought to be accepted as evidence in cases of medical
jurisprudence. In a paper which Mr. Hume has just published
on the subject, he combats this theory in a very able manner, and
refers in his support to some of the principal parts of his former
communications to the public.        The first public communication
in which he announced silver to be the most effectual test for de
 tecting arsenic, appeared in the Philosophical Magazine for May
 1809. As it is evident that the operation must be by double che
mical affinity or elective attraction, Mr. H. then advised subcar-
bonate of soda to be joined to the arsenic, and nitric acid to the
silver.   In another communication to the Phil. Mag. of August
 1812, Mr. Hume detailed a variety of experiments which he had
made with ammonia, from which he was led to form a triple salt,
either with silver or copper and that alkali, which he considered
 to be a test of most valuable acquisition to analytical chemistry,
since by its assistance we are now able to ascertain the precise
quantum of alkali required, which could not otherwise be readily
 obtained. This test possesses also another property ;-r- it does not
 affect phosphate of soda ; other phosphates it is true exist in the
 human system, especially in the urine; but there seems little to
 fear from the presence of any soluble phosphate whatever in fluids
 mixed with extraneous matters ejected from the human stomach.
The last paper on the subject by Mr. Hume, appeared in the
 Phil. Mag. of October 1812, in which he added an account of a
variety of other experiments which he had made, in order to as
 certain the comparative eligibility of magnesia, barytes, lime,
 and other earths, as tests for arsenic.
                       NORTHERN EXPEDITION.
    The arrangements for the   vessels about to explore the Arctic Re
 gions are now nearly completed, and it is expected they will leave
 the river about the 24th of March.       Every precaution has been
 taken for the general comfort of the crews ; fixed bed places are
 fitted, with sliding doors, for the men to sleep in, housings to
 form roofs over the ships in the event of being frozen in, a liberal
 supply of vegetables, and a proportion of six months beef, slightly
 corned, with some preserved meat, will be supplied.
                                   K 3                             The

150                     Northern Expedition.
  The Isabella and Alexander          are intended to proceed in a N.W.
direction     to   Davis's   Straits,  and explore there for apassage
through into the great Pacific Ocean, by the American Continent.
     The Dorothea and Trent, proceeding to the eastward of Green
land, will take a northerly direction, in the hopes of reaching the
Pole, and from thence to Behring's Straits.
     The Isabella is of 3S2 tons, and has a complement of 47 men:
 Captain John Ross, commander.
     The Alexander is of 250 tons, complement 33 men : Lieute
 nant W. Edw. Parry, commander.
     The Dorothea is of 3(i9 tons, complement 47 men : Captain
 David Buchan, commander.
     The Trent is of 250 tons, complement 33 men : Lieutenant
 J. Franklin, commander.
     An ample supply of warm clothing will be provided, and three
 months advance of pay given to the men.                The officers will
 have their pay doabled, and six months in advance. — A compen
 sation will be granted the purser in lieu of balance bills ; indeed,
 the whole arrangements appear on a scale of liberality that will
 do justice to the projectors of the expedition.
      If unsuccessful, it is expected to terminate about September
  1819.      If it be successful, and the navigators return by the In
  dian Seas, a reward of 20,000/. will be distributed amongst the
 crews. Notwithstanding this, and an allowance of 3/. per month,
  a difficulty is found in obtaining suitable hands for the voyage,
 .and the vessels are to complete their crews at the Orkneys, the
 great rendezvous of seamen for the Greenland service.
      " If an open navigation should be discovered across the Polar
  Basin, the passage over the Pole, or close to    it,  will be one of the
  most interesting events to science that ever occurred.         It will be
  the first time that the problem was practically solved, with which
  the learners of geography are sometimes puzzled — that of going
  the shortest way between two places lying east and west of each
  other, by taking  a     direction of north and south. The passage of
  the Pole will require the undivided attention of the navigator.
  On approaching this point, from which the northern coasts of Eu
  rope, Asia, and America, and every part of them, will bear south
   of him, nothing can possibly assist him in determining his course,
   and keeping on the right meridian of his destined place, but a
  correct knowledge of the time, and yet no means of ascertaining
  that time will be afforded him. The only time he can have, with
  .any degree of certainty, as long as he remains on or near the Pole,
  must be that of Greenwich, and this he can know only from good
  chronometers; for from the general hazy state of the atmosphere,
   and particularly about the horizon, and the sameness in the alti
   tude of the sun, at every hour  in    the four and twenty, he must not
                                                                   expect

    African Expedition, — Russian Voyage of Discovery.                   151
expect to obtain an approximation even of the apparent time, by
observation, and he will have no stars to assist him. All his ideas
respecting the heavens, and the reckoning of his time, will be
reversed, and the change not gradual, as in proceeding from the
east to the west, or the contrary, but instantaneous.   The mag
netic needle will point to its unknown magnetic Pole, or     round fly
from the point of the bowl from which      it suspended, and that
                                                is
which indicated north will now be south the east will become
                                             ;
the west, and the hour of noon will be that of midnight."— The
 Quarterly Review.
                       AFRICAN EXPEDITION.
  A   letter from Sierra Leone mentions the return to that place
of the scientific expedition for exploring the interior of Africa.
They were completely unsuccessful, having advanced only about
150 miles into the interior, from Rio Nunez.          Their progress
was there stopped   by a chief of the country; and after unavailing
endeavours, for the space of four months, to obtain liberty to
proceed, they abandoned the enterprise, and returned.      Nearly all
the animals perished.    Several officers died, and, what   remark
                                                             is
able, but one private, besides one drowned, of about 200. Capt.
Campbell died two days after their return to Rio Nunez, and
was buried, with another officer, in the same spot where Major
Peddie and one of his officers were buried on their advance.
                  RUSSIAN VOYAGE OF DISCOVERY.
   Captain Krusenstern in     letter to Captain Burney*, dated
                              a
Revel,  Oct. 1,1817,  informs him  that letters had been received
a few days before from Lieut. Kotzebue.        On leaving Kams-
chatka in July 1816, he sailed through Behring's Straits, "and
succeeded in ranging the coast of America to latitude 67", when
he discovered a large inlet extending far to the eastward.     He
was obliged to quit   without exploring the whole, but intends
                     it
to resume the labour this year.   Captain Krusenstern does not
himself believe that a communication exists between the North
Pacific and the Atlantic, but remarks that the discovery of this
inlet does hold out some hope that one may be yet found.
                  NEW NAUTICAL INSTRUMENT.
  " Mr.    Hunter, of Edinburgh, has invented an instrument
which  is of great importance to the navigator.    From two alti
tudes of the sun, and the interval of time between the observa
tions, he can determine, within five minutes after the second ob
servation, the latitude of the place, the hour from noon, and the
variation of the compass.     According to the common form of
        • Published in the last number of the Quarterly Journal.
                                  K 4                        calculation

152      Moveable Axle for Carriages.—-Animal Flower.
calculation for double altitudes, the latitude, by account, is sup
posed to be known, which, in the use of this instrument, is not
necessary.   I have tried it in several examples, and always found
the results very near the truth.     If a vessel were driven from her
course by storms or currents — if the reckoning was altogether
lost, and the mariner could not get a meridian observation — with
this instrument and a chronometer, he could, in a few minutes
after the second observation, ascertain his position on the ocean
with accuracy.    An invention of so much utility in navigation is
worthy of encouragement from those concerned in the commerce
of the country.
" Glasgow Observatory,   Dec. 3, 1817.
                                                       " J- CROSS.v
                MOVEABLE         AXLEFOR CARRIAGES.
  A useful and ingenious       improvement applicable to all four-
wheeled carriages has just been announced, possessing the fol
lowing advantages : A carriage with this moveable axle will turn
in much less space than with the old axle; may be built from 15
to 18 inches shorter than on the old principle, and affords com
plete security against upsetting : the fore wheels may be made
higher, while the body may be hung lower, which facilitates the
progress of the carriage where impediments present themselves
arising from inequalities in the road.       This invention has been
brought forward by Mr. Ackermann of the Strand, well known
as the publisher of many ingenious and useful works.            Already
many of our first coach-makers are busy in applying this improve
ment to use.
                            ANIMAL FLOWER.
   The inhabitants of St. Lucia have discovered a most singular
plant. In a cavern of that isle, near the sea, is a large bason, from
twelve to fifteen feet deep, the water of which is very brackish,
and the bottom composed of rocks.          From these, at all times,
proceed   certain  substances,  which  present, at first sight, beauti
ful flowers, of a bright shining colour, and pretty nearly resem
bling our marigolds — only that their tint is more lively.        These
seeming flowers, on the approach of a hand or instrument, retire,
like a snail, out of sight.   On examining their substance Closely,
there appear, in the middle of the disk, four brown filaments,,
resembling spiders' legs, which move round a kind of petals with
a pretty brisk and spontaneous motion.        These legs have pineers
to seize their prey; and, upon eeizing     it, the yellow petals im
mediately close, so that    it cannot escape.    Under this exterior
of flower
  a         is
            a     brown stalk, of the bigness of a raven's quill, and
which appears to be the body of some animal.          It   is  probable
that this strange creature lives on the' spawn of fish, and the
marine insects thrown      by the sea into the bason.
                                                                QUERIES.

          Queries.
                   — Yellow Dye. — Plumbago.- -Lithovasa.           153
                                 QUERIES.
                             To  Mr. Tillock.
    Sir,— -An    answer to the following queries from some of your
learned correspondents, will much oblige one of your constant
readers.
     1. Has mercury in the state of vapour ever been combined
with hydrogen      gas ?
    Supposing    a quantity  of mercury to  be heated in a retort, and
in another, hydrogen     gas  to  be produced, from a solution of zinc,
could the fumes arising     from   the two retorts be safely attempted
to pass into a heated tube of iron or porcelain ?
    2. Do the precipitates of lime, magnesia, or other pure earths,
from watery solutions, assume regular crystallized forms?         Have
they been subjected to microscopical observation ?
                              YELLOW DYE.
    A   chemist of Copenhagen has discovered a brilliant yellow
matter for dyeing, in potatoe tops. The mode of obtaining it is,
by cutting the top when in flower, and bruising and pressing it
to extract the juice. Linen or woollen soaked in this liquor du
ring forty-eight hours takes a fine, solid and permanent yellow
colour. If the cloth be afterwards plunged in a blue dye, it then
acquires a beautiful permanent green colour.
                               PLUMBAGO,
    A few months ago a new mine of this valuable substance was
 discovered in Glenstrathfarar, county of Inverness, in a schistose
 rock close to the Farar. It crops out to an extent of not less
 than fifty feet in five different seams, some of them from twelve
 to fifteen inches in thickness. Several tons of it were raised last
 summer.      It seemed to improve much as the miners penetrated
 deeper, and the seams to thicken and run into one.           Only two
 other mines of this substance are worked in Britain ; one near
 Cumnock in Aryshire, the other at Borradale in Cumberland.
 The produce of the latter is so valuable that the finer pieces sell
 for two or three guineas a pound weight.
                                LITHOVASA.
    This name is given to a new but useful article, made of a pe
 culiar, kind of stone, in the form of vessels adapted to cool wine,
 preserve butter, &c.      They owe their properties to the power of
 absorption and evaporation possessed by the stone ; and are su^
  perior to earthenware articles applied to the same purposes, be
 ing entirely free from that clayey smell which belongs to uuglazed
  pottery.
     The wine coolers require only to be steeped for ten minutes in
  cold water, when they are fit to receive a decanter of wine. — The
  butter preservers steeped in the same manner are ready to receive
                                                                a vessel

  154                    Lectures. — Patents.
 a vessel containing the butter, and will keep it cool in the hottest
 weather, and retain their moisture for a day or two.
    Elegant stone pyramids for growing excellent anti-scorbutic
 salads, require only to be saturated with water.    The seed equally
 distributed in the external grooves, the central hole filled with
 water, (and the waste daily supplied,) will in eight or ten days
 produce a fine green crop of very superior quality, which may be
 eaten clean and fresh from the pyramids placed on the table.     —
 When the crop is plucked from any number of grooves, and the
 loose seeds brushed off, new may be sown and successive crops
 obtained.
     To persons on board ship and in warm climates these articles
 must prove highly useful.     They may be had at 448, Strand.
                              LECTURES.
    Mr. Clarke will commence his next Course of Lectures on
 Midwifery, and the Diseases of Women and Children, on Friday $
 March 20th. The Lectures are read every Morning from a Quar
 ter past Ten to a Quarter past Eleven, for the convenience of
 Students attending the Hospitals.      For particulars apply to Mr.
 Clarke, 10, Saville-row, Burlington Gardens.
             LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
    To John Scott, of Pengo-place,     in the county of Surrey, esq.*
 for improvements in steam-boats, and in the machinery for pro
 pelling the same. — 23d Jan. 1818. — Allowed 2 months to en
 roll.
    To James Ikin, of William-street, in the parish of Christ-
 church, Surrey, machinist, for his improved method or methods
of constructing or manufacturing fire or furnace bars or gratings.
—27th Jan. —2 months.
     To George Frederick Hagner, late of Philadelphia in the
 United States, but now of the Adelphi, Middlesex, for certain
improvements in the art of manufacturing pigments commonly
known by the names of white-lead and verdigris.; — 27th Jan. —
   months.
   To Rudolph Ackermann, of the Strand, print-seller, for certain
improvements in axletrees applicable to four-wheeled carriages,
communicated to him by George Lenkensperger,           of Munich in
the kingdom of Bavaria. — 27th Jan. — G months.
   To William Horner, of Howick, Northumberland, for his ma
chine or apparatus for the purpose of acquiring a very high me
chanical power in a small compass and with little friction, and
without the possibility of running amain if employed in raising
or lowering weights, — 27th Jan.— *6 months.
                                                                 To

               List of Patents for   new Inventions.             1 55
    To George Prior, of Leeds, for his invention for perfectly    de
 taching the escape-wheel of chronometers from the influence of
 the friction and inaccuracies arising from the main-spring, the
 pivots, and the teeth of all the other wheels and pinions in the
 machine during the time of its giving impulses to the balance,
 whereby its vibration will be more accurately and uniformly sup
 ported than by any other invention heretofore made public. —
  29th Jan. — 6 months.
    To Johu Penwarne, of Stafford-street, St. Marylebone, for
 certain improvements, being an improvement on the cock for
 drawing beer,cider,and other liquors from casks and other vessels,
 without the interruption of a vent plug, or any opening whatever
 in the upper part of the cask or vessel, either for the purpose of
 admitting air, or for affixing the said instrument or cock or any
 apparatus or appendage belonging to the same. — 31st Jan. —
'2 months.
    To Benjamin Taylor, of Mile-End, near Glasgow, for his loom
to work by the power from a steam-engine, which will weave
figures or flowers upon either twilled or plain cloth, in either silk,
 cotton, linen, or worsted, or any of them intermixed. — 31st Jan.
 — 2 months.
    To Sir Thomas Cochrane, knight, commonly called Lord
 Cochrane, for his improvement or improvements in the process
 or processes of purifying a certain spirit or essential oil which is
 known by the name of spirit of tar or oil of tar, and which is ob
 tained from different ligneous, carbonaceous, or bituminous sub
 stances ; by means of which improvement or improvements the
 said oil or spirit will be separated from certain impurities which
 have hitherto prevented the application of such oil of spirit to
 divers useful purposes. — 3d Feb. — 6 months.
    To Matthew Cotes Wyatt, of Henrietta-street, Cavendish-
square, (in consequence of a communication made to him by a
certain foreigner residing abroad,) for a safeguard to prevent the
 accidental movement of the lock of a gun, pistol, or other fire
arm, forward towards the hammer. — 3d Feb. — 6 months.
    To Jeremiah Chubb, of Portsea, in the county of Southamp
ton, for certain improvements in the construction of locks. — 3d
Feb. — 6 months.
    To Daniel Wilson, of Earl-street, for certain improvements in
the process of boiling and refining sugar. — 3d Feb. — 6 months.
    To Edmund Naish, of Bristol, hosier, for certain improvements
on the machines or machinery used for winding cotton.— 3d Feb.
 —4    months.
    To Grant Preston, of Burr-street, Aldgate, for his improvement
in the feck     glass  rim, and on  ^he safety- gate. — 3d   Feb.^-2
months.
                                                                   To

156                          Patents. — Astronomy.
   To Nathaniel Smith, of Kettering, Northamptonshire, for cer
tain imorovements on winnowing-machines. — 5th Feb. — 6 mo.
   To Mary Sedgwick, of Bishopsgate Within, starch manufac
turer, f>r her discovery of a valuable product or valuable products
from that part of the refuse, slime, or wash of starch that will
not of it-elf subside. — 10th Feb. — 2 months.
    To John Munro, of Finsbury-square, (in consequence of a
communication      made to him by Barnabas Langdon, of New-
York,) for certain improvements on steam-engines. — 12th Feb.
— 4 months.
    To John Simpson, of Birmingham, for his improved method of
constructing and making spring hooks, or woodcock eyes, and for
 coach harness, which principle of spring is intended also to be
 applied to harness and spring swivels. — 16th Feb. — 2 months.
    To Zai hariah Barrat, of No. 27, Windmill-street, Tottenham -
 court-road, for his machine for curing, cleansing, sweeping, and
 ventilating chimneys, and when chimneys are on fire, for extin
 guishing the same. — 10th Feb. — 2 months.
    To Thomas Allingham, of Smith-street, Chelsea, for his lamp
 intended to be called " The ceconomical and universal lamp,"
 constructed by means of the flame of the wick being kept in a
 constant and equal degree of contiguity to the oil, so as to con
 sume (in proportion to the light it gives) a less quantity of oil
 than other lamps ; also giving a continual light of almost un
 varied brilliancy, — 19th Feb. — 6 months.
    To John Jones, of the city of Gloucester, for his improvements
 in certain parts of the machinery or instruments used for dressing;
 of Woollen and other cloths. — 19th Feb. — 2 months.
    To James Collier, of Frocester, in the county of Gloucester,
 for various improvements on a machine now in use for the
 dressing and gigging of woollen cloths called a gigg.— >19th
 Feb. — 2 months.                                                    -
             ASTRONOMICAL PHENOMENA, MARCH 1818.
 D. It. M.                                 D.   U.M.
  1.21.27    J    tf                      18.    .     #     v     f
 2.    .     S    Ij   , 2   13'   N.                                  $   contact.
 4.    .     % 28       t    * 86'   N.   18.    ,     f     138 8     *15'N.
             i
 4.10.17               Vf                 19.11.12 (T i) &
                                                                       f
                  £
 7. .        g   as *
                  •           9 s.        20.16.44 © enters
 9-    >     % 125 8
                              * U'N.      22.12.36 <L ynn
 9-15. 5     <[ o      *                  23. .    (I in perigee
 13.   .     <x   in apogee               24. 9. 9 Z A
 14.15.10    <r    <?                     26. 3.38 (L 5 Dt.
                            *4'S.
                                                           r <{>
15.    >                                  28.18.54 {     mi
16.    .     5^,5            34'   N.     29. 2.56     4         f
                                                                           Meteoro-

                                   Meteorology.                          1 5J
Meteorological        Journal kept at Wallhamstow, Essex, from
                    January 15, to February 15, 1818.
                                           and Nine A.M. and the Thermometer
[Usually between the Hours of Seven
                                             Noon and Two P.M.]
                 (a second time) between
Date. Therm. Barom. Wind.
January
 15   50    29-60        SW. — Stormy, windy, and cloudy          ;  showers,
      5 1                  and wind, stormy night.
 16   47    29-70        W.—Windy,          cloudy, and dry; after 3 P.M.
      52                   showers and wind; stormy; wind, and rain
                            at night.
 17   39    29-76        W. — Clear, wind, and some cirrostratus ; very
      41                    fine day; sun and wind; moon and star
                            light, and windy.
 18   37     29-88       W. — Clear, and windy; very fine day; shower
      42                    and wind at 3 P.M.; moon-light.
 19   29    30-33         W. — Clear, and cirrostratus; afterwards very
      37                    fine day; moon and stars at 7 P.M. ; then
                            cumuli ; neither moon nor stars visible.
 20   37     30-32        S. — Clouds, and white frost ; very red sun-
       42                    rise ; fine day; sun, and hazy ; very red sun
                             set; moon-light.
 21    36    29-90        S. — Clear, and some small cumuli ; red sun-
       42                    rise; at 9 A.M. a great storm; very fine
                             sunny dav; moon-light bright.
 22    33    30-00        S.— Clear 'at 7 A.M.; at 9, hazy; fine day;
       45                    showers and wind.       Full moon.
 23    33     29-76               —
                          SW. Clear moon-light morning; at \2\
       43              '
                              great shower; showers, and wind ; bright
                              moon-light night.
  24   41     29-54       SW— NW. — Rain, and foggy; rain about
       42     -'              1 P.M. fine day after; moon-light.
  25   33     29-88       W-NW-SW.— Clear, sun, and wind ; vervfine
        40                    day   ; hazy towards evening ; cloudy night.
  26    47    29-76        SW. — Damp, and windy; cloudy day;              rain
        52                    and wind; at 11 P.M. remarkable cumu-
                              lostralus, the moon shining between.
  27    34     29-87       W. — Clear, and cirrostratus; hazy day; windy
        43                     and dark.
  28    37     29-54       SW— W.— Cloudy and windy; fine sunny day;
        41                     a hail shower at 3 P.M.; clear star-light.
   29   32     29-66       SW. — Clear moon-light morning; fine day;
        42                     some small rain about 2 P.M. ; showers and
                               wind. Moon last quarter.
   30   41      29-00      SW. — Great rain, and wind which continued
         45                    till after noon; windy and cloudy; star-light.
                                                                       January

 158
Date. Therm. Barom. Wind.
January
31    36   29-21   NW — Clear, cumuli, and windy; very fine day;
      38               clear, star-light.
February
   1  38   29- 10   S.W.— Rain and wind       ; at 9 A.M. great shower
      40              of rain and large     flakes of snow; fine day;
                       sunshine; clear star-light.
  2   27   29-00   S— N.— Clear, and white frost ; cloudy plea-
      34              sant day; star-light.
  3   24   29-31   S—NW.— Clear and very white frost; fine
      39              day; hail-storm at 2 P.M. and some snow;
                      cloudy night.
  4   2S   29-11   E — N. — Cloudy; some snow on ground;
      33              gleams of sun ; a raw cold day ; bright
                      orange sun-set; dark, but some stars.
  5  39    29-44   S. — Hazy; fine day, but hazy, and sun through-
      39              out; dark night.        New moon.
  6   27   29-8S   Clear red sun-rise at 7 ; at 9 A.M. thick fog ;
      34              sun through the fog ; stars early ; dark af
                      terwards.
  7   28   30-00   SE—NW.— Foggy           morn    ; at 10 A. M. very
     32               thick fog; very foggy day ; at night fog so
                      thick that people took torches to light them
                      in the roads,
  8   26   30-00   SW — W.— Fog, and very white frost; sun
     32               through fog all day ; very dark and foggy at
                      night, but some stars after 10 P.M.
 9   24    30-00   W— NW.— Fog, and very white frost ; fine
     34               winter day; sun through mist ; dark night.
10    24             SW — E. — Foggy;        trees beautifully  white;
     33              still foggy;     thawing     and icy drops fall
                     from    trees;   moon and stars early; dark at
                      10  P.M.
11   32   30-11    NE — E. — No fog; gray morn; very fine day;
     37              cloudv, and windy night.
12   31   30 20    SE—SW.— Gray morn:             about 9 A.M. a fog
     36              came on ; fog decreased ; night cloudy.
13   33   30-11    SE. — Gray morn; very fine day; moon and
     37               star-light.    Moon first quarter.
14   27   29-87    E — SE. — Fine pale orange sun-rise,             and
     37              white frost   ; very fine  day;   moon-  and  star
                     light.
15   29   29-87   E. — Fine clear sunshine, and white frost       ; fine
     41              day; sunny; cloudy after 8      P.M.; and cloudy
                     night.
                                                            METEORO-

                              Meteorology.                              159
          METEOROLOGICAL        JOURNAL KEPT AT         BOSTON,
                            LINCOLNSHIRE,
     [The time of observation, unless otherwise stated, is at 1 P.M.]
          *ge o!
  1818.    the   Thermo    Baro    State of the Weather and     Modification
          Moon    meter.   meter.             of the Clouds.
          DAYS.
Jan.   15    9     55-5    29-55   Stormy
       16  10      47-5    29-90   Cloudy
      17   11      41-     29-90   Fine
      18   12     42-      29-97   Stormy
      19   13      38-5    30-53   Very fine
      SO   14     43-      30-29 Ditto
      SI   15      44'     30 01 Ditto
      S3 full      44-5   29-81 Cloudy
      23   17      39-     29-60 Ditto
      24   18     41-      29-55 Very fine
      25   19     40-     30-05 Cloudy — rain in the evening.
      26   20     51-     29-75 Ditto
      27   21     40-     29-93 Very fine
      88   22     40-     29-59 Ditto
      39   23     41-     29-71 Ditto
      30   24     44-     29-37 Rain
      31   25     38-     29-33 Cloudy
 Feb.   1  26     40-     29-21 Ditto
        2  27     32-     29-04 Ditto — snow P.M.
        3  28     33-5    29-25 Ditto          ditto
        4  29      28-    29-28 Ditto          frost
        5 new     40-     29-60 Ditto          ditto
        6    1    37-     3006 Very fine ditto
        7   2     38-5    30-14    Ditto       ditto
        8   3      37-    30-10    Ditto       ditto
                                                            -
        9   4     40-5    30 08    Cloudy      ditto
      10    5     38-5    30-15   Very fine ditto
      11    6     32-     30-30    Cloudy      ditto
      13    7     33-     30-27 Ditto          ditto
      13    8     30-5    30-14 Ditto          ditto
      14    9     36-     29-91 Very fine ditto
      JA   10     41-     29-87 Ditto— rain in the evening.
                                                                MKTEORQ

|60                                                                  Meteorology,
                                         meteorological table,
                               By Mb. Cary, of the Strand,
                                                   For February 1818.
                         Thermometer.
                                                         •                                Q»                 3
                                                                          Height of        of!
 Days of                                                                                         Le
                                                                                                                                   Weather.
                                                    11 o'Clock
                                                                          the Barom.
                     o'Clock   Morning
                                                                                                                 Hygromet
 Month.                                                                                          by
                                         Noon.                   Night.     Inches.         Degrees
                     8                                                                       ness
  Jan.   27 <37                          41          37                   29-80                  27                         Fail-
         28           40                 46         35                       •50                 26                         Fair
         29           32                 45         45                       -42                 24                         Fair weather,
                                                                                                                              storm at    night
         30 45                           45         40                    28-90                  0                          Stormy
         31           36                 42         34                    29-30                  28                         Fair
  Feb.                35                 41         32                      -10                                             Snow and Rain
                                                                                                 0 0 0 0
          1
                      27                 35         32                    28-82                                             Foggy
         6 5 4 3 2
                       27                40         32                    29-02                                             Fair
                       28                36         30                      -03                                             Cloudy
                      28                 45         32                      -52                  24                         Fair
                      29                            32                      -90                                             Foggy
                                                                                                 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
                                         37
          7            27                30         29                    30 00                                             Foggy
          8            21                28         29                    2997                                              Foggy
          9           27                 33         28                      -92                                             F°ggy
         10           26                 32         32                      -50                                             Foggy
         11           33                 37         33                    30-05                                             Foggy
         12           33                 36         32                      -04                                             Cloudy
         13           32                 40         33                      -02                  18                         Fair
         14           33                 42          32                   29-80                  21                         Fair
         15            32                40          37                      -82                 16                         Fair
         16            37                47         46                       -90                 27                         Fair
         17           44                 54         45                       -90                 30                         Fair
         18           44                 52         50                       -80                                            Rain
                                                                                                 0 0 0 0 0 0
         19           43                 52         44                       -82                                            Showery
         20          37                  49         40                       -92                                            Showery
         21          44                  45          40                      -93                                            Rain
         22 40                           35          32                    29-00                                            Snow
         23           35                 40         40                       -72                                            Fair
         S4           38                 46         45                       -80                 18                         Fair
         25           47                 55         47                       -50                 27.                        Fair
         26           40                 45         35                       -56                  0                         Snow and showery
                     N.B. The                    Barometer's                height   is   taken at one o'clock.

                                   >
                                             t        161      3
    XXVIII.            On the Atomic Theory.                 By William Higgins, Esq.
                                        To       Mr. Tilloch.
    Sir, — beg
    tions, which I
                   I                       to you the following observa
                              leave to transmit
                                     will insert in vour Magazine. The
                      request you
    first part relates to the article Atomic Theory, published in Dr.
    Rees's new Cyclopedia, vol. xxxv. part 2.         The author I know,
    for it is impossible to mistake his prejudiced style of writing.
        The writer begins by giving a definition of the Atomit Theory
    of Chemistry. " It is the means of explaining the composition
    and decomposition of chemical bodies, by considering their ulti
    mate       atoms*         or particles       as peculiar       and distinct      elementary
    solids, never changing in their figure, weight or volume, under
    any circumstance." .
       The definition is very fair : and 1 will say with confidence that
    I was the inventor of this theory, and the first that applied it in
    -the manner above described ; and I defy any person to produce
~
    "anything to the contrary, — I mean any person that will step for
     ward without confounding dates and facts, as has been the case
     repeatedly on the subject of the Atomic Theory.
         The writer proceeds in continuation, on the supposition of the
     infinite and definite proportions in which elementary matter
     might, or might not, combine.       This I must pass over, as it has
     nothing    to do with the present discussion.
                                                  "
         " Philosophers," says he, were always satisfied to consider
     this fact of the limitation of the proportions of bodies, as one of
     the hidden secrets of nature, as difficult to conceive as the na
     ture of the attraction by which their elements were held to
     gether.     Berthollet appears to have been the first to attempt this
     arduous task, in his ingenious work entitled Chemical Statics."
         As Count Berthollet's work does not materially relate to my
     Atomic Theory, and as he had written some years after me, I
     shall make no comments on this part of the subject: I will only
     «ay that my Comparative View should have, in the history, a
     precedency of the Chemical Statics, where this arduous task, as
      he calls     it,
                   was first attempted with perfect success.
         " Chemists have from the earliest times been acquainted with
     those points which we call mutual saturation, and have been
     long familiar with those limited augmentations of their propor
      tions called       by
                       some doses, and                 by
                                           others particles."
         The ancient chemists were well aware that          body requiredo*
      a given portion of another body to saturate          so as to form a
                                                                         it
      neutral compound; but their knowledge went no further, — they
               * He should leave out the word               atom, as being   a   compound.
    Vol.   5
           1   .   No. 239. March 1818.                            L                         had

162                      On the Atomic Theory.
had no conception of the laws that regulated the limitation, be
cause they were not aware that bodies united particle to particle
and atom to atom in certain but limited proportions.               In short,
the cause of this law was unknown until I published my Com-
parative View.          '
    The writer tells us that the true nature of metallic oxides
was not known until Lavoisier's time : — How could it be known,
when their oxidation was solely attributed to a loss of their phlo
giston ? But the first idea of metals uniting to different doses qf
 oxygen, like sulphur, charcoal and azote, will be found in my
 Comparative View.
    " Although chemists have frequently used a language which
 appeared to show their acquaintance with -the real cause of the
 definite proportions ; such as one compound being formed by one
proportion, dose or particle, of one of its elements ; and another
with two proportions, doses or particles * : on the other hand,
we find expressions which would favour the idea of indefinite
proportions ; such as, bodies losing a small portion of their oxyi-
gen, or absorbing a little oxygen from the atmosphere."                 The
drift of the latter part of this passage will appear presently.
    " The most decided language used in any chemical work be
fore the discoveries of Mr. John Dalton t, S'v'nS aliy idea that
the doses are limited by distinct atoms, will be found in a work
by Mr. Higgins, entitled ( A. Comparative View of the .Phlogistic
and Antiphlogistic Theories.' , This work was written for the ex
press purpose of combating the phlogistic theory, and princir
pally in answer to Kirwan's Treatise of r/hTpgiston.
    "   In order to show the contradictions and absurdities of the
phlogistic doctrine, which under the name of phlogiston conr
founded a number of bodies which were very different, he ex
hibited    by diagrams a number of chemical operations, in which
he supposed the elementary bodies concerned to be ultimate
particles, and their immediate compounds molecules.                  He in
the same diagrams also used numbers, which he supposed to
be estimates of the strength of affinity of the combining particles.
By this means he very successfully showed many of the incon
sistencies which must be admitted to explain the phenomena.
pn the phlogistic theory.         In this mode of proceeding, however,
the numbers expressing the relative attractions served his pur
pose much more than the consideration of the proportions being
caused by distinct atoms ; and the language which would induce
the belief that Jie had such a conception of the nature of ele
mentary matter occurs only in a very few parts of his work."
   * No such
               language was used until I had written.
   f  It would puzzle the first philosophers of Europe to discover any thing,
     --
new in Mr.Dalton's work, except his errors which I have repeatedly pointed
out.
                                                                        The

                            On the Atomic Theory.                        163
      The numbers alone would avail nothing, if they had not been
  coupled with the proportions of particles which constituted dif
  ferent compounds, and vice versa ; and the language expressive
  of those ideas runs uniformly and conspicuously throughout my
  whole work.
      " After   concluding that it is unnecessary to admit the ex
  istence of the imaginary substance, phlogiston, in sulphur, he
  concludes, in page 36, that sulphurous acid is compounded of one
  ultimate particle of sulphur with one of oxygen, and that sul
  phuric acid consists of one of sulphur and two of oxygen.
      " In the same page he also observes, that water is formed of
  one ultimate particle of water* united to one of oxygen."
     The author next quotes my statement of the constituents of
 sulphuretted hydrogen, and the porportions which their respec
  tive particles bear to each other, and then passes to my estimate
  of the proportions of the particles of azote and oxygen in nitrous
  oxide, nitrous air, red nitrous acid, strawrcaloured nitrous acid,
  and inthe nitric acid.
      " These facts," continues he, " are certainly very remarkable,
  as they ggree with the conclusions in the present time, and give
  a strong proof of Mr. Higgins's genius at the time he wrote.
      " He does not, however, lay any stress upon these remarks,
, and: was not probably aware that they would be confirmed                by
  futureiresearch."      I was  perfectly   satisfied that I was right, and
  thatiirny demonstrations would bear the test of time and investi
  gating   f;  a«d the best stress I .could set upon them was, to lay
  them before the jpubjic.       But he goes on : "We are induced to.
  think so from the .manner in which he expresses himself in other
  parts of his work ,j, in which he frequently speaks of the absorp
  tion of small portions of oxygen, and of bodies having a small
  portion of oxygen more than they can retain."
     These remarks do not in the smallest degree invalidate the
  principles which I advanced.            We know that distilled water
  absorbs oxygen from      the  atmosphere, that all the sulphites gra
  dually absorb oxygen from the atmosphere, so as, in time, to be
  come sulphates. And many substances contain more oxygen
  than they can well retain ; — instance, nitric acid, euchlorine,
  oxymuriate of potash, and the oxides of gold and silver, parti
  cularly the latter.
     " This vague manner of speaking, and others which we do
  not immediately recollect, is sufficient to show that Mr. Higgins
  had no fixed notions of the cause of definite proportions; and the
  language in which he has used ultimate particles and molecules,
     * The author made a mistake ; read a particle of hydrogen instead of a
   particle o water,   -
     t  See preface to my Comparative   View.
                    ,                 L 2                               was

 164                   On the Atomic Theory.
was employed rather with a view to illustrate his examples, than
 to broach any new theory to explain definite proportions.          In
 deed it would have been inconsistent to have treated two sub
jects so very different in their objects, in the same pages."
     I will now, before I proceed any further with the author of
 this article, remark that I made no use of vague or equivocal
language, and that I entertained fixed notions of the laws of de
finite proportions, which are fully demonstrated throughout the
whole of my Comparative View.           It is true I gave no name to
 the novel mode which I adopted for the purpose of my research,
— but what is a name but a mere shadow in comparison to the
matter itself ? Lavoisier never gave a name to his doctrine. Kir-
wan was the first that gave it the name of the antiphlogistic
 theory ; and I will say that it was not inconsistent to trace the
errors of tfte phlogistians in the same page, and even in the same
paragraph, by means of the laws of definite proportions ; and it
was in consequence of that close investigation that the Atomic
Theory started up in my mind ; otherwise, in all probability, it
would have still remained unknown.
    The author tells us in another part of this article, that the re
viewer of this work (the Comparative View) in the Analytical Re
view soon after it was published, took no notice of my diagrams
or particles, although he gives me the highest praise for the able
manner in which I refuted the doctrine of phlogiston.          This he
adduces as a proof that there was nothing striking in what I ad
vanced on the theory of definite proportions.      The Reviewer, it is
true, only   observed that "  my  facts and  mode   of reasoning were
original and striking."     What more could be expected at a time
when there was no fixed theory, and when the science was al
most in a chaotic state? It was impossible that such novel view
should all at once be adopted even in the most advanced state
or the science of chemistry.
    My diagrams were taken notice of in the Critical Review, at
the time I had written, and the remarks made on them show
the ignorance of those days ; for they only observed that they
were the same with those of Dr. Black.            And Dr. Thomson
himself, after I published my Essay on the Atomic Theory, &c.
mentioned in one of his Journals, (I forget in what number, for I
have it not by me at present,) that there was nothing material in
those diagrams of fnine, for indeed that Dr. Black's were much
more pretty than mine.        What a scientific expression from a
compiler of philosophy !
    I scarcely need to tell the reader that Dr. Black's diagrams
and mine bear no relation whatever to each other.
    But the writer goes on.      "It   was not enough to know that
compound bodies were formed of particles, to enable us to ex
                                                                 plain

                         On the Atomic Theory.                          165
plain the cause of definite proportions ; and we want not greater
proof of this than the fact of the true cause not being known till
twenty-eight years after Mr. Higgins had told us that one par
ticle of sulphur and one of oxygen formed sulphurous acid, and
that one to two formed sulphuric acid.           These loose expressions
were but a small step indeed towards the discovery of the Atomic
Theory in its present form, which has placed chemistry on the
tame ground with that on which the discovery of the laws of
gravity placed the science of astronomy."
    The above paragraph is written with a great deal of disin-
genuity, and evidently could only flow from the pen of a pre
judiced man. We«ould never be acquainted with the cause of
definite proportion without first knowing that compounds con
sisted of elementary particles ; and the proportions of those par
ticles, the relative forces with which they unite in different com
pounds, and their relative weights : — all these constitute the
Atomic Theory; and those important circumstances are unequi
 vocally, not loosely, to be met with in my Comparative View.
 It was the pride of my life since I had written that work, to feel
 that   "  I placed chemistry on the same ground with that on
 which the discovery of the laws of attraction placed the science
 of astronomy."
    The following quotation from the preface of my Essay on
 Bleaching, page 18, will show how confident I was that what
 I advanced in my Comparative View was perfectly just, viz.
 " I have connected the whole (the facts and phenomena then
 known) and reduced them to a system, and made use of demon
 strations, which in my opinion are not to be invalidated or con
 tradicted, until the order of natural things assume a different
  aspect."
    The above Essay was published in the year 1 799, many years
 before Dalton's work appeared. — But to return to our writer.
     " We are inclined to believe that the first step towards this
 important discovery was given by Richter.               He found in the
 double decomposition of salts, that the acid of one salt was al
 ways just sufficient to saturate the base of the other, and vice
 versa." So far as the decomposition takes place this holds good,
  but in other respects there are many exceptions.
     "  He also ascertained, that when one metal was precipitated
  by another, the oxygen of the precipitated metal was just what
  was required by the precipitating metal."
     I wrote several years before Richter ; and many of the chemists
  of the time at which I published, as well as myself, were acquainted
  with what this gentleman attributes to Richter *.           The ancients
    * The mutual saturation     of saline bodies on interchanging acids  and
  bases with each other ; that is, double decomposition,
  i                                L  3                                knew

166                   Ob the Atomic Theory.             .
knew as well as Richter, that in the gross, one quantity of alkali
required a certain quantity of acid to saturate each other,
                                                                 — and
what more can he attribute to Richter ? It has nothing to do
with the atomic theory and definite proportions of particles or
atoms.
    And as to what relates to metallic precipitations, he is wrong
in many respects, as I have shown in my Comparative View,
page 263, which the following extract will show :
                                                          " Should the
precipitant be unable to take up the whole of the oxygen of the
precipitated metal, it falls down in the state of a semioxide.
Thus lead and silver will precipitate gold from its solution of a
dull purple colour, while copper and iron throw it down in its
metallic state."             ., ;s
    I now come to the most singular passage of all, as it exhibits
the most glaring prejudice and ignorance that could flow from
the mind of any man that could haw atiy pretensions to science;
it is as follows : " It is the means of drawing these inferences
arising from the mutual fitness of those parts of bodies which
combine, that constitutes the importance of the Atomic Theory;
and it is for the establishment of this new principle that we are
indebted to Mr. John Dalton.            When> Mr. Higgins can show
from the data given in his work, thaCsitnilar inferences could be
drawn, he then will be entitled to share <in the merit of the dis
covery of the Atomic The<Jryi> We say share with him; for we
are firmly convinced that Mr. Dalton had never read Mr. Hig-
gins's book ,previous to the publication of his^wn work."
    There isi  tiothing new, as said before, in these- facts, they were
                                I
known before wrote my Comparative View; and the mutual fit
                 1
ness (which      by   by
                    the    is an odd expression) of some of them, for
it does not extend to all saline bodies, was familiar to every ex
perimental Chemist, and Mr. Dalton has nothing to do with it;
nor does  it   immediately relate to the Atomic Theory.
    " When Higgins can show that similar inferences, &c."
      will adduce some facts which, according to the writer, will
" entitle me to share the Atomic Theory." In the section on
 I
                        in
the precipitation of metals     by  each other, page 260 Comparative
 View,   will  be found a diagram representing the principles on
which one metal precipitates another.            The precipitation of
copper  in   its metallic state from its solution in sulphuric acid by
iron, was adduced as an example.           The diagram represents by
 means of numbers the relative forces of attraction of the different
elements in a molecule of sulphate of copper, and also the in
fluence of   a   particle of iron on each of those elementary princi
ples united     to the" copper.    The play of affinities which enables
 the particle of iron to strip the particle of copper of the whole
of its oxygen and volatile sulphurous acid, so as to leave      it in its
                                                                     pure

                         Oil the Atomic Theory.                      167
   pure metallic state, is minutely explained, and is highly inter
   esting*.      There are two more diagrams, somewhat different
   from the former, representing the precipitation of mercury and
  silver in their metallic state, on the principles of what is also
  called the Atomic Theory.        No such philosophy is to be found
  in Dalton's work ; no, nothing is to be seen there but bombas-
  tical and erroneous imitations of my doctrine forced on the
  public by hirelings.     The respectable editor of this useful work
  will, it is to be hoped, be careful in future who he employs. That
  the writer of this article should assert that Mr, Dalton never
  read my work previous to the publication of his own, is rather
  extraordinary; for no man can know what any other individual
  reads or does not read.      Dalton himself has never denied his
 having read it— at least publicly.       There is nothing else in this
 article that I had not taken notice of in my observations on the
 same subject in the Encyclopedia Britannica; and which was
 published in this Magazine.        The writer tells us that Mr. Dal
 ton's book was published some time before chemists understood
 the true spirit of the Atomic Theory.         I believe it is not per
 fectly understood at present, or else I should not have so much
 trouble to establish my claim.      If Mr. Dalton's work was so dif
ficult to be understood in the present day, surely it could not be
 wondered at, that the original should lie by unnoticed in a more
obscure age of chemical philosophy.
     On lately casting my eves over Dr. Wollaston's paper on the
Synoptical Scale of Chemical ^fluivalents, I observed some re
marks on my theory, or, as he uttjuistly calls   it,  Dalton's theory.
     The Doctor, after having given the opinion of different che
mists on the relative quantities     of  Scid united to  a  given quan
tity of alkaline and earthy bases, observes that,
                                                          " could not
                                                             It
escape      the penetration of M. Berthollet, that there exist nu
merous deviations from this law of neutralization,         and cases of
prevailing affinity dependent      on    aredundance   of  one   or other
ingredient     in
               a     mixture of salts.    But he'SVas  not  so  happy in
detecting the definite law,     by which many at least     of   these de
viations are governed.     It   has since be^ri found, that when      a
base unites with   a   larger portion of acid than  is  sufficient to sa
turate it, the quantity combined    then an exact simple multiple
                                         is
of the former, thus exhibiting new modification of the law of
                                     a
definite proportions rather than any exception to it.
   " The first instance in which the same body was supposed to
unite with different doses of another, in such proportions that
one of these doses      simple multiple of the other, was noticed
                     is
                     a
  * The diagram and explanation may be seen also in my Essay on the
Atomic Theory, page 158.
                                 L4                                   by

168                    On the Atomic Theory.
by Mr. Higgius, who conceived rather than actually observed to-
occur, certain successive degrees of oxidation of azote, and re
presented the series of its combinations with oxygen to be azote,
one with two of oxygen making nitrous gas."
      He continues to the end of the series of the combinations of
those elements to nitric acid which limits their combination, and
marks their definite proportions. But what theDoctor means bythe
 expressions
                " conceived, rather than actually observed to occur,"
 I do not perfectly understand. It is too ambiguous If he mean*
 that it was not founded on facts, I cannot agree with him ; for I
 have adduced a great many to confirm my positions, which may
 be found in different parts of my Comparative View, but parti
  cularly under the section Nitrous acid.
      If he means that I accidentally stumbled on the idea, I have had
 a great many such stumbles throughout 280 miles (280 pages),
  and yet I have not once tumbled.          Perhaps he means that     I
  dreamed of the thing; if so, it must be a very happy and a very
  long and well-connected kind of a dream, such as seldom occurs.
      " But," continues the Doctor, " though Mr.Higgins, in the in
  stance of the union of hydrogen and oxygen, anticipated the law
  of bulks observed by M. Gay-Lussac, with respect to the union
  of gases, and in his conception of union, by ultimate particles,
  clearly preceded Mr. Dalton in his atomic views of chemical com
  bination, he appears not to have taken much pains to ascertain
  the actual prevalence of that law of multiple proportions by which
   the atomic theory is best supported ; and it is in fact to Mr.
   Dalton that we are indebted for the first correct observation of
  such an instance of a simple multiple in the union of nitrous gas
   with oxygen."
       I have also shown the proportions in which carburetted hy
   drogen and oxygen united so as to produce water and carbonic
   acid gas, and that this gas contained two-thirds of oxygen and
   one-third charcoal *. In short, I was acquainted with the pro
   portions in which all the gases united in volumes : — and it evi
   dently appears throughout most parts of my work, that I have
   taken great pains to ascertain the actual prevalence of that law
    of multiple proportions by which the Atomic Theory is best sup
   ported; and that it is not in fact to Mr. Dalton that we are in
   debted for the first correct observation of such an instance of a
   simple multiple in the union of nitrous gas with oxygen.         The
    Doctor could not bring forward a more unfortunate instance
   than the latter to support his friend, as I have fully proved upon
   a former occasion in the number of this Magazine for May last.
    I will now suffer the Doctor to go on.
       " Chemists in general," says he, " however, appear to have
                            pages 252 — 53 Comp. View.
                     * See
                                                                   been

                        On the Atomic Theory.                             169
been by no means duly impressed with the importance of this ob
servation of Mr. Dalton, till they were in possession of other facts
observed by Dr. Thomson and myself, in a more tangible form,
with regard to neutral and super-acid or sub-acid salts, &c." He
here refers the reader to Phil. Trans. 1808, p. 74 and 96, to
which we will now pass.
     The paper now under our consideration is entitled, On Super
acid and Sub-acid Salts.         By William Hyde Wollaston, M.D.
Sec. R.S. Read January 28, 1808.
     " Dr. Thomson," says he, " has remarked, that oxalic acid
unites to stroniian as well as to potash in two different pro
 portions ; and the quantity of acid combined with each of these
bases in their super-oxalates,        is just double of that which is
saturated by the same quantity of base in their neutral com
 pounds."
     The Doctor tells   us that he observed the same law to prevail
 in various other instances of super-acid and sub-acid salts ; and
 as he considered it general, it was his intention to pursue the
 subject,
            " with the hope of discovering the cause to which so
 regular a relation might be ascribed."
     " But since the publication of Mr. Dalton's Theory of Che
 mical Combinations as explained and illustrated by Dr. Thom
 son, the inquiry which I had designed appears to be superfluous,
 as all the facts that I had observed, are but particular instances
 of the more general observations of Mr. Dalton — that in all cases
 the simple elements of bodies are disposed to unite atom to atom
 singly* ; or, if either is in excess, it exceeds by a ratio to be ex
 pressed by some simple multiple of the number of its atoms."
     In the foregoing paragraphs the Doctor to my great surprise,
 and indeed to the surprise of every honest and liberal-minded
  man, transfers over to Mr. Dalton those principles which are so
 clearly developed in my Comparative View, and which he him
 self was obliged to allow five years afterwards, as 1 have already
  shown in this paper.
      But as the Doctor supposes that his intended experiments
  might throw additional light on the theory of Dalton, he is de
  termined to go on with them.           He commences with the sub-
  carbonate of potash.
      " Experiment 1. Sub-carbonate of potash recently prepared
  is one instance of an alkali having one-half the quantity of acid
  necessary for its saturation, as may thus be satisfactorily proved.
      " Let two grains of fully saturated and well crystallized car
  bonate of potash be wrapped in a piece of thin paper, and passed
   up into an inverted tube filled with mercury, and let the gas be
   * It would have been more correct to have said particle to particle singly.
                                                                 extricated

   170                      On the Atomic Theory.
  extricated from it by a sufficient quantity of muriatic acid, so
  that the space it occupies may be marked upon the tube.
      " Next let four grains of the same carbonate be exposed for a
  short time to a red heat, and it will be found to have parted
  with exactly half its 'gas ; for the gas extricated from it in the
  same apparatus will be found to occupy exactly the same space,
  as the quantity before obtained from two grains of fully saturated
  carbonate*.
      "  A similar experiment may           be made   with   a saturated car
 bonate of soda, and with the same result ; for this also becomes
  a true semi-carbonate          by being exposed for a short time to a
  red heat."
      There can be nothing novel in those observations of Dr. Wol-
 laston.      The same may be seen in my Comparative View, pages
 40 and 41. In explaining a diagram representing an atom of
 sulphuric acid with its two particles of oxygen united to one par
 ticle of sulphur, with numbers expressive of the force of their
 union, I observed that if one of the particles of oxygen were re
 moved, the other would become more strongly united; and
 when the second particle was again restored, the force of union
would be diminished as the quantum of attraction of the particle
 of sulphur would be divided equally between them. — Here fol
 lows an extract in continuation of the above explanation f.
     "  This seems to be a general law : all bodies unite with greater
force to half the quantity of those substances to which they have
 an affinity than to the entire.           Instance ; carbonate of potash
will part with a portion of its carbonic acid in a moderate degree
of heat, yet it requires a very strong heat to expel the whole.
In like manner crystallized sulphate of potash will part with
most of its water in a heat below ignition, but it requires a strong
red heat to drive away the entire of its water.              Thus we find in
proportion     as the   potash    is deprived   of one  part of its carbonic
acid,    its power of  retaining the remainder is increased : and the
same holds good as to the expulsion of water from the salt.                    I
shall forbear mentioning several other circumstances of the like
nature."
     The Doctor should at least glance at the work in which those
important ideas first originated, and not attribute the princi
ples    on which they are founded to an author who cannot have
the smallest pretensions to them.
     It is very well known that I have done much for the antiphlo
gistic theory, that I have fixed it upon a more solid foundation
    * It would be very difficult to hit
                                        upon the degree of heat to ascertain the
products so accurately as the Doctor describes.
   f   See Essay on my Atomic Theory and Electrical Phenomena, page 64,
pr Comp. View, pages 40-41.
                                                                           than.

                        On the Atomic Theory.                      171
than Lavoisier himself had done ; yet, as it originated with him,
it belongs to him of right, and to him alone.
     No person can prove that Mr. Dalton has made any novel or
original addition to my Theory, except extending fancifully and
 hypothetically my relative weights of the ultimate particles of
 elementary matter, without sufficient proof to support his con
jectures ; at the same time that it is within the reach of accurate
 experimental     knowledge to confirm the principles which I
 broached.     As to the relative weights or relative quantities of
 matter in elementary particles, I cautiously confined myself to
few instances, and those few will be found correct.         They were
deduced from the relative weights of simple and compound gases ;
 and I have pointed out exceptions, even to this mode of pro
cedure : Instance, — nitrous air is lighter than the gaseous oxide
 of azote, and yet the atoms of the former are heavier than those
of the latter ; and I have lately pointed out that the particles of
azote are nearly twice the weight of those of oxygen, although
an equal volume of the latter gas is specifically heavier than that
of azotic gas. 1 attributed these differences to the distances to
which their particles or atoms are removed from each other by
 their respective atmospheres of caloric.
     The relative proportions of ultimate particles in atoms and
 molecules were illustrated by many examples in my Comp. View,
 which constitutes another essential part of my system. The next
 and the most important part of my doctrine relates to the rela
 tive forces with which ultimate particles and atoms unite to each
 other singly, and the modification of this law when they unite
 1 and 2, or 1 and 3, or 1 and 4, &c.          Were I to leave out this
part, I could accomplish nothing decisive in my arduous investi
gation ; and it enabled me to account for many phenomena and
 operations in chemistry which would otherwise be inexplicable.
     The foregoing principles aggregately, but particularly the latter
 part, enabled me " to place chemistry on the same ground with
 that on which the discovery of the laws of gravity placed the
 science of astronomy."
     This last link of my Theory Dalton overlooked altogether.         I
 suppose he considered it too marked a feature to bring forward.
  But forward it must come, or else the Atomic Theory must re
  main a mere bauble.
     In taking a cursory view, a few days ago, of the last edition
  (the fifth) of Dr. Thomson's System of Chemistry, I found that
  he transferred my Atomic Theory to Dalton, without even men
  tioning my name ; and, what is extraordinary, adduces as an ex
  ample, my proportions of azote and oxygen in the different com
  pounds of those elements*.       The Doctor also gives some ex-
                            * Vol. iii. p. 19.
                                                              periments

172                     On the Atomic Theory.
periments which were first made by me, and which helped very
materially to illustrate the atomic theory or definite propor
tions, without the smallest reference to the author.         I will ad
duce one, viz. the firing of oxygen and sulphuretted hydrogen
by means of the electric spark, and the ascertaining of the pro
ducts, &c.
     In giving an history of the progress of the antiphlogistic theory
 and of the memorable contest which was carried on between the
 two sects of philosophers, he does not even glance at my Com
parative View, which according to himself, in one of his Journals,
operated so conspicuously and decisively against the arguments
 of my illustrious friend Kirwan.      In giving an account of elec
trical phenomena, he passes over my hypothesis on that subject,
 although he adduces less probable ones of many other writers ;
 and in his Account of Meteoric Stones, although I analysed one
 which fell in this kingdom ; and although I advanced a new doc
 trine agreeable to my hypothesis of electrical phenomena, re
 specting the cause of their ignition, &c. he never once mentions
 my views.      I could enumerate many more facts; but a sufficient
 number     have   been adduced to show a rooted prejudice, and a
 degree of glaring injustice not to be equalled in the history of
 any science.      But the Doctor having, unfortunately to himself,
 commenced with his prejudices, he must persist ; although we
find him contradicting himself on many other occasions. A com
 piler of a science is an historian in that department, and he
 should detail his facts faithfully and impartially ; he should not
 attempt to shove aside one experimenter, and to bring forward
 another of less pretensions ; he should not attempt to suppress
the labours of one man in order to confer them on his favourites.
When a compiler deviates from those principles, he injures his
readers, the science, and ultimately himself.
    The Doctor, it is true, was generous enough to allow me a few-
facts ; facts so insulated or so detached from the important ob
jects to which they belonged in my system, that they appear
 singly of little or no consequence.    To make use of the expres
sion of a learned acquaintance of mine, " The Doctor extin
guished your great lights, and furnished you with the feeble glim
 mer of a rush-light."
                        I am, sir,
                             Your obedient humble servant,
DuWm, Feb. 4, 1818.                             William Higgins.
                                                         XXIX. Mr.

                               [   173   ]
         XXIX. Mr.      Smith's Geological Claims stated.
                            To  Mr. Tillcch.
Sir, —    In   the month of November last, a gentleman to whom
the cause of Geological Investigation was long ago under obliga
tion, called on Mr. William Smith, in Buckingham-street, and
after mentioning, that some differences of opinion seemed to pre
vail, as to the priority of investigation and discovery, of several of
the principal geological facts of England and Wales, requested
Mr. Smith to show him Documents, and give him such Memo
randums and References, as would enable himself, and some
Friends who felt a like interest, to state the case, so fully, as would
he hoped, put an end to these differences, by assigning to the
earlier English Geologists, and to the followers of M. Werner
and others, their respective shares of merit herein ; which would
leave Mr. Smith, in 'undisputed possession of what really might
appear to belong to him.
    To which request and proposal Mr. Smith so far assented, as
to promise to consult some of his Friends thereon; which having
done, and it appearing, that nearly all the earlier and the most
explicit notices which had appeared in print, and could thus be
adduced as published testimonies, regarding the principles, prac
tice, localized results, and dates of Mr. S.'s investigations, had
been published by me, as well as Mineral Surveying having been
the most widely and minutely practised by me, of any one, I was
requested by Mr. Smith, to give assistance to the gentleman al
luded to, and his Friends, by looking out and arranging my va
rious publications hereon, and in drawing up a Statement ; and
having assented thereto, the gentleman alluded to, and any of
his friends, were requested by Mr. Smith to call on me.
    I began immediately to look out the works and passages re
quested, and to minute down from my original Letters, Papers,
Maps and Memorandums, all such particulars as I judged could
assist, in preparing the Statement which was wished, as far at
least as fell within the knowledge of or concerned myself or Mr.
Smith ; but no one calling, as was expected, I took the oppor
tunity which presented itself on the evening of the 30th of No
vember, of meeting the gentleman alluded to and several of his
friends, and Mr. Smith and several of his friends, at Sir Joseph
Banks's Conversazione; when by myself and Mr. S., and by more
than one of his friends, the gentleman alluded to and his friends
were invited and pressed, to attend a meeting next day at my
House, for deliberately considering and finally adjusting such a
Statement of Mr. Smith's claims, as could be borne out by un
 deniable testimonies.
                                                                   This

  174               Mr.         Smith's Geological Claims staled.
      This meeting accordingly took, place at the hour appointed,
 and continued through several hours, before the Statement (in
  16 Items, and with as many Notes of Reference, for which now
 I beg insertion in your Magazine,) was finally adjusted, as then
 it was, and unanimously approved by all present ; but neither
 the gentleman who had first moved in this business, or any of
 his friends who have been alluded to, came, or sent any apology
 to this meeting; and soon after, he went out of town, and no
 thing since has, I believe, been heard from him or them on the
 subject.
      Mr. Smith, after having again well considered the Statement
mentioned, sent me an authentic copy of                       it,
                                                     with Letters ex
pressive of his entire approval and concurrence in                  it,
                                                           and his wish
for its being published; although, not then immediately, because
he had been persuaded, to first ask the signature of some of the
oldest, more respectable, or well known of his friends,          way of   by
sanction to      it,
                 with the public.
    It would be useless for me to occupy your pages in mention
ing the various and opposite reasons, some of them, which dif
ferent individuals assigned to Mr. S., as        have been told, for
                                                          I
not complying with the wish last mentioned           although, all ex
                                                              ;
pressed   their general approval  of  the Statement,   and wish for its
being speedily published, just   as    stood.   This
                                                it    latter being also
the feeling, most unequivocally expressed,                by
                                                 several persons who
are amongst the best judges on this subject, to whom               have    I
since lent my authentic copy,      do not now hesitate to send you,
                                            I
a faithful transcript therefrom      and the insertion of which will
                                            ;
greatly oblige,          Sir,
                                    Your obedient servant,
Howland-street,     London,                             JoHN FAREY Sen.
       Feb.26,   1818.
Mr. William Smith's        Claims (according to the Opinions of his
    Friends)                originality, in regard to the Knowledge
                 to merit and
    of the British Strata, may   be briefly stated as follow: viz.
    1st. Having, while employed in the under-ground surveys of
Collieries, at and near High-Littleton,              in
                                              1790, and two or three
following years, acquired     more   intimate
                                       a       acquaintance with' ule
facts of the Stratification, beneath the surface, and drawn more
correct inferences therefrom, as to the necessary connection of
the edges of these subficial Strata, with the Surface*, than were
then current or known to the several coal-agents, over-lookers or
working-colliers,    the vicinity; or than are even now (at more
                          in
  *                             was published by Mr. Farey on the 31st of
       An explicit notice of which
June    1806,in the Philosophical Magazine, vol. xxv. page 44; and with
             on the /th of June 1811, in his Report to the Board of Agri
fuller details
culture on Derbyshire, vol.    108, &c. and on numerous other occasions.
                                  i.   p.
                                                                               than

                  Mr.    Smith's Geological Claims slated.                   175
than a quarter of    a century of time distant) known or current,
among a very large proportion of the same class of practical
men, throughout all the coal districts of Great Britain*.
    2d. Having while so engaged, accurately discriminated the re
gular and undisturbed Strata, with the roundish Nodules they
frequently contain, and trata of Sand, from the really worn and
heterogeneous alluvial ruins of Strata, which are superficially,
and very variously scattered, on the topi and edges of the S/rataf,
but are in no case found beneath regular Strata; and having
practically established means, of knowing the alluvia, almost at
first sight ; — at the time, when almost all observers and writers
on the subject, were confounding the alluvia with the strata.
    3d. Having in the year 1795, applied the aforesaid inferences
or deductions to practice, in actually making a Map of the Strata
in the vicinity of Bath and Bristol, and having then freely shown
and explained the'same, to great numbers of persons J, particu
larly to those assembled at several public meetings of the Bath
and West of England Society.
  4th. Having, during the progress of making this first Strata
Map,      and in beginning very soon after, to extend this map to
other parts of England, discovered a notable difference between
certain English strata, as to the visible boldness with which the
edges of certain of them are presented on the surface, compared
with others ; some of them forming almost continued ranges of
hills §, where they basset ; and low fiat districts, or wide easy
   * See Derbyshire Report, i. 163. Note. Mr. Farey being unable still, at
this day, to add any other names to the two there mentioned. See note*,
in following page.
   -f-Mr. Farey and others, who have now acquired experience in the prac
tice of mineral surveying, are ready to testify, that the Smithian rules of
discrimination, as to the Strata and the Alluvia, were quite fundamental ones to
their progress, in acquiring    aknowledge of the British strata, and without
which discrimination, no progress whatever could have been made therein.
J     The late Rev. Joseph Townsend was among these persons and who ;
so highly valued what Mr. Smith had done, as to request and press M*.
Smith, for materials and permission, to publish a general account of them,
and   a List of the Shells and Strata (.mentioned in the 8th and 11th items),
in gome work which he then contemplated          ;   on which request,   a  cor-,
respondence took place in May to July 1801, between the Rev. B. Richard
son and Mr. Smith wherein the former persuaded Mr. Smith, to publish
                     ;
them himself  ;  and to cause a Latin edition to be prepared, for more readily
circulating the important novelties of Mr. S.'s discoveries, throughout Eu
rope.    In 1812 Mr. Townsend published the 1st volume of his " Character
pf Moses," and in the preface, handsomely acknowledges Mr. Smith's as
sistance in tracing the strata, &c.
  §   This principle of selecting characteristic Strata, was published by Mr.
Farey in February 1810, in the Phil. Mag. vol. xxxv. p. 138; and in June
1811, in Derby Report,     i. 112, 113; he having previously acted on it, in
1807, in the construction of    a great part of his large Mineral Map of Der
byshire, and its environs,
                                                                         valleys

   176             Mr. Smith's Geological Claims             stated.
  valleys being found, where several of the others come to the
  surface. And having then fully adopted and practised this new
 principle of selection, for choosing such of the strata, out of the
 great number of others, as should first have colours assigned
  them, and the tracing and depicting of which on his Map, should
  he first attempted.
     5th. Having made use of certain Strata selected as above (se
 veral of which are very unimportant in almost any other point
  of view, but their visible edges, and had not even received a
 name, or been mentioned in previous geological writings) as the
 subsequent means of mapping or filling in, between the ranges of
  these characteristic Strata, as many of the less conspicuous (al
 though perhaps more useful) strata*, as the scale of the map
  would admit; a practice quite new amongst the makers of mi
 neral Maps, of mine or colliery Estates, then, or even now, ex
  cept by those who have expressly followed Mr. Smith in this
 practice.
     6th. Having in these early parts of his Survey of the strata of
 England, by that very particular attention to the nature of the
 surface Soil, and its fitness for and appropriation to particular
 kinds of vegetable cultivation or spontaneous growth, which his
 previous and early habits as a Land-surveyor and Valuer, had led
 and enabled him to pay to these objects, while investigating th.6
 strata beneath ; succeeded, in ascertaining and establishing nu
 merous helps to the mineral surveyor, from the visible appear
 ances of the Vegetable productions of a district, towards tracing
 put the surfaces of its le6s conspicuous Strata beneath              f.
                                                                             7th.
    " In  all the numerous and wide-spread opportunities which Mr. Smith,
 Mr. Farey, and other of his friends have had, in seeing the maps which are
 inihe possession of the mineral Owners, and their Lessees and Agents, and
 in those of professional Coal- viewers, &c. throughout Great Britain, not an
 instance has occurred, of any of these maps depicting the thick Rocks and
 Strata, whose edges are conspicuous on the surface, as the means of marking
 out, almost parallel strips, within which the coals, ironstones, thin limcs1onest
fire-clay, &c. &c. are to be found ranging ; although, in all the minutia: of
 surveying mineral estates, these principles and proceedings of Mr. S. are
 equally, and even more applicable and useful, than they are in kingdom,
 county or district surveys. As a recent instance may here be quoted, the
 survey of the Leinster coal district in the South of Ireland, made by Mr.
 Richard Griffith junior, in 1814, and since published by the Dublin Society;
 wherein, the bassets of no rocks are attempted to be shown, within the coal
field, but merely the basset ring of one coal-seam, and broken parts of the
bassets of three others ; the ascertainment of which coal-bassets, must have
been as laborious as the accurately marking out of half, or perhaps the
 whole of the basset-edges of the principal sandstone rocks,would have been,
which interlay the coals of the whole field ; and from whence, the internal
 structure of the same would have been incomparably more visibly and use-.
fully shown, than at present.
    t  In the minuter details of the coal districts, Mr, Farey use# this other
                                                                         principle

                 Mr. Smith's Geological Claims             slated.                 177
   7th. Having by the same persevering attention to the surface
tn connection with its Strata beneath                it,
                                              ascertained the true
source   of
          the supply     all Springs of Water, to be the superficial
                          of
u/aier (of rains, or streams, pools, &c.) percolating downwards
i/trough porous Strata or Alluvia, until intercepted        water        by
tight strata, or   Faults
                    by    or  patches of clayey alluvia, or Water         by
already stagnated, in such porous masses               — and
                                                    having deduced
                                                     ;
and applied in an extensive practice, then commenced,      these in
vestigations and conclusions, as to the Strata and Springs, to the
D raining     Land, wherein Mr. Smith has been employed, in
              of
most of the improving agricultural districts in the kingdom, since
about the beginning of this century.
   8th. Having while engaged in the earliest of the investigations
above mentioned, ascertained the important fact of the fossil
Shells, Corals and other organic remains, imbedded in the strata,
not being accidentally or capriciously distributed therein, but that
each particular species of these organic remains (when such
species are with the requisite niceties discriminated) has its pro
per and invariable place in some particular stratum or bed, of
the successive lamine of the earth; — and haying then drawn the
conclusion, and verified     itan extended research,that some one
                                  by
or an assemblage of two or more of these species
                                                               of ' of
                                                      fossil Shells,
&c. may serve as new and more distinctive marks,        the identity
 ofmost     the Strata in England*, than were previously known
           of
or resorted to,     by
                    mineralogists or others.
   9th. Having ascertained,       the actual tracing and examining
                                       by
of great lengths of most of the upper and middle Strata of Eng
land, that the mineralogical characters, as well as the more ob
vious or useful quali'ies of nearly all of them, vary so consi-r
derably,     different parts of their course and breadth of surface,
            in
as to render any names for such strata, or descriptions of them
founded cm mere mineral characters, very uncertain and useless                     \:
yet probably, no instance has occurred, of any remarkable or use
ful quality of, or property attending        stratum (including its
                                                 a
nodules and organized fossil") having occurred in one place only;
but more commonly, such occur in numerous places on its range;
neaTly all the properties of       stratum, more or less often and
                                       a
principle of selecting, mentioned p. 162 of his Report; all which he ac
knowledges having derived, from the instructions of Mr. Smith, in mineral
surveying :   see also the Phil. Mag. vol. xxxv. p. 139, and vol. xlii. p. 168.
   * On the 5th of August 1807, Mr. Farey published an explicit notification
oi these discoveries and conclusions by Mr. Smith, as to fossil Shells, in the
latter part of the article Coal, in Dr. Rees's Cyclopedia.
f     A matter on which Mr. Farey very pointedly insisted in 181           in th»
                                                                              1,
preface  to, and  in various other parts of his Derbyshire Report,   vol.     i.
    Vol. 51. No. 239. March IS 1.8.                        M              suddenly

178               Mr. Smith's     Geotogical     Claims stated.
suddenly appearing to decrease, and perhaps to disappear
cally; to increase again to perfection, and after a greater or lel*
length of range or breadth, again to decrease and disappear ;
and so on.
      10th Having ascertained, that although the strata of nearly
all the south east and east of England, have a general and easy
dip toward* the snath-east : it is not, as one fiat plane that they
so dip or decline, but they are waved in a somewhat parallel
 manner, almost like the surface of a ploughed field : and on th»
 great scale, are found to form ridges and troughs*.
      11th. Having, by the collection of very numerous Specimens,
 actually ascertained the particular species of fossil Shells and
 other organic remains, which distinguish ten or more of the prin
 cipal Strata of England; having observed that often, where ex
 traneous alluvia is absent, the organic remains of the Strata, show
 themselves in the ploughed Soil ; and having extensively used
 these, in conjunction with the other new means above mentioned,
 of tracing and identifying the Strata, previous to 1799; and hav
 ing in that year, made and circulated several manuscript copies of
 a list of such Shells, &c.       f  occupying a series of twenty- three of
 the principal Strata which are enumerated therein, in their or
 der, from chalk downwards to coal : — which order of the Eng
  lish Strata had not previously been ascertained and published by
             J
 any one ; or the fact known, that London is situated on almost
  the highest of the British strata, which in the following sum
 mer Mr. Smith ascertained.
       12th. Having in the prospectus which Debrett printed and
  circidated in 1 SOI, (and of which a'.so great numbers were djs-
      * In April  1812, Mr. Farey published a notification of this part of Mr.
  Smith's discoveries, in the Philosophical Magazine, vol. xxxix. p. 271, Note.
      •f The Rev. Benj. Richardson, of Farley; William James, Esq. of Wels-
  bourn ; and the late Rev. Jos. Townsend, of Pewsey, were among those
   who at first received copies of the Litt, here spoken of, which was drawn up
  at Mr. Townsend's house in June 1799; concerning which List, Mr. Farejr
   published a notice on the 31st of May 1815, in the Phil. Mag. vol. xlv.
   p. 334 ; and in August of the same year, Mr. Smith published a copy of thi*
   original List, in the
                          " Memoir," which accompanied his Map, facing p.8. —
   The late William Reynold, Esq. of Coalbrook Dale, Mr. Thomas Bartley, of
   Bristol, and others (see Phil. Mag. vol. xxxviii. p. 338, Note) received
   copies of this List, at second hand, soon after 1799.
      X In confirmation of which, all the numerous mineralogical and geolo
   gical works, learned transactions, periodical publications, or other works,
   prior to 1811 (when Mr. Farey's Derbyshire Report, vol. i. appeared) may
   ia vain be searched, for any such knowledge ; or, for the clear and explicit
   hying dov)n and actmg on, or using for the purposes of geological investiga
   tion or theory, any of the important discoveries and deductions, which are
   herein elabned for Mr. Smith.
                         . .                                           tributed

                 Mr. Smith's      Geological Claims stated.                179
 tributed, while     Mr. Smith was soliciting ike names of subscribers
 for the publication    of his Map and Memoir*), set forth very fully,
 what were the objects and advantages to various classes of the
 community, as well as to science, which would result from the
 diffusion of the knowledge regarding the Strata which had then
 recently been acquired.
     13th. Having, from the first commencement of his tracing
 and mapping the British strata, in the most free and unreserved
 manner communicated, to all the various mine, colliery, or
quarry Owners, Agents, Workmen,h.c. with whom he conversed
 on the spots, almost throughout England and Wales, and to
scientific Men and others, in general f, whatever they wished to
ask, regarding the principles, and process, on which his investiga
tions had been commenced and carried on, to the state in which
his Map, Sections and Collection, were then shown to them; and
as to the general conclusions, of every kind, which he had drawn
therefrom ; and to Mr. John Farey in particular, the agent at
Woburn, for the late Duke of Bedford's estates, at his Grace's
particular request (made before Mr. Farey had ever heard the
name of Mr. Smith mentioned) a full and particular course of
instructions were given, in Mineral Surveying, by Mr. Smith X;
at the time of revising his Map of the adjacent parts of Bedford
shire and Buckinghamshire:           such as, joined with his own pre
vious acquirements and industry has enabled Mr. Farey, since
the decease of his Grace, extensively to practise Mineral Sur
veying in new situations, almost throughout Great Britain.
     14th.   Having, at very considerable trouble and expense,
brought together and arranged, a numerous Collection of Speci-
wievs of the several English and Welsh Strata, from numerous
 and distant Places (all of which were marked) on the range of
   * On the 1st of July 1801, the editor of the Monthly Magazine, in vol. x;.
p. 525, published a distinct notice of this prospectus.
   f  For several years after 1800, Mr. Smith made a point of attending nearly
all the public Agricultural Exhibitions of the Bath Society ; Mr. Coke, at
 Holkham; the Duke of Bedford, at Woburn ; and of Lord Somerville, and
the Smithfield Club, in London, and there publicly hung up and showed hit
Map of the Strata, to many hundreds of intelligent persons : which fact has
very often been recorded in the newspaper accounts of the proceedings of
these meetings; see the Star of the 21st of June 1804, p. 4: Phil. Mag.
vol. xxxv. p. 114, &c.
    X To whom Mr. Farey made this acknowledgement in the most hand
some terms, in Feb. 1810, in the Pliilos. Magazine, vol. xxxv. p. 1 14 ; also
in a paper read to the Royal Society on 21st March 1811. Phil.Trans.1812;
and in June 1811, in his Derbyshire Report, vol. i. p. 110; and on very nu
merous other occasions, in the last twenty-five volumes of the Philosophical
Magazine, and in several other works, Mr. F. has also stood forward, zeal
ously, and with effect, to assert Mr. Smith's claims, as herein set forth.
                                      M2                                  each

180              Mr. Smith's               Geological   Claims stated.
each stratum, as shown in his Map; and particularly of the
organic remains, found imbedded in each of these several Strata.
Having rented and kept Rooms for the express purpose of dis
playing these Specimens, in the real order and succession in which
they occur in the Earth, and given the freest access to them
gratis, and to his map       the strata and sections,
                                     of'                  all persons   by
who applied     ;as great numbers did, and occupied much of Mr.
Smith's time in thus explaining them.
    At first, this Collection was shown in Trim-street, Bath,
through several years; next                  in
                                    Charing-cross-street,   London;,
and since 1804, for many subsequent years, in Buckingham -
street, Strand, at Mr. Smith's present residence, until this Col
lection was in June 1816, removed to the British Museum, and
there arranged       Mr. Smith,
                          by         a similar manner and order, for
                                               in
the free use of the public.
    15th. Having, in August 1815, published (at Mr. John Cary's,,
 181, Strand) his iarge coloured Map           the Strata, in fifteen
                                                          of
sheets, on  a scale of five miles to an inch    and   " Memoir," of
                                                          ;         a
fifty-one quarto pages which accompanied it.
    16th. Having since published (at ditto) 'c      Geological Table
                                                               A
of  British organized Fossils," &c. containing         great many use
                                                                    a
ful and interesting particulars, on      single sheet.
                                                    a
    Also (at ditto) "    Geological Section, from London to Snow-
                               A
 don," on   a long  sheet.
  . And (at Mr. Evan Williams's, No. 11, in the Strand), one out
 of the two intended parts of the " Strati graphical System," in,
which more than 700 species        Shells and other organic remains,
                                             of
which M,r. S. has arranged in the British Museum, are each to
be named, and scientifically described; with references to the
precise different Places, at which the several individuals of each,
 species were dug       and the particular Stratum (with reference
                           *,
 to the Map and Section) which         there occupied.
                                                  it
    Also (at Mr. James Sowerby's, No.          Mead-place, Lambeth)
                                                        2,
three out of the seven intended numbers of " Briluh Strata
identified,     their imbedded Organic Remains," in which draw
                by
ings are given, and the names of all the most characteristic Shells,
 Corals, &c.      each Stratum.
                 of
  London, Dec.       1,   181   7.
    * These Places, as enumerated in this first
  .                                             part, are 263 in number and     ;
the number of the individual Shells, &c. 1155; of which an alphabetical
list   given in the Philosophical Magazine, vol. L.
      .is                                                271.  p.
                                                                             XXX. On

                               [   131     ]
  XXX.    On the Question    "   Whether Music is necessary to the
    Orator, — to what Extent,     and how most readily attainable P"
    By Henry Upington, Esq.
                          [Continued from p. 43.]
          j
Sir, — 1 have
                            To   Mr. Tilloch.
                                        Blair's Hill, Cork, Feb. 18, 1818.
                    read in your January Magazine rnvlast letter of
 the 17th December, and am really apprehensive that so long an
exclusive dissertation upon music will appear to many of your
readers an unnecessary procrastination          of my subject.       I ac
knowledge the delay ; and however interesting the musical ques
tion may in itself appear, I am determined to conclude it within
this present paper, and confine myself, for the future, to its more
 immediate application to my theme.
    Ere I commence jvith the formation of that table which I
promised you, I must recall your attention to the mode of calcu
lation by which I suggested that it should be governed; viz. by
the creation of means, and the subsequent division of those means
into the sums produced by the multiplication of the extremes—
in justification of which procedure I advanced, as you will recol
lect, to the minor 6th, pointing out its origin from the fourth
and octave ; the fifth having previously proceeded from the con
joint operation of the base, the fourth, and octave, — while the
fourth, in its turn, was generated by the base and octave alone.
   Although this retrospect may possibly serve as a competent
introduction to the table ; yet i would previously state in defence
of the fourth, one important peculiarity which elevates it above
all other numbers, and justly stamps it (at least in my estimation)
with that superiority of character insisted by the Greeks.         Nature
then, throughout     all her  known    operations,     has  uniformly as
signed   as the common centre between any        two   bodies of different
 magnitude, some certain situation, more contiguous to the greater
body than to the smaller : and that this universal principle is
equally applicable to that branch of acoustics called Music, as to
 every other branch of natural philosophy, is evident, from the
indispensable construction of all our fixed-toned instruments.
 Thus, with our piano-fortes the interval between any fundamental
 and its 4th, is occupied by only four keys, while that between
 the 4th and the octave of that fundamental is occupied by six.
 The fourth, therefore, most avowedly, and not the fifth, which
 would reverse this order of nature, must constitute the musica)
 Centre, anu consequently the only perfect concord,
                                                                    TABLE

  182        f* Whether Music          is necessary to the  Orator   ,—
                              TABLE OF ANALYSIS.
                         Base, for convenience, counted as 12.
                                                  Order on Scale as created
              Mode     of Creation.
                                                        ?
                                                        so
                                                           j   -s
                                                                  5
  Originals                                       12
      Fourth = 9, i.       e.  fa   or 4 string.
                    Operation.
         Base =                            Nqw
                      12\Mean9>                   12
      Octave = o J
  In ratio as 1 to 2.
        Fifth =       8 or  J
            Base = 12
   X by Octave = 6
 -s-by4th = 9) 72 (S                       Now    12
 6th Minor =          7i  or $
                                                 12
 Ratio     2 to  3.
  3d Minor = 10 or £
         Base = 12\
         Fifth =
 Ratio 2 to 3.
                       8
                         J  Mean 10.       Now   12         .0
        3d Major = 9?- or            %
                      Base =12
           x by Octave = 6
 -f-by 6th Minor = 7 i) 72~(9f .            Now  12 10 94-         S7f
      6th Major = 74- or 3r
                    Base = 12
          X by Octave = 6
 -r-by3d Minor =10)             "72~(74-   Now   121109            8    74 6
       4th Major =         84 or f
                         Base = 12
              X by Octave = 6
-i-by    a new mean*       = 8|- )72{S^.
   * This me an
                                           Now   12 10 9f   m
                   8$, which is not on our scale
as  an interval, is ronstUuled    by
                3d Major = 9} \ „,         „,
           and 6th Major = 7i/Mean «
   Ratio as 3 to 4.
 \*     The linked numbers alone are employed for the creation of means.

                                                         <U+2666>
       to  what Extent, and     hotv most        readily attainable f"     183
    Although the major 4 th is certainly inferior to the preceding
 ¦umbers called concords ; yet, if this mode of calculation be just,
it is by far superior to the proper discords, as will appear by lh«
succeeding analysis.
     Analysis of Discords — (Base,                as before counted, 12.)
?th   Minor=6$ i.e.          or  -j — I     shall call it 6f, for I am in
                                                                 J
                                         clined to consider 6 an aberra
                                         tion, the latter number not be
                                         ing divisible into the extremes,
                                         so as to produce any acknow-
Generated by                             ledged interval.
          Octave    =61,,           „,
and 6th Minor = 7fj'Mean6-
   In ratio as 4 to 5.
     Second =     1 0|        or £ (properly called Tons major)          .
                 Base =12
     xby    Octave      = 6
-r-by7th Minor=6f-)72(10f..
                               \
           Semitone =1 1| . .      . . or  -J^-               >
                 Base   =12       M          . ,
                                  Mean
                           \0\J
                                             11+
and New Number* =
   Ratio 7 to 8.
* lOf is generated
              bv Base    =121               1AT
           and Fourth    = 9|Mean 10*
      7th Major     =6$   ... .or ^
                   Base =12
          X by Octave = 6
H-by Semitone       = ll±)72(6|-.
   Such is the result of those uniform operations which I have
adopted in the analysis of our musical numbers; and by those
operations may be instantly discovered the superiority of the
intervals called concords; — all the discordant intervals, com
mencing with the major 4th, being generated by means, whose
originating extremes have descended from the ratio of 3 to 4,
to that of 7 to 8.      Intervals so basely constituted as the latter
can lay    no  claim   whatsoever    to proportion.        Even our 3ds and
6ths, as originating from extremes in the ratio of 2 to 3, can
merit no other than the ancient appellation of discords, when
Compared with the more perfect 5th, and its still purer gene
rator the 4th.
   A subject perhaps still more desirable than all our calculations
comes next in order, viz. the construction of a musical diagram,
the relative length of whose lines or strings shall not only* accord
                                  M    4                                   with

184        <e
              Whether Music is necessary         to the Oratory
with our generally received proportions, but x at the same time
shall indicate, for our guidance, the seven original intervals.
Whether this or any other suitable diagram has been hitherto
constructed I know not, nor is it of importance : facts, not ori-.
ginality, are my object ; — should it lead to any discovery for the
judicious subdivision of our scale, the musical portion of society
will be amply remunerated for the trouble of perusing it.
                        Lengths of the Strings.
                                Modern Concords.
                    Base      = 1
                  Octave      =  \
                  Fourth = 5 minus, a minute fraction.
                    Fifth = £ plus, the same.
               3d Minor = £ minus, a somewhat greater fraction,
              6th Major - | plus, the same.
 , .                                 Discords.
                2d and    7  th out of all seeming proportion.
                      Construction      of the  Diagi-am.
      On the line AC describe          a semicircle.   From the centre D
  erect the perpendicular DB ; and from the point B draw the
   lines BA and BC.           Bisect AD in E, and DC in F ; and from
  the points E and F erect the perpendiculars EG and FH. Them
  with the radius BD, and from the points B and H, describe two
  lares intersecting   in   I.   With I    as centre, and BD   as interval,
                                                                  describe

      '
         to what   Extent, and how most readily allainable?"              185
describe an arch which will pass through B and H.                   Let a si
milar arch passing through B and G be also                 described.   Then
if we divide the arches BG and BH into seven equal parts*, and
let fall perpendiculars upon the line AC, we shall not only dis
cover in the length of every line or string, what should properly
be termed the " natural scale," but also the probable origin of
the Grecian " disdiapason," the line HG as well as the line FH
being equal to one-fourth of the original line AC.
     All music then is contained within the isosceles right-angled
 triangle ABC ; and in proportion as we extend the edifice or
 •ystem beyond the boundary of the disdiapason, as thus
 so shall we deviate more and more widely from that beautiful
 and perfect order which the great Architect of nature appears to
 have established,
     You will now permit me to offer some remarks on that pass
  age of my former paper which glanced
                                                     at the proportion of our
 common chords              the accusation     of  " heterogeneous mixture
                                                                             "
  applied by some persons to those chords, as I mentioned in that
 passage, not having received my altogether unqualified assent.
     That certain' proportions do actually exist within these chord*
  is undeniable ; but that these proportions do not approximate,
  in the remotest degree, to that superior species called
                                                                       " Har
  monic," must be confessed. Simple arithmetical progression is
  indeed obvious in the chord minor (the natural third =£, not
  the tempered third =               being employed) : thus
                        Base,      suppose 60'\
                  Octave =       |
                                       ::
                                       ..
                                             3
                                             30
                                                  K—
                                                  J
                                                                ;»•<•'•«•
      But in our chord major even this species of proportion            is de
   stroyed; vip.
                                 Base                     60
                                              ....
                         3d Major      =  $   . .    . .  48
                                Fifth =                   40
                             Octave    =      . .    ..   30
      • A division into 45 equal parts, delineated on a very extensive scale,
   •will afford much gratification to the speculative musician.
                                                                         Thus

  186                 On (he Nautical Almanac.
    Thus may be     seen   that the extent of modern attainment is
 only an approximation      towards arithmetical progression ; and if
 the basis of our  system (for such I consider the common chords)
 can lay no higher claim to perfection, then must our harmony
 be very low indeed.     Harmonic proportion requires, that of four
 numbers, the first number shall bear the same ratio to the fourth,
 which the difference between the first and second number shall
 bear to the difference between the third and fourth.      If harmony,
 then, in the true sense    of the word, be at all attainable, let u*
judiciously subdivide the scale for the purpose : but, on the con
 trary, if it be wholly unattainable, let us discontinue the tor
 turing of nature by the perpetual violation of her proportions.
                            [To  be continued.]
                 XXXI.     On the Nautical Almanac.
                             To  Mr. Tilloch.
 Sir, — Xn    the last number of your valuable Magazine (p. 146)
 a correspondent, under the assumed title of Manchestriensis
 has thought fit to reply to the observations which I lately made
 on the gross and numerous errors in the Nautical Almanac : and
 be is pleased to say, with no small degree of pride and satisfac
 tion, that he is able to refute and contradict my assertions "with
 the utmost confidence."         Notwithstanding the modest tone of
this sentence, and the magisterial air which the writer assumes,     I
 can only state in reply that, as to the occupation of Mars on
Jan. 1, 1S20, I have carefully revised my calculations on that
subject, and still find (in spite of what Manchiistriensis may
say) that there will be an occultation on that day: and in this,
 I am partly borne out by the Convaissame des Tems, which states
that it will be visible also at Paris.     The longitude and height of
 the Nonagesimal, and the quantity of the Parallax both in lon
gitude and latitude, I have deduced, not from any tables but, from
a trigonometrical calculation, on the assumption that the sphe
roidal figure of the earth is 299 : 300.
    I have had recourse likewise to the same method, for deter
mining the time of the commencement of the great solar eclipse
on Sept. 7, 1820 : which (if there be any truth in the formule
given by all the writers on this subject) will certainly commence
at Greenwich at 0h 23' 10"; and the moon will make the first
impression on the sun's disc at 48° 22' from the vertex. If there
fore these values differ from those given by Manchestribnsis,
it must arise from our having made use of different methods: but
1 am at a loss to account       for the bold assertion which he has
made that it is not of any consequence whatever to notice the

                                                       I
                        On the Nautical Almanac.                       187
 point on the sun's disc where the moon makes its first impression :
 an assertion which evidently shows he has not heen in the habit
  of observing such phenomena.
     With respect to the errors in the configurations of Jupiter's sa
 tellites, Manohestriensis might easily have satisfied himself on
  that point, had he taken the trouble (no very arduous task) of
 computing their positions.
     But, sir, I have now done with this subject, I hope for ever.
  The frequent and glaring errors in the Nautical Almanac have at
 length attracted the notice of government ; and his majesty's mi
 nisters have consequently brought in a bill to amend and reform
 that work.       Mr. Croker, in his speech upon this occasion (on
 the 6th instant) pays a handsome and deserved compliment t»
 the late Astronomer Royal, Dr. Maskelyne, by observing that
 "  he had looked into the whole of the almanacs from the earliest
  period, and found only two or three errata in any one volume."
 At the same time he added, " The later numbers however are very
 incorrect, and he was very sorry to be obliged to say that the
 numbers for the present year did not contain less than eighteen
 gross errors ; and the publication for the next year not less than
forty : in fact, the Nautical Almanac was a bye-word among
 the literati of Europe."
     Before I close this letter, permit me to suggest, through the
 means of your valuable miscellany, some hints for the improve
 ment of such almanacs as may be in future published by the new
 commissioners of the board of longitude.            In the first place, it
 ought     to be expressly  stated in the  preface, what  tables are made
 use of in the computations, in order that any person may satisfy
 himself that the calculations are true. The name of the person
 likewise who makes the computations ought always to be stated
 in the preface : this would not only tend to make the computer
 more anxious to preserve his scientific character, but would like
 wise show where the blame (if any) ought to attach.             This me
 thod   is  adopted  in the  Connaissance   ties Terns:  but in the  ephe-
 merides published at Berlin, Vienna, Coimbra, &c. it is unneces
sary, as they are under the known direction of the several authors.
    In computing the moon's place from the Nautical Almanac,
for any intermediate time, a constant reference is made to Mr.
 Taylor's sexagesimal tables, a quarto book consisting of upwards
of 300 pages : but the only part which is wanted for that pur
pose is contained in four pages of that work. Why cannot that
portion of the work be reprinted in three or four octavo pages
and added as an appendix to the Nautical Almanac ? This me
thod is adopted (though in too abridged a form) in the Connais
sance des Terns for 1820, p. 164.           The mode however adopted
by M. Bode       in his ephemeris    would  be  more convenient for prac
tice, although it might give the computer more trouble; which

   188                  On the Nautical Almanac.
  is, to insert, in contiguous columns to the moon's longitude and
  latitude, her horary motions in each course.
     A correct list of the longitudes and latitudes of all the zodi
  acal stars, down to those of the seventh magnitude, ought to he
  given in each number of the Nautical Almanac, in order that per
  sons may frequently look out for occupations,         by the moon, of
  such stars as lie in her path. A list of this kind was given in the
  Nautical Almanac for 1773, hut has never been continued.
      Many other useful tables might likewise be introduced, with
  out much additional expense to the work, as will readily suggest
  themselves to those persons who have the conducting of it : and
  many improvements might be made in the arrangement of the
  different articles.   For instance, the configurations and eclipse*
  of Jupiter's satellites ought to present themselves at the same
  opening of the book, as is done in the Connaissance des Terns and
  in M. Bode's ephemeris, in order to avoid a reference from one
  part to the other.     A table of the state of the tides might be in
  troduced,   as in the  Connaissance  des Terns: the phases of Venus
  and the position of Saturn's ring at different periods might like-
  Wise be given,    in the same manner as by M. Bode in his ephe
  meris, by means of wood-cuts.        The same mode might likewise
  be adopted for showing the phases of eclipses, and the occulta-
  tions of some of the principal fixed stars.      The columns of the
  monthly phenomena should        be enlarged  and  thrown together at
  the end, similar to the plan adopted in the Connaissance des Terns
  and by M. Bode: and every visible occultalion of the stars noted
  down, in order that persons may look out for them. The appen
  dix should be revised, and such parts excluded as are not adapted
  to the state of science at .the present day : such as the recom
   mendation of twenty-feet telescopes as the most proper for ob-r
   serving Jupiter's satellites.
      The rising and setting of the sun, moon, and planets, for the
  different days in the year, should be inserted, as in the Connais
  sance des Terns: for although the Almanac is intended for general
  use, and adapted to all parts of the world, yet it is more used in
. this country than in any other; and many persons (even of an
   astronomical turn) are obliged to buy other almanacs to obtain
   that information.
      Several other improvements and alterations may probably oc
   cur to some of your readers; and they would be rendering an es
  sential service to the science of astronomy if they would publicly
  suggest them, for the consideration of the new board of longi
  tude : who will, no doubt, attend to any hints which may tend
                                            ....
  to make the Nautical Almanac more generally useful than it has,
  of late years, hitherto been. .
                 .  .: . I am, sir, your obedient servant, ,
  March 10, 1818,                                    AsTRONOMicus.
                                                            P,S,— Would,

Meteorological Retrospect      of the last Half of the YearlSlJ.   189-
    P.S. — Would it not   be desirable to publish separately an an
nual appendix to the Nautical Almanac, consisting of scientific
information and observations relative to astronomy ; similar to
the plan adopted in the Connaissance des Terns and by M. Bode,
in his Ephemeris? And might not such apian be adopted imme
diately, so as to correct and improve the existing almanacs of
 1818, 1819, and 1820?
XXXII.     Meteorological Retrospect for     the last Half of the Year
                                 1817*.
                       Storms and Hurricanes.
 Few years have been more distinguished for an extraordinary
frequency of violent storms than the lasf.      In the year 824, when,-
 if we may believe the annals of that period, a hailstone sixteen
 feet jn length fell upon the city of Autun ; — in those of 16S0,
  I72O, 1739, and 1740, when there were storms of hail of one
 foot in thickness; in 176V, when Potsdam was devastated by
 hailstones of the size of an ordinary gourd; in 1771, when the
 environs of Namur were ravaged by others of nearly eight pounds
 weight; in 1788 and 1812, which were also remarkable for their
 storms, and the congelations which accompanied them ; — there
 was still nothing in point of extent of suffering to compare with
  1817.
    The city of Rheims will long^femcmber the 19th of May.
 After having experienced on the day preceding an extraordinary
 and stifling heat, about half past one in the morning there ap
 peared in the heavens an igneous meteor, the red light of which,
 reflected from all the houses, gave to this ancient Gallic city the
 semblance of a town involved in one vast conflagration ; some
 strokes of thunder were followed with rain, which fell in extra
 ordinary abundance for two hours; soon after, a large black
 cloud gathered over the city and burst upon it with a horrible
 crash. For five minutes the hail fell in torrents; whole roofs were
 broken ; the trees of the gardens hashed, and some animals killed.
 The neighbouring country however did not suffer any thing.
 The same day the hail ravaged with equal severity many com
 munes of the department of the Upper Garonne; and on the
 following day Semur (Cote-d' Or) and the rich vineyards in its
 environs were visited by another frightful storm, in which the
 rain and hail fell for a whole hour in one continued flood.
    The month of June was especially remarkable for the number
  and severity of its storms. On the 7th, a part of the communes
 of Courcon, Beangas, Moulinet, and Bondi, in the arrondissement
                 * From Bibliotkeque Phyaico-Economique.             ,  .
                                                                 : .   of

 190                  Meteorological Retrospect
of Villeneuve (Lot and Garonne) was laid entirely waste J hot a
stalk of corn was to be seen standing, nor a leaf remaining on
a vine in those places which the hail attacked : a heavy rain
which fell on the night of that day did still more harm, the quan
tity of earth which it unsettled being so great as to cover all the
meadows with sand.       The same day a violent storm assailed the
canton of Zurich in Switzerland, the city of Pau (Lower Pyrenees),
and some surrounding communes.         Some hail fell of such a size
that roofs were broken and animals killed.       On the 8th, four
teen communes situated in the valley of the Loire, and on the
9th, twenty-seven in the arrondissement of Ambert, were nearly
inundated by the quantity of rain which fell, accompanied with
large hail.    On the 10th, a storm of such severity swept over
the canton    of Saint Gall, in Switzerland, that a great number
of housrs were thrown down at Wittenbach, Berg, Horn, and
Ober-Steinbach.      On the 12th, the environs of Casan (Russia)
were devastated ; the ravages of the storm fell particularly upon
the village of Oura, inhabited by Tartars living in a state of
ease, and famous for their fabrics of red-coloured cotton ; the
rivulet which traverses this village formed all of a sudden an im
mense torrent, carrying along with it men, trees and habitations,
to the distance of twenty versts.     On the 14th, another storm
still more horrible desolated Belgium : the thunder raged for
three-quarters of an hour without intermission ; the storm driven
by a south-east wind was so violent, that it tore up a number
of large trees, overturned many granaries and some houses, and
shook all the houses for the space of a league.     On the 15th, a
shower of hailstones fell upon the town of Lierre in the Low
Countries, most of which were of the bulk of a pigeon's egg. The
2-2d, the 26th, the 27th, and 28th were also distinguished by
violent storms which committed great havock.
    In the same month the heat was more excessive in England
than it had been for several years, and brought on storms which
did every where a great deal of damage.        At Tewkesbury they
were accompanied with large hail ; at Salisbury there was one
attended with an extraordinary obscurity, and followed by tor
rents of rain and large pieces of ice, the ravages of which were
frightful — trees shattered — men and beasts wounded — house*
overturned, &c.
   On the i3d of July a storm of the greatest violence, mixed with
large hail, burst in the night-time upon the town of Agen and
many communes of the department of Tarn.            It continued till
ten o'clock the next day, which was also distinguished by another
tempest, which carried ruin and devastation into the valley be
tween the two mountains of Lure and of Leberon (the mouths of
the Rhone) over a space of more than fifteen leagues.         On the

                   of the last Half oftiie Year 1817.                       191
4th, hail of the size of filberts        fell at Munich and Lons Le Saul-
nier; and      on the 10th,     many leagues in the departments of the
Yonne and Ain were in less than an hour laid entirely waste by
another storm of hail as large as pigeon's eggs, and precipitated
with astonishing impetuosity.             The 1 1th was marked by a storm
of still greater fury. At Pforzheim in the duchy of Baden, and
on the frontiers of Hungary and Lower Austria, hail-stones were
collected of the bulk of the largest hen's eggs ; several men and
beasts were killed, and the hopes of a fine harvest wholly de
stroyed.      The night of the same day was most ruinous to the
cantons of Chateauneuf and Eymoutiers in the department of
Upper Vienne.           The hail was of such force that even the ches-
nut-trees were destroyed, and in such abundance that two days
afterwards it was found in heaps upon the ground.                 On the 31st,
there fell at Manchester, in England, and its environs, hail of
•uch an extraordinary bulk that two persons were killed by it at
Pendleton, and several others grievously wounded.
    On the 8th of August, a thunder-storm burst on the town of
St. Avoid (Moselle), and caused a fire which consumed thirty-
three houses and thirty-eight barns*.                 The 16th was a day
cruelly memorable to the departments of the Aisne and Ardennes.
The reapers were occupied in collecting one of the finest har
vests which had been known for a long time ; the heavens be
came suddenly obscured by thick and heavy clouds ; and soon
a storm of hail burst forth of such impetuous force, that in ten
minutes the crops and fruits of every description in the territory
of four villages were hashed in pieces. Some of the hail-stone*
found were three pounds in weight.                  These congelations re
sembled a bullet cut in two ; the centre of each hemisphere was
harder than the rest, and of a brownish colour.                   On the 22d,
after two months of excessive dryness, Rome was the scene of
another dreadful tempest : some vineyards were quite ruined,
 and more than thirty of the largest trees of the villa Panfili were
torn up by the roots. On the 26th, there was a hurricane at
the estate of Gourgivaux near Epernay, which, though it only
lasted three minutes, tore up and shattered a number of trees,
carried off several roofs, knocked the barn of a farm topsy-turvy,
and scattered to the winds 300 well-bound sheaves.                     On the
 27th, in the valley of Pia near Genoa, there was a similar hur
ricane, but of a longer duration; the damage occasioned by
    *A   popular error augments the evils occasioned by such storms at many
places. When assistance should be run for, the women discourage the
men with the greatest earnejtness, saying, that when the fire of Heaven de
 scends, it is in vain to seek for relief ; and that water, far from allaying it,
ivi/l only increase its force and activity.
                                                                         which

  192                  Meteorological Retrospect
 which it will take many years of prosperity to repair; — viiie*^
 trees of every kind, even garden walls, fell prostrate before it.
     The 3d of September, at Liverpool ; the 1 1th, at Paris ; the
 12th, at Antwerp, Brussels, and several other places in the Low
 Countries ; — the 22d at Schaffhausen, &c. and the 28th at Me-
 mel, were distinguished by violent and destructive storms, in
most of which the size and quantity of the hail was still the
 chiefly remarkable circumstance.
     In the month of October, the place which suffered most from
 the elements was the old town of Nocera, at the foot of the Ap-
 penines.     For the third time in the course of five months, it was
 visited on the 4th by a hail-storm of such tremendous violence
 that all that had been spared by the previous tempests, — its su
 perb olives, its fruit-trees, and its vines — were completely de
 stroyed. A number of cattle were killed, owing chiefly, perhaps,
 to the very angular shape of the hailstones in this instance, the
 largest of which were found to weigh about six ounces.                  The
 other places visited by remarkable storms during this month, were
 the communes of Mesmes-sur-Yevre, Vasselay, and others in
 the department of Cher, on the 1st ; — the environs of Cahors on
 the 3d ; — Foligno,Assisi, and Perugia on the same day as Nocera ;
 —and Alicant on the 13th. In one quarter of an hour this last
 town and its environs, which produced a great abundance of ex
 quisite fruits and an excellent wine, presented the spectacle of
 one great wreck*.
                               Inundations.
     Other misfortunes not less disastrous signalized the period un
 der our review.     The inundations of rivers and lakes desolated
 almost all the countries of Europe, particularly Switzerland, the
west of Germany, the Low Countries, Holland, the north of Spain;
 and in the United States, the two provinces of Kentucky and
                                                                        New-
    * For near half a century the people in the Maconnals
                                                             (Saone et Loire)
have been in the custom, for averting damage by hail, of firing mortars from
the heights at the approach of storms. The first who introduced this
 scheme was M. de Chevriers, an old officer of marine, proprietor of Vau-
 renard. The experience of many years having convinced the inhabitants
 of the neighbouring country of the excellence of this practice ; it has been
adopted by the communes of Iger, Aze, Romaneche, Julnat, Le Torrins,
Ponilly, Fleury, Saint Sorlin, Viviers, and many others, which have ever
since been exempt from any ravages by hail.     The size of the mortars, and
the number of times they are fired, varies according to circumstances and
localities.  The commune of Fleury makes use of a mortar which carries a
charge of one pound of powder at a time. It is ordinarily begun to be fired
before the clouds have had time to accumulate in any great number, and
the firing is kept up until the stormy clouds are wholly dispersed. The
annual consumption for this purpose is from 4 to 500 killogrammes (820 to
                                                                     10221bs.)

                    of the last  half of    the Year 1817*                 1 93
New- York.        In the first days of June, the Rhone tumultuotisly
burst its banks, at the same moment that the waters of the Rhine
and the Aar attained a prodigious height*; — that the lakes, the
rivers and the torrents of Switzerland, the Grand Lake of Con-
sfiince, the Neeker, the Mein, the Meuse, the Wahl, &c. over
flowed upon all points*          The detail of the disasters which they
caused is fearful.       During three months their waters covered
whole countries, menaced the foundations of the most solid edi
fices, and scarcely left in some pla&es the roofs of the houses to
be seen, while they kept constantly sweeping away trees and
flocks, and a vast wreck of things of all sorts.           Fields cultivated
with the greatest care were converted into morasses; large tracts
were turned into deserts of mire ; the finest harvests were every
where destroyed.         On the 26th, 27th, and 28th of August, a
south wind which had prevailed for more than a month was fol
lowed by a hot rain, which melted the glaciers in such a man
ner that the Rhine rose anew beyond all former example, and
 presented until the 23d of September the appearance of a vast
lake : the torrents of the Tyrol were swollen higher than their
greatest height in 1789; and the Sill, which falls into the Inn
 near Inspruck, burst its banks and carried away several bridges,
with a vast quantity of trees, houses, cattle, &c. On the 9th of
 November, a very violent storm burst upon the department of
Ardeche, the waters rose to a prodigious height, and committed,
great havoc in the arrondissemeuts of Tournon, Privas, and Ar-'
gentiere.
                                Earthquakes.
     June 30th. After     a storm   accompanied with a hot rain twd
shocks very     violent  were  felt at Inverness and in the environs of
Loch Ness in Scotland.
 1022 lbs.) of coarse powder.   This practice, Which Costs little, Which is at»
tended with no inconvenience, Which is so simple In execution as to be prao*
ticable every where, and which is supported not only by theory, but by the
 experience of a great many years, ought to be generally substituted for the
ruinous system of conjuring storms by the sound of the church bells. The
 misfortunes which every year befall those who have recourse to the clocks,
 may in the end destroy a prejudice which originated in an aera when the
laws of physics were unknown ; and when fana'icsm attributed to the sound
 of. the bells a supreme power, in virtue of the benedictions and unctions
-which they received from the hands of the priests.    At the same time that
the villages of Maconnais adopted the practice of firing mortars, Guenaut-
de-Montbelliard, the eelebrated co-operator and friend of Buffon, having ob
served that the hail never formed itself till after violent claps of thunder,
proposed to withdraw the electric matter, so as to prevent at the same time
 both the explosion of the thunder and the formation of the hail (Journal de
Physique, torn. xxi. p. 146).   Guyton-de^Morveau has further demonstrated
the accuracy of this theory {Journal de Physique, torn. ix. p. 60-67)-
    * The Rhine rose on the 7th of July, thirty-two centimetres (one
                                                                          foot)
above its greatest height in 1770.
     Vol, 5 1. No. 239. March 1818.                N                      July

194                        Meteorological Retrotpett
     July 4.      At Barcelona.
           7.     Porentruy    and Schaffhausen.
     ^ '^
            IW Saanen,         canton of Bern.
            14.     Rougemont,      and the valleys of Gessenay and Sefii-
  menthal in Switzerland.
     Aug.   19.      lnspruck.
     Sapt. 12.        Saauen.
             17.      Inverness  — the fifth since August 1816.
            21.      St. Helena. The oscillation lasted two minutes, and
  was felt throughout the whole island and neighbouring sea ; also
  at Saanen, Rothenberg, and environs of Rublihorn.
      Sept. 22.      Angouleme (Charente-Inferieure), followed imme
  diately by    a  loud   detonation.
     Oct. 17. Pays de Vaud, particularly at Yvonaud and its en
  virons.
      Oct. 18.      Messina.
           23.      Vostizza in the Morea: — The most violent that has
  occurred this year.          It lasted about a minute and a half.       The
  sea was thrown back to a great distance, so that the ships in
  the roads of Vostizza were left quite dry : it immediately returned
  with great fury, rose five metres above its ordinary level, and in
  undated a considerable space of ground : soon afterwards it sub
  sided into its original position.         But the cape which formed the
  mouth of the river Gaidouroupneiti,              after ejecting a very thick
  smoke, precipitated itself into the sea, and carried along with it
  the town of Vostizza, the villages of Mourla Dimitropoulu, Lou-
  mari, Temeni, and part of their inhabitants.              For eight succeed
  ing days shocks less strong, but very frequent, continued to be
  felt.
      Nov.  1 1 and 1 2.      At Geneva, and the two sides of the lake,
  the shocks were, stronger than were ever experienced in this
  quarter before.
                                     Drought.
      In the early part of this year the south of Europe was almost
  desolated by a severe drought, which still continued in a manner
  truly distressing.        In June it dried up the lake of Ouveillan in
  the arrondissement of Narbonne, and drained tire fountains and
  wells in the greater part of the departments of the mouths of the
  Rhone, the Var, and the Lower Alps.                   In July, such was its
'
  intensity in the department of the Eastern Pyrenees, that it con
  verted into salt a great part of the waters of the lakes of Saint
  Nazaire and Villeneuve.              At Marseilles and Montpelier the
  greatest   inconvenience      was  also  felt for the want of water.
                                                                         Great

                  of the last Half of the Year 1817-                195
                              Great Heals.
    We have had daily the most remarkable heats. On the 7th
of June the thermometer at Paris rose to 26° centigr. where it
 remained the whole day.        On the 18th it was at 28°, and on
the 20th at 30°.       In some parts of Great Britain it rose still
higher.     At London on the 28th, between three and five o'clock
in the afternoon it was 39° centigr. being 10° above the greatest
heats of ordinary summers.         In the north of Asia, on the con
trary, there was scarcely any summer at all this year, the cold
.continuing until the 21st of June, the time at which the fine
season in the northern parts of Siberia usually terminates.          In
the hyperborean regions of Europe, again, the heat was so in
tense that the coasts of Greenland, which had been covered for
ages with enormous masses of ice, were completely liberated, and
the sea was laid open as far as the mountains of Spitsbergen, and
even as high as the 84" of latitude.          Enormous masses of ice
descended into the Atlantic sea as far as the 40D of latitude with
out melting.
    The months of June, July, August and September were of a
stifling heat, especially at Rome, at Naples, and at Trieste,
where it was impossible to go abroad till evening.         The warmest
day    at Perpignan   was  the 4th   of July;  at Marseilles, the 17th
of August, when the thermometer exposed to the sun remained
 stationary at 44°. At Cayenne, winter, which is the rainy season
in that country, was unknown ; it ordinarily lasts six months
complete, but last year there weie only sixty-two days of rain,
end that slight and intermittent.
                             Untimely Colds.
    After long intervals of heat, of abundant rains, and wasting
storms, we were visited on the 23d of August with squalls of cold
rain, and weather trulv autumnal.          The atmosphere was wholly
changed.       The equinoctial   winds   raged with violence ; at Paris
thev tore up the stoutest trees by the roots.      On the 23d of Sep
 tember, the weather was mild, and. of a temperature rather more
 elevated than suited the period of the year; but next day a strong
.wind arose from the north-east, which dried up the earth and
gave all the chill of winter to the atmosphere.         On the 10th of
October, the Parisians felt as if in the middle of January. The
like unseasonable cold was felt in the south. From the climate
of Africa to that of Lapland was a common transition.             After
more than ten months without rain, and a heat the most ardent,
they were obliged on the 15th of October to have recourse to fires,
the temperature having become on a sudden icy cold.
    The damage occasioned by this unseasonable cold, in the two
 rights of the 22d and 24th of August, to the standing crops of
, .. : : .      ,                   N 2                              all

 196               . Meteorological Retrospect
 ail descriptions, was very great in the northern provinces of Swe
 den, particularly Helsingland and the environs of Gefle, and in
 Franconia and Wirtemberg.        At the beginning of October there
 fell a great quantity of snow in Scotland, principally in the
 counties of Ross and Aberdeen, where it lay two feet deep.         On
 the 4th of the same month there was snow on the fertile plains
 of Bayreuth to the depth of three inches ; on the 9th it covered
the mountains of Urach, Vosges, and Brisgau ; on the 12th the
 elevated plain of Woivre, in the department of the Meuse ; and
 on the 16th, the mountains of Lozere and the environs of
 Mende.     It was concluded from these premature appearances,
 that we should have a rigorous winter; and in support of the pre
 dictions to this purpose, as infallible as those of Mathieu-Laens-
 berg, we had the old theory of nineteen years, and even that of
 an hundred-and-one      years brought forward.      In the first cate
 gory the winter of IS 17 corresponded to that so long and se
 vere of 1793; in the second to those of 1716, of 1615, and of
 1514.    But the temperature changed anew in the first days of
 November, and continued so till December. On the 2d, 3d, and
 4th of November we had at Paris thick mists, which gave place
 to a succesion of very fine days, so much so that on the 22d the
 country of Niort and the borders of the two Sevres presented
 all the verdure of spring timet
                       Terrestrial Phcenomena.
    On the 27th of June, at two o'clock P.M., some women of the
commune of Vauvert (Gard) having washed a number of pieces
of cotton muslin, and others of linen, spread them on a meadow
newly cut to dry.     Shortly after there was a great deal of very
vivid lightning, which played particularly about the meadow
where the clothes were lying ; and on examining them it was
found that all the pieces of cotton had become tinged With a yel
low colour similar to that of nankeen, while those of linen had
lost none of their whiteness.        The yellow tinged stuffs were
washed repeatedly with soap, but to no purpose ; it was found
impossible to take the colour out of them, or even to free them
from the sulphurous odour which they had acquired.
    About the same period numerous swarms of those beautiful
insects which are vulgarly named Demoiselles or Libellules aqua-
tiques (but of a sort apparently new and very large) were ob -
served in several parts of East Holland, particularly in the en
virons of the town of Sneeck, subsequently at Hamburgh, and
lastly at Stockholm, and several other parts of the north of
Sweden, where they disappeared'.         They came from the south
west.    They   formed  so dense  a  body that they resembled the
thiek clouds which precede a fall of snow.        When they wanted
                                                        nourishment,

                  oftlie last Half of the Year 1817.              197
 nourishment, they descended all at once upon some field, sojourned
 there for some hours, and afterwards resumed their course.        At
 night   the air was quite crowded with these insects.
     On the 2d of July the mountain of Hansruck in Upper Au
 stria disappeared and gave place to a lake.     This mountain was
 of great elevation, and gave its name to the country around.
 During the preceding month there had been various phaenomena,
 which augured some ruinous event : — subterraneous noises —
 slight explosions on the exterior, &c. they had disqueted the
 people of the country greatly, and seemed as if designed to fore
 warn them of their danger.
     On the 24 th of the same month, the very opposite of this
 phenomenon occurred in Italy.       An astonishing noise was heard
 in the territory of Ferentino ; after which the waters of the lake
 of Porciano suddenly disappeared, and left their ancient bed quite
 dry. Eastward of the lake, at the foot of a neighbouring moun
 tain, they discovered an enormous chasm, produced by some vio
 lent commotion, down which the waters had precipitated them
 selves into certain subterranean caverns which now serve as their
 receptacle. — The Romans prevented accidents of this sort by
 their famous canals of outlet, as we see in the lake of Albano ;
 but the modern inhabitants of the volcanic country of Rome
 have not the same foresight.
     In the month of August, another displacement, owing without
 doubt to the subterraneous conflagration of a bed of coal or sul
 phurous matters, happened near Salzbourg in Bavaria, on the
 borders of the Salza.     A space of ground, of the extent of about
 fifteen acres, sunk. down, and from the chasm left, flames con
 tinued to issue for four days afterwards, exhaling a strong sul
 phurous odour.
     On the 12th of May preceding, the bailiwick of Rattenberg
 presented a spectacle still more frightful.      A whole mountain
 tumbled down, and transformed into a desert a very fertile and
well-peopled     valley.   The cause to which this has been attri
buted was the enormous quantity of 6now which fell in the Tyrol,
in February, March, and April, and which a sudden change of
temperature and abundant hot rains had precipitately melted.
     On the 5th July, at one o'clock in the morning, the waters of
the sea suddenly withdrew from the port of Marseilles, and left it
for some moments quite dry; but soon after returned, aud spread
as far even as the city.     The same phenomenon was observed
with still more remarkable characters on the 27th of June 1812,
and occurred also in 1775, at the time of the famous earthquake
of Lisbon.                      .
     The atmospheric whirlpools, which are attributed to a displace
ment of heated air, aud by the action of which it is easy to ex-
  i . A                        N 3                             plain

198   Meteorological Retrospect of the last   Half of the Fea»1817.
plain the pretended showers of sand, insects, &c. have presented
two singular enough phenomena in the state of New-York and
in the kingdom of Naples.      The first was distinguished by some
extraordinary circumstances: — it raided a young man to a great
height, afterwards pitched him on a tree, from which it again
snatched him and conveyed him to the foot of a mountain at
some distance.      The second happened on the 10th of August.
Some washerwomen at work beside a fountain, out of the city of
St. Angelo, saw in a serene sky a whirlpool advancing upon
them : seized with fear they fled in great haste ; immediately
 afterwards the whirlpool dashed upon the fountain, absorbed all
 the water out of it, and carried off the linen spread out on the
 neighbouring meadows to a distance of more than a mile, whence
it returned in about an hour to the environs of the fountain,
 where it ceased, and redeposited all that it had carried off. The
 linen was found torn and full of holes, as if it had been perforated
 by gunshot.
                        Celestial Phaenomena.
    In the period of time under our survey the        spots of the sun
 were successively dissipated      and   renewed.    The   grand spot,
 which covered nearly all the disc of that orb on the 23d of July,
 disappeared on the 4th of August.          A great number of small
 6pots were afterwards formed, which gradually united and con
  centrated into one : — subsequently in the month of September a
 division again took place into several groups, which between
 the 23d and 27th of October totally disappeared, before having
 touched the west limb of the sun.        On the 5th and 6th of No
 vember a large spot was observed on the southern part of this
  orb : it is now divided into groups more or less numerous, some
 isolated, others more approximated.
     On the 7th of August, Professor Stark, astronomer at Augs
 burg, observed a luminous band in the direction of the head of
  Serpenlarius in the constellation Hercules.        (For this, see ac
  count already given in Phil. Mag. for August 1817.)
     On the 8th of September, at eight o'clock at night, there was
 seen in the vicinity of Richmond, in England, a globe of fire pro
  ceeding in a direction from south to west.       It appeared of con
 siderable size, and emitted from its top long streams of fir*. Its
 progress was slow ; but all of a sudden it glanced up into the
 heavens, and disappeared among the clouds.            A similar phse-
 nomenon was observed on the 19th of November, at three o'clock
 in the morning, at Rochelle.
    On the 9th of September a beautiful aurora lorealis was ob
 served at Glasgow.      (For which,. also, see account in Phil. Mag,
 for January 1818, by M. Chev. Dupin.)
                                                                 JBara,

                                 Polar Ice on other Climates.         199
             Influence   of the
                       Barometrical Observations.
    The barometer on the 26th of January and 1st of April at
tained the extraordinary height of 73 centimetres (27 inches) ;
and on the 1st of November, at 52 minutes past eleven at night,
it exceeded that by one degree and 6-10ths of a line, which is
a milleinetre more than the height to which the meryiry rose on
 the 23d of February 1815.
XXXIII.        On the Influence which the Increase or Dimin/ition
      of the  Polar Ice has on the Climates of other Latitudes.
                              To  Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, —     If the    following observations appear of sufficient im
portance    to  merit a place in your journal, their insertion will much
oblige your sincere well-wisher,
    March 9, IS 18.                                              Z. A.
    One perpetually finds given       as a reason of the great cold in the
high latitudes of the southern hemisphere, the great accumula
tion of ice round the south pole.           That popular writers should
transfer    an idea derived from what we experience when ice is
 brought into a warm neighbourhood, or what we experience
when ice, formed in the neighbourhood or in the place itself, be
gins, from the action of new and extraneous causes, to warm and
melt — that they should have transferred this idea to the general
 and total effects of ice formed in any place, is not at all sur
prising; — but that the same notion should have been adopted by
so many scientific persons, is indeed a lamentable proof, among a
 thousand others, how little the world is improved in the art of
 strict reasoning.
    The formation of ice in any place tends to warm the neigh
 bourhood, not to cool it.       If the ice, without melting, accumu
 lates year after year, there is obviously a perpetual yearly accu
 mulation or accession to the world of free caloric; namely, c?
 all that set free by the conversion of the water from a fluid to a
 solid state.     And consequently, whatever partial cold may be
 produced, the general effect is an increase of warmth.          Suppose
 the water of a lake in any country to become ice — What is the
 cause of this change ?         Not the presence of the water surely ;
 but either the abstraction or the locking up of caloric in the neigh
 bourhood, in consequence of certain grand processes of nature of
 which we know nothing, and which we do not imagine to depend
 on the existence of a lake in that place.        This abstraction of'ca-
 loric reduces the temperature about the lake below the freezing
 point; and then, by the tendency of contiguous bodies towards
 equal temperatures, (of the laws of which tendency we know
                                     N  4                     something,

200       Influence   of the Polar Ice   on other Climates.
something, though not much) converts the water into ice.             But
the conversion itself is accompanied with circumstances that tend
to temper and lessen this reduction of temperature ; or, in other
words, to warm the neighbourhood:          namely, the impossibility of
water (even when reduced below the freezing point) becoming ice,
without further giving out a large portion of caloric.
    If the basin of the lake was filled with sand instead of water,
the cold experienced in the neighbourhood from the operation of
 the grand causes above alluded to, would be severer than it is
when water occupies the place; that is, the presence of water
tempers the cold.       It is true indeed, that afterwards, if by some
 other grand process of nature the air of the place should be
warmed, and any of the ice should melt, that action of melting
being accompanied by a specific absorption and locking up of ca-r
loriu, the temperature of the air in the neighbourhood, and in
the places to which that air is carried,      is,   at that time, made
lower than   it  would be,  if,  instead of ice being present, sand or
stone at the same temperature occupied its place.             But even    if
the whole of the ice should melt, the loss    in    temperature now,       is
no more than the gain before.
    In general, one may suppose that the presence of large body   a
of water tends to equalize the temperature of            aplace; cooling
the air in   the warm weather, and warming          itin the cold.   But
however    this  may be,
                       it     never can be fairly said that the accumu
lation of   ice tends, on the whole, to lower temperature.         And    if
it he true, that ice has been accumulating for centuries back
about Greenland, that accumulation must have given warmth to
Europe (or at least to the world) during those centuries.            And
if this ice be now melting, that process of melting         one occasion
                                                             is
of diminished heat. And when the ice shall be totally gone, sup
posing such an event possible, the then persevering of the waters
still and unfrozen, spite of the freezing cold superinduced upon
their neighbourhood    by    the grand processes of nature, would be no
fcjnefit to the world with respect to warmth; but the formation
anew, and perpetual new accumulation of ice would, on the con
trary, furnish    a perpetual supply of caloric to warm the world,
or temper the severity of the cold produced          by other causes      in
dependent of the existence of these waters.
    That there has been     a  tendency of late years in the ice round
the north pole to melt and not to accumulate, may be plausibly
inferred from what has been noticed of late of its breaking up, and
detaching itseif in masses.       We observe ice to break and detach
(and become what the boys call rotten) in thawing weather while       ;
its thickness shall be still double or triple of what, in the con
trary state of the atmosphere, would have ensured its firmness and
(he adhesion of its parts together,
                                                              XXXIV.      Out

                                    [    201      ]                          ;
XXXIV.           On a Case    of Formation of Ice on an Alkaline Solution.
                              By Mr. Gavin Inglis.
                         .        To Mr. Tillock.
Dear Sir, —           A      curious     case came under my observation this
morning, of a formation of             ice on a solution of ashes. It had so
 much attracted the attention of the servants before I got sight
of it,  that    number of them were ranged round the boiler
                 a                                                         in    a
state of admiration, looking at what they called the pattern,                al
luding to beautiful six-pointed stars of the most regular formation
which covered the surface of the liquor, each point bearing most      a
striking resemblance to the termination of full-spread fern leaf.
                                                       a
The most beautiful and perfect were in the centre, towards the
sides the same form of leaf continued, but they were laid rather like
a parcel of stars previously formed, thrown confusedly over one
another.      The complete stars measured from the centre to the
point of the figure       inches.
                             2
                             \      The first glance of this ice struck
me as bearing       strong and marked resemblance to the snow ob
                     a
 served bv Dr. Clarke during his stay in St. Petersburg!!.          im   I
mediately sent for that volume of his Travels, and on the spot
compared the figure given in vol.         p. 12, and found
                                             i.                was im
                                                                 it
possible   to give    more
                      a     exact representation,   than        by
                                                             extending
the dimensions of Dr. Clarke's fig.           The beautiful radiations
                                                  1.
of this ice must have proceeded from the component parts of the
 solution, which was made from ashes recovered from waste lees
highly carbonated, containing some ammonia and a portion of
 nitre. The latter       formed in considerable quantity in the lees
                             is
 during   the  operation of bleaching, particularly when cottons are
 under operation. The specific gravity of this solution was 1-115.
 Two other boilers containing        solution of carbonate of potash,
                                         a
 the specific gravity 1-057 and '073, were covered with
                                         1                       coat of
                                                                     a
 ice, soft and porous, better than an inch in thickness, rather re
 sembling wet snow slightly compressed, having no regular figure,
 and little more adhesion than to admit its being taken off in flat
 pieces no appearance of lamination whatever, whereas ths la-"
         :
  minated ice was thin, solid, and shining.
    Dr. Clarke in his Travels, 4th edit. vol.     p. 11, marked on the
                                                       i.
margin " Extraordinary Phenomenon," says,
                                                            "
                                                  The season began
to change before we left Petersburgh, the cold became daily
less intense, and the inhabitants were busied in moving from the
NeVa large blocks of ice into their cellars.        most interesting
                                                            A
and remarkable phenomenon took place the day before our de
parture     the thermometer of Fahrenheit indicating only nine
             ;
degrees   of  temperature below the freezing point, and there was
no wind. At this time snow, in the most regular and beautiful
crystals, fell gently upon our clothes, and upon the sledge as we
were driving through the street.     All of these crystals possessed
             J                                                           exactly

 202 On a Case     of Formation of   Ice on an   Alkaline Solution.
  exactly the same figure and the same dimensions.          Every one of
  them consisted of a wheel, or star, with six equal rays, bounded
 by circumferences of equal diameters; having all the same num
 ber of rays branching from a common centre.- The size of each
 of those little stars was equal to the circle presented by the sec
 tion of a pea into two equal parts. This appearance continued
 during three hours, in which time no other snow fell; and as there
 was sufficient leisure to examine them with the strictest attention,
 we made the representation given in fig. 1.
     " Water in its crystallization seems to consist of radii diver
 ging from a common centre, by observing the usual appearances on
 the surface of ice : — perhaps therefore it may be possible to ob
  tain the theory and to ascertain the laws from which this structure
 results.
     ,f
        Monge, President of the National Institute of Paris, no
 ticed in falling snow, stars with six equal rays descending, during
 winter, when the atmosphere was calm. Ha'tiy records this in his,
 observations on the muriate of ammonia."
     As all regular crystallization must be governed by, and depend
 on, some unalterable laws in nature, I have no doubt but the
 Russian snow observed by Dr. Clarke, and the Parisian stars no
 ticed by M. Monge, and the above radiations on this alkaline so
 lution, were identically from the same cause — the presence of am
 monia, and nitre, in both. The quantity of ammonia produced in
 large cities must be immense : Independent of every other source,
 what must be formed in the ordinary culinary operations of the
 jkitchen ? this must be driven into the atmosphere. From the same
 source nitrogen per se may be supplied in n'o mean quantity, or
 liberated by the decomposition of a portion of the ammonia.
 May not condensation be of use in atmospherical combinations,
and nitrates as well as ammoniacal salts formed, and the aqueous
vapours impregnated with these saline productions, prior to freez
ing or forming into snow, and the beautiful regularity of this phe
nomenon proceed from the habitudes of ammoniacal crystalliza
tion as recorded by Ha     'ity
                             ?    May not this also account for the ex
traordinary quantity of nitre found     in   some soils where deep ve
getable mould predominates?          The nitrogen   descending with rain
or snow,    may  combine   with   the potash  of decayed vegetables       al
ready existing in the soil, and become the parent of this native salt.
Or can be possible that the mere abstraction of caloric has any
         it.
share in the formation of potash, and hence nitre           ?   It   well
                                                                     is
kuown that frost alone produces in potatoes saccharine matter
                                                  a
that renders them sensibly sweet to the taste.        It   isalso known
to you, that potatoes      once   gone into  putrefaction  by the effects
of frost, contain nitre in such quantity as to answer the purpose
pi   making match paper before the potatoe undergoes these
                            ;
                                                                changes

    On  Lunar Projectiles, derolithsi      and- Notices of Comets. 203
changes by the effects of frost and putrefaction, no saccharine
matter is perceptible, nor nitre to be found : From whence come
  hey ?                1 remain, dear sir, yours,
   Feb. C, 1818.                                       Gavin Ingus.
XXXV.       On supposed   Lunar Projectiles, on A'eroliths    ; and on
                           Notices   of  Comets.
                            To   Mr. filloch.
Sir, —     I Doubt    you have bestowed more elegance and delicacy
of engraving on my       hasty illustrative diagram than it merited.
    I anticipate some    objections.
    First, That the course of a projectile from the moon would be
much nearer rectilineal.
    But in this particular instanee it would require to be much
 otherwise to allow for any possibility of reaching the earth at
 all had it been projected from the moon; then not far distant from
 the meridian of our antipodes.
    Had it been thrown from the moon it is pretty evident, from
trie path described, that we saw it while near its utmost altitude
.above our hemisphere.
     Had its course been nearly rectilineal, its apparent path must
liave differed greatly from that described.
    It follows that it was either a volcanic projection from the
 earth, or inflamed hydrogen, in our atmosphere, or an electric fire
 ball, or a proper aerolitJiic* mass generated in the air in the man
 ner suggested in the communication which introduces mine.
    The advocates for lunar projectiles will perhaps say, that to
  carry such a projectile to the earth it needs to proceed no farther
 than to the point where, mass compared with distance, the ter
 restrial attraction would overbalance the lunar, or about 7 or 6000
 miles from the moon's centre.
     But I own my doubt, whether it would be so far within the
 earth's attraction as to fall on it unless the projectile force first
  carried it to a distance within the common centre of gravity of
 the moon and earth, or about 6000 miles from the earth's centre.
     For it is to be considered, that to carry a planet, primary or
  Secondary, from its orbit, requires not merely a force greatest at
 the point of its immediate influence than the attraction of the
 primary, but so much greater as will be incompatible, when it has
  passed that point, with its being at all retained in its orbit.
 Now this demands afar more preponderating attraction than is
  required to alter considerably for the time the figure of tne-orbit.
 'A comet, for instance, in its aphelion may be much more attracted
  by Jupiter or Saturn or the Hersilian planet, in the moment of
                                                                passing

    204                   On supposed   Lunar Projectiles,
    passing near them, than by the sun; but this transient disturbance
    may be very far from sufficient to prevent its continuing in its
   orbit, though for a single evolution it may retard or (according
   to circumstances) accelerate its return.
       It is further to be considered, that the projectile force acting
   at the moon must be exceedingly great to throw the body even)
    15 or 20 semidiameters of the moon, and may be such as instead
   of ever carrying it to the earth would tarry it in a parabolic or
   hyperbolic curve immeasurably beyond the earth.               And that it is
   therefore perhaps not too much to suppose the probabilities
   many millions against one, against a lunar projectile ever being
   so thrown under such circumstances, of its direction and rate of
   motion, and the position both of the earth and moon, as would
   admit of its falling to the earth. It would rather Jail back to the
  moon, revolve about the moon, or about the common centre of
  gravity both of that and the earth.
       I doubt whether the sound were connected with the phcenomei-
                                 J
  non of 8th Dec.* (7° 1 2 Astr. &c.) If it had, the meteor being at
  least 36° above the horizon might have been seen to break ; — it
  was above 60 at its greatest altitude.          Its sudden disappearance
  might be owing to exlinctioii (See W. Hume's Essay, p. 87.)
  or to very rapid motion in a line receding from the earth.            That
  it was either gaseous body,
                    a                    or  kindled   different gases in its
 passage, appears highly probable from its beautifully and variously
 coloured light.                                                              ,
      If a meteoric body of the iron kind, I believe we may say that
 two miles height above the ear Ik is a very moderate supposition.
 And then, if it subtended an angle of about equal to the moon,
 its real diameter at that distance will be found about 44 feet.
      And an arc of 60° being near = rad., supposing its path to
 have been two miles, if it describedit in 8" this is aquarterof a mile
 for each second, or 1320 f. 15 miles per min.: 900 by the hour.
 If in 5" it would benearly double of thisvelocity, 1056 X*2 = 21 12 f.
per second.
      Observations are unfortunately wanting in other places which
might have determined its parallax : and consequently its height
in the atmosphere, magnitude and velocity, .
     Most of the excellent rules of Dr. Maskelyne that are of chief
importance, seem conformable to the mode in which this obser
vation was taken, and has been reported.              I regret that I missed
seeing      so  beautiful  and interesting  a spectacle.
     Permit me, before I close this, to add a word or two on co
mets.
     I need not say to you that the foreign papers, especially \h$
French and German, including Piussia, give, or used to give, the
            ' "    * See Phil. Mag. for December last, p. 4C9.
        •
          ;                                                   .         rate

                                                          N
                  Aeroliths, and Notices    of Cornels.             205
rate and direction of apparent motion, the Right ascension and
declination, or if not these, the longitude and latitude referred
to the ecliptic, or the polar distance of the phenomenon ob
served.     They give, at least, ttvo such observations to the peri
odical publications, at more or less distance as circumstances may
render expedient ; these are early given, and with promptitude
inserted.     And if they add the popular description by constella -
 lions, they do not say in Andromeda, Hercules, Orion, or Draco,
or Cygnus, simply ; but in what part of the constellation, or near
 what known principal star or between two such, or in a triangu
lar, equilateral, or equiunial; an acute or obtuse angle with such
or such stars, instead of leaving such an enormous scope for un
certainty as renders the description as to those' vast constellations,
of hardly any use. — While in our papers the earliest notice of
such    phenomena for the most part is many weeks later, and the
original article I fear generally very imperfectly and vaguely ab
stracted.
    With two such observations as the foreign papers were accus
tomed to give, the plane of the ascending and consequently of
the descending node, rota of mean apparent motion, place and
time of coming to the perihelion were all accessible to a common
observer, sufficiently near in general to trace its path on a great
circle of the globe, or a line drawn on a chart of the heavens;
from which it would not sensibly differ, unless perhaps near the
*nd, and thus to anticipate its visible path, smdwkere to find it
oil a particular day.
    The comet seen by Professor Oibers, 1 Nov. last, is probably
the same with that which our papers say was observed by Mr.
 Du Pons at Marseilles, and Mr. Blanpain at Paris, in Dec.
and June last. But the statement which I have seen is so vague
as to be no guide whatever.          It might have been passing from
its ascending node to its perihelion northward, or southward
from its descending node, and where to look for it is left equally
at random.
    I have observed some nights a cometary appearance between
Belelgaeze and Procyra, unequally nebulose, with a brighter
speck not in the centre, about from 12' to 16' in length, andabout
8* in width.     I take it to be in the nostril of Monoceros. I find
no nelula or cluster registered very near that situation :\vrth the
nebula not at all near it I am pretty well acquainted.         Between
27th   Feb.  and  9th March'   inclusive, I think it seems  to have ad
vanced about 2^ in R. A. from about 93°; but for want of requisite
astronomical apparatus I am uncertain.            This intimation may
lead perhaps to better intelligence.
                             I remain, sir, yours sincerely,
                                                      Capel Lofft.
                                                                   May

206                 Geological and Mineralogical Survey
    May I request the correction of the underwritten errata                       those
ill figures with one exception may he my own.
 . Page  12, for
           1       rich man, read Crichmore
                        C                      page   13, line
                                                             :     1                 2,
read at 4i° at 2J° instead of and.    In the plate for 140,000,
read 130,000: and     the other numbers 156, 82, 208, 234,000;
                          in                                 1
wid/or922, read 322,000.
XXXVI.       Geological and Mineralogical Survey                  of   Part
                                                                        of the
.     Yorkshire Coast. Drawn up               by
                                     the Rev. Gico.                Yovsofiom
      Materials chiefly furnished  Mr. J. Bird*.
                                         by
                                                                   '
                                                                       ;
The     mountainous tract, bounded                 by
                                             the plain of Cleveland on
the north and west, and the vale of Pickering on the south, may
be distinguished into four parallel ridges of hills, running from
east to west.     The first Commences with the lofty cliffs at Boul-
by,   and  terminates   at the western extremity of Barnahy moor.
The highest parts     of this ridge are Easington heights, Huntcliff,
Burleigh moor, and Estoft Nabb, which rise from 600 to 800
feet above the level of the sea.        The second ridge, which com-
            the moors of Aislaby and Danby, and extends to High
  liff Nabb and Rosebury,
Erehends                          considerably more elevated Danby
                                    is                                      ;
beacon being 966 feet high, and Rosebury Topping 1022 feet.
This ridge      separated from the former
                is                                 the vales of Guisbo-
                                                        by
rough, Skelton, Lofthouse, and Dalehouse.              On the south, the
vales of Kildale, Cothmon Dale, and the Esk, part               from the
                                                                       it
third ridge which       much more extensive, and forms the central
                        is
and most elevated part of our moors; beginning at Peak and the
Fvling hills, and proceeding westward              Lilla cross, Silhoue,
                                                        by
Cock Heads,      and Ralph cross,   to  Burton   Head, Cold moor, and
Cranimoor. The western part of this ridge              far the most lofty,
                                                        is   by
the heights at Cock Heads and Ralph cross being 1400 feet above
the level of the sea, Burton Headf 1485, and Cranimoor up
wards of 1500.         spectator on Cranimoor can observe the sea
                       A
over the summit of Rosebury. This ridge             of great breadth, es
                                                        is
pecially  in  the middle,   where      reaches
                                         it     from  Danby dale to the
valley at Lestingham     and  Hutton. Immediately beyond the lat
ter valley we find some of the hills of the fourth ridge, which
takes its rise near Scarborough, and includes the hills ofSeamer,
Silphoue, Langdale, Crosscliff, Saltergate, Cawthorn, Spaunton,
Gillimoor, &c. extending to the vale of the Rye. In point of
   * From the History of Whitby and Statistical Survey of its Vicinity.  By
the Rev. Geo. Young.
f    This hill erroneously' called Botton Head by Colonel Mudge.
                is                                                      The
Colonel has committed an error in regard to the angle taken at Burleigh
moor formed K'tween Barnaby moor and Rosebury Topping; he makes                       it
42° 58' 56"   whereas
               5,          pnly about 38j degrees.
                          it   is
                                                                                height,

                  i>f  Part of the Yorkshire Coast.
height, these hills correspond nearly with the second range ; but
they are of a different character from all the rest, being distin
guished by the striking similarity of their abrupt northern fronts,
forming the same angle with the horizon, and having the same
smooth appearance, wearing a covering of short ling aud moss,
and rarely presenting any broken ground or naked rocks.
    In all these four ridges, as in many other mountainous tracts
of Britain, the hills generally rise with a gentle slope from the
south, and fall abruptly in steep cliffs towards the north. A few
of the smaller hills are nearly round, so that they appear like
Works of art ; as Freeburgh hill, Oliver's mount, Blakey Topping,
and some hills on the west of Lungdale ; most of which have ta
bular summits.        Freeburgh and Blakey have indeed been pro-
nomiced artificial, by authors who had never examined their struc
ture.
    II.  Nature and Order     of I he Strata. — None of  our hills be
 long to the primitive class; they are all of the secondary forma
 tion, composed of strata, or beds, of various descriptions. There
are few places where the stratification can be examined with
equal facility; for, besides the opportunities for such investiga
 tions afforded by our inland cliffs, and by cuts or deep channels
 worn by rivers aud mountain streams, our bold and lofty shores
 present complete sections of the strata along the coast.         The
strata, as in most other hills, are seldom parallel to the horizon,
 but generally dip towards the south, their inclination correspond
ing with that of the hills themselves, as above described: and
they often assume an undulating form, the undulations bearing;
some proportion to those of the surface, rising in the heights, and
 falling in the valleys; the strata being thickest and highest in the
 most elevated situations.
    The great bed of aluminous schistus, or alum-rock, as it is
 commonly termed, first demands our attention.        At Boulby.clitfs
 this immense stratum rises about 450 feet above the level of the
.sea.   In the upper part of the bed, the rock is of a dark slate
.colour, feels soft and unctuous, like indurated clay; the lami
 nated fracture is smooth and shining, the transverse fracture dull
 and earthy; it divides horizontally into thin lamine, and, where
,exposed to the effects of the atmosphere, splits into shiver or
 shale, which is blown about by the winds.        The natural seams,
 or partings, are in an inclined direction, dividing the rock into
.regular rhomboidal sections, the size of which increases in every
 successive, course from the top downwards, the texture of the rock
 becoming- harder and firmer as we descend.          At the depth of
 about 250 feet from the top of the bed, the schistus loses its
 smooth unctuous feel, and becomes mixed with a Jarge portion
 of sand and mica in shining scales. In this part of the bed, about
                                                              GO feet

  208            Geological and Mineralogical          Survey
 60 feet in thickness, the colour changes to a light yellowish gray}
and we find here some bands of iron-stone, alternating with the1
schistus.     Below this part, the rock recovers its softness and
 smoothness; and at the depth of 140 feet more, the schistus sinks
 below the level of the sea, and how far it descends has not hither
  to been ascertained.
'
     From the experiments made by Mr. Winter*, the schistus is
 found to contain alumine, silex, magnesia, lime, oxide of iron,
1,itumen, sulphur, and water; the proportions of which vary con
 siderably in different parts of the bed.         The upper part abounds
 most with sulphur, and therefore yields the greatest quantity of
  alum ; a cubic yard at the top being as valuable as five cubic yards
 at the depth of 100 feet.         Of course the specific gravity of the
 schistus is not uniform: Mr. Winter states it at 2'4S. — Calc spar
 often occurs in the veins of the rock.
     The aluminous schistus abounds -with pyrites, which makes it
 subject to spontaneous combustion, when great quantities of that
 substance become suddenly exposed to moisture and the effects
 of the atmosphere.        Some years ago, a considerable part of the
 cliff between Sandsend and Kettleness fell down and took fire,
 and continued to burn for two or three years.
     In this bed, that curious stone, called conical coralloid, occurs
 in abundance. It is found adhering, like a shell or crust, to large
 oval or lenticular blocks of hard calcareous stone, from which it
 is not easily separated.      It is composed of an immense number
 of cones, from an inch to six inches in height, with all their api
 ces pointing towards the central block, and the interstices be
 tween them filled with calcareous matter.             The cones are va
riously aggregated;       the   larger containing several concentric
cones within them, and one cluster often encroaching on another,
or reclining on the side of another, so as almost to make their
apices meet.      When the stone is broken, the cones are very
 discernible in the fracture, and may often he taken out singly, or
in clusters: they are transversely marked with undulating stria?,
and their structure appears lamellatcd.            In colour and feel, the
stone resembles the alum-rock; but it properly belongs to the
calcareous tribe, and bears some analogy to the stink stone. —
 The lenticular masses, incrusted by this fossil, are from a foot to
six feet in diameter.        In some of them are cavities, lined with
 crystals  of  calc spar,   and   filled with petroleum in a very fluid
state. From the fragments         of  these stones exudes a kind of pitch,
or indurated petroleum, which readily melts with heat, and when
ignited burns with a crackling noise, and emits a strong bitumi
nous smell.
    * See his Essay in Nicholson's Philosophical Journal, for April, 1810,

                     ,  ... r of the Yorkshire    Coast.              ,.
                                                                         f209
     r   Thesame bed contains numerous nodules of .what we may call
     cement stone, being the stone from which Roman cement is ma
     nufactured.       The nodules vary in their form and size: they are
     often globular, and sometimes two are joined by a slender bar',
     so as to resemble a double shot.       Many of them are coated' with
     a shell of pyrites, a quarter of an inch think, and of a bright me
    tallic lustre: they often contain extraneous fossils. These stones
     appear to be principally composed of argillaceous and calcareous
     earth, with oxide of iron, so mixed by nature as to form the pro
    per composition for terras, or Roman cement.
        On the top of the aluminous schistus rests a stratum of hard
    compact stone, from six to twelve feet in thickness.         The work
    men call it dogger, a name which they also give to the cement
   stone ; and indeed its component parts seem to be nearly the
   same, but with a greater mixture of iron'. The colour of the recent
   fracture is blueish gray, but, when exposed to the atmosphere,
    it changes to a deep purple brown.          The transverse partings' di-^
    vide the stone into large blocks, nearly cubical ; each parting
   contains thin plates, resembling rusted iron, and between the
   plates a soft ferruginous earth, apparently the result of decompo-1
   sition.      This bed of stone always covers the aluminous schistus
   where the strata are entire.
        The superincumbent strata consist of alternate beds of indu
   rated clay, iron-stone, coal, bituminous shale, and granulated
   sandstone ; varying in number and thickness, according to the*
   height of the hills in which they occur.         The indurated clay al
   ways rests on the dogger.         It is of a light ochrey colour, is soft  .
   and gritty, and divided into thin lamine.          Alternating with the
   strata of clay are several thin beds of iron-stone, and generally
   one or more seams of coal.         Where the surface is low, the coal is
   seldom more than an inch or two in thickness; but where the
   hills are highest, the principal seam is from six to eighteen inches.
        A little above the coal seam, there usually occurs a bed of sili
   ceous sandstone, 20, 30, or even 40 feet in thickness. Over this
  stratum, bituminous shale and sandstone rise, in alternate beds,
   to the tops of the hills, in the first three ranges formerly described;
   Nodules of rich iron-stone abound in the shale: some of theni -
   are of the granulated kind, in which the green' specks that often
   occur seem to indicate the presence of copper.
 -     In the upper end of Tripsdale, a branch of Bilsdale, is a bed!
  of bituminous schistus, of a dark brown colour; and soapy feel.
 .It is easily divided into thin plates, which are used by the inha
   bitants of the neighbouring vales for baking cakes.           The slates
  are soft and elastic when first dug out; but are prepared by roast
  ing them in hot turf ashes, after which they will bear the heat df
                                              '
  a common fire for several years.
,      Vtd. 51. No. 239. March 1818.                     O           A stra-

 110            Geological and Mineralogical Survey
     A stratum of limestone, but too much contaminated with irofl
 to be used for agricultural purposes, crops out on the east side of
 Cold moor. It is about eight or ten feet thick: and in the trans
 verse veins are observed stalactites, curiously formed, some of
 them studded with pyramidal crystals of calc spar, commonly
 called dog's tooth spar.
     In the front of some of the Cleveland hills, where the beds of
 indurated clay crop out, are seams of a fine yellow ochre, similar
 to the Oxford stone ochre. The same hills contain, in the bitu
 minous shale, balls of a rich yellowish brown ochre, perfectly free
 from grittiness; perhaps produced by decomposed pyrites. — In
 the upper end of Greenhoue Burton, is a rock called the Rudd
 scar, from a seam of ruddle, or red ochre, which it contains, with
 which the farmers mark their sheep.
    The sandstone beds which lie above the aluminous schistus are
 all siliceous; but differ greatly in their texture and hardness,
 some being soft and friable, while others are well adapted for
building. On the tops of some of the moors a very hard siliceous
stone, called crow stone, occurs. Near Hunt-house, in Godeland,
is a large bed of stone, composed of fine white crystals, having
so little cohesion, that the stone is easily crumbled to pieces be
tween the fingers : the powder is used by farmers for sharpening
their scythes. — Most of the sandstone contains mica; which oc
 curs in a schistose state between the strata of sandstone, and is
also found in fissures, in loose scales, which from their bright lustre
have been sometimes taken for metallic ores.
    Such is the stratification of the first three ranges of hills,
which we may call the alum hills. In the southern slope of the
third line, the aluminous bed sinks below the level of the sea,
and rises no more. Its descent is rather rapid; for though it ap
pears at a great height at Stoupe Brow, it sinks about a mile to
the south of Peak ; and the descent takes place in a similar form,
throughout the whole of this range of hills, from Peak to Osmo-
therley, the place where it disappears on the Cleveland side. The
superincumbent strata sink at a proportionate distance to the
south, arid then commences a new series of stratification, com
posing the fourth, or southern, line of hills. These we may term
the limestone hills, as they consist of alternate strata of limestone-,
marl, and sandstone, resting on a bed of clay slate, of a coarse
granular texture, and a light gray colour.        This slate lies over
the upper strata of the former series, that sinks beneath this y
for this series has the same inclination as the former, dipping gra
dually towards the south, till it sinks in the vale of Pickering, or
of the Derwent ; beyond which another series appears in the
chalky strata of the wolds.
    The limestone is chiefly of the oolite or roe-stone species; and
                                                              contain?

                        of   the Yorkshire   Coast.                     £11
 rontalns in Its fissures great quantities of calc spar, in beautiful
 lenticular crystals, about an inch in diameter, adhering to the
 rock by their edges.      Fine specimens of this kind of spar may be
 seen in the rock on the north side of Scarborough castle.
     In the limestone hills are numerous subterraneous fissures and
 chasms. There are no apertures to admit our entrance into them,
 as in the Craven lime rocks; but their existence is demonstrated
 by their effects, particularly in the absorption of water. In these
 hills it is rare to meet with a spring, till we come down to where
  their bases join the plain on the south ; their dales and deep cuts
  are streamless and dry, except where rivulets flow through them
 from the hills of the third range : the waters are wholly absorbed
 by the fissures of the strata, and running down in these subter
 raneous channels at last burst out at the foot of the hills in springs
 of immense size, or rather in whole rivers. At Keldhead, near
 Pickering, the Costa rises from the earth in one vast volume of
 waters: at Brompton, a river bursts at once from the caverns of
 the limestone, and is collected at its very source into a large mill-
 pond, so that it drives a mill in descending from the ledge of rocks
 out of which it issues: and similar phenomena are observed at
 Ebberston, and other places along the foot of this range. — Nor
 do these cavernous hills absorb their own waters only, they also
 swallow up the rivers and streams which pass through their dales
 from the hills beyond them ; for these streams, on their arrival
 at the limestone beds, suddenly disappear, and afterwards rise
 again on the south side of the hills, in a line with the springs
which issue from their bases : at the same time a channel is left
above ground, in which a portion of the water flows during win
ter, or in occasional floods, when the subterraneous channel is
insufficient to admit the whole. The Rye sinks a little above
Helmsley, and rises at a small distance from its proper channel,
about a mile below : the Riccal disappears about a mile above
the new bridge on the Helmsley and Kirkby Moorside road, and
rises at Haram, a mile below, a few yards from its channel:
Hodge beck descends into the rock a few paces below Holme
Caldron mill, near Kirkdale church, and bursts up again at How-
keld-head *, on the south side of the road, a mile west of Kirkby
Moorside, and about a quarter of a mile east of its channel : the ,
Dove, or Dow, sinks about twenty yards below Yawdwath mill,
and after running near half a mile under ground, resumes its
old ^channel about a furlong above Keldholm bridge; Hutton
beck, or Catter beck, disappears about a mile north of Catter
bridge, on the Kirkby Moorside and Pickering road, and starts up
    * Keld-head means Spring-head; How-keld-head is Deep-spring-head, a
name fitly given to that frightful batin from whence this rirer boil* up.
                                     O2                                again

212             Geological     and Mineralogical             Survey
 again about half a mile below: and lastly, the Seven is swallowed
 up a little above Sinnington, and appears again in its own chan
 nel, not all at once, but by successive risings, between Sinnington
 and Normanby. Thus, in skirting the foot of these hills, the tra
veller crosses a succession of subterraneous rivers.
    Caverns are also formed in beds of sandstone, not only by
currents of water, but by the action of the atmosphere and the
rains, washing away the loose sands or soft strata below, and
 leaving the harder strata above, in the form of a roof.              In some
 instances,   insulated  fragments    of the  hard  strata are  left standing
 on a kind of pillars, like monuments of art. The rocks called the
Bride-stones, running along the margin of a deep ravine, in the
moors near Saltergate, about two miles south of Blakey Topping,
furnish curious examples both of caves and insulated rocks.
Some of the latter appear like mushrooms, supported on a narrow
 stalk ; particularly one which is about thirty feet high, and in
one direction near the top about twenty feet broad, while the
                                     in it,
stalk or pillar, which supports               only three feet across in one
                                              is
direction, and about seven feet            the other.
    In the cliffs along the coast, the strata are not only liable to be
decomposed      by  the atmosphere, but undermined and wasted away
 by  the tides, especially in storms.        The ratio in which this decay
proceeds   is   not easily ascertained; but         does not appear on an
                                                    it
average    to  exceeda   yard   in ten  years, or  ten  yards in 100 years     ;
for though in some spots the decay              much greater, in others
                                               is                              it
is  much less. The notion that our abbey was               mile from the sea
                                                             a
at its first erection           groundless fancy        the port of Whitby
                          is
                          a                              :
always was where     it   now  is
                                :    the cliffs might project 100 or 150
yards further in Hilda's time than at present, but that                the ut
                                                                      is
most extent that can reasonably be allowed. For the sake of fu
ture investigations on this subject,          Iwould here state, that the
distance from the outer edge of the north buttresses of the tran
sept of the abbey, measured in      a    Hue with the middle of the tran
sept,  to the  edge  of
                      a    hole  that  seems   to be an old quarry on the
margin of a cliff, was found in 1816 to be exactly 634 feet, and
the distance across that hole to the verge of the precipice, 46
feet more; making in all 680 feet from the edge of the cliff to the
nearest part of the abbey, in the line of the transept.                   may
                                                                           I
add, that the distance from the middle of the outer court gate in
front of Mrs. Cholmley's hall, to the verge of the cliff, taken                in
aline with the cross,     is   238 yards, or 714 feet: and, that the
distance    from  the north-west angle of the tower of Whitby church
to the nearest edge of the precipice behind Henrietta-street,                  is
70 feet.
   Besides the numerous veins and vertical fissures that cross the
                                                                   - ' strata

                        of the Yorkshire Coast.                             213
strata in our hills, and the frequent undulations of the strata al
ready noticed, some remarkable interruptions occur which de
mand observation.         At the mouth of the Esk, a slip or down
cast has taken place on the north side, the whole mass of the
strata on that side being SO or 100 feet lower than the corre
sponding strata on the south side ; and this interruption seems to
be continued throughout the whole vale of the Esk.                A similar
break is seen about two miles to the south of Carleton alum-
works, where the north part of a hill has sunk wholly down about
ten feet, exposing the section of a bed of sandstone, which, when
viewed from the north, appears exactly like a stone wall running
across the whole ridge from Bilsdale to Scugdale.
    But the most singular interruption of the strata is that produced
by the whinstone dyke, or basaltic ridge, which traverses our
hills, like a vast vein. This is perhaps the most remarkable
ridge of the kind in Britain, being 40 feet thick and often more,
and being traced on the surface to the extent of 60 or 70 miles,
in a straight line.      It runs from Cockfield Fell in the county of
Durham to the river Tees near Preston; and then, entering
Cleveland, it crosses our district in the line laid down on the
map, but has not been traced quite to the coast, the last discern
ible portion being at Blea hill, near the upper end of Harewood
 dale. The ridge rises perpendicular to the strata, and conse
quently inclines towards the south, the dip of the strata being in
 that direction : it proceeds nearly from W.N.W. toE.S E. and
seldom deviates from the straight line.           In many places it does
 not reach the surface ; in some, the top of it is on a level with
the surface, or protrudes only a foot or two above                as on the
                                                                 it,
moor between Maybecks and Silhoue*, and in the descent from
 Silhoue towards the Mirk Esk; in other places             rises to
                                                            it         great
                                                                       a
                                                                                  "
 height   above  the   surface,   as at  Parker's   houe   near   Lealholm
 Bridge, and especially in the long and lofty ridges which            forms
                                                                       it
                   In these prominent parts of the whinstone dyke,
it in
     Cleveland.
    occupies a  much wider space than the breadth of the vein; for
 there the higher portions of the ridge, having nothing to support
 them, have fallen down on both sides, especially on the south
 side to which   it inclines:   and hence such protuberances assume
 the form of oblong hills.       The most remarkable hill of this de
 scription  is on   the south and west of Rosebury Topping:                 it   is
    * Here the moor road that runs contiguous to  it  called the High-street,
                                                       is
 probably from the resemblance which the ridgebearstoapaved road; though
it   possible, that Roman vicinary way may have passed in this direction,
     is            a
 from the camp on Lease-rigg to the fort at Peak.     might have noticed, in
                                                       1
 speaking of tlie Roman roads, that some houses near Loftus are called Street-
 houses, which favours the idea that a Roman road might run that way from
 Dunsley to the mouth cf the Tees.
                                    0    3                              named

214             On the transverse Strength      of Timber.
named Langbargh, from its form, a name which it has imparted
to the whole wapentake *.
    This singular ridge is composed of blocks or masses, generally
oblong, and lying across the vein, parallel to one another, in a
form approaching to that of basaltic pillars, yet without any re
gularity of shape or size. The interstices are filled with a kind
of ferruginous earth, or decayed whinstone, and the blocks are
coated with a crust of the same colour; the recent fracture,
which is rough and granular, presents a dark blue colour, with a
number of small shining crystals.          The stone is exceeding hard,
and is excellent metal for making roads. Mr. Bailey, in his Sur
vey of Durham, (p. 82.) justly remarks, that it '< seems to have
been in a state of fusion when it filled up the fracture, as the seam
of coal, tor some feet distance on each side, is turned into a
sooty substance, which becomes a cinder as the distance from the
whinstone increases, and by degrees assumes the natural appear*
ance of coal with all its properties: which takes place about 50
yards from the whinstone." What impression it has made on the
aluminous schistus, which it traverses in our alum hills, has not
been ascertained : but in Langbargh quarry we see the south side
of its bed, against which it has leaned, appearing smooth and
firm, as though it had been baked.
 XXXVJI.       On the transverse Strength and Resilience        of Timber,
                     By Mr. Thomas Tredgold,
                             To   Mr.  Tilloch.
 Sir, — The        growth of our own ship-timber has always been
 considered to be of great importance to this country; but on ac-i
«ount of the slow growth of the oak, the demand, it is probable,
will soon far exceed the produce of the British Islands : therefore,
 the introduction of the larch, which has been very extensively
planted by a few patriotic individuals, is very justly esteemed an
 object of national importance, as the rapid growth of the larch
 far exceeds that of most of our native trees, and           it is remark-*
 ed," says Dr. Hunter, '* that those trees which have been planted
in the worst soils, and most exposed situations, have thriven the
bestf."
    The timber of the larch is durable; it       does not burn      readily,
   *  The original name Langberg signifies Long-hill : the ancient name of
Rosebury was Ohtneberg or Hogtenberg = High-hill. The wapentake
courts were formerly held at Langbargh, and the steward still hold* his
 court, pro forma, beside Langbargh quarry.
   t  Notes on Evelyn's Silva, i. 280,
                                                                        and

                    On the transverse Strength           of Timber.                 215
and it is not inferior to any of the common kinds of timber (na
tive or foreign) either in strength, toughness, or elasticity.
Besults of Experiments, on the transverse Strength of Timber,
     made at Mr. Atkinson's, Grove End, St. John's Wood, on
     Thursday, March 12/ A, 1818.
     The pieces were each an inch square, except No. 3, which was
only 8-10ths of an inch in breadth. The numbers in the table
show the weights it would have borne if it had been an inch
square ; the pieces were supported at each end, and were loaded
by putting 51bs. at a time into a scale suspended from the middle;
—the distance between the suppoits 30 inches.
                          No. 1.    No. 2.    No. 3.      No.   4.    No. 5.    No. 6.
                                                Red
     Description   of
                          Memel      Red     Larch old    English    English     Riga
        Timber.
                         Timber.    Larch.   <nd very       Oak.       Oak.     Timber.
                                                dry.
C'jmpar.sti filness — }
  or the weight that
                      £ I451bs.   iO lbs.    93 lbs.     61) lbs.   65 lbs.    125  lbs.
  bent each piece i
  half an inch         i
Compar.strength— }
  or the weight that V 212 lbs.   253 lbs.   295 lbs.    222 lbs.   231 lbs.   212 lbs.
  broke each piece )
Compar. extensibi-,.
  lily — or the space/
  through which the > 2-25 inch   3 inches.  I'lS  inch. 2'5 inches 1-4 inches 1-3 inches
  middle had bent a'  \
  thetimeof fracture  '
Weight of a cubic,
  foot of each kind /
  of timber in ttieS,    54 lbs.   VO lbs.   31 lbs.     41 lbs.    46 lbs.    30 lbs.
  nearest
  numbers
              whole
                      J
                      V.
                           Broke     Splin      Broke       Broke      Splin      broke
        Remarks
                           short.    tered.      diort.      short.     tered.    short.
     As the strength of small pieces depends much on the position
 of the annual rings, the pieces were placed as nearly alike in this
 respect as possible.          When the pieces were in the position in
 which they were broke, the dark lines or portions of the annual
 rings that appear in the section of a piece were vertical.— From
 the results exhibited in the preceding table, it appears very clear
 ly, that larch is best adapted to resist the force of a body in mo
 tion j — but to leave no doubts in this respect thefollowing experi
 ments were made.
                                          O 4                           Experiments

216              On the transverse Strength         ofTimler.
              Experiments        on the Resilience    of Timber.
   The pieces were each an inch in depth, and laid upon supports
thirty inches apart. The weight fell between two vertical guides
(similar to a pile engine), upon the middle of the piece.
                             Breadth            Height from
No. of    Description   of
                              of the   Weight.   w hich the          Effects.
Exper.        Timber.
                               Piece.           Weight fell.
        Oak, same kind >
No. 7.                        1 inch.  7 lbs.    48 inches'   Broke.
         as No. 4.         J
No. 8. Larch, same kind )
                              1 inch.  7 lbs.    48    do.      o effect.
         as No. 2.
                           \
        The same                                 54    do.    No effect.
        The same                                 61)   do.    Set to a slight curve.
        The same                                 66    do.    Alittlemlire curved.
        The same'          V                     72    do.     J Curved    about an
                                                               I inch.
        Thesame,convex     1                                   C Curved the con-
                                                 72    do.
         side upwards      J                                   l trary way."
        The same                        14 lbs.  42    do.    Broke.
No. 9.  Larch ,same kind )
                             0-8 inch. 7 lbs.    48    do.    No effect.
         as No. J.         J
        The same                                 54.   do.    Broke.
No. 10. Oak, same kind ?
                              1 inch.  7 lbs.    48    do.    No effect.
         as No. 5.         S
        The same                                 54    do.    Broke.
No. 11. English Oak           1 inch.   7 lbs.   54    do.    No effect.
        The same                                  60   do.     Broke.             ,
    No.  1 1  was   a dark-coloured      and apparently very strong piece
of wood; specific gravity 0872 or 54 \ lbs. per cubic foot *. On
the whole then it appears, that larch is superior to oak in stiff
ness, in strength, and in the power of resisting a body in motion
(called resilience) ; and it is inferior to Memel or Riga timber in
                      '                                                    *
stiffness only.
                                       I am, sir, yours, &c. f
Grove End, March 16, 1818.                         Thomas TltEDGOLD.
   * These experiments were made in the presence of his Grace the Duke
of Atholl, Lord Prudhoe, Lord James Murray, John Deas Thomson, Esq.
William Adair, Esq., Mr. Geo. Bullock, and Mr. Atkinson, architect to the
                                                             XXXVIII. No

                               C     217       ]
                 XXXVIII.   Notices respecting New Books.
Enci/clopcpdia       Metropolilnna   ;   or,       Universal Dictionary    of
  Knowledge,        on (in original Plan: comprising           the   twofold:
     Advantage     of a Philosophical and Alphabetical        Anangement.
     Parti.
The      word Encyclopedia is current amongst us, as the title of
various dictionaries of science, whose professed object is to fur
nish a compendium of human knowledge, whatever may be their
plan : — but to introduce any greater method into such a compen
dium than what belongs to a mere adherence to alphabetical ar
rangement has never, we believe, been attempted until the ap
pearance of the present work.
   In the Encyclopedia Melropolitana, (the first part of which is
now before us,) three great natural divisions have been adopted,
for the purpi se of rescuing the body of philosophy and history
from the confusion of miscellaneous and incidental information,
viz. the Philosophical, the Historical, and the Miscellaneous ;
and the first of these has been subdivided into the domain of
pure and that of mixed science — making, in all, four divisions.
Of each of these the editor? propose to publish a portion in every
part, to make, in all, 25 volumes, the last of which is to be an
index to the whole.
   The work is preceded by a general introduction or prelimi
nary treatise or method, which lays before the reader a general
analysis of knowledge, or arbre encydopedique, and states cer
tain methodical principles on which the union of the sciences is
conceived to depend.      This     in truth, doing what the term
                                   is,
Encyclopedia implies ought always to be done; namely, forming
a  circle of science, all radiating as     were from one common
                                               it
centre  —  whereas in other works of the like kind we have seen, at
the most, but segments of very different magnitude, and ill-as
sorted position.
   The second division begins with  treatise on Mechanics, that
                                           a
science standing at the head of the class called the mixed, and
applied.     We have not room to enter into the whole of its de
tail :    appears, however, to be well and carefully written.
           it                                                              It
is introduced      a short historical sketch of the rise and progress
                    by
of mechanics, as relating to solid bodies.        Then follows    ge   a
neral view of Stalks, their definitions and theorems, leading to
a consideration, first, of the simple mechanical powers, the lever,
inclined plane, funicular machine, wheel and axle, pulley, screw,
and wedge, and afterwards of their combinations            and in this
                                                              ;
part     introduced
           is.       an account   of the recent experiments of Col.
    ....                                                              Pasley,

  21 S              Notices respecting New Books.
 Pasley, at Chatham, on the pressure of earth, with the new and
unexpected results to which they led.
    The following extract from some remarks suggested by these
 experiments, as to the method of resolving the forces adopted by
 M. Rondelet, but rejected by M. Mayniel as incorrect and un
 scientific, will afford a fair specimen of the ability which has
 been brought to the support of this important branch of the
work.
    "A    variety of methods have been proposed relative to the
 determination of the resultant and direction of the forces of the
particles forming the solid DBE : some authors having estimated
 it by the power or force which is requisite when acting hori
 zontally against the centre of gravity, as M. G., to support the
 body on the plane; and consequently these have found the point
 of application to be at 2-3ds of the height of the bank from
 the bottom of the revetment ; others have found that point ta
 be at one-half of the height, and others again at l-3d.          The
latter has been the most general determination, and is obviously
 the necessary result of a correct theoretical examination and
 valuation of the direction of the forces : it has been also experi
mentally verified by Gauthey ; but it is necessary to observe that
this refers to the interior face of the revetment.    Still, however,
a singular error was committed in the resolution of the resulting
force which was supposed to be made at the point F ; so that*
K F being taken to denote the direction and intensity of the
thrust of the bank at F. this was resolved into a horizontal and
vertical force at that point which we may denote by L F and;
F H ; but the latter of these was rejected, as having no efficacy
either in causing the wall to turn about the point A, or in re
sisting that motion : — this would have been true, had the wall
been merely a line without breadth, because, then the points A
and B would have coincided, and the force F H would have had
its direction passing through the fixed point B : in giving to the
line AB, however, any dimension or length, it is clear that while
the product of L F X L A denotes the efficacy of that force to
turn the wall about the fulcrum A ; F H x A B will represent
the contrary or opposite moment of the force F H, to resist that
motion ; and consequently when these products are equal, the
wall will have the same stability as before any earth was thrown
at its back ; but when the former product is the greater, the
stability will be diminished; and when the latter is the greater,
the stability will be increased: results which were found to ob
tain from various practical experiments reported by Col. Pasley
in his work above referred to.
    " We shall come to the same conclusion, if we resolve our
                                                               forces;

                    Notices respecting New Books.                219
 forces at the point K; in which case the vertical having its di
 rection passing through the fixed point A will truly become in
 effective, and there will remain the product K H x K A, for the
 moment of the force by which the bank tends to overturn the
 wall : but here again it is obvious, that if the earth at the back
 of the wall be only so high that the line G F produced meet the
 base of the wall in the point A, the stability is the same as be
 fore any pressure took place : and if the line F G produced, cut
 the vertical C A, the stability will be diminished ; but if it meet
 any point in the base A B, it will be increased.    We have before
observed, that these deductions      are exactly conformable   to the
experimental results of Col. Pasley; and as to the point which
 we have assumed, or rather theoretically determined, for our
 point of application, it has been verified by the experiments of
 Gauthey ; and therefore, thus far experiment and theory go hand
in hand ; which is always satisfactory to observe, particularly in
 cases where they have hitherto been found to give incomparable
and anomalous results."                                             '
    The historical division is introduced by a chapter, in two parts,
viz. 1. On the uses of history as a study; and 2. On the sepa
 ration of the early facts of history from fable.
    These introductory essays are followed by a chapter on the
 Antediluvian Period — another on the Patriarchal Age, and the
 lives of Moses, Joshua, Sesostris, and Theseus.
    The fourth division is formed on a plan intended to combine
 all the uses of an English Lexicon with those of a miscellaneous
 Dictionary of Science.     In the former character it promises to
 present  a much   more  complete history of our language than has
 yet been attempted.
    ff By commencing with authorities wherever they can be de
 tected, from the earliest periods of English composition, and
Continuing them successively through the different stages by
which it has arrived at its present state of copiousness and re
finement, this Dictionary," say its writers, " will aspire to the
pretension of exhibiting to the English reader a sketch at least
of some very interesting and instructive portions of a history of
his own language."
    The plates by Davis, Landseer, &c, are neatly and even ele
gantly executed.
    Mr. S. F. Gray (apothecary and teacher of botany and ma
teria medica) has in the press and nearly ready, a work intended
to serve as a Supplement to the several Pharmacopoeias, con
taining the medical uses of all such plants as have been hitherto
examined, and an arrangement of their uses, a glossary of the
terms and contractions used by physicians in their prescriptions :
                                                                usual

    220                 Notices respecting New Books.
    usual    medical formule arranged in classes : botanical practice
    of medicine, offered as hints to regular practitioners to improve
    the art.
         This work is meant to supply the deficiencies of the present
    College Pharmacopoeias, which, being merely intended to direct
    the preparation of the medicines most usually employed by re
    gular practitioners, are of course defective in regard to the very
    numerous articles that are kept in the retail shops to supply their
,   other customers ; as medicines, perfumery, liqueurs, sauces, Bri
    tish wines, paints, varnishes, &c.
         Mr. Luke Howard will shortly publish, in two volumes,     a work
     entitled  "  The Climate of London, deduced from Meteorological
     Observations made at different Places in the Neighbourhood of
     the Metropolis."      Vol. 1 will contain an Introduction relative to
     the construction and uses of several meteorological instruments ;
     tables of observations for ten years, with notes and results ; ac
     counts of collateral phenomena in other parts of the world, and
     occasional dissertations.     Vol. 2 will contain a methodical ac
     count of the climate of London, under the several heads of the
     Winds, Barometer, Temperature, Rain, Evaporation, Electricity,
     &c. deduced from the facts contained in the first volume ; with
     copious general tables, and an index to the whole work.              To
      which will be added, An Essay on the Modifications of Clouds,
      by the same Author, several times heretofore printed.
          The first volume will appear in a few weeks.
          A Prospectus has just appeared of a new and corrected edition
      of the Delphin Classics ; with the Variorum Notes appended.
      To be entitled "The Regent's Edition." To be printed and edited
      by A. J. Valpy, M.A. late Fellow of Pembroke College, Ox
      ford.
          The whole will be printed uniformly in octavo, price ISs. in
  -
      boards, each part, to subscribers, and 11. Is. to non-subscribers;
      Each part will contain 672 closely printed pages, without re
      ference to the conclusion of any author, so that the subscribers
      may bind each author in as many volumes as they please, and
       arrange them alphabetically or chronologically,       as most   con
      venient.
          Some copies will be struck off on very fine thick royal paper,
      with a large margin, and hot-pressed, price to subscribers 1/. 16s.,
       to non-subscribers 21. 2s. each part.      The price will be raised
       higher to non-subscribers, as the work advances.                .-   -
          The whole will make about 120 or 130 parts — and twelve parts
       will be printed in the year,
                                                                     Among

                    Royal Society. — Royal Academy.                 221
 .     Among the physiological publications of this month, we have
.to announce Mr. Curtis's Introductory Lecture to his Course on
   the Anatomy, Physiology and Pathology of the Ear, as delivered
  at the Royal Dispensary 1816.           This lecture contains much
  ingenious reasoning on the structure of the Ear, from which the
. author has deduced important        practical conclusions, rendering
  the lecture both interesting and amusing.
               XXXIX.      Proceedings  of Learned   Societies.
                             ROYAL SOCIETY.
     March 5. The remainder of      the paper by the Rev. J. Brinkley,
   professor of astronomy in the    University of Dublin, On the Pa
   rallax of the Fixed Stars, was   read.
       March 12.      A paper, by    B. Bevan, Esq. On Belemuites
    and Orthocaratites,     was read.    The principal object of the
   author appeared to be that of demonstrating the proper con
   nexion subsisting between these two fossils, which had been by
   many persons considered as distinct genera.      The paper referred
   to a fine specimen presented by the author some years since to
    the British Museum, discovered between 90 and 100 feet be-
    neath the surface of the ground, in a navigable tunnel on the
    Grand Union Canal in the parish of Crick, in the county of
    Northampton, and about 430 feet above the level of the sea.
                             ROYAL ACADEMY.
                                  Sculpture.                           t
       Lectures by Mr. Flaxman,R. A. Feb. 23d.— The Professor com
    menced with a general introductory view of the progress of the
    art in ancient and modern times.        He observed, that in rude
    times, before the art of printing was known, and for a consider
   able time after, the bas-relievo ornaments on churches formed
   the great source of instruction to the people ; and that even at
   this day many thousands in Roman Catholic countries derive
   their chief information from them.        The Professor, in alluding
    to the advantages afforded to students at the Academy, men
    tioned the Valuable collection of easts presented to it by the
   Prince Regent, and expressed great satisfaction at the restoration
    of the originals to the Roman states, where they, had been raised,
 ,at a great expense, from the earth under which they had been
    buried.    The discovery of the celebrated Mosaic, comprehending
    the battle of the Centaurs and Lapithe, and the Tritons and Sea
    Monsters, had alone cost 30,000/. sterling.       Mr. Fuseli was in
   the chair, and the Lecture was well attended.
                                                                   Feb.

 222                          Royal Academy.
     Feb. 26. Mi . Flaxman commenced his discourse of this even"-*
 ing by stating that his inquiry would be directed to the origin
  of sculpture in Greece. This was at first said to be confined to
 the rude representation in stone and wood of the twelve di
 vinities then worshipped.         Examples of these figures would be
 found in ancient bronze, in their best finished state ; they had a
 diadem round the head, on which there was a sort of engraving
 like that on the tomb of Agamemnon ; the arms were fixed
  downwards, close to the side of the body, and the legs close to
 gether.    About 1300 years before the Christian era, sculpture
 began   to attract    universal attention ; and Dedalus, the friend of
 Theseus,    is  described    by Diodorus Siculus, by Pausanias, and
 others,  as   a  distinguished artist. Of his style, some idea may
 be formed from the small bronze figures in the British Museum,
 representing the naked Hercules advancing with the right arm
 ready to strike, and on the left the shield of the lion's skin. This
 showed that energy and strong feeling were studied in those early
 ages in the statues of which these figures must be copies.        The
 early  Greeks    employed     the  arts in the representation of their
 choruses.      Pausanias saw the celebrated statue of Minerva, by
 Dedalus, from which the Greek coins are taken ; but it must be
 observed, that though they gave energy to their figures at this
 period, they wanted distinctive and characteristic expression ;
 their figures had all the same faces, and were only distinguish
 able from each other, their Jupiter by his thunderbolt, the Nep
 tune by the trident, and the Hercules by the bow and palm;
After the burning of Athens by Xerxes, Pericles employed Phi
 dias to work at and superintend the re-edifying the city.         The
 superior genius of this great artist as a painter before he prac
 tised sculpture, gave a softness and delicacy to his figures, which
 soon established a style very different from that it preceded, and
which was stiff rather than dignified, and the drapery arranged
rather in geometric lines than in the simple form and beauty of
nature.     The Professor here quoted the splendid testimony borne
to Phidias and his works by Pliny, Quintillian, and other writers.
The magnificent temple dedicated to Minerva, at Athens, from
which the Elgin Marbles were taken, would immortalize hi&
fame.     Here the Professor described the dimensions of the pedi
ments, and the different allegorical subjects of which the bas-
relievos consisted ; such as the mythological processions, the
contests between the Lapithe and Centaurs, and concluded his
•discourse by observing, that it took ages entirely to destroy the
genius of grace in the arts — it did not lose its graces until the
time of the Anttmines — it preserved much of its character in the
fifth and sixth centuries, when the breaking of images obliterated
its works ; and even until the overthrow of Constantinople, the
                                                                  little

                            Royal Academy.                          223
little islands of Greece were celebrated for some perfection in
 small works ; — this taste still subsisted in the Christian era in
 those states, from the Scriptural embellished missals at present
  in existence.
      March 2. — Mr. Flaxman proceeded to consider the relation
    '
 which the arts of design bear to all the branches of knowledge,
 and the powerful illustrations they afford.       They were the arts
 of design, which enlivened early ages with the first dawn of
 knowledge, and which poured a fuller blaze upon succeeding ge
 nerations.     The Professor commented upon the subjects in which
 the arts would be most advantageously employed ; and this would
 appear to be (in the words of Socrates) the human form animated
 by the human soul. The great powers that the ancients possessed
 in expressing actual life in stone, were displayed in the animals
 of the Pope's Museum, and more particularly in the horses of
 the Elgin Marbles.       The state of art among barbarians was no
 ticed, and the first rude attempts at expressing that form which
they did not completely understand.        The learned Professor then
went through the rise and progress of Sculpture in antiquity,
 from the rude and stiff figures of the earliest ages to the splendid
works of Phidias, in the time of Pericles, and concluded his ob
 servations by pointing out the imperfect perspective in the draw
ings of the ancients, and referring for a proof of this defect to
Vitruvius, and the work called Euclid's Optics, but which was
in fact a collection and compilation from those who preceded
him. By the modern improvement, such as was exemplified by
 Michael Angelo, a depth in perspective was given greatly su
perior to the drawing in this respect of the ancients.        Through
this imperfection the drawings of the architectural works of an
tiquity were too often incorrect and inadequate for the display
of their beauties.
      March 16. — The Professor entered into the detail of the science^
 of disposing Drapery, under two heads ; first, as it is subject to
the laws of gravity ; and, secondly, as it is influenced by the laws
of motion.— With respect to the former, he observed, that dra
pery, in its simplest state, represented one fold hanging from the
principal projection of the body, and becoming complex according
to the number of folds from different parts of the body, and their
variation into different courses as they fall by gravity.      The tu
nic of the Romans was particularly noticed, as were likewise some
beautiful figures in Henry the Seventh's Chapel.        Some ancient
draperies were    much   finer and more   transparent, and   their folds
strongly resembled modern muslin ;      this was particularly the case
in figures of nymphs, terrestrial and marine, Bacchanalians, &c.
As a specimen of this description of drapery, a very beautiful
drawing: from an antique of Iris was exhibited.

  224                       Royal Academy.
     In some transparent draperies, the limbs were seen" as though
 bare; the drapery, playing in beautiful creases over the bolder
 parts, adding the magic of diversity to the charms of beauty.
 The lecture concluded with appeals to the Prophets of Michael
 Angelo, the Apostles of Raphael and Albert Durer, and the Holy
  Men in Henry the Seventh's Chapel, as exhibiting the most sub
 lime conceptions expressed in drapery.
     March 23. — Mr. Flaxman delivered a concluding lecture, the
  subject of which was Composition. — The very early compositions
 of Greece were generally the representations of heroic subjects,
  or of celebrations of rites, as the combat of Theseus and the Mi
 notaur, Hercules and the Centaur, Dejanira and Nessus, the rites
  of Bacchus, &c. all under the influence of a rude character.
 After the stores of Persia became the treasures of Greece, the
 art was characterized by truth, beauty, and inspiration.      It saw
 its zenith of perfection in the Jupiter and Minerva of Phidias.
 When the Greeks were no longer free, those large compositions
 which had astonished the world ceased to appear ; yet under the
 influence of the same love for their country and its traditions,
 they exercised their genius upon smaller works. The abasement
 of sculpture in Italy was noticed.     Upon turning again with in
terest to Greece, it was observed, that the nation which had pro
 pagated by art the heathen traditions, was the one to exercise
 its genius on subjects relative to the true religion.    The parti
 culars of composition were entered into; its forms, as the pyra
 mid, the cone, the inverted cone, &c.       Bas-relievo may be con
 sidered as painting without colour. The ancients held simplicity
 in so high respect, that in their bas-relievos they generally placed
 their fignres all upon a line; yet, there are to be seen in some,
 files of horses in perspective, with riders, without the least eon-
 fusion. The Professor then entered into some particulars of science,
 especially the harmony of lines, and the effect of light and sha
 dow in sculpture.
     Mr. Flaxman divided sentiment in sculpture into three classes;
 —the sublime, which generally refers to the different acts of cre
 ation; the heroic; and thirdly, the pathetic ; which is exempli
 fied in the Charities and Holy Families of Michael Angelo.
     Comments next followed upon some of the most sublime com
positions that the world has seen; the Judgement by Michael An
gelo, and the Fall of the Rebel Angels by Rubens. Here the be
holder is thunderstruck, with the vastness of the conceptions and
the tremendous precipitation of energy enveloped in clouds of
furious smoke.      The work of Michael Angelo was the most con
summate performance of the two, and was the parent of Ru-
bens's.     If Rubens held the superiority in profundity of colour,
skill of light and shade, and breadth of masses, Michael Angelo

                           Royal Academy?.                             225
far exceeded him in character, in pathos, and in design.    It is
only equalled in individual character and energy by the Laocoon
 and the Boxers. — Perhaps the first great composition that ap
peared since the Grecian era was that by Leonardo da Vinci,
from which Michael Angelo probably imbibed some of those
principles which regulate his large works.- It is to the produc
tions of Michael Angelo that we are indebted for the celebrated
hunting pieces of Rubens, in which the genius of the artist is so
admirably displayed, that the men shout and crv, the horses
snort and kick, the animals howl and roar.        The limits which
circumscribe sculpture were pointed out; the human figure was the
principal, and almost the only subject of the sculptor's study.
Some remarks followed upon the utility of rules, during which,
it was observed, that a servile observance of the best rules, super
added to a power of manual labour, would produce nothing ; but
that sentiment was the life and soul of liberal art, and gave an
invisible charm to the rudest imagery.     The lecture concluded
with a general review of all the discourses.
,           Lectures on   Painting. By M. Fctseli, R.A.                    ,
                        [Continued from our last.]
-  March 5 .—The lecture of this evening was entirely upon chiaro
scuro and back-grounds.— The literal sense of this, compound
word is well known.        In its contracted sense it is applied to a
single figure only;   and  in its most extensive, to a composition.
The use   of the chiaro-scuro is to give substance to form, place to
figures, and to create space.       It is legitimate or spurious: when
the former, it is the assistant of expression, form, and character;
when the latter, a palliative for them.         Of every subject unity is
the soul; unity, therefore, is inseparable from chiaro-scuro: —
the next requisite to chiaro-scuro is truth.         Mere light and sha-*-
dow,  as seen  commonly   in nature,   are  not  legitimate chiaro-scuro;
it is the business of art to arrange, by fixing one central light
from which all others must emanate like rays. The most extra
ordinary, the most astonishing effects of light and shadow, when
directed by comprehensive genius, become legitimate chiaro-scu
ro. The most natural, without it, is spurious. It was remarked,
that chiaro-scuro sprang from Leonardo da Vinci, and the de
gree of doubt, and even censure, with which the use of it was
then received, was very extraordinary;          only one member of the
Tuscan school adopted      it,
                             and  it  was afterwards suffered to dwin
dle to evanescence.     The Roman school never adopted           it;   no
principle of it    to be traced in any of the works of Raphael
                  is                                                  ;   it
was the school of colour, Venice, which paid implicit obedience
to its mandates.     There  it  first appeared with Giorgione. Se-
   Vol. 51. No. 239. March 1818.                     P               veral

226                          Royal Academy.
veral fine works of the masters of this school were ^commented
upon, for exemplification : particularly the Peter Marty* and
St. Laurence of Titian, and the celebrated awful picture of Tin
toretto; where the expression of twilight, eclipse, or what pre
cedes a storm, an earthquake, a hurricane, displays all the powers
of chiaroscuro. — In the pictures of Paolo Veronese, on account
of that gaiety of mind which ever led him to represent large as
semblies, chiaroscuro is in a great measure absorl>ed in variety
of colours. But' the highest summit of perfection in light and
shadow was to be found in Corregio; design, composition, and
colour, were all subordinate to his chiaroscuro: he expanded
its powers through heaven and earth.             The Professor gave a
masterly     character   of Corregio. — The rest  of the lecture was oc
cupied by      observations  upon lack-grounds : it would be tedkwts
to follow him with any degree of minuteness.           The great advan
 tage Poussin's pictures derive from them, and their total neglect
 by Raphael and Michael Angelo, were observed. — A picture
 might become sublime and pathetic, by an appropriate 'back
 ground; by this, also, a sublime and pathetic picture might be
 come more interesting. The figure of n female, seated on a rock,
 would express little more than insipidity; the genius of Reynolds
 had elevated its character, by the contrast of a boisterous ocean
 in the back-ground.         The genius of Reynolds, likewise, in the
 figure of a female contemplating the moon upon the lucid waters,
 had amalgamated elegance with sympathy and desire.— In the
 course of the observations upon the back-grounds, it was Te-<
 marked, that the Apollo Belvidere and Jupiter, of Phidias,
 were never formed for a room, and that we might very frequently
 discover how far an artist had penetrated his subjeet, by-his choice
 of scenery.
     Thursday, March 19. — The Professor began by observing, that
 the commencement, the progress, the finish, the reputation' «f
 an artist's work depended upon the faculty -of Invention.-—The
 first demand from invention was a complete whole ; the sectfnd,
 that it should clearly tell its own tale — for, as a poem would'he
 little entitled to praise that depended for its light' upon annexed
 notes, so a painting would deserve little reputation that required
 illustration from a commentary.        The Professor divided subjects
 for the practice of invention into three classes; 1st, positive,
 advantageous, commensurate; 2dly, negative, uniftterestirfg'ln
 themselves      and depending upon the •genius of " the artist ; '-artd
 3dly, repulsive— that cannot pronounce their own meaning, on
 which thegenius of the artist is wasted, and which never make
 impression, or stamp a work With perspicuity.
     With respect to the first ; without much boldness of invention,
 it draws    its subjects from the lap of^naWtte j such'-tocfvhe'Ma--
                                                                  •denas

                              iloyol Academy.                           227
    <donasof .Raphael,. the burmng of the Borgio, theJPetrus stabbing
   himself while clasping the.toody of Arria^the tugs, the grasp, the
  groan of .the Laocoon . These subjects, without reference to
  time or place, speak the language of all mankind.              Under this
  class ulso comes History, whurh. expresses time, and gives a " local
 .habitation and a name."        We are pleased with the former sub
 jects as men, with the latter, as. members of society.
      Legislators, philosophers, discoverers, polishers of mankind,
  patriarchs and divines, fall under the latter head. Whatever
  makes time and place contribute to display pathos and character,
  is the legitimate style of elevated history, more properly deno
  minated Dramatic.        Mr. Fuseli pointed out the cartoon of Paul
  preaching at Athens.       The dramatic was the style of Euripides,
  of Shakspeare, and of Raphael.          "Under the first class was like
  wise included, in the name of commensurate, the Epic, with its
  allegoric and symbolic attachments.            The epic, which. was the
  most sublime effort of human invention, was the allegory of a
  maxim.       It admitted historv as its basis, by its vastuess; it con
  cealed its boundaries.       Nature reflected character ; character
  was overwhelmed by genius.          In     heaven and earth mingled;
                                           it,
  men became demigods     ;   gods   descended     to men.   This was the
 style  of  Homer, of Michael Angelo, of Milton.           Mr. Fuseli took
 this opportunity to comment upon allegory, which, of all the
 paltry subterfuges to palliate invention, was one of the foremost.
  Dr. Johnson had said that the plastic arts can illustrate, but not
 inform      which the Doctor attempted to prove
             ;                                             by
                                                            saying, that a
 <child, on being shown    a  figure   of  Justice   with  apair. of scales,
 would mistake    it   for a cherrv-woman with steel-yards.             The
 Professor conceived that this would depend entirely upon the
          of the artist.   The general allegoric ideas of the ancients
 fenius
    ad  auniform taste.     The inverted torch, the drooping flower,
 were accompaniments of, not substitutes for, Death.               Mercury
 •deprived of his caduceus, Apollo of his lyre, would still inform us
  of their characters.
     A  celebrated picture of Tiziano was also noticed.          Under this
 class may be comprehended the owiamental style.              Here, midst
 refulgent architecture, are displayed sumptuous tables of magni-
-licence and luxury; gaudy bands of music, the lustre of eastern
 draperies, crowds of pages and dwarfs, glittering riches, splendid
 chaos the whole embrowned and toned
         ;                                            by   ameridian sky.
.Under this class also may be comprehended portrait             ;  not that
 portrait which comprehends and embodies the character and
 soul but the mere transcript of feature. To this class also we
 add   a ;
         similar description of landscapes, an imitation of hHl arid
 dale, clumps of trees, not assisted             nature, nor dictated
                                                 by                      by
 genius; little better than topography. — The landscapes of Ti-
                                   P   2                               tian,

228                           Steam-Engmes.
tian, of Claude, of Rubens, and of Rembrandt, spurn all relation
with this description of map-making.
     On proceeding to the third, or repulsive class of subjects, which
are impossible to be told by art, there were mentioned, as in
stances, the Delivery of the Kevs to Peter, painted by Raphael,
the Testament of the Athenian, and Moses in the Bullrushes, by
Poussin.      These were compositions without subjects.
             XL. Intelligence       and Miscellaneous        Articles.
                     STEAM ENGINES IN CORNWALL.
 From       Messrs. Leans' Report for February 1818, it appears
 that during that month the following was the work performed by
 the engines reported, with each bushel of coals.
                                 Founds of water lifted       Load per square
                             1 foot   high with each bushel.  inch in cylinder.
 25 common engines averaged                 22,424,449             various.
 Woolf's at Wheal Vor               ..      26,158,828             17-2 lib.
 Ditto         Wh. Abraham          .  .    35,364,694             168
 Ditto          ditto    ..         ..      28,012,278               5-3
 Ditto         Wheal Unity          ..      32,306,943              131
 Dalcouth engine          ..        ..      41,354,103              11-2
 Wheal Abraham          ditto       ..      36,180,740              109
 United Mines engine                ..      31,830,623              14-6
  Treskirby ditto        . .         . .    39,375,488              10-6     .
 Wheal Chance ditto                 ..      32,319,967               8-9
                      THE NORTHERN EXPEDITIONS.
     We   are anxious to correct a mistake in our last Number.                  It
  is not true that any difficulty was experienced in obtaining suitable
  hands for the voyage, and that, in consequence, the vessels will
  complete their crews at the Orkneys. On the contrary, so many
  men offered their services, that four times the number of ships
  might have been instantly manned; and in fact most select crews
  have been obtained, composed of men from those parts of our
  coasts which experience has proved to furnish persons naturally
  endued with the largest portion of bottom, hardihood in dangers,
  and unconquerable spirit — qualities which do not belong to the
  seamen of the very northern regions, who, though from necessity
  they often expose themselves to cold, are easily depressed by
  dangers, and therefore but little qualified for such enterprises as
  are now contemplated.
      These expeditions have excited a great degree of interest, not
 merely among philosophical and speculative men, but among al!
                                                                         classes ;

                        The Northern Expeditions.                 229
classes; and, as might be expected, various thoughts have been
offered to the public in different forms, bearing upon this subject.
The state of our climate for a long series of years has been inves
tigated, and, in the Journal of the Royal Institution, great influ
ence has been ascribed to the Greenland ice.          The same argu
ment has since appeared in the Quarterly Review from the pen
of Mr. Barrow, who has produced a most interesting paper on
the subject.       His conclusions, however, are questioned by many;
and it is probable the investigation which has thus commenced,
may lead to the publication of various useful papers on the causes
of . periodical changes in the temperature of climates.        On the
physical laws which cooperate, we have inserted, in a preceding
part of this number, a short but interesting paper from a corre
spondent under the signature of Z. A. to which we here add the
following observations copied from the Glasgow Chronicle.
    Mr. Barrow contends that " our climate, in the course of the
last three years, has been particularly affected" by " the appear
ance of ice in the Atlantic;" that "in the summers of 1815,
 1816, and 1817, more particularly in the two last, islands of ice,
unusual in size and number, were seen as far down as the 40th
parallel of latitude ;" that one of the islands of ice was two miles
in circumference, and 200 feet in height ; that others were several
miles in circumference; that Newfoundland during last summer
was completely environed with ice ; that greater quantities ex
isted then in that quarter than were ever before observed ; that
 " during the last two summers the mercury invariably fell with
                     " and
 westerly winds ;            that it can scarcely be doubted that the
 late coldness of the seasons was produced by an atmosphere,
chilled and condensed over ice-bergs and ice-islands, " rushing
 directly upon the British islands from the westward."
     In proof of the coldness of the last three summers Mr. Barrow
 contrasts their temperatures with those of 1805, 1806, and 1807.
 The mean results are as follows: —
           1805    5»3          1806   62-3         1807 6285
           1815 61-55           1816   57'8         1817   5S-73
     This statement of itself refutes Mr. Barrow's speculation. One
 of his cold years is 2-25 warmer than one of his warm ones, and
 the other two are only 1-5 and -55 colder.        In 1805, when there
 vyere no ice-bergs, the mean temperature of the summer was 59-3.
 In 1815, when there were ice-bergs, the temperature was 61-55.
 Wherefore, according to the Quarterly Review', the ice-bergs have
                                  '
  chilled the climate!
      It is true that 1806 and 1807 were 4-5 and 4'1 warmer than
  1816 and 1817, but 1805 was scarcely any warmer; and if the
  temperature of that summer was not influenced by ice, how shall
  Mr. Barrow say that it affected 1816 and 1817 ?
                                      P3                           The

230                      The Northern Expeditions:
    The following are mean temperatures observed at Kinfauns.
Castle    : —
                     1814            1S15         18T6-         1817
Annual mean.         43-4°           45°          42-7°        44-26°
     This is also fatal to the icy theory; for in 1S14 we have no
particular record of frozen islands; yet its temperature was lower
than those of 1 8 1 5 and 1817, when they" are said to liaVe abounded.
    Again, the position of Mr. Barrow 6n Which his argument prin
cipally rests, that
                         " during the last two summers the mercury in
variably fell with westerly winds," is wholly contrary to the fact;
as may be seen from the following result of Mr. Howard's obser
vations at Tottenham          : —
 1816,
    bo^h
         April to Sept.
          inclusive.
                            fgHfit
                            52 days 53-6"
                                                    S5j*T*    "ff
                                                    101 days 54o7°
                                                                   -7o
1817.           Do.         61         53-27°         95       55-23°
     The attempt, therefore, to explain the weather by the ice-bergs
fails in every point.
    The facts not merely jar with Mr, Barrow's view, but are hi
direct opposition to it; and the slightest examination of his ge
neral principles is equally unfavourable to his conclusions.             It is
not   conceivable     that  our   west wind, merely by passing      over  the
ice near Newfoundland,            would be materially chilled   in its gene
ral volume; nor, if it were, is it reasonable to suppose that the
 coolness would not afterwards be removed by the passage of the
 wind over 500 leagues of open sea.            In the close vicinity of the
 ice, the air will indeed be sensibly chilled; and this effect is un
happily experienced by the eastern states of America, where the
north-east wind is extremely injurious : but the case is entirely
changed when the broad bosom of the ocean presents the warmth
of the latitude of 50° to repair the partial diminution of tempe
rature.
   - The real cause of the
                                 coldness of 1816 aud 1 8 1 7 was undoubt
 edly  the   wet  and  cloudy   weather   that almost constantly prevailed
 in summer. Rain is yet without a theory ; but it seems pretty
 certain that it is governed bv other circumstances than those
 which occur on the surface of the globe; and it is probable that
 the unequal distribution of electricity is the principal source of
 diversified seasons.        It the theory of the Journal of the Royal In
 stitution was authentic, we should have had less rain during the
 last two years than usual; inasmuch as the wind, being con
 densed by the ice-bergs, would lose a proportional share of Us
 moisture.
     What has been advanced respecting the vineyards and orchards
 of Great Britain, is nonsense too pure for controversy.
     Philosophy is never useful but when her general reasonings are
 applied to special cases : but this is Hot done without hazard j
                                                                        since

                    Hot-houses.-~-ffluat  of IJme.                23 1
since many who fancy themselves to be wooing her prosperously
by abstractions, find, when their attentions become more particu
lar, that she has only been coquetting with them.
    While on this tubject, we may also notice the theory of Pro
fessor   Parrot of Dorpart, who has written on the freezing of salt
water as it respects the origin of the polar ice.       Though navi
gators say that the polar ice contains no salt, yet the author thinks,
and proves that mere tasting cannot decide the problem.         If the
ice in the polar regions contains no salt, it cannot be frozen sea-
water, but ice of glaciers which cover the pole of our earth, and
to which our European glaciers are mere molehills.         The unsalt
water flowing from the glaciers is lighter than the sea-water, and
consequently keeps on the svirface, makes the latter less salt, and
thus more liable to freeze: therefore the ice which covers the po
lar regions must increase and continue to increase every year in
height and extent} for this reason the climate of Iceland and
Greenland becomes continually more severe, and these countries,
lose more and more     of the inhabitable surface, &c.
                              HOTHOUSES.
    The deformity and unseemly appearance of        all the construe-:
tions that have been resorted to for hothouses, are proved by their
being generally banished to a distance from the mansion of the
ewner, and hid in the kitchen-garden ; and the attempts hitherto
made to remove the defects by stone piers, parapet walls, and
other architectural forms, have only tended to defeat the object
ef the structure by obstructing a portion of the light.— A new
system has just been offered to horticulturists by Mr. Loudon,
who has been long known as a professional rural architect, which
seems to promise considerable improvement in this department.
He has invented a solid wrought-iron sash bar not only applicable
to all the purposes to which wooden frames have been hitherto ap-r
plied for framing glass; but, being capable of receiving any form
by bending, capable of being made into the form of domes and other
elegant structures, fitted to ornament, as appendages, the most
elegant mansions.      He has, as the simplest way of showing their
advantages,    erected a variety of these structures on his premises
at Bayswater.
                           FLUAT OF LIME.
    It is remarked in a late Number of Thomson's Journal, that
 floor spar occurs very rarely in Scotland.     We are informed that
 it has been observed by Dr. MacCulloch, on more occasions than
 one, in the granite of Aberdeenshire, occupying small veins and
unaccompanied by any other substance: in these cases it was al
 ways  ef a purple colour, but not crystallized.  The   same  minera-
                                 P  4                           logist

232                   .  Zircon. — Ophthalmia.
legist has also found it in Banffshire, crystallized, of a white co
lour, and occupying cavities in a granite vein.          It has further
occurred to him in the gneiss of Sutherland near the eastern ex
tremity of Loch Shin.        It is here also of a purple colour, and is
often diffused in such a manner among the other ingredients of
the rock, as in some measure to form an integrant part of its ge
neral structure : in other instances it is accumulated in lumps
 among its lamine.                    .
   •  •                           ZIRCON.
     This mineral has, we understand, been discovered by Dr. Mac-
 Culloch in Sutherland.       It occurs in a compound rock formed of
 copper-coloured mica, hornblende, and felspar.
     This rock forms one of the occasional beds in the gneiss, and
 bears a resemblance in its composition to the zircon syenite of
 the north of Europe ; the crystals are a quarter of an inch in
 length and well defined, and their colour is an obscure crimson
 approaching to that of cinnamon.
                               OPHTHALMIA.
     Sir William Adams having had the honour to be nominated by
 HisMajesty's Government to superintend that part of York Ho
 spital, Chelsea, which has been appropriated to the reception of
 the blind pensioners belonging to the army, navy, and artillery,
 feels it a duty fully to lay open to the profession at large his new
 modes of treating them.        This duty is suggested as well by the
 peculiar confidence which has been reposed in him, as by the
 high sanction thus conferred upon his improvements in ophthal
 mic surgery. He therefore freely invites all medical practitioners
 and students who are interested in the advancement of this branch
 of surgery, to attend his operations at York Hospital, which for
 their convenience will be performed in future on Tuesdays and
 Fridays, between the hours of seven and nine in the morning.
     To remove all doubt or misconception with regard to Sir Wil
 liam Adams's practice, he proposes on each of these days to give
 a description of the nature of one of the diseases to be ope
 rated upon — the general modes of performing the operation —
 his peculiar mode— *and his reasons for deviating from the usual
 practice, where such deviation has been found necessary.
     The records kept of each case, from the patient's admission
 into the hospital to his final discharge, will be open at the periods
 already mentioned, for the inspection of such gentlemen as at
 tend-; so that the profession will be enabled fairly to appreciate
 the character of the new as compared with the old modes of
 practice.                                                              i
 - It is
          expected that from fifteen hundred, to two thousand pa-
 :                                                                tients

                 Dry Rot. — Pompeii and Herculaneum.                     233
   tients will successively be placed under the care of Sir William
 Adams in this Institution.
     26, Albemarle-street,  March 10, 1818..  :< .
                                   DRY ROT.
      The Eden sloop of war (new), which was lately sunk in Ha-
 moaze, to endeavour to cure her of the dry rot, has been risen,
-commissioned, and taken into dock.              On, opening her, she has
 been found defective in every part, and must undergo a thorough
 repair.     The Topaze frigate, also ordered for commission, which
 was repaired not long since, is found to be in the same state.
 The Dartmouth frigate, built at Dartmouth, three years old,
 never at sea, is also undergoing a complete repair.            Not a ship
 is taken into dock but is found to be nearlv rotten.              The very
 best ships do not average more than twelve years existence. The
  San Domingo, 74, was ripped up (four years old) at Portsmouth.
  The Queen Charlotte, 1 10, was built at Woolwich, sent round
 to Plymouth, found rotten, and underwent a thorough repair ;
 she was also several months under the care of Dr. Lukin, an Ad
 miralty chemist, who received 5000/. for his ineffectual labours
 to stop the progress of vegetation in the ship.              After a short
 cruise, the Queen Charlotte was laid up at Portsmouth, where
 she remains in a very defective state.
     NEW OPINION IN REGARD TO POMPEII AND HERCULANEUM.
      It is, at present, the general belief that the two celebrated
 cities of Pompeii and Herculaneum were overwhelmed and de
 stroyed by an eruption of Vesuvius in the year 79.               It is now,
  however, maintained, that this was not the case.               Pompeii is
  said to be covered by a bed of lapillo, of       the  same nature   as that
 we observe daily forming by the agency of water on the shore at
  Naples ; while Herculaneum is covered by a series of strata, al
  together forming a mass sixty feet thick, of a tuff having the
  characters of those tuffs formed by water.            From the facts just
 'stated,' it is conjectured that the cities were destroyed by a rising
  of the waters, which deposited over them the stratified rocks, and
 not by matter thrown from Vesuvius.               It is also said, that no
  eruption of Vesuvius took place in the year 79.
                     MANUSCRIPTS OF HERCULANEUM.
      A letter from Naples      says — " Among the manuscripts disco
  vered at Herculaneum,       there is a copy of Justin, and one of Aulus
  Gellius, in such    a state of preservation that the persons appointed
  to decipher these manuscripts are able to read them almost
  without any difficulty.       This discovery is the more valuable, on
                                                                      account

 234                     Patents . —New   ComeU
 account of the alterations that are known to have been, made irt
 the texts of these two authors ; and because the eighth book. of.
 the Nocles Atticce of Aulus Gellhis, which was lost, is now re
 covered,"
              LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
    To Alexander      Haliburton, of Haigh Iron-work,    near Wigan,
 Lancashire,    for certain improvements hi steam-engines and
 toilers. — 2 months allowed to specify. Dated 27th Feb. 1618.
    To Joshua Routledge, of Bolton le-Moor, in the county o£
 Lancaster, for an improvement of improvements upou the rota
 tive steam-engine. — 27th Feb. — Cr months.
    To John Sutherland, of Liverpool, and also of No. .99,
 Houndsditch, London, for various improvements in the construc
 tion of an apparatus for the purifying of liquids.
                                                     — 7th March.: —
 2 months.
    To   Thomas Heppenstall, of Doncaster, Yorkshire, for an
improvement upon the engine or machine for cutting or reducing
into what is called chaff, different articles as dry fodder for horses
and cattle. — 7th March. — 2 months.
    To George Wyke, of Bath, and William Sampson, of Bristol,
for certain improvements on pumps, whieh improvements are
                                                        — March.— 6
applicable to machinery of various descriptions.
months.
    To John Read, of Tipton, Staffordshire, and William Howell,
of Wednesbury, in the same county, for their new system of
working and getting the luaine or thick mine of coai.
                                                               — 1 4th
March. — 2 months.
    To Richard Penn, of Richmond Hill, Surrey, for his improved
mode of manufacturing ornamental wooden fur-niture, by the ap
plication of machinery.
                           — 14th March. — 2 months.
    To John Ashton, of Great Tower-street, London, and Thomas
Gill, of Greek-street, Soho, in the county of Middlesex, for cer
tain improvements in or on instruments and apparatus for ascer
taining the strength of spirituous liquors, and also the specific
gravity of fluids and metals. — 14th March. — 6 months.
                             NEW COMET.
    A new comet has been discovered in the constellation of the
Swan.      It was first observed on the 26th of December last, by
M. Blanpain,     at Marseilles, who has communicated to the Bu
reau of Longitude at Paris his observations upon it down to the
18th of January.        The astronomers of Paris have been since
constantly on the    watch  ; but, in consequence of a very clouded
state of the heavens, they have not yet been able to discern it.
                                                                    is
The movement of the comet, as described by M. Blanpain,
                                                                 very

                                        AslrononVy   .— ^Meteorology .                                     235?
    very slow, its right ascension increasing only seven minutes in-
    twenty-four hours, and its declination, in the same time, not di-<
    nVmishing more than from thirty-three to thirty-five minutes*.
    The observations of M. Blanpain embrace but a very small arc.
    M. Nicollet has, however, deduced' from them a parabolic orbit,
    which, though only a mere approximation to correctness,, may
    enable observers for some time to trace pretty exactly the coarse
    of the comet. According to his calculations,       would pass- its point,
                                                                          it-
    nearest to the sun oii the1 3d of March last, at fifteen minutes past
    eleven. Its perihelia! distance will be equal to     12567, that of the      t'-
    earth to the sun being taken for unity.
       The inclination of its orbit to the ecliptic . .    . = S8° 38'            .    <
       Longitude     of the ascending node                   ±e 68                                     5
       Longitude of perihelium, calculated          the orbit= 187 3?2
                                                                    by
        Its heliocentric movement        direct.     is
       As yet", there        nothing very interesting in its physical ap
                                        is
    pearances.      In the first days of January resemMed        small ne
                                                                    it                       a
    bulous body, not of any determined form, and of            very feeble                   a
    light.    On   the   8th      appeared sensibly augmented, both
                                    1        it                                                             in
    si£e and brilliancy.
                      AStRONOMICAL                 PHENOMENA,            APRIL 1818.
        D. H. M.                                           d. a. m.
        5.16.3d     C         2                           20. 5.20        ©      enters      b*
                                                          20.   .                eclipsed visible
                                                          20. 18.54       5 ((   XtiK
    10.     .                  in apogee                  21. 8.                 a£,=
                    d 11 <i
                                                                    3     ([
    11.     .                 of * 44'
                                    ,         N.          22.   .         fl      in perigee
    Jfc 18.20                 in                          22.12.12               $
                                                                                       n\.
                              fS
                                                                          i[
    12 23.      2   d         an                          23.   .         %       763 Mayer
                                                                                                  *   4'   S.
    13.14 34                                              25.   1.26      <L      4't
                    <f «
                                                                                                                :.
    15.20.54           r)£l                               25.   9   20    «
                                                                                 j
                                                                                 A
    17-21.46        S'rnfc                                27.22     14
                                                                     i            gyy
-   1   8.22.56     a         ynn
    19.20.19        d         n;j
                         PHYSICAL PHENOMENA,
         The storm of the 23d of February, from the                                    effects    of which
    our shores were exempted, spread its ravages over the greatest'
    part ef the continent.   At Turin, was attended with two shocks
                                                          it
    of an earthquake.     Genoa, Savona, Alanco, and San Remo, were
    thrown into the greatest consternation for two days       repeated                       by
    concussions, and several houses were partly demolished at Alazzesx
    but happily no lives were lost.     At Antibes, in Provence, the
    whole day (the 23d of February) had been very tempestuous. —                                                1
    About four minutes past seven in the evening,   most tremendous
    rush of wind took place, and was followed       an instantaneous           by a
                                                                 calm.

                             Meteorology.
calm.     A dull subterranean noise was heard, the sea suddenly
dashed against the rocks, and in the space of three seconds three
oscillations of the earth were felt in a direction from the S.E. to
the N.W.       The wind then rose again, and all the violence of
the   storm   revived.   At twelve o'clock a fresh concussion was
experienced: and at a quarter past eleven the next morning a
fourth, which was also preceded by the same deep and solemn
rumhling.      Before seven o'clock on the morning of the 25th, a
fresh phenomenon presented itself ; a parhelion was distinctly
observed north of the rising sun ; but the earliness of its appear
ance prevented its being generally noticed, and adding to the
terrors of the people.     The shocks were felt throughout all Pro
vence, where no earthquake had been experienced for eleven
years.
    Letters from the Tyrol announce that the Glacier of Ortler in
the vicinty of Chjavenha has increased this winter in a most ex
traordinary manner, notwithstanding the general mildness of the
season. From the depths of the ice, incessant and tremendous
roarings are heard.       The Suldenbach stream, which formerly
issued from this glacier, has been dried up ever since Michael
mas 1817, and great apprehensions are entertained for the neigh
bouring countries, should the heats of summer reopen a passage
to the waters which seem to have collected within the bosom of
this immense mass of ice.        Similar phenomena have been ob
served in the glacier of the valley of Natidersberg.
   On Saturday the 7th of March a water-spout burst at Sten-
bury, near Whitwell, in the Isle of Wight, which did consider
able injury.      It was preceded by a violently agitated atmo
sphere,    the noise  of which, for half an hour, resembled a roar
the most dismal and appalling.        When the cloud poured forth
its contents, it seemed to the inhabitants of Stenbury farm as
though the flood-gates of the sea had broken, and their destruc
tion was inevitable: the water rolled down the hill in such irre
sistible torrents, that it beat down a lofty wall, flooded all the
lower apartments of the farm, and set the cattle loose among the
streams — the affrighted inhabitants seeking shelter, with their
children, in the upper rooms. The terror and painful feelings are
indescribable.
    Extraordinary Fall of Rain. On the 2 1st of October 1817
(which was the day the hurricane commenced in the West In
dies) at the island of Grenada, with the wind west, and the ba-
r'ometefstanding at 29,40, eight inches of rain fell in twenty-
one hours ; and the rivers. rose thirty feet above their usual level.
                                           ....
From the 20th of October to the 20th of November, seventeen
inches of rain fell.                                     .
                                                           Meleoro-

                                      Meteorology.                        237
  Meteorological Journal kept at Wallhamstow, Essex, from
                           February 15 to March 15, 1818.
 [Usually between the Hours of Seven and Nine A.M. and the Thermometer
                     (a second time) between Noon and Two P.M.]
  Bate. Therm. Barom. Wind.
  Felruary
  15         29  29-87       E. — White frost, and very clear; very fine day;
        .    40                 cloudy; afterwards rain.
  16     .42      29-87       E — S. — Clear, fine-coloured cirroslratus; at
             51                 eight, hazy; fine day; star- and moon-light.
  17         41    29-98      SE.  — Gray morn; very fine day; cirroslratus
       -     51                 and clear ; clear night and windy.
  18         44    29-98. S.— Cloudy early ; small rain after 9 A.M. ;
             5 1                showers, and wind    ; rainy evening, and very
                                windy.
l19          40   30-00 SW. — Clear high; hazy low; sun and cirro-
             53  .              stratus; very fine day till after 3 P.M. ;
                                stormy, wind and rain.
  20         31    30-00       W by S— SW.~ White frost; showers and
              43                sun ; star-light ; some slight showers.
  21-         43   29-78       SW. — Cloudy, and windy; sun and wind;
              47                 great showers and sun ; cloudy.    Full moon.
  22          39   29-33       SW— N.— Cloudy; rain and stratus; at noon
,    .        39                 snowing; at 10 P.M. deep snow; still snow-
    .  . .                       ing ; after 1 1 snow ceased.
  23 .       3.0   29-76       NW. — Beautiful sun-rise ; clear ; deep snow
              40             .   five inches thick ; fine sun at noon ; rapid
                                 thaw; lumps of ice and snow fell from the
          ,.                     trees ; fine sun and wind ; rainy evening.
  24          35   29-50       W. — Clear, and wind; some snow still re-
 . .          42                  mains; very fine day; sun, and wind; night
                                 dark, and rainy and windy.
  25          48   29-54       NW. — Windy, and cirroslratus; very fine
              53                 day; night dark and windy.
   26         39    29-40      NW.-r-Showers and wind; after 9 A.M. a
              41                  great snow shower; 1 P.M. sun and wind ;
                                  2f P.M. great hail-storm ; bright star-light.
   27         36   29-50       S. — Very rainy and calm ; rain ceased at noon ;
              48                  showers, and sun after; stars and windy.
                                  Moon last quarter.                   '
   28         37    29 60          —
                               W. Clear, and cirrostratus, and vvind; a
              48                  cloudy windy day;    rainy night.
                                                                         March

Date. Therm. Barom. Wind.
March
  1   38   29-50      W. — Clear and wind; showers, sun, great wind;
      47               .greatstorms;     bright star-light night.
  2   35   29-60      SW. — Clear,       and cirrocumuli ; hazy after
      48                8   A.M.  and soon after rainy; some sun af
                         ter 4 P.M. ; star-light.
  3   34   2971   .   SW— S. — Clear high; hazy low; very fine day;
      52                 some slight rain'; night dark and windy.
  4   34   29-27      SW. — Clear high;      hazy low; very fine day;
      47                night   violently stormy; wind and rain;
                         lightning about midnight ; then stars ap
                        peared, and aurora borealis.
  5   42   29-90      SW. — Some wind; clear high, and hazy low;
      42                great shower at 10 A.M. ; sun and shower;
                        fine after 1 P.M. ; star-light.
 6    39   29-20      SW -Clear high ; hazy low ; showers, sun,
      47                and wind ; star-light.     New moon.
 7    41   29-30      S. — Rainy morn ; very rainy day; stormy and
     45             -
                        windy; evening great showers, ,and stars. al
                        ternate ; bright star-light at 1 A.M. ; very
                        clear.
  8   39   28-90      SW—NW.— Clear, and cirrus-, and wind;
      48                showers and' sun ; the showers not violent;
                        a dark night.
 9   33    29-34      NW. — Clear, and cirrostratus, and stin ; fine
     44                 day; sun, And cumuli ; snowing and windy.
10   SO    29-30      SW. — Cirrostratus, clear and windy; cumuli,
                        and clear; clear moon- and star-light.
11   35    29-40      W. — Clear and windy; windy, clear and cu-
     46                 muli; fine day; calm at 5 P.M. ; nigh,t
                        windy again ; rain and snow.
12   33    2S 80 W. — Snow on ground and trees ; clear and
     47                 windy ; wind and cumuli ;         storms alitor
                        4 P.M.; 10 P.M. cumuli, moon- and stars.
13   33    29 55      N. — Cirrostratus; orange sun-rise; caitm;
     43                 showers, sun and wind; clear star-light.
                        Moon first quarter.
14   36    29-80      W.S.— White frost; clear above; ha#y law;
     47                 fine day; some rain after 3 P;M.; cloudy
                        night ; some stars.
15   42    29-50      SE. — Windy, and cloudy; gray day; n^gjbt
     47                 rainy and windy.
                                                             METEORO-

                              Meteorology.                            239
         METEOROLOGICAL JOURNAL REIT AT BOSTON,
                             LINCOLNSHIRE.
    {The, time of observation, unless otherwise stated, is at 1 P.M.]
           .
             ge of
  1818       the   Thermo  Baro    State of the Weather and Modification
          Moon      meter. meter.             of the Clouds.
           DAYS.
Feb.  16      i 1    43-   30-01   Cloudy
      17      12     51-   3007    Ditto
      18      13     50"   29-92 Rain
      19      14    47-5   29-99 Very fine
      20      15    42-5   30 03 Cloudy
      SI full        45-   29-44   Ditto
      22      17     43-   29-30   Ditto
      23      18     44-   29-83   Very fine — rain in the evening.
      24      19     43-   29-66   Cloudy
      25      20     47-    29-57  Ditto
      26      21     43-   29-65   Very fine
      27      22     49-   29-35   Cloudy — snow A.M.
      28      S3     45-   2965 Ditto
Mar.    1     24     47"    29-10 Stormy
        2     25     48-    29-6-1 Fine
        3     26     47'    29-69 Cloudy
        4      27    45-    29-41 Fine — a hurricane at night [P.M.
        5     28      31-   28-9' Rain and hail — heavy fall of snow
        6 29         49'    29-37 Fine— sharp frost with snow at
        7    new     47-    28-90 Rain                              [night
        8        1    47-   29-03 Fine — frost
        11      2     41-5  29-40 Ditto      ditto — with snow at night
      10        3     39-   29-35 Ditto         ditto       ditto
       1 1      4     42-   29'55 Ditto         ditto at night
       12       5     41-   28-94 Cloudy    — heavy fall of snow A.M.
                                                       [and frost at night
       13        6    40-   29-66 Ditto — frost at night
       14        7    44'   29-91 Ditto
         •.
   The first twelve days in 'March have     been   exceedingly. tempestuous.
 Wind S.E— E.S.E.— N.W and N.N.W.
                                                                 METEORO

2i0                                          Meteorology.
                          METEOROLOGICAL                     TABLE,
                     By    Mr. Cary,              op     the Strand,
                                   For March, 1818.
                                                                                                      '       —
                 Thermometer.
                                                              of Dry
                                                                       Leslie's
                                                                                   urometer.
                      m             O    .    Height of
 Days of        o                  _o   S                                                             Weather.
                          5                   the Uaroin
 Aloutb.       o     £     c
                                   Vj5         Indies.
                                                                   by
                                                               Degrees            y
                          Z
               CO                                              ness               11
  Feb. 27       40        50       40          29-25                   0                       Showery
          28    40        47       43            -51              24                           Cloudy
  Mar.     1    40        52       44            -52              21                           Showery
           2    40        48       46            -49              20                           Stormy
           3    42        52       44            -50              22                           Fair
           4    3(5       51       46            •20              20                           Cloudy in the even
                                                                                                ing the Bar. fell to
                                                                                                28-55, and     vio-
                                                                                                                  a
                                                                                                lent storn    isuc
           5   44         52       39          28-62             27                            Fair           [   ceeded
           6   40         51       38          29-40             30                            Fair
               44         49       39          2S-72                                           Stormv
                                                                   0 0
           7
                                                                                               CM
           6   42         46       33          29-00                                           Showery
          f    37         45       33            -36             30                            Fair
          IB   33         42       32            -25               0                           Showers of sleet
          1
          1    36         48       38         . -40              28                            Cloudy
          12   34         47       37          28-85             22                            Fair, storm in the
                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                night
          13   36         50       40         2Q'49             27                             Fair
          14   36         49       40            •SO            24                             Cloudy     .
          15   37         51       44            -35            20                             Cloudy
          ie   Si)        47       41            -60               O                           Showery
          17   4 7        52       44            •82            26                             Cloudy             •
          IS   45         54       47            •98            25                             Cloudy
          ID   47         53       47            •88            27                             Cloudy
                               '
          20   4
               7          54   i   39            •75            33                             Fair
          ei   40v 50              4
                                   1             -85             19                            Showery
          22   40         47       49            -60                                           Stormy
                          50       30            -40              0 0
          23   47                                                                              Stormy
      .   24   40         49       38            -65             14                            Hail storms
          25   42         50       40            •51            22                             Stormy
          26   40         43       38            •15              0                            Rain                    .
               U.S. The        Barometer's height      is   uken at one o'clock.                          •

XLI.        Account               Researc/ws inEgypt by M.Bm.-
                       of ArUiquavian
     ZOM, charged          British Government to make Collections
                            by the
     for the British Museum. Contained in a Letter from M. Bel-
      zoni to M. Visconti *.
                        I have                         Cairo, Jan. 9, 1818.
                               arrived fr°m Upper Egypt, and am pre
 paring to return to Nubia for the third time.
    In my first journey to Thebes, in 1816, I had succeeded in
 embarking on the Nile the upper part of the famous statue of
 Mem non.       This grand wreck, which has Iain for so many cen
 turies amidst the ruins of the palace destroyed by Camhyses, is
 now on its way to the British Museum.             It      a colossal bust,
                                                                          is.
 of single block of granite, ten feet           height from the breast to
                                                        in in
     a
the top of the head, and twelve t,ous          weight.     Other travellers
before me had conceived the design of transporting               to Europe,         it
and renounced        only from not conceiving the means of effecting
                       it
it. The great difficulty was in moving such mass for the space        a
of two miles, until its arrival at the Nile, whereby alone,            could               it
he conveyed to Alexandria.           succeeded in effecting
                                              I                      without             it,
the aid of any machine,           the sole power of the arms of some
                                         by
Arabs, however ill qualified this people, now sunk into the indo
lence of savage life, may be for such rude labours.             As such,                            it
has been the work of six months..
    From Thebes       went up towards Nubia, to examine the Great
                       I
Temple of Ybsambul, which           buried more than double its height
                                           is
in the sands, near the second Cataract.           There found the in            I
habitants very ill disposed towards my projects, and from whom
I  prepared to encounter some difficulties.          However, the season
being    too, advanced, was my sole motive fn deferring this enter
prise to another time.
    In the mean time        returned to Thebes, where
                              I                                    occupied         I
myself in new searches at the Temple of Karnack.                    There                          I
found, several feet under ground,        range of sphinxes, surrounded
                                                   a
by   a  wall. These sphinxes, with heads of lions on the busts of
women, are of black granite, of the visual size, and for the most
part of beautiful execution.         There was in the same place                                    a
statue of Jupiter Amnion, in white marble.                was not until my
                                                                      It
second journey, in IS 17, that           discovered the head of
                                                 I                       Co                    a
lossus much greater than that of Memnon,                This head of gra
nite, and of single block,
                   a                    itselften feet from the neck to
                                           is     by
the top of the mitre, with which                crowned.
                                                       it   is Nothing can-
be   in better  preservation.    The   polish       still as beautiful
                                                                 is      as                         if
it had but just come from the       hands   of  the  statuary.
   After this, again took the road to Nubia, where some severe
                   I
trials awaited me.      The people of this country are quite savages,
    ,   ,                  * From the Monitor.
Vol.    5   1
            ,   No. 240.    April    1   81,8.                    Q                            without

 242           Account  of Antiquarian    Researches in  Egypt.
 without any idea of hospitality.          They refused us things the
 most necessary; entreaties and promises had no effect on them.
 We were reduced to live upon Turkish corn soaked in water.
 At length, by dint of patience and courage, after twenty-two
  days persevering labour, I had the joy of finding myself in the
 Temple of Ybsambul, where no European has ever before en
  tered', and which presents the greatest excavation in Nubia or
  in Egypt, if we except the tombs which I have since discovered
  at Thebes. - •
       The Temple of Ybsambul is 152 feet long, and contains four
  teen apartments and an immense court, where we discovered
  eight colossal figures thirty feet high. The columns and the
  walls are covered with hieroglyphics and figures very well pre
  served.       This temple has then been spared by Cambyses, and
  the other ravagers who came after him.           I brought some anti
  quities from thence — two lions with the heads of vultures, and
   a small statue of Jupiter Animon.
       On returning again to Thebes, I applied myself once more to
   discover what has been, from time immemorial, the object of
  discovery for all travellers of every nation — I mean the tombs of
   the kings of Egypt.
        ft is known that, independent of those tombs which are open,
   there existed several underground, but no person has yet discovered
   in what place. Bymeans of observations on the situation of Thebes,
   I at length found the index that should lead me on the way.
   After various excavations, I succeeded in discovering six of these
   tombs, one of which is that of Apis, as it seems to be pointed
  out by the mummy of an ox found there.            This mummy is filled
    with asphaltes.     For the rest, nothing that I can say would enable
   you to conceive the grandeur and magnificence of this tomb.
       This is undoubtedly the most curious and the most astonishing
   tiling in Egypt, and which gives the highest idea of the labours
   of its ancient inhabitants.     The interior, from one extremity to
   the other, is 309 feet, and contains a great number of chambers
   and corridors.      The walls are entirely covered with hieroglyphics
   and bas-reliefs painted in fresco.       The colours are of a bright
  ness to which nothing within our knowledge is to be compared,
   and are so well preserved that they appear to have been but just
   laid on.      But the most beautiful antiquity of this place, in the
  principal chamber, is a sarcophagus of a single piece of alabas-
. ter,     nine feet seven inches long by three feet nine inches wide,
  within and without equally covered with hieroglyphics and carved
  figures.      This large vessel has the sound of a silver bell, and the
  transparency of glass. There can be no doubt that when I shall
  have transported it to England, as I hope to do, it will be esteemed
  one of the most precious morceanx of our European Museums,
      .
            '
                                                              XLI1. On

                                 [  243     ]
  XLII.   On the Use of the common Thermometer as a Hygro
     meter, and Description of a Self-registering Hygrometer.
     In two Letters from R. G. K              s*.
                                 LETTER I.
     On the Use  of the   common Thermometer as a Hygrometer.
 Mr. Editor, —     It   is not my intention to enter into any long or
.minute detail of the numerous instruments that have been proposed
 for ascertaining the state of the atmosphere with regard to mois
 ture, or to attempt deciding on the comparative merits of Saus-
 sure's hair, and De Luc's whalebone.           I believe it may be safely
 affirmed, that a correct, at least a permanently correct, hygrome
 ter, never can be constructed on the principle of any such con
 trivance, and for this obvious reason : however accurately the
 instrument may be originally made, it no sooner begins to ope
 rate than it begins to change, the alternate expansions and
 contractions of the substance producing necessarily, however
   lowly, some derangement in its natural texture.             The contri
 vance itself may be extremely ingenious ; but from the very na
 ture of the materials employed, such hygrometers must be im
 perfect, in as much as they are subject to changes, the extent of
 which it is impossible exactlv to appreciate.          Now, is it not very
 strange, that after all the complaints that we have heard among
meteorologists, and philosophers in general, about the want
 of a hygrometer on accurate principles, they should hesitate a
 single moment about adopting one as simple and accurate as it
 is elegant and philosophical ?      I allude to the differential ther
 mometer of Professor Leslie, which the ingenious inventor has
 applied, among many other useful purposes, to that of measuring
the relative dryness of the atmosphere, and which does so upon
principles as fixed and determinate as those of the common ther
mometer.       For the sake of such of your readers as may not be
conversant with the subject, I shall give a short description of it
nearly in the Professor's own words :
                                             "   It consists of a thermo
meter tube, curved like the letter U, with a hollow ball at each
extremity containing air, and holding an intermediate portion of
sulphuric acid, tinged with carmine.           When these balls are of
the same temperature, the liquor        will  remain   stationary ; but if
one of the balls be warmer than the other, the liquor, urged by
the increased elasticity of the air, will descend proportionally on
that side.     To measure the difference of heat between the two
balls,  the  whole  interval between freezing and boiling water is
          * From Blackwood's Edinburgh Magazine for July      1817.
 \                             .   Q  2                             divided
                                        r

244   On the Use     of the   common Thermometer as a Hygrometer,
divided, into a thousand equal parts.          If one of the balls be co
vered    with cambric   or  silk,  and  wetted   with pure water, the in
strument forms a complete hygrometer ; for it will mark, by the
descent of the column in the opposite .stem, the constant dimi
nution of temperature which is caused by evaporation from that
humid surfs.ee, and it must consequently express the relative dry
ness of the ambient air."         It is hardly necessary to observe, thtit
hygrometers      constructed    on  this principle must always indicate
the same dryness, in the same circumstances, and may therefore
 be as readily compared with one another as thermometers them
 selves.    But my object is not so much to discuss the merits of
 the instrument itself, as to show that the common thermometer
 may be used in its stead; and that though it may not possess the
 same degree of delicacy, it is sufficiently accurate for all the or
 dinary purposes of meteorology.           Let two spirit-of-wine ther
 mometers be chosen, as nearly of the same size as possible, and
 graduated so as exactly to coincide at different temperatures.
 Let the bulb of one of them be covered with blue or purple silk
 while the other remains naked, and let them be suspended at
 about the distance of two inches from each other.             Let the co
 vered bulb be then wetted with pure water, and the two thermo*
 meters will very soon indicate a difference of temperature; the
 wetted one, from the cold produced by the evaporation, sinking
 below the other, more or less, according to the rapidity of the
 evaporation ; that    is,  according as the air    is  more or less drv.
If    the thermometers bo graduated according to Fahrenheit's
 scale, each degree of difference must be multiplied                 by
                                                                   5{, and
  the product will express the degrees of the Professor's hygrome
  ter nearly; or if   they are graduated according to the centigrade
  scale, the degrees of difference, multiplied         by 10, will give the
  hygrometric degrees exactly.          From  numerous comparative ob
  servations,
            I    am able to say, that the average dryness of        month,
                                                                     a
  as indicated  by   the thermometers, will not differ from that in
  dicated  by  the hygrometer more than two hygrometric degrees,
a    quantity that may be safely overlooked       in   a series of observa
  tions  which  do  not  admit   of  extreme accuracy.          It
                                                               may perhaps
  look like presumption, but      I     cannot help observing, that the
  thermometers appear to me better calculated to give the mean
  dryness of the air than the hygrometer itself, as the latter, from
  its extreme delicacy,      issometimes affected      by  sudden gust of
                                                            a
  wind at the moment of observation, so as to rise two or three
  degrees.    There   is,  however, one obvious advantage which the
  thermometers possess over the hygrometer, and that                      is,
                                                                       their
  showing not only the difference between the temperatures of
  the two bulbs, which       isall that the' hygrometer shows, but also
  the actual temperature of both the wet and dry surface,               cir a
                                                                     cumstance

             and Description      of a Self -registering Hygrometer.       245
     eumstance necessary to be taken into the account, in estimating
     the absolute quantity of water held in solution by the atmosphere
     at the moment.      I hope it will not be supposed that these re
     marks are intended to throw anv obstacles in the way of a more
     extended and general use of an instrument which is likely to be
     of such essential service to science, and which has already done
    so much honour to the ingenious inventor.          My object is to
    press upon those who may not have had an opportunity of making
    any observations with the hygrometer, but who are familiar with
    the use of the thermometer, not to neglect the means which thev
    possess of collecting facts on a branch of science which is still
    in its infancy, and which never can make any advancement, but
    by the patient application of the inductive philosophy.
                                  I remain, sir, yours respectfully,
        K—s, July 2, 1817.                       '
                                                                           G.
                                       LITTER It.
              Description    of a Self-registering Hygrometer.
        Mr. Editor, — Ihave already endeavoured, more than onee.,to
 direct the attention of your readers to the subject of hvgrometry,
 as a branch of science naturally interesting, and which has of
 late become still more so, from the ingenious discoveries of Leslie
 and Anderson.      To the former of these gentlemen we are in
 debted for the best, and indeed the only, philosophical instrument
 hitherto employed for ascertaining the state of the atmosphere
 with regard to moisture ; and to the researches of the latter we
 owe some beautiful theorems for its practical application to the
 science of meteorology*.       Simple, however, and philosophical
,as that instrument         appears to me to be still capable of im
                            is,   it
 provement.     In its present form    can be employed only in find
                                            it
ing the hygrometric state of the atmosphere at the moment of
 observation; nor have anv attempts been made, as far as know,         I
 to construct    so as to mark the extremes of dryness and mois
                  it
 ture, in the absence of the observer.        formerly thought that
                                                       1
 the instrument might easily be made to register the greatest dry
 ness, but that     would be difficult to construct
                    it                                 so as to mark
                                                               it
 the greatest degree of moisture.         has since occurred to me,
                                                 It
 however, that the latter object may be as easily accomplished as
.the former, and both on the same principle with the self-regis
 tering thermometer commonly in use. For            description of the
                                                           a
 instrument, as originally constructed                by
                                             Professor Leslie,   refer I
 voiir readers to that author's treatise on heat and moisture, and
 to the article Hygrometry in the Edinburgh Encyclopaedia. In
      * The researches of Mr. Anderson were published, for the first time, in
    *h* Edinburgh Encyclopaedia, conducted by Dr. Brewster.
    x    .                                no                               ii

"246       Description of a Self-registering Hygrometer.
the modification of it which I am now to propose, the principle
is the same, though the form is somewhat different.
            A
  t        r.
            i     mo
   C D (fig. 1.)       is       such as is commonly used for con*
                            a tube,
 structing a selfVregistering thermometer, bent upwards at C and
 D, and terminating in a bulb A. Into this bulb is introduced
 a portion of sulphuric acid, sufficient to fill the tube and a small
 part of the bulb ; and along with the acid a small bit of glass a,
 of such a diameter as to move easily in the tube when the instru
                     "
 ment is inverted.     To the extremity, D, another bulb, B, is at
 tached ; and the air contained in both bulbs is so adjusted, that
 when they are at the same temperature, the liquid stands at a
 point near the extremity D, and which is marked 0 on the at
 tached scale E F.     If the temperature of the bulb B be now in
 creased, or, which is the same. thing, if that of A be diminished,
 the portion of air in the upper part of the bulb will contract,
 while that contained in B will expand in the same proportion,
 and the liquid will of course be forced from D towards C. In
 the scale adopted by Professor Leslie, the distance between the
 freezing and boiling points is divided into a thousand equal parts,
 and is hence denominated the millesimal.        In this climate, how
 ever, a tenth part of that scale, or one hundred degrees, will em
 brace the greatest range of the instrument ; and that point may
 be thus obtained : — Let the bulb A be surrounded with melting
 snow, while the instrument is placed in an atmosphere of the
 temperature 50, and let the point be marked at which, the liquid
 becomes stationary.     The distance between zero and this point
 will then be 18 degrees of Fahr. or 100 of the millesimal scale ;
 and that distance being divided into an hundred equal parts, will
 give the graduation required.       To prepare the instrument for
 observation, it only remains to cover the bulb A with silk, and
 moisten    it,
              taking care that the two bulbs be as nearly as possi
 ble of the same colour.     The index, or small bit of glass, a,    is
 then to be brought to the extremity of the liquid,     by   depressing
 the extremity D, and the instrument to be exposed in         a   hori
 zontal position.    As the evaporation from the surface of the
 bulb  A  goes on, the air within contracts, from the depression of
 temperature produced           C by
                               the evaporation       and the liquid
                                                ;                     is
 forced from      towards
                  D               the elasticity of the air in
                                       by                      B,  car
 rying with     the index a.
                it               When the evaporation has reached
 its maximum, the liquid, as well as the index^ becomes stationary;
                                                                    but;

              Description   of a Self-registering Hygrometer.                   247
but should the process of evaporation diminish, the liquid will
again move towards D, while the index is left behind, thus mark
ing the maximum of dryness in the absence of the observer.
                                      Fiy.2
              El
    To find the greatest degree of moisture, another instrument                   is.
to be employed, which          represented in fig.
                                 is                        The only dif
                                                                   2.
ference between this and the former             that the air in the two
                                                        is,
bulbs     to be so adjusted, that when they are at the same tem
         is
perature, the liquid may stand near the extremity C, the                        di
stance between         Cand zero being     little more than the length
                                                a
of the index       a
                   ;and the bulb       Bto be covered as
                                           is                   was in the -
                                                                        A
former.     The scale       graduated
                            is         as before.     When     the instru
ment      adjusted
         is          and  exposed, evaporation goes     on  from  the sur
face of   B   ;and the air within being thereby contracted,         the         li
quid moves towards D, continuing to do so till the maximum
effect    produced.
         is              When the evaporation diminishes, the liquid
is  again forced backwards towards C, till          arrives at the index
                                                              it                     '
a; and should the evaporating force still continue to diminish,:
the index itself       then carried towards zero, till the evaporation
                       is
be at its minimum.        The liquid then becomes stationary; and
though    itshould afterwards mount higher, in consequence of an
i defeased evaporation, still the index remains at the lowest point
10 which the liquid had sunk, thus marking the minimum                           of
dryness in the absence         the observer.
                                 of
    Your readers will observe, that in the modification which                   I
have now proposed of the original hygrometer of Professor Leslie,
no new principle has been introduced; the contrivance for
marking the extremes being the same as that which was invented
     Dr. Rutherford, and which has been long employed in con
    by
structing     aminimum thermometer.            can lay no claim, there
                                                I I
fore, to the honour of       discovery, but
                             a                  hope    have some little
                                                                   I
to that of an improvement.            Itwell known to meteorologists,
                                           is
that observations of temperature were comparatively of little use
till the invention of self-registering thermometers; and why may
 we not be allowed to hope, that the use of              self-registering
                                                                   a
 hygrometer will hereafter bring to light some important facts
regarding the laws which regulate the distribution of moisture in
 the atmosphere        ?
    One word as to the construction of the instrument, and            have  1
 done.    In "the first, and indeed the Only attempt that have yet
                                                    '
                                                                        I
                                       Q    4                                   had

24 8      Report   of the  Committee respecting Ike unrolling
 had time to make, I succeeded in constructing a small hygrome*          .'
 ter on the principle of fig. I. ; and though the range is too K-        -
 mited to give the necessary degree of accuracy, it is sufficient to
 convince me that the construction is not only practicable, but,
 to those who are dexterous in the use of the blowpipe, extremely
 easy.    I remain, sir, your obedient servant,
    Feb. 27, 1818.                                               R. G.
     In the above,    as well as in the original form of the hygrome
 ter, the covered bulb may be kept continually moist with water,
 conveyed to it by filaments of floss silk from an adjoining vessel.
 XLIIT.     Report    of the Committee appointed     to superintend  the
     Experiments of Dr. Sickler, for the Purpose of proving the
    Efficacy of a Method proposed by him, for unrolling ana de
    ciphering the Herculaneum Manuscripts.
Previously         to a detail of the proceedings of the Committee
charged    with  the  superintendence of Dr. Sickler's experiments,
 it appears proper, for a full elucidation thereof, to recapitulate
the circumstances under which the views of His Majesty's Govern
 ment were directed to the interesting subject of the Herculaneum
rolls'.   It is well known that, from the first discovery of these
 remains of ancient literature among the ruins of Herculaneum,
 a more efficacious method of ascertaining their contents has been
 a desideratum, the attainment of which has occupied the atten
 tion 'of men of learning and science, in almost every country of
 Europe; and much has already been done, though by a very la
 borious and protracted operation, at Naples, within the last thirty
 years ; during a part of which period, some persons were em
ployed there by His Royal Highness the Prince Regent, in con
 cert with the establishment formed for the purpose by His Sici
 lian Majesty.
     Soon after the re-establishment of peace, and the return of
 His Sicilian Majesty to Naples, and whilst steps were taking at
 Paris for applying the Neapolitan method to some Herculaneom
 manuscripts which were in that capital, it came to the know
 ledge of a member of this Committee, that Dr. Sickler, a pro
fessor of eminence at Hildburghausen, had made some success
ful experiments, likely to lead to the accomplishment of the ob
ject, by a more easy and expeditious mode of proceeding.
    A correspondence which has been laid before the Committee,
took place with Dr. Sickler ; iu the course of which, he expressed
his readiness to come, upon certain conditions, to this country,
in order to pursue his experiments upon the rolls which his Si
cilian Majesty had recently presented to His Royal Highness the
                                                                 Prince

              and deciphering the Herculaneum         Manuscripts.        248
     Prince Regent : referring, at the same time, for a declared opi
     nion upon this method, to a Report of the Roval Society of Art*
     at Gottingen, made on the 9th of November 1814, and to the
    testimony of Professor Millin, of the Royal Library at Paris, re
     specting his character and literary acquirements.
         The Report of the Royal Society of Gottingen, which was
    founded upon the evidence of an experiment upon one of the
     manuscripts at Naples (a detached column of which Dr. Sickler
    had laid before the Society), as well as upon experiments made
    in the presence of a committee of that learned body, upon rollt-
    of paper, prepared for that purpose, seemed to afford consider
    able grounds for a belief, that the material difficulties which had
    hitherto occurred could be subdued by the application of a li
    quid, discovered by Dr. Sickler, and by a system of manipulation
    altogether new.      Under these circumstances the following pro-
-   positions,    grounded    upon a prospectus transmitted by Dr.
    Sickler in the month of January last, were authorized by Hi*
    Majesty's Government to be made to that gentleman: —
        1 . That Dr. Sickler should come to England, and reside here
    as long as might be thought necessary for bringing his project*
    to a decided result.
        2. That his expenses to England with his family should be
    paid, as well as of his residence while in England, either in Lon
    don or Oxford.
        3. That either before he left the continent, or within one month
    after his arrival, he should convince a Committee of gentlemen,
    named for the purpose*, that his scheme was available, and on*
   for which theGovernment would be warranted in incurring further
    expense.
        4. That in case of failure, in so far satisfying the Committee,
    Dr. Sickler should clearly understand that he was to expect from
   the Government no further pecuniary aid than the expenses ol'
    his return to Hildburghausen: — And
        5. That in the event of the Committee making a report which
   should authorize the Government to proceed, Dr. Stcklei- should,
  in that case, receive one hundred pounds for every manuscript
   which he should succeed in unrolling to the satisfaction of the
   Committee ; and that when the Committee, who must, in the
   first instance, have been put in possession of the whole of the
  .Secret, whether in preparation or manipulation, should judge that
       * The Earl of Aberdeen, President of the Society of Antiquaries ; the
   Lard Grenville, Chancellor of the University of Oxford ; the Lord Colches-
   tof »the Right Honourable Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. Q.C.B. President of the
   Royal Society; Sir Thomas Tyrwhitt, Knt.; Sir Humphry Davy, Knt. Fel-
   jow of the Royal Society; the Rev. Charles Barney, D.D.j William Hamil
  ton, Ewr. Hfis Majesty «-Uader Seowtary of State for Foreign Affaire. .
                                                                        ther«

  250       Report  of the Committee respecting the unrotling
  there would no longer l>e any occasion for his assistance or pre-.
  sence, Dr. Sickler should receive from their hands such a sum,
  as, together with what he should have successively received for
  each unrolled manuscript, should make up the sum of two thou
  sand five hundred pounds, the expenses of his return home, and
  an engagement to be allowed one hundred pounds per annum for
  the remainder of his life.
     These propositions being communicated to Dr. Sickler, by a
  member of this Committee, who repaired to Hildburghausen for
  that purpose, the same were accepted with the following modi
  fications, detailed in a memoir, dated the 19th of May last, a
  copy of which has been laid before the Committee : —
      1. That his absence from Hildburghausen should be limited
  to  a period not exceeding six months. . .
.    2. That an allowance should be granted to him, previously to
 his departure, for the expenses of his outfit: — And
,    3. .That a specific sum should be named for the expenses of
 his return to his own country, in the event of the failure of his
  experiments: — All which being acceded to, Dr. Sickler left
  Hildburghausen with his family, arrived in London on the 12th
 of June, and soon after commenced his preparations for the un
 dertaking.
     The Committee having detailed the circumstances under which
  the propositions of Dr. Sickler originated, and referred to the
  testimonials laid before them, concerning his method of opera
 tion, his character and literary reputation, as well as the prin
 ciples upon which their Committee had been instituted, proceed
 to state that Dr. Sickler having completed his preparations, they
 held their first meeting in Black Rod's apartments, in the House
 of Lords, on tho 27th of June last, when the following members
 were present, viz. the Lord Colchester, Sir Thomas Tyrwhitt,
 Sir Humphry Davy, the late Rev. Dr. Rurney, and William Ha
milton, Esq. At this meeting Dr.Sickler gave an explanation of the
machine used by him in carrying on his operations; after which,
in conformity to a stipulation in the memoir before referred to,
 he selected, from among the twelve manuscripts recently received
 from Naples, a roll, which was delivered into his hands for the
purpose of commencing his experiments : and it was then noti
fied to him that the Committee, at their subsequent meetings,
would be ready to receive any written or other communication,
which he might have to make, in the progress of his labours.
     At their second meeting, on the 3d of July, Dr. Sickler pfe-
sented two memoirs, the first containing his observations upon
the roll, which had been delivered to him, and the second upon
the commencement of his operations; both which were entered
on their minutes i a"d the Committee
                                         adjouraed to the following
                                                               day;

          and deciphering the Herculamam Manuscripts.                251
day ; when Dr. Sickler submitted to their inspection the process
of his method.
,    At the fourth meeting of the Committee, Dr. Sickler produced
several pieces which he had detached from the rol], but upon
which no characters were discoverable.          A second and a third
machine were, in consequence of a suggestion of the Doctor, di
rected to be prepared ; in order that he inight employ himself
upon two or more rolls at the same time.
     The further result of Dr. Sickler's operations was submitted
to the Committee, at their fifth meeting, on the ISth of July,
when it appeared that of the first roll, the pieces taken off, con
tinued to afford no trace of characters, but a second roll, which
the Doctor had selected at the last meeting, appeared by his
memoir presented thereon, to be in a much better state of pre
servation than the preceding, both with respect to its carboni
zation and to the texture of the papyrus — the pieces detached
therefrom containing several Greek characters, and some entire
words easily made out; from which circumstance, and the ex
treme fineness of the papvrus, as well as the perfection of the
 written characters, Dr. Sickler expressed his opinion that a
further operation upon this roll might be productive of a more
satisfactory result.     At this meeting the Committee, considering
the unfavourable colour and texture of the first roll, directed Dr.
Sickler to discontinue his operations thereon, and he proceeded
to select a third roll, which, in his opinion, from its external ap
pearance, most resembled that which had already exhibited writ
                                                                       • .
 ten characters.
     At their subsequent meetings, on the 21st and 24th of July,
 Dr. Sickler reported the progress of his labours; but the hopes
 which had been entertained, of the further successof his operations
 upon the second roll, having been disappointed, by the total absence
 of characters on the pieces which had recently been detached,
 together with the unfavourable appearance of the interior of this
 roll ; as well as the injured state of the third roll which had been
 placed in his hands : The Committee, considering the whole, in
 connexion with the observations of Dr. Sickler in his several me
 moirs down to this time, did not feel themselves in possession of
 sufficient evidence upon which to found a report of the success
  of the method, within the stipulated period of one month after
 the commencement of the Doctor's experiments.            It was, there
 fore,  with  a view to a more satisfactory result, thought  proper that
  Dr. Sickler    should continue  his experiments    upon the  rolls thea
 in his possession, as well as upon      others  which  the Committee,
  or visiting members, should, from time to time, direct to be
 placed in his hands for that purpose; and he accordingly pursued
 his- operations -down jo the 10th of October last ; — the Coni-
      •   -
 4-i                                                                mittce

   252     Report   of the Committee respecting the unrolling
  mittee having, in the mean time, been assisted, in the examina
  tion of the result of his labours, by the advice and opinions of Sir
  Charles Blagdon,      Mr. Taylor Coombe of the British Museum,
  and of Sir William Drummond and Sir William A'Court ; the
  two latter of which gentlemen, from their residence at Naples
  as His Majesty's ministers, had had ample opportunities of
  watching the operations which were carried on there, for the
  purpose of unrolling the Herculaneum manuscripts, and were
  also familiar with the external appearance of the rolls in the
  places where they are preserved.
     The system of operation by Dr. Sickler may be considered
  tinder three distinct heads : —
   •
      1. As to the improvement of the machine made use of by him j
      2. As to the liquid applied to the roll; — and,
     3. As to his mode of manipulation.
     With regard to the first, the Committee have been favoured
 with the observations, which they have recorded in their mi
 nutes, of Sir William A'Court ; and it appears that the general
 principle of the machine made use of by Dr. Sickler is nearly si
 mitar to that in use at Naples, as far as respects the manner of
 placing the roll for operation, and the means of turning it for
 the purposes of examination.        The material difference appears
 to consist in the process of detaching the layers of the papyrus ;
 Dr. Sickler performing that operation with the hand, after at
 taching to the back of the part to be unrolled a piece of thin
 linen, or cotton cloth, and the Neapolitans by the rotatory move
 ment of a piece of machinery, placed immediately over the roll,
 and connected with the lining of the part to be separated (which
 lining consists of narrow slips of goldbeaters' skin) by a number
 of silk threads, acting with equal and simultaneous force upon
 the whole surface.
     Upon the second point, the Committee, in an early stage of
 their proceedings, viz. at their third meeting, on the 4th of Julyj
judged it expedient that the liquid made use of, in order, as Dr.
Sickler stated, as well to attach a lining to the surface of the
roll, as to facilitate the separation of the layers, should be sub
ject t© the examination of their distinguished member, Sir Hum*
f,hry Davy ; whose opinion of its composition satisfied the Corn-
mat tee that no injury could accrue to the papyrus, from the use
«f such liquid : but Sir Humphry Davy, at the same time, ex
pressed his conviction, that it did not possess any power to help
the separation of the layers; a point which the Committee had
been led to consider as the principal feature in this part of Dr.
Sickler'* discovery.                                       -
     As to the mode of manipulation, the Committee have also been
assisted, by the knowledge and .ejqperienceofSirWuJjaiaA 'Court,
                                                                   in

           and deciphering the Herculmmim Manuscripts.           253
m forming their opinion thereon,        The exterior of the Here a -
taneum rolls generally presenting an uneven surface, composed
of different strata, or layers, the first object, with a view of ob
taining entire and consecutive columns of the manuscript, must
be to remove,in succession, these irregularities all around the roll ;
an operation which, considering the delicate nature and fragile
quality of the papyrus, should be carried on with the greatest
care and nicety.     With respect to Dr. Sickler's metiiod, it did
not appear to Sir William A'Court calculated to accomplish this
primary object ; since his mode of indiscriminately covering the
whole surface of the roll with the liquid preparation (by which
the lining is attached to the papyrus) must, in the operation of
taking off, necessarily produce a number of broken and inter
rupted layers, belonging to different strata, leaving a surface
equally, at least, if not more, uneven than before.          By this
means it must follow, that, however the characters in the manu
script may be preserved, a part of the roll so taken off could not
be expected to exhibit more than detached letters, or words, of
as many columns as there are layers so separated.
     The principal object in an undertaking of this nature being;
 after an even surface has been gained, to separate entire columns
 on single layers, in regular succession, the Committee, in the
vourse of the experiments which have been made under their
 superintendence, have constantly directed their attention to the
 success of Dr. Sickler's system of operation in this respect. Pre
 viously, however, to a declaration of their opinion thereon, they
 consider it necessary, in justice to Dr. Sickfer, to state that, af
 ter the result of his operations upon the four first rolls had been
 laid before them, and an attentive perusal of his observations
 thereon, they did not entertain any sanguine expectations that
 he would be enabled to produce any thing like a scries of columns
 of the contents of any one of them ; and that they were willing
 to attribute the total failure of his endeavours, in this particular,
  to the injured state of the rolls, and to the probable destruction
  of the characters, from the effect of damp or otherwise, iis stated
  in Dr. Sickler's several memoirs ; an opinion expressed by Sir
  William Drumniond, as well as by Sir William A' Court, upon an
  examination of some of the rolls in the course of operation : but
   while they are ready to admit Dr. Sickler's observations, as to
  the deteriorated state of most of the seven rolls which were
   placed in his hands in the progress of his experiments, they ne
   vertheless conceive, that the result of his labours affords them
  sufficient grounds for stating the following objections to his me
   thod of unrolling the Herculaueum manuscripts :
      1st. The machine made use of by Dr. Sickler does not, in the
   opinion of the Committee, appear to be calculated to remove anv
                                                                     of

 254         Report          of the Committee respecting the unrolling
of the difficulties which have hitherto occurred in the system of
                                                                           •
unrolling these manuscripts.                             . .:
  2d!y. The liquid, from the application of which the Committee
were induced to hope that the separation of the layers of the
 papyrus would be considerably facilitated, does not, in the judge
 ment of the Committee, appear to possess any effective power
 beyond that of acting as a glue for the lining of that part to be
 detached : — And,
    3dly. That the mode of manipulation adopted by Dr. Sickler
 is too violent an operation to produce entire consecutive columns,
 or single layers, of the papyrus; and that his method of indiscri
 minately covering the surface of the roll with the lining which,
 being attached to the roll by the liquid preparation, brings off
 with  it,   in the process of detaching, the part so lined,             very  is
 imperfect      since, in raising the layers,         it scarcely possible to
                                                           is
 observe     by ;
               the eye, whether one or more layer                about to se
                                                                      is
 parate   from   the mass        part
                                 ;   a of the   operation  which,  at Naples,
is  carried   on  with  the greatest    caution.
    Upon a minute inspection of               agreat number of the pieces
 taken off         Dr. Sickler, on some of which the characters are
                    by
 preserved, the Committee observe, that there                scarcely an in
                                                                 is
 stance to be found where            single layer has been detached with
                                          a
a  regular surface throughout;               circumstance which, in their
                                              a
 opinion, seems     decisive  of  the  inefficacy of Dr. Sickler's method.
 Upon this point their judgement has been formed, more especially
 after an examination of the pieces detached from the second roll,
 of which Dr. Sickler pronounced an opinion, favourable as" to its
 state of preservation, before referred to, upon which the written
characters are very perfect but which pieces appear to be com
                                         ;
 posed of two or more layers adhering together.
    Of seven rolls which have been placed                  the hands of Dr.
                                                            in
 Sickler, in the progress of his experiments, and which have been
more or less opened, the Committee have to observe, that only
two have exhibited the smallest visible traces of letters on some
of the columns, the rest presenting             rough brown surface, with
                                                  a
out characters        from which circumstance, the Committee are
                         ;
not without their apprehensions that, either bv excess of zeal or
want of caution, Dr. Sickler's mode of operation may, in some
instances, have produced              separation of the intermediate or
                                          a
blank leaves which compose the papyrus                ;a point to which the
Committee       were  induced    to   direct their attention, after an ex
planation of the preparation of the papyrus, with which they
were favoured          Sir Charles Blagdon and Mr. Taylor Coombe,
                         by
and an inspection of specimens of the Egyptian and Sicilian
papyri, laid before them                 by
                                   the iatter gentleman.       •
    Upon    the whole,   after  a  scrupulous examination of the result
                                                                                    of

          find deciphering the Herculaneum    Manuscripts.       255
«f Dr. Sickler's    experiments, and an attentive consideration -of
the same, in connexion with the several memoirs, containing his
observations, presented from time to time to the Committee, they
regret to observe, that Dr. Sickler has totally failed in his en
deavours to satisfy the Committee, that his method of unrolling
the Herculaneum manuscripts is available, and such as can war
rant them in recommending to His Majesty's Government a
further perseverance therein.                                 . —
                                                                  i
     In closing their Report upon this inquiry, the Committee must
observe, that they had reason to be satisfied with the zeal and
assiduity which Dr. Sickler continued to manifest throughout the
whole of the operations in which he was engaged, under their
inspection ; and that, although by the letter of his original pro
positions, and the agreement ratified by him, previously to his
 departure for England, he could not consider himself entitled to
 any pecuniary aid beyond the expenses of his return to his own
 country; yet, inasmuch as he had been engaged in this country
 from the 1 2th of June to the 1 1 th of October, they have thought
 proper to recommend that such a remuneration should be made
 to him, for the time which has been devoted to his experiments,
 as in the judgement of the Committee, from the information be
 fore them, would be sufficient to cover his actual loss of salary
 and emoluments, by his absence from his professional duties;
 and they fixed the amount of remuneration to two hundred pounds.
 Tiiis sum, together with one hundred and fifty pounds for the
 expenses of his return to Hildburghausen, conformably to the
 agreement before referred to, Dr. Sickler received, previously to
 his departure from England ; the expenses of his residence in
 this country having from time to time been discharged, under
 the direction of the Committee, out of the sum which His Royal
 Highness the Prince Regent has been pleased to direct to be
 placed at their disposal for that purpose ; the amount of which
 issue and expenditure is hereto annexed.
                        By order of the Committee,
London, Dec. 31, 181".                   Jamks Pulman, .Secretary.
  Statement of the Expenditure of the Committee charged witk
     the Superintendence of Dr. Sickler's Experiments for the
     Purpose of proving the Efficacy' of a Method, proposed by him,
    for  unrolling and deciphering the Herculaneum Manuscripts,
 Travelling expenses consequent upon the negotiation
     with Dr. Sickler's Journey to England with his fa
     mily* including the sum allowed to him for his out
     fit     . .                                       ^351    17    6
                                                            Charges

236               Anatontiatl Description of the     Fir   Tree.
Charges for machines, instruments, and other contin
  gencies, in the course of the experiments     ..     69 11                <U+2666>
Expenses for board, lodging, &c. of Dr. Sickler and
   family, from the 12th of June to the 26th of Octo
   ber (on which day he left London), including the
   hire of his servant      ..        . .       . .   239 18                 6
Sum allowed to Dr. Sickler in remuneration for the
   time which he devoted to his experiments      . .  200 0                  0
Sum allowed to Dr. Sickler to defray his travelling
   expenses to Htklburghausen     . .     . .     . . 150  0                0
Allowance to the Secretary of the Committee       . . 100  0                0
                                                           jfl,lll     7    0
                            By order of the Committee,
tonden, Dec. 31,        1817-                  James Pulman, Secretary.
XLIV.         Anatomical Description of the Fir Tree. By             Robert
                 M'William, Architect and Surveyor*.
Tub fir is a genus of the class moncecia, order monadelphia.  It
has male and female flowers on the same tree, and is propagated
by seed.
   After what has been said already of vegetation in general, it is
sot deemed necessary to enter again into this subject at any con
siderable length.    The roots of the fir tree are hard and slender.
They require    a hard,   dry, gravelly, or sandy soil ; and a cold
climate, not very liable to sudden changes of temperature. Hence
it   is,   that the Scotch and other firs do not arrive at such perfec
tion in this country, as in higher latitudes.
   When in      favourable soil and climate, fir trees grow to the
                  a
 height of ninety or hundred feet, and sometimes much higher.
                            a
   The longitudinal divisions of this tree, for        appears to me
                                                         it
doubtful whether they can be called vessels, are seemingly of two
sorts    and when viewed at right angles to the radiates, they ap
          ;
pear like    bunch of dressed flax or hemp, after being somewhat
              a
(jessed,  so as to render the fibres a little wrinkled. When viewed
parallel  to the   radiates, they have the appearance of a web of
the  same  materials, having four or five threads of the woof close,
together, as in muslin or cambric, and    space rather more than
                                                a
equal to this without any woof, similar to the space between
handkerchiefs     the piece, where the warp only appears with
                       in
out any woof    and thus they are continued in alternate bars one
                   :
  * From Essay on the Origin and Operation of the Dry Rot, with       aView
to its Prevention or Cure.         -       .     •  .
.    .*                                                                   over

               Anatomical hescription    of the Fir  Tree.          257
tover  another, from the extremities of the filaments of the roots
 to those of the branches.
    The radiates lie along that part which looks as if it were woven;
and in many cases they have the appearance of vessels of consi
derable dimensions : but this is only to be seen when they are
filled with coloured matter, which is evidently turpentine. Where
this is not visible, there is generally something like a very fine
dew in miniature on the reticular part, standing in rows both
longitudinally and horizontally. The radiates apparently per
form the same office as in the oak and other trees.        The sort of
network likewise lies in the horizontal direction, and breaks the
rectilineal perpendicular pressure of the juices contained in the
longitudinal vessels ; if such they be. At all events it prevents
the juice of the tree from descending in a right line, whether
contained in vessels or in the longitudinal cavities between the
portions of fibrous matter not connected in a tubular form, yet
sufficiently close together to support moisture on the same prin
ciple as that of capillary attraction in tubes.      This principle of
attraction, indeed, is not limited to vessels of any particular
form, or to solids forming any vessels at all ; for two plane sur
faces of glass, or any other matter, being moistened, and placed
sufficiently near to each other, without touching, will occasion
Water to ascend between them, as it would in a tubular vessel.
    If these woven flax-like fibres be hollow tubes, it is probable,
that they principally contain the more watery matter absorbed
by the plant, before chemical union takes place ; and they may
be presumed to be formed of a film, similar to that which soon
appears on the surface of water when poured on tar.            Though
after the texture of the wood is formed, and the chemical union
of the different elements of the tree has taken place, it might
be supposed, that the contents of the vessels would be coloured
matter ; yet they are quite transparent and colourless.          Still it
is difficult to say, whether the little globules, like dew in minia
ture, which appear in beautiful rows, are contained in longitudinal
Vessels, or move along by attachment to the filmy-formed thread,
now become woody fibre, in a manner similar to the perspiration
on the hairs of animals.                                               #,
    The globules which are considerably tinged      with   colour,  and
are, no doubt, the blood of the plant, are pressed along the
woody fibres, as from one piece of network or lodgement to an
other.     The other sort of longitudinal vessels, if such they may
be called, are very irregular; and appear like a number of the
small ones ruptured, and combined into one, being evidently open
all round like a net purse. They generally contain considerable
quantities of fluid ; which is supported by thin and seemingly
    Vol. 51. No.240. April 1818.               R                  tough

258           Anatomical Description of the     Mr  Tree.
 tough   membranes.      The radiates frequently cross these larger
 vessels ; and the genera! appearance of the blood in them both,
 where they pass each other, seems to indicate, that they com
 municate together in their passage.        The longitudinal vessels
 however appear to contain a much greater portion of air than
 the radiates.    In all the specimens that 1 have examined, these
 largest longitudinal vessels are generally from one-eighth to
 three-eighths, and sometimes half an inch apart, on the circular
 line of the plant; and about three of them in the breadth of
 each concentric ring, or year's growth.         In other cases they
 arc much further apart, but they are extremely irregular.      Some
 times three, four, or five will occur in a cluster.     Where there
 is such a cluster, the turpentine will generally be found exhaling
 from the plant by these canals.     This however is far more com
 mon in the silver fir, the Weymouth pine, and some others, than
 hi the pinus silvestris, or Scotch fir.
    The chemical analysis of the woody fibre of this plant in va
 rious experiments has yielded such different results, that I think"
 it unnecessary to mention them.         I shall therefore only take
 notice of the juices, and the process of their elaboration as they
 relate to temperature.     A low temperature appears most con
 genial to the fir tree, although it is to be found in very warm
 climates.   Yet from the nature of its juices it cannot be expected
 to arrive at great perfection in a lower degree of north latitude
 than 53° or 54°; or rather except in a mean temperature that'
is proportionate    to these degrees of latitude, say 45° or 46° of
Fahrenheit. It is necessary too, that the temperature should
approach much nearer to permanency, than is required by most
other plants.    This is most obvious with respect to that called
the Scotch fir, which by the by is to be found in everv country
in Europe ; is the species that furnishes the red or yellow deal ;
and is confessedly of the best grain and texture, and most dura
ble of any sort of fir yet known, the larch excepted.
    The succus proprius of fir trees Is of a peculiar kind, and
k.iown by the general name of turpentine, different varieties of
which are produced by different species of the fir.     It is obtained
in considerable quantity by boring holes, or cutting deep notches,
in the trunk of the tree ; but more expeditiously by means of
artificial heat, when it assumes the name of tar. To procure
this, the wood of the trunk, branches, and roots, is heaped to
gether, covered with turf, and then set on fire, so as to be ex
posed to a smothering combustion, as in preparing charcoal.           A
gutter is formed at the bottom, to receive the turpentine, which
Mows out strongly impregnated with carbon, whence the tar ac
quires rts black colour.                                              ..•
                                                                     In

               Anatomical Description       of the Fir  Tree.          259
    In making pitch from tar by inspissation after it has been im
ported into this country, the first product that distils over is a
 brown, acid water, mixed with a good deal of oil.            As the pro
cess proceeds, and the heat is increased, the acid diminishes, and
the oil increases.    According to Aikin, from GOO gallons of tar,
or IS or 20 barrels, the product will be about 10 barrels of pitch,
or 22 cwt., 17 6gallons of oil, and about 40 gallons of acid.
The oil and water, which are distilled over, do not again mix,
so that they can easily be separated by decantation.
   Where the temperature, when this tree is planted, is raised
above a certain degree, the equilibrium of the compound is de
stroyed ; and the oil, being the most volatile of any of the vege
table oils, flies off in the shape of vapour.         The resinous sub
stance at this time, being much heated, becomes more fluid ; and
the air being expanded through the whole exterior texture of
the plant, the juice is pressed upward by the same means and
force as in other plants.     Though the assistance of the leaves is
comparatively trifling,   their  deficiency is supplied by the very ex
pansive quality of the juice : a quality it possesses to such a de
gree, that in barrelling tar at Archangel, it is found necessary,
to leave a considerable space in the top of the barrel empty; I
have been told as much as four or five inches, in order to meet
the expansion of our temperature.
   When by a high temperature the juice of the tree, or rather
the oil, is forced off in various ways, as at any amputated branch
or wound in the tree, by the buds and leaves, &c. ; on the return
of the evening, the resinous matter congeals, and fixes itself in
the situation where it happens to be, with a very little decline
of the temperature ; and becomes almost incapable of being
raised any higher by the power of capillary attraction.           In con
sequence   of   the oily substance    being  driven  off by  the   heat of
the dav, and the vessels becoming comparatively empty, they are
then compelled to absorb more than an ordinary portion of the
circumambient atmosphere, not only to restore the sulcus com
munis, that the tree had perspired in the heat of the day like
other plants, but likewise to fill up the space before occupied by
the volatile oil of the s2/ccus proprius.
    Thus the fir tree in a warm climate is not only liable to be de
prived of its native juices, by one part, which appears to be about
twenty-five per cent, of the whole juice, being driven off in oily
vapour, and another rendered thick and pitchy, so that it is in
capable of being acted upon any more in the shape of sap ; but
likewise to be loaded with matter, to fill the space before oc
cupied by the volatile oil now dissipated.         This coming in some
measure into contact     with   the resinous  substance   by the return-
ittg heat of another day, extracts from it something like the film,
                                    R2                                that

260         Anatomical Description     of the Fir   Tree.
that will appear on the surface of water impregnated with resin
or pitch; and thus the native juices are rendered solid and hard.
   Hence the lower or butt ends of fir trees, the growth of this
country, are frequently found as hard and full of resin, as if they
had been saturated with it in a boiling caldron; while the trunk
and the branches have no more than is absolutely necessary to
 constitute the woody fibres, which become very dry and brittle.
When such     trees are cut down for purposes of carpentry, they
are found very difficult to work.
   In the first instance the sawyers experience difficulty in cutting
them.     They are not only hard, but they clog the saw, filling up
the teeth, while a resinous matter adheres to the sides of even
the best saws.      When, after considerable trouble and expense,
they are cut into planks, the same effect is found on the carpen
ters' tools ; the edge, however fine, being very soon clogged up ;
so that if the work be small, it is scarcely possible to make fine
tools work at all, without a very large portion of hog's lard, or
some other grease.
    This causes the difficulty of working firs of British growth ;
and is wholly occasioned by the oily part of the juice being driven
off : for if the workmen apply oil of turpentine to their tools, it
is found the best for their purpose, though most expensive ; and
this is the very matter of which the timber is deprived by a high
temperature.
    It is well known, that in a warm climate the fir tree thrives
best on the tops of hills.   When Maundrell visited Mount Le
banon, on the 9th of May 1696, of the trees so much spoken of
in holy writ, he could find only sixteen of any considerable size'.
But there were many young ones growing from amidst the snow
on the very top of the hill.
    It is likewise found, that in colder climates many species of
fir grow in abundance in the valleys and low lands, where the
Scotch fir grows to a very large tree.      In consequence of the
temperature being     low, the equilibrium of its juices is kept up,
and they ascend together in the tree, affording to every branch
and fibre its proper nutriment.
    The concentric rings of the oak, the ash, &c, are principally
marked by the number of large holes, or longitudinal vessels, by
which they are formed.      On the contrary, those of the fir tree
are most perspicuous from the more hard, solid, brown part of
the rings, which contain a far greater proportion of turpentine
than the other parts of the tree.      The sap of this tree appears
to be in motion throughout the winter, by which winter motion
this dark part of the circle is formed.     Not that there is really
sp much addition to the diameter of the tree in that season, for
the original frame   (if the term may be allowed) of the woody
                                                                fibrei

              Anatomical Description      of the Fir Tree.        26,1
fibres appears in every way the same as the others, and their
number the same and no more than that of the other parts of the
wood in an equal space ; so that the whole number of the woody
fitwes of the fir, like those of other trees, may be presumed to be
formed in what is commonly termed the vegetating season of
the year : but a few near the outside are rendered more hard
and firm, by the change of temperature acting upon them when
the heat is not sufficiently strong to penetrate deep into the body
of the wood; for from the nature of the juice a blink of sun
shine even in the time of frost and snow will most probably af
fect the turpentine, as it affects the motion of the sap of other
trees in a warmer season.      The heat however having little force,
and the time being probably short before it is abstracted again by
the ambient air, which gives it the countermotion, it cannot pe
 netrate deep into the wood.
    If Gay-Lussac and Thenard be correct in their opinion, "that
a vegetable substance is always resinous, or oily, or spirituous,
whenever it contains oxygen in a smaller proportion to the hy
drogen, than it exists in water ; and that a vegetable substance
is always acid, whenever the oxygen it contains is to the hydro
gen in a greater proportion than in water ;" it is at least pro
bable, that the turpentine part of the juice is principally formed
in the winter, or at other seasons of low temperature, when the
hydrogen may more readily be obtained for the necessary che
mical union than in a high temperature ; and the acid may for
 the same reason be principally formed in a higher temperature;
when the chemical union with oxygen is more readily effected.
    Whether the causes of the respective chemical combinations
be sufficiently well understood, or not, thus far appears quite
clear, that the dark part of the concentric rings principally as
sumes its colour in the winter season ; and is more strongly di
stinguished from the other part of the ring in trees that grow in
warm situations, or in the skirts of a wood, than in those in the
interior of a wood, where the temperature is more permanent.
 Not that there is much difference in the quantity of turpentine
in the whole ring ; for, if the dark part have more turpentine
than its due proportion, the other part has less.
    It is probable too, that the high temperature of our summers,
 or vegetating seasons, prevents that chemical union, which con
stitutes the turpentine, or juice of the fir tree: and further, that
 which is afterward formed in the winter is partly driven off, as
already mentioned, in the following summer.
    The fir known by the name of the pitch pine of America, so
 much used in this country of late, which grows in a cold climate
 jn low or wet land,     has very  little resin, but a very large pro*-
;                                 R                            portion

262        Anatomical Description       of the Fir        Tree.
portion of volatile oil and meats communis.        This tree grows
very spungy    and  soft ; and its juices,  which  appear scarcely
thicker than water, can be driven off with a very little heat, leav
ing the fibres of the wood almost naked.      Hence it             is,
                                                           that this
sort of timber, when moderately dry, will absorb nearly half its
own bulk of water, without increasing its size in any degree be
yond what   it had when in full vegetation.
   This water being again evaporated, and leaving the fibres open
to the action and reaction of the atmosphere, the wood very
 soon decays.    Pliny writes, that this tree was used for no other
purpose among the Romans, than to rend for laths, or to form
staves for coopers to make tubs and barrels, and a few thin
boards for pannels.
    The Siberian hunters of the ermine, when their fermenting
yeast, which they carry with them,          is  spoiled       by
                                                           the cold, so
that  it   will not serve to make the acid liquor they call quass,
scrape off the alburnum, or half-formed wood, which                under is
the bark of the fir tree, and digest   it   with water over the fire for
an hour. They then mix       it    with their rye meal, bury the dough
in the snow, and in twelve hours' time find           anew ferment pre
pared.      This is  presumed   to be
                                   a    strong,  ifnot   decisive proof,
                                                          a
that these juices contain  a    very large portion of caloric, and have
 the power of resisting cold more than any other vegetable juice.
 For although there may have been considerable heat in the
 dough when buried, yet    it    might have been supposed, that the
 enow   would   very  soon  have  reduced the temperature to an equi
librium with itself, or 32 degrees at least and this must soon
                                                  :
 have stopped the fermentation, for there appears no evidence,
 that fermentation will go on at all under 36 degrees. The snow
 also, in abstracting caloric, would have melted round the dough,
 and the moisture thus produced would have had              further ten
                                                              a
 dency   to  resist the fermentation.
    These juices then have the power of retaining caloric sufficient
 to protect the vital principle of the plants, to which they be
 long, against greater intensity of cold than the juices of most
                 a
 other plants.
     In this country, or perhaps any other of equal temperature,              if
a   great number of fir trees, or even small clumps of them, be
 planted together on any plain, for ornament or use, where there
is  no shelter from one side more than another, they are generally
 found to thrive best on the north side of the clump. The reason
 is, that those on the south side shelter them from the direct rays
 of heat, though the heat or general temperature of the day may
 be nearly as high on the north as on the south side.            few in
                                                                     A
 stances of this fact wear London may be mentioned.               In the
                                                                   whole

                   Receipts   for   Enamel Colours, &c.                        263
whole of those clumps on Hounslow heath, where the trees are
not destroyed, but grow so as to shelter each other, and in that
other clump on the hit'h ground south of the same road, between
Eghani and Virginia Water ; although the trees are all young,
there arc several feet difference in the height between those on
the north and those on the south side of the same clumps.
   Hence it is inferred, that no species of the fir tree will arrive
at such perfection in our country, on account of its high and
rapid change of temperature, as in the higher latitudes.
   Yet nature is bountiful in providing for all ; as the reverse
of this is the case with the oak tree.
XLV.   Receipts    for Enamel   Colours, and for staining and gilding
                     Glass.    By Mr. R. Wynn *
Sir, —   The     liberality of the Society in encouraging and re
warding communications        in every useful art, induces me to offer
to their notice a concise and complete method of composing
enamel colours.      Painting in enamel colours has always been
considered very interesting, and one of the most costly pro
ductions of art-in every country where practised: but the real
preparation of the colours has always been confined to the know
ledge of a few persons who have made a mystery of              it,
                                                             and what
ever has been yet published on the subject, appears to be chiefly
the compilation of writers unskilled           the profession.
                                                in                Many
artists of superior talents, in different parts of this country, could
practise the art but for the difficulty of procuring       complete set
                                                               a
of good colours: indeed       it  extraordinary with what suspicious
                                   is
secrecy the art of making the proper enamel colours has hitherto
been conducted.      I    have been acquainted with several of the
best manufacturers, whose colours were used               by
                                                         the most emi
nent painters  on  the finest and most elaborate     works  of the time,
-who have died without ever benefiting their country                 by
                                                                publish
ing their acquirements, or leaving any documents behind them.
By continued perseverance in such secrecy,
   a                                                 it not impossible
                                                          is
that the present improved state of knowledge in the art might,
under unfavourable circumstances, be entirely lost,           some ex
                                                                   if
perienced professional person did not seek for an opportunity of
making   it public, and more generally useful.         With these mo
tives
    I   take the liberty to offer the accompanying treatise, which
  * From the Transactions                                          Arts,  of
                            of the Society for the Encouragement
Manufactures, and Commerce, for 1817.       Twenty guineas were voted to
Mr. Wynn,     by
              the Society, for this communication.
                                        R   4                             consists

264                  Rect ipls for Enamel Colours,
consists of the most valuable selections from the experience and
labours of above twenty years.
                      I am, sir,
                             Your most obedient servant,
Wellington  Place, Vauxhall,   March  1 1, 1817.       Robert WyNN.
    To  A. Aikin, Esq.      Sec.
                          Introductory Remarks.
    The different qualities or degree of purity in the ingredients
as usually met with, will, with the same prescriptions, produce
some slight variations in effect; but the best enamel colours may
always be obtained with certainty by careful attention to the
 following receipts.
    When metals are dissolved, the solutions should always be per
fectly saturated.      In making the fluxes, they should be suffi
ciently melted     in the  crucibles, so as to flow liquid and pour out
easily.
    The various qualities of the material, or surface, on which
painting in enamel is performed, require the colours to be adapted
to the degree of heat it will bear or require when burnt ; and it
is generally the practice of the best painters in enamel, to use for
the first painting and burning, colours considerably harder than
those used in the second painting and burning, the latter being fine
 soft enamels, in order to finish the work, and give a beautiful
smoothness.       It cannot but.be obvious to every person who uses
enamel colours, that the hardening them if necessary, will be
effected by adding more of the colouring matter ; or lessening
the quantity of flux, and, if required to be more soft, or to shine
more when burnt, to add a little more flux ; and this is best done
by a very soft flux generally used for this purpose, such as No. S;
but when particular directions are necessary, they will be found
mentioned in the receipt for making the colour.           It will be bet
ter to make a few ounces at least of each colour at a time, and
they are all to be ground as soon as made in water, with a glass
muller, or a piece of plate glass, and dried before the fire, then
scraped off in powder, and kept in bottles for use.
    When used in painting they are ground in spirits of turpentinei
and thickened with thick oil of turpentine, which quality the
fluid oil of turpentine acquires in three or four years,
                    Preparation of Ingredients,
                               Flint Powder.
    Take pieces of flint, which have been burnt white at the chalk
lime burners (they may be had at the lime burners at Vauxhall),
make them clean with hot water and a brush j then throw them
                                                                      red

                  and for staining and gilding Glass.                265
red hot into cold water; after having thus treated them two or
three times, pulverize them in a biscuit-ware mortar with a pestle
of the same, (which will be easily effected,) and then grind them
in water on plate glass.
    Where no opportunity occurs of procuring burnt flints from
the lime burners, the common black flints broken into pieces,
made hot in boiling water (to prevent their flying in the crucible,)
and treated in the same way, will produce a fine white powder.
                        Red Sulphate of Iron.
    Sulphate of  iron, otherwise  called green vitriol, is to be pounded
and placed in an earthen ware muffle, (which may be had at the
ironmongers, in Foster-lane; or at Mr. Accum's, in Coinpton-
street) till the moisture is evaporated and a gray powder left :
which place in a crucible in a charcoal fire, and stir it with a
piece of steel bar, till it is of a fine red colour ; then let it fall
out of the crucible into a pan of cold water, under a chimney,
to avoid the disagreeable fumes that arise ; when settled at the
bottom wash it in several hot waters, and then dry it for use.
The more it is burnt, the darker the red.
                       Brown Sulphate of Iron.
    Take sulphate of iron in lumps, and calcine it in a red char
coal heat till it becomes of a dark brown ; and let it cool in the
crucible, afterwards wash it repeatedly in hot water.
                        Black Oxide of Copper.
    Take copper and dissolve it in aquafortis, till the acid refuses
to take up any more metal ; then dilute the solution with water,
and add to it some subcarbonate of potash, dissolved in water ;
a green precipitate will fall to the bottom, which must be washed
in several hot waters ; when settled, pour off the superfluous
water, and place the green matter at the bottom on a piece of
coarse open canvass, tied over a large earthen pan, on which a
piece of blotting paper is laid ; after the precipitate has been
thus drained, it should be taken off and made perfectly dry, by
placing the paper on a drawer of powdered chalk to absorb more
of the moisture, and then placed before the fire. When dry,
calcine it in a crucible in a charcoal fire, and throw it red hot
 into cold water ; then rinse it in boiling water, and dry at the
bottom of the bason before a fire j what remains is a beautiful
black oxide of popper.
                        Green Oxide    of Copper.
    Take a saturated solution of copper in aquafortis, and preci
 pitate it with subcarbonate of potash ; then wash it several times
 ID boiling water, filter and dry it,
                                                                   White

866                 Receipts           for Enamel           Colours,
                              White Oxide of Tin.
  Into  a small wooden box with a sliding cover, chalked over on
the inside, pour melted tin from a ladle, and shake the box till
the tin becomes finely granulated ; then wash it and dry           and                     it,
putit   into  Florence
               a        oil flask,   and pour   over   strong  nitrous  it
acid, which rapidly converts        to   white powder.
                                          it       a      When suf                         a
ficient quantity of this     obtained,
                                  is         should he well washed in
                                                       it
several boiling waters, poured out into a bason, and dried before
the fire — then produces
         ;     it                  very white oxide of tin.
                                          a
                        Black Oxide        Cobalt. of
   Take good     metallic   cobalt*,   and dissolve     to saturation in
                                                                    it
nitric acid diluted with little water,
                              a                flask placed in sand over
                                                       in   a
the fire then pour
         ;               in large bason, and having added quan
                         it       a                                                    a
tity of water, pour in solution of subcarbonate of soda, as long
                              a
as any precipitate falls down: when settled pour off the water,
and wash the powder in several hot waters, filter             and dry it.     it
When dry, mix       in biscuit-ware mortar with
                    it    a                                pestle of the a
same, witfrthree times its weight of dry nitre place           in   warm
                                                                    ;             it   a
crucible, and drop        an ignited piece of charcoal: some slight
                         in
explosions will then take place, and when these have ceased,
make the calx red hot        this, after being washed and dried, pro
                              ;
duces the best oxide of cobalt for enamel, and capable of making
and compounding various colours.
                             Fluxes.
   Take great care to mix all the ingredients accurately together
in a. biscuit-ware mortar, with pestle of the same, and to have
                                               a
them all pounded as fine as possible.  Let the crucibles be made
warm before the fluxes are put into them, (by placing them on
the fire with the open end downwards,) which will prevent most
of the accidents which happen by their breaking          the fire.           in
    The best furnace for making fluxes, or for any other process
that requires great or continual heat,        common German stove
                                                           is
                                                           a
about   1  or 20 inches inside, lined all round from the grating to
           8
the top, (except the aperture at the door in the front for the oc
casional introduction of    muffle,) with one row of fire-bricks set
                                   a
with loam the iron-pipe chimney projects from the back part
               ;
near the top.     The top or cover of the furnace, to be loose like
a lid, and removable        handles
                                  is by in the centre of
                                                   ;           circular           it   a
bole  is cut out,  which   also  fitted  with   cover through which
                                                                a
the top of the crucible may be lifted off, and its contents be
stirred up with      abar of steel.       small piece of fire-brick
                                                       A                                         is
placed on the grate, for the crucibles to stand on, and the fuel
should be charcoal and coke mixed, or charcoal alone.
  * In the choice of cobalt, that which when
                                              dissolved in nitric acid gives
the purest and deepest red solution generally makes the finest colours,
                                                                                            placed

                 and for staining and   gilding Glass.                      267
Flux, No.   1.   Red lead8 parts      Flux,No.5. Flint glass                 6
                       by weight                        Flux, No. 2,  4
              *Calcined borax   If                      Red lead      8
             Flint powder    2                   No. 6. Flux, No. 2, 10
             Flint glass     6                          Red lead      4
      No. 2. Flint glass    10                  Flint powder    1 *
             White arsenic 1           No. 7. Flux, No. 4      6
             Nitre           1                  Colcothar       1
      No. 3. Red lead        1         No.  8. Red   lead      6
             Flint glass     3                  Borax not ")    .
      No. 4. Red lead        9{                    calcined             j
             Borax not calc. 5} i               Flint powder   2
             Flint glass     8
   After the fluxes have been melted, they should be poured on a
flag-stone wet with a sponge; or into a large pan of clean water,
then dried, and finely pounded in a biscuit- ware mortar for use.
                         Yellow Enamels.
                Red lead      . .      ..    . .   8
                Oxide of antimony . .        . ; . 1
                White oxide of tin . .             1
   Mix the ingredients well in a biscuit-ware mortar, and having
put them on a piece of Dutch tile in the muffle, make it gra
dually red hot, and suffer it to cool.
                Take of this mixture       . .   1
             •
                Of flux, No. 4       ..    .. 11
   Grind them in water for use.
   By varying the proportions of red lead and of antimony, dif
ferent shades of colour may be obtained.
                          Another Yellow.
   Take three parts by weight of sheet lead and one part of block-
tin, melt them together in a ladle or a flat shovel, and skim off
the top in proportion as it oxidates ; when a sufficient quantity
is obtained, place it in the- muffle in a gentle heat, to. reverberate
and entirely calcine any remaining particles :
                Of which take       . .     . .              T\
                   Oxide of antimony     . .          . .'   1
                   Litharge     . .      .   .        . .    1
      Mix  these well together, and give them a red heat in a muffle
to    bind them together, but not to melt.    Use the same flux as
for the other yellow.
                                 Orange.
        Take red lead    . .     12 1 Oxide of antimony           ..    4
        Red sulphate of iron      1 | Flint powder                . .   3
  * Borax calcined to a dry white calx in a crucible, only a third part of
which should be filled at once, on account of the boras swelling so much as
it,
  gets dot.
                                                                            well

268                        Receipts     for Enamel       Colours,
well mixed in the mortar, and calcined so as to stick together,
but avoid melting.
            Take of the above . .    . .     - . 1
                    Flux, No.       7                                            2   J
   Grind for use.
                                        Dark Red.
                   Take sulphate of iron calcined dark                           1
                   Flux, No. 7                                                   3
   Grind for use.
                                        Light Red.
                   Take red sulphate of iron             . .           . .       1
                   Flux, No. 1                                                   3
                   White lead        . .                 . .           .   .     if
   Grind for        use.
                                Red Brown.
                Take brown sulphate of iron calcined dark
                                                                                 .3
                                                                                          1
                Flux, No. 1
   Grind for use.
                                    Vandyke Brown.
                    Take Flux, No.         4                                     3
                    Iron filings               . .     . . .
                                                           1           .
melted          together    in a crucible, and drawn out with curling
tongs   *   }   with so    much metal it will not pour out freely.
                 Take      of the above    . .  . .    . .   5
                 Black     oxide of cobalt     m.      , .   \
   Grind for use.
                            Another Brown.
                  Take manganese   . .     .                   .           . .       2|
                  Red lead                                                           8£
                  Flint powder                     . .       ,'.       .
                                                                       .             4
calcined to stick together.
       Of this mixture take ..        ..      ..     .
                                                                                          f If
                                                                                 .
       Of Flux, No.     and iron filings melted as above
                               4,                                                         1
       Flux, No.      .    4  . .
                                    '     ,                                                   1
   Grind for use.
      Black for painting and mixing with other Colours.
   Take of umber, broken into small bits and calcined to yellow                               a
      heat in a crucible, till quite black, then washed in boiling
        water and dried,                       .
                                               .         .
                                                         .
                                                                   '
                                                                   .       .         10
      Black oxide of cobalt                .       .     .
                                                         .             .
                                                                       .             10
  * In this and in other cases where a muffle    not in readiness, an earthen
                                                         is
crucible washed with flint powder inside, or with dry flint powder rubbed
inside l-8th of an inch thick, may be used, and the materials when partially
melted, so as to stick together, are completely taken out without loss.
                                                                                                  Blue

                and for   staining and gilding Glass.                               269
            Blue flint glass                                             10§
            Raw borax                . .          . .          . .         7i
            Red lead                                                     12
            Calcine these well together, and take of it 2
            Flux, No. 4,                                                   1
   Grind in water for use.
   Blacks are compounded in other proportions of these ingre
dients, and manganese is sometimes substituted in the place of
umber.
                              Another Black.
            Take umber calcined black                        ..          1
            Black oxide of cobalt               . .          . .         If
            Black oxide of copper               . .          ..            \
            Flux, No. 4                                                  3
   Grind these in water, and when dried place them on a piece
of Dutch tile, (washed over with flint-powder ground in water,)
in a muffle in a charcoal fire, and calcine them so as to stick to
gether ; then add to it one-half of Flux, No. 4.                           Both these
blacks, if too soft, are hardened by adding a little black oxide of
cobalt.
        Black for shading and drawing under the Greens.
                Take manganese                . .          . .         5
                Royal smalt       ..          . .          . .         1
ground   fine  in water,    and  calcined     to    a   high degree of heat in
a muffle.
A beautiful     Black,  for solid grounds           or inlaying,          but does not
                               mix generally.
                Take black oxide of copper                 . .         1
                Flux, No. 4                                            2
   Grind in water for      use.
                    A   Frit for transparent Greens.
   Take flint powder         . .  3         Red lead              . .       . .   7f
   Flux, No. 2        . .    . .  3         Raw- borax            . .       . .   2f
   Green pot-metal glass          If        Green oxide of copper 1 £
   Melt them in a crucible, pour out the mass, and pound it in
 an earthenware mortar.
                                   Green.
   Take of the green frit                . .          . .          . .        . .  3
   Of yellow enamel colour made up as before directed                              If
   If too soft add Naples yellow.
   Grind in water for use.              ,
                               Another Green.
              Take of green frit         , .          . .          . .   5
                                                                                   Flux,

270                   Receipts   for Enamel             Colours,
              Flux, No. 2                . .             . .                   |
               Flux, No. 6                                                   2f
    Grind in water for use.
    Greens in painting on enamel, are formed of various shades
by mixing blue and yellow, or blue and orange, &c. in different
proportions.
                                       Blue.
              Take of black oxide of cobalt                         . .      4
              Flint powder                 . .           . .        . .      9
              Nitre            . . -      . .            . .        . .    13
    Mix them well in       an earthenware            mortar, and heat them in
the crucible, in a strong fire of coke and charcoal, till perfectly
melted * ; then pound the mass, wash it in cold water, and dry it.
                    Of this take               ..            . .
                                                             ..1
                                                                    1
                    Flux, No.      5        ...
    Grind in water for      use.
                                Another Blue.
                Take black oxide of cobalt                        ..       1
                Raw borax               . .           . .        ,.        1
    Melt them together.
                Of   this   mixture     take          . .         ..      2
                Blue pot-metal glass                  . .         . . 10
                Red lead                                                     f
    Melt them in a very strong fire. If either blue is too soft, add
a  little royal smalt ; if too hard, a little flux made of blue glass 2,
borax 1.
                                     Purple.
    Take fine-grained gold from the refiners, and dissolve it to                          sa
turation in an aqua regia made of strongest
                  Nitric acid           . .      1
                                                   ~)
                  Muriatic acid
                                                   JJ- by measure.
                                        . .     3
                 Distilled water        . .     3
    Make the solution in a clean Florence oil flask, placed on sand
near the fire.     Pour melted tin into cold water, and take of the
clean parts of this tin            . .         . .           . .         . .         . . 1.
        Aqua regia,   diluted   with   water       in   the    same     propor-~l
          tion as above        . .        . .           . .
    Place the acid and the tin in a large bason covered with a
                                                                    . .          . .
                                                                                     J   ^
plate, in a temperate heat ; when the tin is all dissolved, add
             Strong red fuming nitrous acid                           . .      I
             Tin       ..        . .         . .           . .                 1
And instantly cover the         bason     with the plate, to prevent the
   * If these preparations are not sufficiently fluid in the melted state to
pour out of the crucible, the colour will stick to a piece of steel bar when
it is warm, and may be drawn out ; and sometimes the blues are made in
crucibles lined with flint powder as before mentioned.
                                                                                       fumes

                   and for staining and gilding Glass.                   2y 1
fames from escaping.          After standing twenty-four hours, a little
distilled water should be poured into the bason. The solution of
tin may then be put into a clean phial for use, adding to it a few
grains of tin ; examine it after four or five days, when the solu
tion, if carefully made, will be of a fine and clear dark colour,
and fit to make the purple. with.           Then of the solution of gold
 take sufficient to colour distilled water of a faint straw yellow,
.and drop gradually into it the solution of tin, and a most beau
 tiful purple precipitate will immediately be formed, which must
 be thrown as it is made into a large vessel, and two or three
 pieces of the melted tin should be put at the bottom.
       Mix the solution of tin with that of the gold in this manner
 till the last added drops occasion no turbidness in the liquor ;
 the precipitate is then to be washed in several hot waters, filtered
 on the blotting paper and canvass, and while in a moist and soft
 state, mixed with flux, No. 4, finely powdered.
       The proportion of flux to the purple precipitate is always va
 rious, and is judged of by the mass being of a good rich and dark
  colour, as the ingredients are ground together on the plate glass.
  Care must be taken to grind this colour before it gets dry.
       Twenty-four grains of gold made into a precipitate in this
  manner will take two ounces of flux, and this may be a rule to
  the inexperienced practitioner.
                                  Rose Colour.
       To   a saturated    solution of gold in aqua regia (containing
  twenty-four grains of gold), diluted with 100 times its bulk of
  warm distilled water, having 20 grains of alum* dissolved in if,
  add caustic ammonia drop by drop as long as any precipitate is
  thrown down, which wash in several hot waters.
  .    To 24 grains of gold, precipitated in this manner, put
                   Flux, No. 4       . .      . .      . . 2 oz.    -
                   Flux, No. 3                             2 oz.
       Mix them together wet, and.grind them on a plate glass, add
   ing, by a leaf at a time, sixteen leaves of leaf silver; when the
    whole is ground fine, let it be dried on the glass, scraped off, and
    put in a bottle for use.
        This rose colour grinds of a gray or slate colour, but after be
    ing ground, if placed in a muffle and exposed to a gentle heat,
    it will turn to a red ; but it is fit for use in either state.
        If too yellow, add a little purple; and if too purple, add more
    leaf silver.
                             Another Rose Colour.
             Take purple made as before directed             . .  1  oz.
                    Flux, No. 3 . .         . .      . .     . .  4
                   Muriate of silver        . .      ..      ..  10 gr.
    >;         * The rose colour is sometimes   made without any alum.
                                                                      *
                                                                           The

   272                 Receipts   for Enamel  Colours,
       The latter ingredient is prepared by dissolving silver in aqua
  fortis, and precipitating it with common salt.
       Grind in water for use ; if too purple, add more muriate of
  silver.
                               Opake White.
       Hartshorn shavings burnt in a crucible, in a charcoal fire, tilt
-
  perfectly white, . .          . .      . .   . .     • . 1
                     Flux, No.   1                         1
       Grind in water for use.
                     Venetian white cake enamel        . . 1
                     Flux, No.  8         . .   . .
                                                     _
                                                       . .   \
       Grind in water, then calcine them together in a muffle.
      Flux, No. 2, pounded and washed, then dried and calcined id
  a muffle.
       It would not be difficult to exhibit a multitude of specimens
  of different tints, and fill a volume with descriptions of them,
  by combining these original enamel colours in various propor
  tions : this, however, may safely be left to the taste and expe
  rience of the artist.      My object has been to avoid every thing
  superfluous, and at the same time to explain the processes
  adapted to immediate practice in terms not liable to be mistaken.
      Sir, — When I had the honour of explaining my Treatise on
  Enamel Colours to the gentlemen forming the Committee of
  Chemistry, I was requested by them to produce the method of
 staining glass, with a view of adding it as a second part to the
 Treatise on Enamel Colours.
      I  have inserted the most valuable information   which I possess
 on this subject in the paper that accompanies this letter, and
 request that you will present it in my name to the Society of
 Arts. I am, sir,
                    Your most obedient humble servant,
 No. 3, Taylors-Buildings,  May 6, 1817.             ROBERT WyNM.
      To A. Aikin, Esq. Sec.
                        The  Art of staining Glass.
     In coloured glass, the whole body of the material is tinged
throughout by means of some colouring ingredient uniformly dif
fused through, or dissolved in, the .substance of the glass.
     In enameling, the colours, being ground up with an easily vi-
trifiable flux, are laid on the surface of metaj, or porcelain, or
glass, and are then exposed to such a degree of heat as shall just
melt the enamel, and then fix it on the surface of the substance
en which it has been applied.
     In staining glass, the colouring ingredients are mixed with
                                                                water,

                     and for staining and gilding Glass.                   273
  water, or some other fluid vehicle, by means of which they are
   spread over the surface of a plate of glass, and when dry, are ex
   posed to such a degree of heat as by experience has been found
   td be sufficient.   The colour is then rubbed off from the surface
  of the glass, to which it does not adhere, and those parts of the
  plate which have been thus covered are found to have acquired
  a permanent and transparent tinge or stain, doubtless from some
  particles of the colour having been absorbed, and fixed in the
  pores of the glass.
       In all the compositions for staining. glass, silver, in'some form or
  other, enters as an essential ingredient; I shall therefore begin by
  describing the different preparations of silver that I make use of.
       Take two or three ounces of pure nitric acid, dilute it with
  three times its bulk of distilled water, put it into a Florence flask,
  or any other convenient glass vessel, and add to it refined silver,
  by small pieces at a time, till the acid, though kept at a warm
  temperature, refuses to dissolve any more.          After standing quiet
  for some hours, pour off the clear liquor into a clean ground
  stoppered phial, and label it Nitrate of silver.
                          Preparations of Silver.
       No.  1. Dissolve common salt in water, and add nitrate of sil
  ver, drop by drop, till it ceases to occasion any precipitate ; there
  will thus be obtained a heavy white curd-like substance, which,
 must be well washed in hot water and dried; by exposure to
 light, it becomes of a dull purple colour.           It is known by the
 name of muriate of silver, or lima cornea.
      No.. 2. Dissolve subearbonate of soda in water, and add nitrate
 of silver, as above described. The white precipitate thus ob
 tained, when washed and dried, is ready for use.            It is called car
 bonate of silver.
      No. 8. Dissolve subearbonate of potash in water, and proceed
 precisely as directed for No. 2 . The white powder thus obtained
 is also carbonate of silver.
      No. 4. Dissolve phosphate of soda in water, and proceed as,
 already mentioned.         The precipitate thus obtained is of a yellow
colour, and is called phosphate of silver.
      No. 5. Take any quantity of pure silver rolled out into thin
plates, and put it into a crucible, together with some sulphur.
When the crucible has-been a short time on the fire, the sul
phur will first -melt, and then will gradually burn away with a
blue flame. When the flame has ceased, add some more sul
phur, and proceed as before ; then take the silver out, and heat
it red in a muffle ; it will now be white, and very brittle, and,
after having been reduced to powder in a mortar, is fit for use.
    .
      No. 6. Take any quantity of a dilute solution of nitrate of sil
ver, and put into it a stick of metallic tin, warm it a little, and
   '
      Vok 51. No. 210. April 1818.                     S                   the

274                       Receipts         for      Enamel Colours,
the silver will be precipitated in the form of metallic leaves on
the surface of the tin.   Scrape it off, wash it in warm water, dry
it,and grind        it   jn
                      mortar. a
   No.     Take any quantity of nitrate of silver, and put into
          7-                                                                                            it
a piece of copper plate     then proceed precisely as in No. 6.
                                      ;
   The foregoing preparations of silver mixed with other ingre
dients, in the proportions about to be described, compose all the
varieties of pigment which are requisite for staining glass.
                                                Yellow.
                Take silver, No.                        ..            ..       1\
                                                                               lj "
                                                2
                Yellow lake ..                          ..            ..
   -Mix the ingredients, and grind them well with oil of turpen
tine mixed with the thick oil of turpentine                  UU thin.
                                                     lay 11 on  UUl       j         it
   Take silver, No.           1..
         White clay, precipitated from
                                       .                   ..
                                                solution i of
                                                                 .
                                                                     a
                                                                          ..              n
            alum by subcarbonate of soda . .               .. 3
         Oxalate   of iron, prepared        precipitating a  by
                                                                          ....
                                                                  Mparts.
  - '       clear solution of sulphate of iron          oxa                    by
'
            late of potash           ..
                                                                                          2 3
                                          .
                                          .
         Oxide of zinc         .     . .  .                .          .   .         .    j
    Let the silver be ground first in water with the oxide of zinc,
and then with the other ingredients.          This     intended for float     is
ing   on thick.
                Take silver, No.        .. 11       3
                       Yellow lake                 Partfu   .
                                                            .         J*
                                                                      1
    Grind them in spirit of turpentine and oil, and lay the mix
ture on very thin.
                Take silver, No.                                      '""
                                                                     \ i
                                          .         4       .         1
                        Yellow lake                  parts.
                                                                       t S
                                                         .
                                                         .
                       White clay      . .                           J
       Grind them in spirit of turpentine                            and oil, and lay the mix
    ture on thin.
                                 Orange.
       Take  silver, No.        . .
                                  6        .     .          .                 ,
             Venetian red and yellow ochre, equal parts,         parts,                           J.
                washed    water, and calcined red
                              in                                                                l}>
       Grind the ingredients     spirit of turpentine, with thick oil of
                                           in
    ditto, and lay the mixture on thin.
      Take silver, No,            7        -a           .    .
                                                             .                      .. 1\
              Venetian red and yellow'Vichre .      .       Par "     .             .    lj
       Grind in turpentine and oil, &c. as the foregoing.     entire                        If
    panes of glass are to be tinged orange, the proportion of ochre
    may be greatly increased.    The depth of the tinge depends in
    some measure on the heat of the furnace, and on the time that
    the glass  isexposed to               it,
                               which, though easily learned   expe                              by
    rience, cannot be made the object of precise rules,
                                                                                                       Take

                 and for staining and gilding Glass.                      275
                                    Red.
                                                                     J
   Take silver, No. 5,        . .    . .     . .    . .          1
        Brown oxide of iron prepared by heating
           scales of iron, then quenching them in water,
                                                                     \
                                                                 > parts,
           reducing them   to    a fine  powder,   and lastly     "
          calcining it in a muffle . .          . .       . . 1
   Grind the ingredients with turpentine and oil, and lay the
mixture on thick.
   Take of antimonial silver, prepared by melting                    \
     together one part of silver, and two ditto of
     crude antimony, and pulverising the mass                 1
                                                                     ff
                                                                    Par s"
   Colcothar         ..      . .        ..     ..             1 }
   Grind the ingredients in turpentine and oil, and lay the mix
ture on thick.
   Take antimonial silver, prepared as above,            . .  1 ')
                                                                        •.
                                                                    Par    s"
         Venetian red, and yellow ochre, of each . .          1
                                                                 ^
   Grind, &c. as before mentioned.
   When whole panes of glass are to be tinged, the proportions
of ochre or of colcothar may be much increased, and the ingre
dients should be ground in water.
     . ,. ..          Of laying on the Colour.
   The method practised by most stainers of glass is to draw the
outline in Indian ink, or in a brown colour, ground with turpen
tine and oil, and then to float on the colour thick, having pre
viously ground it with water.      But in this way of proceeding it
is very subject either to flow over or to come short of the outline,
iand thus render the skill of the draftsman of little effect.
   My method is to draw the pattern in Indian ink, and having
ground the colour as fine as possible in spirits of turpentine,
brought to a proper consistence with thick oil of turpentine, to
add a little oil of spike lavender, and to cover the outline entirely
 With this composition.
    When it has become dry, I work out the colour with the point
 of a stick and a knife from those parts that are not intended to be
 stained, and am thus enabled to execute the most delicate orna
 ments and most intricate designs, with exactness and precision.
    If the colour is required to be laid on so thick that the out
 line would not be visible' through       it,
                                       let the colour be first laid on
 as smoothly as possible, and when         has become dry draw the
                                                it
 outline Upon  it with vermilion water-colour, and work out the
-design as before.
    Besides the precision acquired        by
                                        the above method,      enables
                                                                 it
 the artist to apply different shades in the same design whereas;
the old method of floating only communicates an uniform tint to
 the whoie pattern.    -
                                  S   2                                   The

276      On the Resilience      of Materials      ;  with Experiments.
    The artist should contrive to charge, his furnace with pieces
the colour of which is ground in the same vehicle, and not to mix
in the same burning some colours ground in turpentine and others
ground in water.           The pieces must also be very carefully dried,
and must be placed m the furnace when this latter is moderately
 warm.
                                  To gild Glass.
           Take of fine gold in grains            . .    . .  1 1
                                                                  Dart,
                                                                  "
                    of pure mercury       ..      . .    . . 8
    Warm the mercury and then add the gold, previously making
                                                                J
 it red hot. When the gold is perfectly dissolved, pour the mix
ture into cold water and wash it well.                 Then press out the su
 perfluous mercury through linen or soft leather, and the mercury
which runs through (as it retains some gold) should be reserved
 for the next opportunity.
     The amalgam which remains in the leather is to be digested
 in warm aquafortis, which will take up the mercury, but will
 leave the gold in the form of an extremely fine powder.                   This
 powder, when washed and dried, must be rubbed up with one-
 third of its weight of mercury ; then mix one grain of this amal
 gam with three grains of gold flux (see the former part of this
 paper, p. 271), which is to be applied in the usual manner.
    %* In the foregoing communication borax is mentioned as an ingredient
 in the composition of the fluxes, [t does give them very easy fusion, but
 we should fail in our duty did we neglect to caution artists against a profuse
  U3e of this flux.   It can hardly be employed in any quantity whatever with
  out danger to the durability of the work ; having a great tendency to efflo
 resce in the atmosphere.       Indeed this can hardly, if at a\lr be prevented
 where borax enters into the composition of colours used for painting on
 glass. — Edit.
  XLVI. On       the Resilience     of Materials;      <with Experiments.    By
                           Mr. Thomas Trkdgold.
                            '
                                 To Mr. TillocL
 Sir, —Previous            to making the experiments on the resilience of
 timber,     the results of which are given in your Number for last
 month*, I had endeavoured to anticipate the results by the usual
 mode of calculation, and proceeded to make some rough essays,
 in order to try the apparatus and prepare for more correct expe
 riments ; as it was desirable to let the weight fall from a height
that would only just produce fracture, without having to make
successive trials, which always weaken the pieces considerably.
    In these trials       I soon discovered that the calculations I had
made would be of no use to me whatever, although I had to-
                             « Phil. Mag. vol. li.
                                                    p. 216.
                                                                         lerably

          On the Resilience              of Materials; uilh Experiments.                      277
lerahly correct data to go upon ; and that the theory is imper
fect, in as far as it does not include the whole of the principal
circumstances affecting the case in question.
    In the first place, I propose to lay before you the investi
gation according to which the heights of the falls were com
puted.        2dlv, Some additional experiments ; and then conclude
with some observations on the probaWe <cause of the difference
between the theoretical and experimental results.
    I. Put 5= the strength, or weight that would break a bar sup
ported at both ends; a=the deflexion at the time of fracture ;
#= any variable degree of deflexion; W=the weight; A = the
height of the fall; w =the weight of the bar; and                                */ 4gA=the
velocity with which W strikes the bar.
    Then a        :  x : : S    : —x = the motive force atanydeflexion X', eon-
                                  S
                     S x
sequently      — jr-        - = the accelerative force there.
    1        J a (W    +  w)
    By mechanics—               vv  = 2sfs         — ——     — -:      of which the        fluents
are— v2=
                a
                    ~*f*
                    (W  +  w)
                             .;' but when xs=o,' vl = Ash              a ': therefore 4sh   ° —
                *
vl   ==                    Also, when x=a, »o=o;                       consequently       4gh  =
                    -y
 2f S a         ,           S a'
            nr ij —"~ -                -r<-
W + io'                2 (W+«)
    It is shown by writers on the resistance of solids, that at the
 time of fracture S is inversely as / / / being the length, and that
a is directly as ll. Hence, all other things being equal, we have
 h is as /.
    The resilience of bodies has been considered by Emerson, in
his Fluxions, sect. 3, prop. 21, p. 404 ; and by Dr. Thoirjas
Young in his Nat. Phil. vol. ii. art. 337 ; and their conclusions
are the same as those above stated,                                                            . <t.
                  Experiments               on the Resilience         of Timber.
    II.    As Meinel or Riga timber, when it is straight-grained, and
the portions of the annual rings vertical, almost always breaks
short or without splinters, it afforded an opportunity of trying
each piece thrice ; and the same was done with some of the others,
when the splinters did not extend too far along he piece.
     To avoid referring to the results given in your last Number                                 f,
                                                ,S x
    f  The motive force ought to             be  — — (W + u>),     but for the sake of simplicity
                                                  a
 the quantity (W+ w) is neglected, as when it is only very small in respect to S, it
does not materially affect the result.               Were it included, the correct solution would
 t  '. i&iSa — itW + w) —                   Sa                          '               .
 be A=           —                   -                 a : that is, less than the quantity above,
        X.  <*• W + w               2(W a?)   +
    ;.
irbich is itself less than it ouent to be.
    t   Phil. Mag. vol. li. p. 216.
                                                       S3                                       the

278      On the Resilience                               of Materials; with Experiments.
the height that broke the pieces which would admit of a second
trial, are here repeated.
   Those trials made with the same piece are marked with the
same letter.    And the same weight of seven pounds was used in
all the trials.
                                                                                                  Height from
                                     V                   betw een the                              which the
                                                                    I
                                                                               V
                                     W &                                                          Weieht fell.
                     >                                                                  1
                                                          in nches.
                     gra
                                     ol         rii
Kind of Wood.
                                                                                                    By Experi
                                                                                        in                                                    Effects.
                                                                                                                  Calculated
                                     Position   annual
                     Specific                                                                                                  Inches.
                                                                    supports            Breadth
                                                         Distance                                  ment Inches.
Oak (A.)           •743          vertical,                  30                 1       1                48            35                 Broke.
                                                                                                   S54                                   No effect.
Oak (A.)           .743 vertical.                             11               1       1
                                                                                                  I     60                               Broke.
                    nearly
Dry Larch (B.) •506
                     vertical.                           }.                    1       0-8              54            43                 Broke.
                                                                                                   554                                   No effect.
Dry Larch (B.)     •506          ihe same                     11               1        0.8
                                                                                                        60                               ISroke.
                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                        36                               No effect.
Riga(C.)   ....    •484          vertical,                   30                1       1
                                                                                                  JJ    42            21                 Scarcely broke.
                                                                                                        42                               No effect.
Riga   (C.)....    •484 vertical,                              12              1       1
                                                                                                        48                               Scarcely broke.
Riga(C:)     ...   •484          horizont.                    12               1       1          hI
                                                                                                  5 1
                                                                                                        54
                                                                                                                                           0 effect.
                                                                                                                                         Broke.
                                                                                                         36                              No efTect.
Merael   (D.).    . -552         vertical.                    30               1       1
                                                                                                    <42                31                Broke.
                                                                                                    U2                                   No effect.
Memel    (D.)..    -552          vertical.                     12              1       1
                                                                                                    hi                                   Broke.
Memel (D.) . . •552              vertical.                     12              1       1                45                               Scarcely broke.
                                                             Observations.
    III. From the preceding table appears that the height not                      it                                                                 is
directly as the length, as we find       shorter length actually requires          a
more height than       longer one    aand        to this difference chiefly    ;             it   is
that   I am desirous of drawing the attention of those who have
more leisure to make experiments, and more ability to pursue the
investigation.    The difficulties which attend making experiments
on the laws of percussion are well-known, and various means have
been devised to avoid the irregularities which occur in such ex
periments, but with little success.
    These irregularities evidently originate in the methods of mea
suring the effects; at least,           more probable than that there    it    is
is  any  defect in the  theory  of falling bodies.     Camus, who pub
lished   aconsiderable number     of experiments    on  the effects of per
cussive forces, found that the nature of the bodies struck, and of
the supports on which they rested, had much influence on the
effects. Also       other experiments, made for the purpose of as
                                in
                                                                                                                                                   signing

                  On the Expeditions to the North Pole.                     2"9
  signing the degree of pressure equivalent to the stroke of a pile
  engine, the effects were not found to agree with the laws of fall
  ing bodies. M. de Cessart endeavoured to compare the per
  cussive and pressive forces, by reducing equal cones of lead to the
  same thickness by the blow of a ram, and by pressure. M. Ron-
  delet tried to accomplish the same object by means of the dyna
 mometer of M. Regnier*; neither of these gentlemen found the
 effects to be proportional to the heights of the falls             t;  conse
 quently we must either suppose this law to be incorrect, or that
 the motion is partly destroyed by the re-action of the supports.
  Now the experiments of Camus tend to prove the latter suppo
 sition to be correct; but the theory given in the first part of this
 letter does not suppose any part of the velocity to be destroyed
 by being transmitted to the supports, which appears to be the
 cause of the difference between it and the results of the experi
 ments, and therefore requires to be considered anew, as it is not,
 in its present state, sufficiently correct for any practical purpose.
      That a part of the velocity is destroyed by the supports is easy
 to conceive, because, I believe it may be shown, that the ve
locity of the motion transmitted through the length of the bar^
will be greater than that with which the point struck will de
 scend.                                 I am, sir, yours, &c.
Grove End, April 14, 1818.                          THOMAS TredGOLD.
 XLVII.     On   the  Expeditions     to ike  North Pole. By      M. Malte
                                     BrunJ.
 Some English writers have already indulged              themselves    in illu
sory conjectures on this enterprise ; they describe Greenland as
bursting from the icy barrier which surrounds it. They repeat the
traditionary reports of the last century, respecting some whale-
ships said to have reached the pole, and even to have passed on
the other side of it. They presume to doubt the existence of
land to the north of Baffin's bay, although Baffin was the best
informed and most judicious seaman England could boast of;
and they eyen flatter themselves, that commerce will be carried
on in a direct route from London to Canton, by the pole, which
makes a distance of only 2,600 nautical leagues, whilst that by
the Cape of Good Hope is 5,500 leagues.
     Two men, however, of great authority, do not participate in
these exaggerated anticipations.— Mr. Scoresby, an experienced
    * Rondclet's Art  de Batir, tome iii. p. 22 — 32.
       These experiments were certainly not all applicable to the case in
question ; that is, to establish the relation between the pressive and percus
sive forces, as far as regards driving piles.
    J  From the Journal lies Debuts.
                                       S 4                         Greenland

280          On the Expeditions     to the   North Pole.
Greenland captain, thinks that the polar seas are blocked by ice,
and proposes a journey to the pole by means of sledges drawn by
rein-deer. Captain Burney, who accompanied the immortal Cook,
has published a pamphlet, of which we have received a copy,' and
in which he proves clearly that there exists a large extent of land
to the north of Behriug s strait : he goes too far in supposing
that this land probably unites the two continents of Asia and
America ; but it is very certain that his arguments are sufficient
to contradict the opinion of the existence of an ooen sea.
    The gratitude which the English government merits from every
friend to science, ought not to prevent us from examining upon
what foundation their hopes of success in this enterprise rest. It
is even an advantageous justice due to the commanders of the
expedition, to point out to them beforehand the immense oh~
stacles against which they have to contend.
   Fixed and floating ices may be considered as the first of these dif
ficulties. Admitting for a moment the non-existence of a polar contir
nent, that Greenland, New Siberia, that the land to the north of
Behring's strait, and the land seen and coasted by Baffin, are hi
reality but four islands, (as the maps of the sixteenth century ap
pear tfl represent them,) yet it is very probable, that the narrow
seas which separate them are constantly choked with ice.         Cap-r
tain Scoresby observed the ice form itself in the open sea, at more
than twenty leagues from the coast of Spitsbergen ; and masses
of ice arise from the bed of the sea. Thus, then, the principal
argument in favour of an open sea is considerably weakened ; it
will be in vain for them to. rely on the removal of a barrier of
ice, shaken by an earthquake, or broken by the strength of the
currents.    The sea itself freezes, notwithstanding the assertions
of Mr. D. Barrington. This truth once proved, eternal variations
in the state of the polar seas may be expected.
   From the year 1660 to 16S0, the most sanguine hopes were
entertained of penetrating to the pole ; yet every authenticated
effort to this effect proves all exertion to have been terminated by
fixed ice, which arrested the navigators' further pursuit ; or by
floating masses of it,  which threatening to overwhelm them, com
pelled them to desist from their courageous enterprise.       Captain
Wood, who confidently believed the possibility of          passage to
                                                           a
the north, was opposed    by
                          a     continent of ice, which united Nova
Zembla, Spitsbergen, and Greenland. — Captain Souter, on the
contrary, continued his route to 82 deg,      6  min. in   calm open
                                                           a
channel j.  but the. ice, on each side, beginning to connect, the
dread of being blocked up obliged him to abandon his pur
pose. The adventurous Baffin- was able once to navigate the sea
which bears his name; but   it   has since been frequently found that
this sea was filled with numerous islands, some of which were
                                                          100 leagues.

                On the Expeditions to the North Pole.              281
100 leagues in circumference, and nearly 400 feet high. Per
haps James's island, noted in several charts, was itself one of these
masses of ice. Captain Wafer frankly confesses that he mistook
these fixed masses of about 500 feet in height for real islands.
J3ven the floating ice is often covered with large. stones, and trees
torn up by the roots, which appearance produces the idea of land.
It is very uncertain whether the Dutch discovered, to the east of
Spitzbergen, a tract of land, or only a mass of ice : in one of
their voyages to the north of Nova Zembla, they found a bank
of blueish ice, covered with soil, on which birds had built their
nests.    Half a century ago, two islands of ice were seen to fix
themselves in the bay of Disco : the Dutch whale-ships visited
and Assigned them a name.          The same circumstance took place
about Iceland.
    Mr. Scoresby informs us, that the water of the sea of Spitz
bergen contains only 5| ounces of salt in a gallon of 231 cubical
inches : its weight is to pure water as 1,0260, and it freezes in
a cold of two degrees by a thermometer centigrade.           Thus it isr
probable, that in the polar nights, that is to say, during our
winter, the arctic seas are covered with ice.       The history of dif
ferent voyages furnishes us with proof of this ; — but let us resume
the physical discussion.
    The masses of floating ice arising from the water of the sea,
and which is distinguished by its porous contexture (owing to the
mixture of the volatile qualities of plants), sink 4-5ths of their
thickness into the salt water, the latter being in a freezing state.
The masses formed of fresh water have a greater density and
more transparency.       Mr. Scoresby made burning-glasses from
pieces    it,
         of    and lighted  the pipes of the astonished sailors. These
bodies sink 15-16thsof their thickness below the surface.       It ap
pears certain, that the bays and straits of the polar seas (not ge
 nerally very deep) are often obstructed     by  these masses, resting
 at the bottom.     The floating ices present obstacles not less rev
doubtable. — The concussion of the masses produces tremendous
                                                           a
noise, which warns the navigator with what facility his vessel would
 be dashed to pieces,      he were placed between two of these float
                           if
ing  islands.   It    even
                     is     asserted that the wood carried off   by the
 currents kindles      the violent collision caused
                      by                              by the motion of
 the ice; and flame and smoke arise amidst the gloom of eternal
 winter.    Pieces of floating wood have been often found burnt at
 the extremities. In winter the intense cold continually occasions
these mountains of ice to split asunder, and at each moment may
 be heard the explosion of these masses which separate in enormous
chasms.      In spring, the motions of the ice chiefly consist in the
upsetting   of those masses, which lose their equilibrium, because
some parts dissolve more rapidly than others. In all seasons the
                                                                broken

282-           On   the   Expeditions   to the   North Pole.
 broken ice accumulates in the passages or gulfs, and opposes
 equally the attempts of individuals who expose themselves on
 foot, and the progress of the vessel, whose motion becomes pa-
 lalysed.
     If to all these considerations be added, that the ordinary course
 of the ices from the pole depends upon two constant and eternal
 causes, the seasons and the currents, the removal of the obstacles
 is only local and momentary; and it will be allowed that the
   olar seas will never afford a commercial route. Immense b°ne-
   t may result to the fisheries from the discoveries which they hope
 to effect.
    The principal argument which has been made use of, to show
 that the great changes in the position of the polar ice must
 open a passage through those dreary regions, is the pretended
 physical revolution, which, it is supposed, has changed the face
 of East Greenland.        A flourishing colony, say they, — a colony
 embracing      several towns  and convents, and containing a consi
 derable population, — is seen all at once shut up from the rest of
 the world, by a vast barrier of ice.       Beside this terrible cata
strophe, probably every thing suddenly perished there             men,
 animals, vegetables, every living thing perhaps has been attacked
 at the same moment with a mortal cold.               If,
                                                     in our time, thi<
 barrier be removed, we shall surely find this mummy of nation, a
 this frozen Herculaneum; nay, who knows but that some remains
 may be traced of the ancient Scandinavian colony? or who cari
 say, but that, in this spot, so long inaccessible,    people may hi
                                                            a
 found, who shall have preserved the language, the manners, and
 the Catholicism of the North, as they were in the fifteenth cen-
 turv
    ?
    This romantic prospect, however, vanishes before            critical
                                                                a
 examination of historical facts, gathered in the Sagas, works
which have been much read since the discovery of Greenland.
Nothing in their annals, though preserved         the bosom of their*
                                                   in
families, proves that Greenland ever enjoyed           milder climate.
                                                        a
The establishments of the islanders there, were never more con
solidated than those of the Danes on the western side, or of the
British near Hti'dson's Bay. The voyages thither were not so
frequent or so expeditious as has been supposed these voyages
                                                            :
sometimes occupied five years.         In 13S3, vessel which arrived*
                                                  a
in Norway, brought there the first news of the death of the bishop
of Greenland^ who had died six years before. There were not
many enterprising enough to undertake these voyages, and hence
Greenland became the country of prodigies — the scene of the
most wonderful events. For instance, Forfseus,          certain Nor
                                                            a
wegian, went over the ice from Norway to Greenland.             In the
latter country, he saw great forests, whose trees produced acorns
                                                                    as

              On the Expeditions to the North Vote.                   283
as large as apples, and where he hunted large sea-bears !   The
sea there was inhabited by immense giants and giantesses: and
there were ro be seen mountains of ice, as lofty and as solid as
those which impeded the entrance of the Argonautic            expedition
into the Black Sea!
     These are the poetic tales of the old Scandinavians, who, like
Jason and Hercules, sought out danger, and defied every peril.
But history is more circumspect.          The Iceland book, entitled
" The Mirror of Kings," gives a just idea of this country. It
shows, that ancient Greenland differed in nothing from modern
Greenland.       The coast, even in summer, was surrounded by
enormous mountains of ice, such as the Norwegians had never
seen in their own country.      The colonists established there, knew?
nothing of bread, nor were they skilled in agriculture-          They
exchanged the teeth and furs of some animals for wood, which
they wanted for firing, and for constructing their houses.        The
coast was uninhabited, except in those places where there was an
abundance of fish : the interior of the country, occupied bv moun
tains and vales covered with snow and ice, was as difficult of
access as it is at this day.      The number of the colonists did
not exceed that of a large parish in Norway, nor would they
have had a bishop, but for their great distance from the mother
country.      The Scandinavian colony in Greenland was divided:
into two cantons, — one west, which had but four churches, the
other east, where there were two towns, or rather villages. This*
division gave rise to a great error in geography, from which it         is-
supposed, that the eastern canton of Old Greenland occupied
the coast opposite to Iceland; and those unknown regions have
been pompously described as Austurbygol,           inEast Greenland     :
imaginary gulfs and promontories have been traced there           ;but
this geographical system has been overturned             by
                                                          modern ac
curacy.
     The first navigators, on going from Iceland to Greenland,
steered south-west, shunning      a  coast surrounded with ice; and'
they doubled the point of Hvarf, which           situated on the con
                                            a is
tinent, but has before       itan island with    very large mountain,
 which they call Chemise Blanche.         Following this route on thei
modern map,   it   isto be inferred, that the promontory in question
is  Cape Farewell, the known southern point of Greenland. The
Icelanders then sailed north-west to arrive at the colony.
     Other navigators have proved, that the point of Hvarf         the
                                                                  is
southern extremity of Greenland, from which             itmust follow,
that East Greenland     is only   aportion, in fact, the most eastern
and southern part of the west coast. The name of Greenland'
is  justified only by the verdure of some tufts of grass and      afew
 flowers,    which show   themselves   in  June,  towards  the  south.
                                                                 Higher

   284            On the Expeditions to the North Pole.
  Higher up, nothing        is to be seen but ice ; and ice so accumu
  lated and impenetrable, as to repel the boldest pirates.                  The
  current, whose continual direction is south-west, floats towards
  this coast, extending for ten degrees of latitude the. sheets of ice
  which come from Spitsbergen.                 This has been the case for two
  centuries ; and hence it is extremely probable, that this coast
  was never accessible.         It is not here that the ice has lately disr
  appeared ;   it  is  higher north, where the ruins of the old Norman
  hamlets and churches have been discovered.                 These ruins bear
  traces of violent destruction by a hostile force.             Perhaps, also,
  the plague, which ravaged Europe in the fourteenth century, was
  extended to Greenland.           The commerce with this colony having
  become a droit of the queen of Norway, the monopoly acce
  lerated the decline of the establishment.               But a bull of pope
  Nicolas V. proves that the destruction of the colony was caused
  by a foreign invasion; a fleet, npbody knows whence, attacked
  and devastated the country; all was annihilated by fire and sword,
  This fleet probably belonged to Prince Zichno or Sinclair, lord
 of the isles of the Orcades and of Finland, whose two brothers/
  Nicolo and Antonio Zeni decried the expedition as piratical.
      These explanations, which make the wonders of East Green
 land disappear, have not been received without examination, and
 without opposition.         In a memoir printed in the Danish lan
 guage, and which is deposited in the Royal Library at Paris, a
 lieutenant of marine, M. de Wormskiold, attempts to prove that
 old East Greenland must exist on the eastern coast between the
 62d and 64th parallels of latitude.               These arguments are taken
 from the " Voyage of Danell," a book not deemed authentic.
     Denmark has left nothing untried to decide the problem. Many
 attempts have been made by that power, both by sea and land.
 In .1788, Lieutenants Egede and Bothe sailed up the eastern
 coast as far as 63 degrees parallel: the ice prevented them from
going further.        The coast presented the most dismal prospect.
   '
     Nothing discovered in modern times proves those changes in
the climates, those great physical catastrophes, with which some
writers, full of imagination, have endeavoured to animate the
                                      '         '
picture of the polar regions,               -'
     The idea of being winter-bound in the midst of the glacial
regions, frightens the imaginations of those who have read the
relations of Berendt and Heemskerk : but these two Dutch ma-
riners had foreseen, had prepared nothing; shipwreck consigned
them, without defence, to the horrors of a polar winter.                   The
English navigators       have   calculated      the dangers, and  provided the
means for withstanding         them     ; they    do not appear  to doubt the
possibility of supporting the cold, even under the pole : — perhaps
nature may furnish them with some facilities which they do not
                                                                       expect,,

               On the Expeditions to the North Pole.               2S5
expect.      The polar countries, such as Iceland and Greenland,
abound in warm, and even boiling, springs.           Who has not read
the descriptions of the Geyser, that marvellous boiling water
spout, which surpasses in magnitude all the jets d'eau which art
Las produced ? But the ceconomical use which may be made of
these singular fountains, is not so generally known.         The histo
rian Suorron, the Herodotus of the North, and a long time judge
or president of the republic of Iceland, made a bath for a hun
dred persons to be constructed, which still exists ; and the water
 of which is furnished from a natural source. Some monks, who
 settled in Greenland in the middle age, went a step further; they
lieated their monastery with the vapour of boiling springs. The
 following is the curious account of it given by the brothers Zeni.
      " There is," he
                        says,
                               " in this place (the monastery of Saint
Thomas) a spring of boiling water, with which the monks heat
 the church, the refectory, and their cells ; when it arrives at the
 kitchen, the water is still so hot, that they have no need of fire to
  prepare their meats.       To make bread, it is sufficient to put the
 paste into copper-vessels, and to hold these in the water; the
  bread becomes baked in this manner, as if it were in an oven.
  He found also in this monastery, small gardens in full vegetation
  in winter ; the monks irrigate them with this water, and by this
  means grow flowers, ripen fruits, and reaT different sorts of
  plants, which vegetate as well as if they were favoured with a tem
  perate climate.      The rude savages, who inhabit these countries,
  astonished at effects which they regard as supernatural, take the
  monks for gods; and carry them all sorts of presents, such as
  birds, meat, and various other things."
      Although the situation of this monastery cannot now be traced,
  the relation is too circumstantial to permit of our supposing it to
 be an imposture, though, perhaps, there may be some confusion
  in respect of places.       " The monks," continues the narrative,
  "   employ no other materials for the building of their monastery,
  than what are supplied by the neighbouring volcano ; they take,
  for this purpose, the stones which aie ejected in the form of
  scoria from the crater of the mountain ; and while they are yet
  hot throw water upon them, by which means they are entirely
  dissolved, and converted into an excellent lime. The scoria, when
   it is cold, serves in place of stones to form very solid waifs
   and arches ; for when once cooled, it cannot be broken but by
   an instrument of iron.       The arches made with this scoria are
   so light, that they do not require any support.         The_want of
   rain is never felt as an inconvenience in this country; for the first
   snow which falls remains frozen for the space of nine months, the
   time which winter lasts.       The people live upon wild birds aiid
   fish.
                                                                  " The

    286       On the Expeditions to the North Pole.
     " The  hot water of the volcano, falling into a large haven, pa
rents the    sea from freezing, in consequence of which, so great at
quantity   of   birds and. fish are attracted to this place, that the re
ligious  draw    from them as much as is necessary for their own sub
sistence, and for that of a great number of the inhabitants of the
eountry, whom they constantly employ in building, in hunting, ia
fishing, and various other occupations."
    The narrative treats afterwards of the barter trade, which these
monks carry on with Norway and Iceland.
      "
      During winter a great number of ships are always to be found
here, which cannot get away in consequence of the sea being
completely frozen, and therefore wait the return of spring."
    The old chart, designed upon wood, which exhibits the course
 of the navigation of the brothers Zeni, represents Greenland under
 a figure approaching that which is now given to             it, and under
the double     name    of Grolavdia    and   Engroenland.
    The monastery of St. Thomas              placed there at three degrees
                                               is
northward of the island a position which answers to that of
                                  ;
Point Cham, where the whalers have met with floating pieces of
 hollow stone.     It   is   also about this place that Volkart Boon, a
 whaler   of  Sleswick,   discovered    in 1761 a large gulf.
    The   details   which  the   Zeni give with respect to the houses and
 canoes of the savage inhabitants of the country, coincide exactly
 with all that we know of the present Esquimaux of Greenland.
r      The canoes of the fishermen of Engroeirfand have the form
 of weaver's shuttle they are made of the bones of marine ani
     a                   ;
 mals, covered with several plies of fish-skins sewn together. These
 canoes are so impermeable and so solid, that in the greatest tem
 pests, the persons who are in them content themselves with remain
 ing at their ease, without caring where the winds or waves may bear
them, well persuaded that their canoes run no risk of being broken
or submerged should
              ;              it even happen that they are thrown upon a
sock, they     sustain  no   damage."
     Itwould be a singular event to see the English re-discover the
 monastery of Saint Thomas, or some similar locality.              Ifin the
fourteenth century, some poor preaching friars were able to create
a  commodious habitation and              smiling garden in the midst of
                                          a
eternal ice, what may not the enlightened industry of the nine
teenth century achieve       ?    Were     small colony of learned men to
                                           a
sojourn for     some   years  in  a similar place,    would enrich science
                                                        it
with precious diseoveries. Magnetism, universal gravitation, the
aurora borealis, and many other phenomena, could in no place
be observed with more advantage.
                                 [To   be continued.]
                                                             XLVIII.    On

                            [     287    ]
XLVIII.   On extinguishing      of Fires in Buildings. By Mr.ioay
                                Moore.
Sir, —Observing         the destruction of property by fire, and the
fright and inconvenieuce to families when it occurs in dwelling-
houses, with sometimes loss of lives ; — and after taking a survey
of the progress of the arts, I am surprised, that recourse is not
commonly had to the mixing of some ingredient with the water
employed, (as there are many known,) for the more immediate
extinguishing of that destructive element.         The importance of
the subject is so considerable, that I think it ought to have the
 most serious attention.
     To the uninsured, a means of speedy extinction would be a happy-
resource, and to the public a great acquisition, provided the ex
 pense be but trifling. Now in order to stimulate others towards
 the obtaining so desirable an object, I take the liberty to state to
 you the ideas that have occurred to me, hoping that improvement*
 on them, or the selection of some more effectual means, will be
 the result ; — therefore, without further introduction, I beg to sub
 mit to your consideration what I conceive would he serviceable.
     I would have every fire-engine provided with a few sacks of
 ground clay in powder ; the clay to be ground after it is dry and
 then sifted, in order that no large fragments of it may lodge be
 tween the valves, so as to prevent the working of the engine.       I
 doubt not but you will observe, that the greater the quantity7 of
 day and water which passes through the pipes to the fire, so much
 the sooner the fire must be extinguished ; because the clay con
 tained by the water will form a crust, and act like an extinguisher ;
 by which means the flames will not only be prevented from ex
  tending their destructive progress, but may, by a judicious appli
  cation of this clay water, be easily brought under. For ctay being
  uninflammable, wherever it falls in sufficient quantity, it will cus
  off the communication between the fire and air, and thereby ex
  clude the accession of oxygen to support the flame, which will
                                                 '
  consequently go out.                         .
      Alum is also an excellent ingredient to mix with water; be*
  cause it has no tendency to inflame, and will also form an extin
   guishing cap or crust like clay, with which I have no doubt most
   of your readers are well acquainted : but if any of them should
   not, let them throw a piece of alum on any common fire, ami
   they will be convinced of the truth of the observation. There    is,
   however, one objection to the employment of alum, namely, the
   expense and this
          ;          is   likely to keep it out of use, though its effi
   cacy were much greater.
      But the best substance Of any for this purpose,  it is,
                                                            in my opi
   nion, burnt lime, exposed to the atmosphere that         may absorb
                                              ,               moisture,

    288           On extinguishing      of Fires  in Buildings.
   moisture, and thereby fall to powder.            This, after sifting and
   being mixed with water,     when    thrown on fire will be found almost
   instantly to extinguish the flame. Indeed it has come under my
   notice more than once, that water impregnated with only the
   quantity of lime that it is capable of holding in solution, always
   had a very increased effect in extinguishing fire ; for, at a fire
   that recently occurred, it was observed, that if any burning piece
   of wood was extinguished thereby, it would not rekindle. Since
   such was the effect of lime-water, which contains so small a
   quantity of lime, will it not immediately put out flame, when
  the lime is thrown in a larger body with the water? and will not
   each engine be enabled to throw its water a much greater distance,
   as its density will be much increased by the mixture of either of
   the foregoing substances ?
      If the dust of the turnpike roads was collected, and sifted
  from its grosser particles and kept for use, it would be found of
   great benefit ; because, most stones that are used on the roads
  being of a limestone nature, the dust of them when thrown on
  the fire will become lime, and consequently have much the same
  effect.    There is moreover a considerable advantage in the ease
  Viith which it may be procured*.
      To show the utility of mixing something uninflammable with
  the water, I need only mention, that, at a fire at which I once
  assisted, it was observed, that one of the engines operated much
  more powerfully than either of the others; and wherever its
  water came, the flames appeared to be almost instantaneously
  subdued, whilst the other engines often seemed rather to be in
  creasing than diminishing them. Upon inquiry I found that this
  efficient engine was supplied with the waste water that was spilled
 in the street, which was afterwards taken up in buckets, water
 and dirt together, and thrown into this engine.              Is it not there
 fore reasonable to conclude, that the superiority of it was from
 the mud being for the most part uninflammable ?
     Besides making each engine carry a reasonable quantity of
clay, &c. it might be adviseable, that each watch-house or other
convenient places should be provided with a sack or two.                 Were
this done, no fire could possibly take place in any part of a city,
without some clay, &c. being at hand, always in a state fit for
 usef.                                        I am, &c.
    Bristol, Feb. 21, 1818.                                JoHN MOORE.
    * Where lime forms the
                            principal ingredient in the materials employed
for making and repairing the highways ; the road-dust, as suggested by the
author, might answer very well ; but where siliceous ingredients form a
portion of the materials, such dust would grind the pump-work of the en
gines to pieces in a very short time. .Edit. .
    f  Mr. Moore's communication also contained some hints for extinguish-
                                         ,,.„...
                                     .               .  .'  .   ...        ing
                                                                    XLIX.  On

                                               j-.       289   j
                                                                                   -   ,   ..   .
            On the Preparation and Use       Copal Vatnhh of             of
     Vehicle preferable to Oil for the Purposes     the Painter,                           of
     By Mr. Cornelius Varley.
                                          To    Mr. TillocL
Sir, — I     beg, through the medium of your Valuable Magazine^,
to lay before artists the method of preparing pure copal varnish
                                                          .
in spirits of turpentine   without heat.  *,   quite transparent,        It    is
colourless,       durable, protects the eolours, and does not change
in the least.        This     the purest material
                                 is                     have yet founds and
                                                                         I
is  the only vehicle         use to paint with.
                                I
    .Take the cleanest and whitest lumps of copal                    beat them                   ;
small,     and     pick  out  all the impurities.      Pound them to         fine                             a
mass in      a glass or Wedgwood's mortar            then pour      ; colourless                     in
spirits of turpentine to about one-third higher than the copal, and
work up the whole quite fine in half an hour work    ;                 up again                      it
till fine      left too long,
             (if                     will get so tough as not to be rubbed
                                          it
up again)        ; and in an hour work         up again, and once or twice
                                                              it
more in the course of the day.               The next morning            may be                       it
poured     off  into    bottle
                            a   for use    but as    ; thicker  or  thinner
                                                                    it   is   ac
cording to the quantity of turpentine and the heat of the weather,
it should be tried as follows, before bottling            up Dip        palette-
                                                                              it       :                  a
knife in, and dry                    by
                               the fire as quick as you can without burn
                                it
ing  it  ;  and       if,
                      when cold,          found to have left on the knife
                                               it    is                                                             a
fair coat of varnish,               strong enough otherwise, work
                                     it   is                            :      up                              it
3gain,    and    let    stand
                       it      some    time  longer.    After  taking   off  this
first supply, pour on fresh quantity of turpentine, and rub
                                     a                                         up                              it
several times during two or three days; — try                      the palette-        it       by
knife as. before and when strong enough, pour the liquid off into
                       ;
the same bottle^vith the first.              third quantity of spirits might
                                                          A
be added, which would make the remaining copal appear as dry
as erunib of bread; but a much longer time than before would
be required for the solution.
    To paint with this varnish, use powder colours ground quite
fine or else grind them in spirits of turpentine, and add as much
     ;
of the varnish as will bind thern well, Keep them in bottles,
and mix your tints in saucers for use; and as they thicken                                                          by
ing fires in ships but as the idea had, already been anticipated in ourxxist
                       ;
vol. p. 97, to which our readers can turn,    was unnecessary to insert theirt
                                                               it
here. He also suggests that ships might be rendered more buoyant                                                    by
making them air-tight, and forcing in air by means of an air-pump, which
•would elevate them to a higher level in the water, and Consequently might
sometimes save them when they have got upon a bank.
   * The common spirits of turpentine seems to dissolve Copal best but                                         ;
when that- cannot be had colourless,    use the rectified spirits,
                                                      I
     Vol     5
             1
             .       No. 240. April            1 S   1    8.                   T                              drying,

 290      6n the Preparation and Use of Copal Varnish.
 (drying, thin them with pure turpentine.  I purposely make the
 varnish so thin as not to shine when the paint is dry ; but if it
   work too dry, moisten with a little more varnish till right ; and
   if it become too thick so as to work gummy, add powder co
   lour and turpentine till Ttls brought to a proper consistence.
   I keep these saucers of colour clean in a small chest of drawers,
  by which I have a great many in a little compass ; and the co
   lours are continually set for use, as they only require moistening
  in the morning with turpentine.          I do not however always wait
  to soften them in this way, but put fresh colour upon the old, out
  of the bottles.
      The colours work freest, and dry quickest, when they do not
  shine, and will remain exactly as you put them on ; but if there
  is too much varnish, and the canvass is painted frequently over
  in the same day, the sharp touches will spread a little; a fault which
  must be avoided by using no more varnish than just enough to
  shine, and by drying the part more perfectly before painting on it.
  In cold weather, the drying may be effected by the fire, or by hold
 ing a hot iron before the canvass; in cold weather, you must hot ex
 pose the painting to a hot fire directly afterwards, as it would
 melt and run$ but let it dry two or three hours, and then bring
 it to the fire to finish. The picture may be varnished with the
 same varnish made thicker            you wish to be sure of the purity
                                                  (if
 of the materials), and when varnished, dry as soon as convenient
                                                                it
 by gradually approaching the fire, avoiding             heat that would a
 inelt the copal.      After this perfect drying, no dirt or smoke will
 ever stick to the picture       but    ;may be dusted or washed quite
                                                    it
 clean with pure water, and will never change.
     The next varnish' generally employ
                                  I                 made in the following
                                                               is
 manner: Take the sediment of the first varnish or fresh copal
 beat small      cover
                    ;      to about twice its height with turpentine in
                                  it
 which camphor           dissolved, (an ounce to a quart,) cork         up,
                                                                                       it it
                             is
 shake  it  well,  and  put       for a year, at the end
                                       it    by               which    will  of
 be dissolved. The first portion that         dissolved thickens the tur
                                                         is
 pentine, and enables        to dissolve the remainder
                                   it                       but   the tur;        if
pentine      too much diluted, the remainder will never dissolve, so
            is is
that   it    easier to make thick camphor varnish than thin.                                   It
must not, however, be made too thick at first; but when that
which   is  put        thick enough, pour
                        by
                        is                      off for use, and add fresh
                                                          it
camphor     and   turpentine to the remainder, and put           again till  it   by
dissolved, which        will be in the course
                             it                    time. If you want that
                                                              of
Which   is  put         by
                    before       quite dissolved,
                                       it   is         may then be put in
                                                                    it
a saucepan of cold water with the cork loosened, and made to
boil for an hour, stirring        well up two or three times towards
                                            it
the end, and that will finish the dissolution.
 I     paint small pictures on the finest mill-boards glued to deal                    a
                         •   1
                                                                    frame,

                On   the Saltness  of the Atlantic Ocean.         291
frame, and I take care to prevent the larger pictures from swag-
 ging, by not allowing the canvass to be tightened afterwards, but
 cutting the picture off the frame on which it was painted, and
 then pasting it to very tight canvass protected from swagging by
pannels. This mode of preventing cracking is of real advantage ;
for all pictures will imbibe the smoke of London, and become
tinged in proportion to the softness which is had recourse to for
this purpose.
    A third varnish is quickly made by oil of spike-lavender, which
is very good for drawings or prints, but will not do for pictures,
 as it will dissolve the paint underneath and run down while dry
ing.             I remain, sir,      Your most obedient servant, .
42 Newman-street, May 17, 1816.               CORNELIUS VarUBY.
 L. On      the Saltness    of the Atlantic Ocean.      By M. Gay-
                                Li ussac*.
M.L       a'marche, a distinguished officer of marine, collected the
water of the sea at different latitudes during a voyage from Rio
Janeiro to Fiance in the year 1S16, and on his return to Paris
he brought it to me in order to submit it to some experiments.
The water had been take.n from the surface of the sea, and pre
served in glass bottles closed with stop corks, and for the most
part tarred.
    I at first proposed to myself to examine the nature and the
proportions of the saline substances which they contained ; but I
found myself relieved from the necessity of such examination, by
the analysis of the water of the Frith of Forth by Mr. John Mur
ray, who appears to have made it with much care, and from which
it results that this water contains in 100 parts
          Muriate of Soda                                2- ISO
          .            Magnesia                          0-486
          —            Lime..                            0-078
        , Sulphate of Soda                               0-350
   1 contented myself with determining        the specific weight and
quantity of the saline matters of each specimen. The experiments
were made in my laboratory by M. Despretz with all possible
care.     The specific weight was taken, by weighing successively
the same vessel, first empty, then full of distilled water, and after
wards full of sea- water at the constant temperature of 8°.
   The total quantity of saline matters may be determined by
analysis, in the manner adopted by Mr. Murray; but it is more
simple and more exact to determine it by evaporation. This ope
ration is done very conveniently by putting the water in a phial,
             * From the Annahs de Chimie for December 1817.
                                     T 2           ,              and

292            On the Salinas       of the Atlantic Ocean.
and continually agitating it while upon the fire, with the neck in
clined at an angle of about 45°. The residue gives exactly the
weight of the saline matters. It is easy to estimate the quantity
of hydrochloric acid proceeding from the decomposition of a part
of the hydrochlorate of magnesia contained in the sea-water, by
collecting the magnesia which remains, when the residue after
the evaporation is dissolved in water; since the relation in which
these two bodies enter into combination is well known.               The
quantity of magnesia furnished by each residue being too small
to be estimated with precision, all the residues were collected into
one; and after separating the magnesia from the whole mass, it
was divided proportionally to the weight of each residue. As it is
very probable that this base exists in sea-water in the state of chlo
rate of magnesia, the weight of each residue was corrected by sub
tracting from it that of ttie oxygen contained in the magnesia ob
tained, and adding to it the weight of chlorate saturated by the
corresponding quantity of magnesia. The results have been col
lected in the following table.         The water which is designed by
Calais in the column of latitudes was taken up by myself in the
midst of the channel between Dover and Calais.            The saline re
sidues proceed from 100 parts of sea-water.
            Latitude.   Longitude.     Density. Saline Residue
              Calais      - -   . .    1-027S       3-48
           85" North     17° West      1-0290       367,
           31  59'       23 53'        1-0294       3-63
           29    4       25    1        - - - -     3-66
           21    0       28 25         1-0288       3-75
            9 59         19 50         1-0272       3-48
            6    0       19 55          1-0278      3-77
            3    2       21,20         1 0275       3-57
            0    0.      23 0          1-0283       3-67
            b    2   S.  22 36         1-02S9       3-68
            8     1        5  16     . 1:0286       3-70
           12 59         26 56         1-0294       3-76
           15    3       24    8       1-0284       3-57
           17     1      28 4'         1-0291       3-71
           20 21         37    5       1  0297      3-75
           23 55         43    4       1-0293       361
                                       1-0286       3-65
   The densities, in spite of every care being taken, differed fre
quently, and in an irregular manner, from each Other.                The
                                                               *
                                                                 quantity

                    On the Soilness   nf the Atlantic Ocean.          293
   quantity of saline matters presented also slight variations, which
   did not always correspond to the variations of density; but it is
   possible this discordance may have proceeded from the saline
   residues  not being calcined exactly in the same degree.           On
  taking the mean of the densities, and that of the saline residues,
  the former was found to be. 1-0286, and second 3 65.
      If we may be permitted to draw a conclusion from these ex
  periments, the densities prove that at the latitude of Calais and
  of 10° N. the saltness of the sea is almost at its minimum ; that
  it is strongest at 35° and 32' N. lat. ; that it goes on afterwards
  diminishing until near the equator, and that it increases in the
 other hemisphere, where at the latitude of from 1 7Q to 24u it is
  the same as at 35° and 32° N. lat.
      According to the saline residues, the saltness is at its minimum
  at the latitude of Calais, and that of 10° N.     It augments after
  wards, although in an irregular manner ; and appears a little
 stronger in the southern and in the northern hemispheres.            By
  thus comparing the densities with the saline residues, it seems
 that the saltness of the sea is less in the canal of Manche and
 at 10" of latitude N. than any where else; and that it is some
 what greater in the southern than in the northern hemisphere.
  Hut before drawing any general conclusion, it may be proper to
 compare the preceding results with those obtained by other che
 mists or by voyagers.
     According to the recent analvsis of Mr. Murray, the water of
 the Frith of Forth only contains 3'094 of saline matters; but
 this result is certainly too weak, and cannot perhaps be applied
 to waters taken more at large. If it w-ere exact, it mint be con
cluded from it that the saltness of this frith is modified by the
 rivers which fall into it.      Lord Mulgrave, in latitudes further
north of GO, 74, and SO degrees, has found that the water of the
sea taken at a depth of 120 metres contains 3-40, 3-60 .and 3-54
of saline matters. The water collected by Pages in different
parallels from 45° N. to 50° S. contained nearly four centimes
of saline matters. Bergman has found 3-60 in water taken near
tiie Canaries; and MM. Bouillon Lagrange and Vogel 3-60, ami
3-80 in water in the latitude of Dieppe and Bayonne, and 4-lQ
it) the Mediterranean opposite Marseilles,
     It is not surprising that the results obtained by different per
sons should differ, since they may not have employed the same
means of analysis ; but all of them unite in proving that the
water of the ocean contains at least three centimes and a half of
saline matters.      This result agrees also with the average of the
extreme degrees of saltness collected by M. Humboldt.
     It is not easy to decide, whether the degree of saltness varies
with the latitude. The densities of the water collected by M. La-
                                   T 3                           inarche

  294                    On the Practicability
  fnarche do not accord with any general rule.           The density of
  the water at 32 and 35 degrees N. is as strong as that of the
  water of the tropics.' M. Humboldt, whose attention was di
  rected in his celebrated voyage to all the great phenomena of
  nature, has observed, after comparing the results of his experi
  ments with those obtained by other voyagers, <c that the experi
  ments hitherto published do not justify any opinion being en
  tertained that the sea is Salter under the equator than under
  30 and 44 degrees of latitude." — {Relat. Hist! i. 74.)— Ac
  cording to Pages, the saltness of the sea is constant and equal
  at four centimes from 45° N. to 50° S. However, according
  to the experiments of Bladh.on the specific weight of sea water,
  it would appear that the water is Salter towards the tropics than
  even under the equator.      Some similar experiments of Mr. John
  Davy, which have been published in the Philosophical Trans
 actions for 1817, prove that from 30° to 35° on one side as
 well as the other of the equator, the specific weight and conse
  quently the saltness is exactly the same, but that it is a little
 stronger. under the northern than under the southern tropic.
 And lastlv. M. Humboldt, by the use of an excellent aerometer
 constructed by Dollond, thought he could discern that the water
 is less salt between the tropics than from the coasts of Spain to
 Teneriffe.
     From this discordance between the results, which may depend
 on the process of analysis, or on local causes ; from the circum
 stance especially that the results of different voyagers range of
 ten in contrarv directions, we may conclude that the saltness of
the great ocean, if it is not the same every where, presents at least
very slight variations.     But every incertitude which remains on
this subject, will doubtless be removed on the return of M. Frey-
cinet, who is to bring home, in vessels closed with emery, water
taken in a great number of places in the two hemispheres.
    Looking in the mean time to the subject in a theoretic point
of view, it is easy to be convinced, that in general there can be
but little difference between the saltness of the sea at one place
and at another, if we except some local causes, and particularly
the river waters, which may occasion a good deal of variation.
   LI.  On the Practicability   of a direct Passage   over the  North
                                Pole*.
                             -y-f                 Hull, Feb. 27, 1818.
Mr. Hydbographer, — When                the public attention is so ge
nerally directed to the expedition now fitting out to explore the
Arctic regions, it is to be supposed that individuals who take a
              * From the Naval Chronicle for March 1818.
                                                                  lively

                 of a   direct Passage over the Pole.               295
lively interest in the objects it has in view, will estimate, in their
own way, the probabilities, and the obstacles, that appear to
them to weigh for, and against, its success.
    The appearance of an article in the Quarterly Review this
month, on this subject, has led me to consider some of the mat
ters there stated, and to inquire into the solidity of some of the
writer's notions on this interesting topic.       In the first place—
The disappearance of a whole, or a great part of the impenetrable
barrier of ice which had shut up a large portion of the eastern
coast of Old Greenland, seems to be authenticated by persons
entitled to credit; and it maybe, that this "accumulated barrier
of ice, probably by its own weight and magnitude, and the action
of the current together, at length burst its fetters." But at the
same time it may be observed, that, if this barrier possessed the
same strength and compactness as it did during the many hun
dred years it is said to have held its post in defiance of        itf   .it
would have remained there still. We must, therefore, look foe
some other cause to account for a diminution of its strength            ;
and this cause might perhaps be, winters unusually mild, without
frost sufficient to keep its parts so consolidated as heretofore. Ac
counting thus for  a  reduction of its strength, the same current       it
had so iong resisted might separate it.        The removal of this ice
 being
        "  cotemporaneous with the period when the western de
clination of the magnetic needle became stationary," certainly
                                                           is
a " remarkable coincidence."
    That there may be some connexion between this disappearance
of large masses of ice, and the power of magnetic attraction,           is
probable enough, from this coincidence.         Yet all we can gather
is, that the power of magnetic attraction increased with an accu
mulation of ice, and became stationary about the period of its
removal from particular places.        Whether there exists any com
bination of causes — whether the connexion        is  between the ice
and the grand focal point of magnetic attraction, which some
philosophers suppose to be situated in the earth, or whether      it    is
between the ice, and electricity in the atmosphere, or the aurora
borealU, or all these together, can as yet be only matter of mere
conjecture  ;  as are opinions of the cause of the aurora borealis
itself.
    Beccaria conjectures, " that there    is  a constant circulation of
electric fluid from north to south, and that the aurora borealis
may be this matter performing its circulation in such        a  state of
the atmosphere as rendered        visible, or approaching nearer than
                                 it
 usual to the earth." Dr. Halley imagines " that the aurora bo
realis is  produced     by kind of subtle matter freely pervading the
                             a
pores of the earth ;   and which entering near the southern pole,
                                  T   4                          passes

296                    On the Practical 'dily
parses out again with some force into the ether at the same di
stance from the northern.
    Franklin supposes, u the electric fire discharged into the polar
regions from vaporised air raised from the ocean between the
tropics, accounts for the aurora borenlis ; and that it appears
first, where it is first in motion ; namely, in the most northern
part, though the fire reallv proceeds northward."       Father Bos-
covich determined the height of an aurora borealis, and found it
825 miles. Mr. Bergman, from a mean of thirty computations,
made the average height of the aurora lorealis 469 miles ; but
Euler supposes the height to be- 7000 miles; and Marian also
assigns to them a very elevated region.      Thus discordant and
various are the conjectures of philosoohers on this matter.
   At all events, in whatever way the supposed connexion may be
between the removal of the ice and these phenomena, it
                                                          " seems
not unfair to infer, that the departure of the immense mountains
and fields of ice, which for so many centuries have covered the
arctic seas, mav have had some effect in stopping the barrier of
the western declination of the needle."     But we may as fairly
draw the same inference from a similar cause, though probabiy
of much less extent ; and all we can know, till the whole of the
atctic regions are explored,      the departure of perhaps
                                   is,                       avery
small portion only, of u these immense mountains and fields of
ice," which had collected      the vicinity
                              in               Greenland.
                                                of           What
may still remain  inthe arctic seas we are yet to learn ; and con
cerning which, like every thing else where facts and local expe
rience are wanting, our opinions can only be formed on some
theory bu:lt on fixed, and generally received principles.
   The fact, however, of the disappearance of some large moun
tains and fields of ice from part of the arctic regions being ad
mitted, the writer of the article in question then "inquireswhether
any, and what advantages, may arise out of an event, which for
the first time has occurred, at least to so great an extent, during
the last four hundred years    ;"   and among the objects most in
teresting mentions these       1st. The influence which the removal
of " so large
                          :
             a   body of ice may have on our climate."
   On the benefits we should derive from an amelioration of our
climate, there can be but one opinion.         And that our summer
seasons have been colder than usual, in the latter years for in
stance, are from the causes he assigns, few will doubt. But the
effect produced may not continue.          For though the principal
cause of the dullness of our climate, compared with what     it ap
pears to have been centuries ago, may be removed for the pre
sent, yet the grand primary cause which produced the ice, whose
approximation deterioriated our climate,    it   is to be presumed,
 f*   .'•                                                         will

                   f>J
                    a    direct Passage over the Pole.                            297
will continue to operate      and what has happened
                                   ;                         the esta   by
blished general law of nature may happen again.            Therefore,
though  it may be hoped,       certainly would be
                                    it              " unreasonable to
presume" that merely on account of the present accidental re
moval of some portion of ice," our summer climate (and winter
too, when the wind blows from the western quarter,) may hence
forth improve."      Though, no doubt,       will improve,
                                                         it     the ice  if
does not again collect in the places from whence       has lately been
                                                              it
dislodged.    But surely we have more reason to fear         may, be    it
cause it  has done so before, than to presume we shall
                                                              " hence
forth" have no more huge ice-bergs drifting down to the south
ward in the wind's eye of our island, and that therefore our cli
mate may improve.        For, whilst the universe continues to be
governed       the unerring and unalterable general laws of God,
              by
mountains and fields of ice will doubtless continue to be formed
 in the polar regions of the north      and whenever the winters are
                                             ;
successively  severe  there, they  must  accumulate    and, no doubt,
                                                              ;
find their way to the southward as they have done.
    The 2d object      " the opportunity which the local disappear
                         is
 ance of the ice affords of inquiring into the fate of the long. lost
 eolony, on the eastern coast of Old Greeuland."          must be ad
                                                                   It
 mitted to be favourable for this object, so highly interesting to
humanity and science, as well as to curiosity; and should the east
 coast of Greenland continue to be free from ice, as             said toit   is
 have been last year,         probable
                              it          may be attained.
                                                 it it
                                   is
                          "
     The 3d object, viz. the facility     offers of correcting the very
 defective geography of the arctic regions in our western hemi
 sphere.     Of attempting the circumnavigation of Greenland.                      A
 direct passage over the pole. And the more circuitous one along
the northern coast of America into the Pacific." Certainly any
                                                                  "
event that tends to encourage the attempt to amend the very de
 fective geography of the Arctic regions, more especially on the
 side of America, may be hailed as an important occurrence." But
 let us see whether, what may be only         local and very partial re
                                                         a
 moval of ice, collected in the vicinity of Greenland,         likely to is
 facilitate more than an examination of its eastern coast, or,, at
  most, its circumnavigation, and, perhaps, of exploring the coast
  of America some distance to the north-west of Cumberland
  Island,if    not to its north-eastern extremity.            very true,
                                                                   It   is
  that   " several circumstances may be adduced in support of the
  opinion, that Greenland       either an island, or an archipelago of
                                        is
  isiands;"   and none stronger than, the perpetual current stated
  to set down " to the southward, along the eastern coast of Ame
  rica, and the western shores of Greenland."
  .   But this current, though affording " a strong presumption"
  that between Davis's Strait and the great polar basin there                       is
                                                                                  some

298                       On the Practicability
some communication        ;yet surely it does not authorize us to pre--
 sirine that there is" an uninterrupted       communication." On the
 contrarv, it seems probable, that there may be islands or shoals
 between the north-west coast of Greenland and the north-east
 coast of America, among which smaller masses of ice, trees, and
 whales too, as well as the current, may find a passage down
 Davis's Strait from the polar basin ; but which may be, and pro- .
 bably are, so blocked up generally by mountains and large fields
 of ice, as to present an impassable barrier for ships.
     On account of the current, it is certainly fair to presume, that
 the northern part of Davis's Strait is misnamed in the charts as
 " a bay ;" for if it were one, it certainly " would be very difficult
 to explain, how a current that runs to the southward perpetually,
 with a velocity of four and sometimes of five miles an hour, could
                                  "
 originate in the bottom of it !        If
                                       there is an uninterrupted com
 munication, that   is,  if there no land, no shoals in the whole
                                   is
 space between Greenland and America,             appears very probable
                                                     it
 that greater quantities of ice would pass through that space with
 a current of such velocity   ;   and less find its way round Green
 land. But we must endeavour, first, to decide in our own minds,-
 as well as we can, how and where the ice in the polar regions        is
 formed.     In what direction  it    probably impelled
                                       is                      by
                                                               the winds
 and currents. How these winds probably prevail in summer, and
 winter, and how the current probably sets underneath, as well as
 at the surface of the water. For, notwithstanding the writer of
 the article
           I     am examining, apprehends          will be " found, that
                                                      it
 the currents of the ocean, where no land intervenes, are entirely
superficial;"     and though he says, "        would be difficult to ex
                                                it
plain the perpetual egress of current, from the polar basin into
                                  a
 the Atlantic, without admitting         supply through the only re
                                            a
 maining opening (Behring's       Strait,)  into that basin, to answer
the demand of the current,"     I   yet firmly believe there must be  a
continual under flow of water in the ocean, as well as superficial
currents. Otherwise, that "universal motion of the great deep,"
which he, and all must allow, cannot be satisfactorily accounted
for.    How then, it   may be asked, are these lower currents to be
accounted for? The question       ismuch easier to be put, than solved
to   the satisfaction of  others.    But     will endeavour to explain
                                                I
the ideasI     have on the subject as well as       can
                                                      I   and that, too,
                                                           ;
with all the diffidence of one who knows that, though conjectures
may, perhaps, be well-founded, their truth depends on experi
ment.
    The conjecturesI    venture to offer, are founded, however, on
the known and acknowledged properties of heat and cold. Heat
is  known to be the general cause of the expansion of air, and cold
the cause of its compression, Heat rarefies, and cold condenses.
                                                                    The

                     of a   direct Passage over the Pole.              299
     The influence of    the sun, in rarefying the atmosphere to the-
     greatest degree, between the tropics, together with the earths-
     rotation on its axis from west to east, would produce a constant
       wind from east to west, all round theglobe, if no land intervened;
     because,     the points of greatest rarefaction being successively west
      ward ; and those eastward of each other, parting successively, as
      the sun sets in their horizons, with part of the heat received in
      his passage over them, the motion of the atmosphere nearest the
      surface of the water, must necessarily be from east to west; fol
      lowing the apparent motion of the sun. We find this proved by
      fact, on those portions of the globe where the general law is not
      obstructed by causes of an opposite nature, arising from terrene
      influence; viz. in the great Pacific ocean, between America
      and the coast of New Holland, and also in the open sea, be-
•     tween Africa and America. The central medium line of greatest
      rarefaction, is the equator ; but, according to the sun's declina
      tion, north or south, it will be more to the northward or south
      ward. i The air, thus rarefied in the lower regions of the atmo
     sphere surrounding the earth, and comprised within the limits of
      the sun's path between the tropics, must be continually ascend
      ing into the higher, and thence, north of the equator, advancing
      towards the north pole; and south of the line, towards the south
      pole, till, somewhere in its passage, it acquires that degree of con- .
      densation by cold, which compels it again to return in the lower
      strata, to the point of greatest rarefaction, to undergo the same
     process. This seems to be the grand general law of nature's ope
     ration upon the atmosphere; that by " universal motion, it may
     be preserved in a state of purity." Let us now inquire, whether
     this same law is not equally applicable to that universal motion
     of the great deep which must be equally necessary to its purity,
     and therefore we certainly may presume, does take place on some
     general principle.       We indeed already know, that the waters of
     the ocean in the Pacific, and in the Atlantic between the tropics
     where least obstructed by land, move at and near the surface, in
     a similar direction, nearly and generally, to that of the wind.
     When obstructed by lands, they take the various turnings and
     windings, which the forms and trendiugs of those lands, and
     other local causes, impose on them.
         If it be allowed, that the influence of " the sun, in rarefying
     the atmosphere to the greatest degree between the tropics, to
    gether with the earth's rotation on its axis from west to east,
     would produce   (if   no land intervened)a     constant wind from east
    to west," may we not suppose,       if      the same causes operate si
    milarly, but proportionally, on the waters of the ocean, that
    they must produce       a   similar effect, and oblige them to take a
    like direction? That        is from east to west, at and near the sur

300                                    On the Fracllcaii'Utij
face all   round the globe, within the limits of the sun's declina
 tion.   If this general effect be admitted, then, on the ground it
rests, we may presume that, if there was* passage through the
isthmus of Darien for the immense body of water which con
tinually flows from east to west, into the Caribbean sea and gulf
of Mexico, what is called the gulf-stream would no longer exist.
And as it seems probable, that the surface of the water must be
somewhat higher on the eastern si(>e of America, thereabouts,
 than on the other, owing to the land's obstruction to the natural
 course of the great equinoctial current, and the necessity imposed
 on     to find vent through the gulf of Florida into the Atlantic,
      it,
it   isnot unreasonable to conclude, that,            this accumulation of
                                                            if
 water   was   at  liberty   to  flow  througb  the  continent    of America
 into the Pacific Ocean, the surface of the sea          on   this side would
 be lower than         now
                         it        and parts of land, now under water,
                                       is;
 would be exposed to view.            This effect would however be in
jurious to commerce with the West Indies, for                   would render
                                                                     it
 the homeward-bound passage more difficult.                Instead of a con
 stant weather current to assist ships,                pretty certain there
                                                         it     is
 would be      lee one from the N.E. along the east coast of Florida,
                a
 and its influence would most probably be felt far up to the N.E.
 froih'whence the current of colder water would flow nearer the
 surface than       now can, covered superficially as            may be sup
                     by it
                                                                     it
posed to be          the warmer gulf-stream.            The high degree of
temperature which this great body of water acquires uy the sun's
 constant action upon                   it,
                                   being slowly reduced during its pro
pelled progress      to the   N.E.,         probable that
                                              it   is           may advance
even beyond the Banks of Newfoundland before                         it it
                                                                   reduced tot
                                                                             is
 the colder temperature of the fluid below it, which must be flow
ing from the northern regions of condensation towards the points
of greatest rarefaction and evaporation between the tropics, to
supply the place of that which the heat                   is,
                                                   as constantly, rarefying
 and evaporating        and ?o sending back in the upper strata of the
                              ;
atmosphere to the colder regions.              The gulf-stream thus pro
pelled       lateral pressure up towards the Banks of Newfound-
               by                                                                          >
land,     seldom found to affect
          is                               ship beyond those banks
                                                   a                       at     ;
the same time,            possible, that some of
                          it   is                      may advance further
                                                                it
to the northward, before that reduction              effected in its tempe
                                                           is
rature which gives              tendency
                                  it   a    to the  southward       for many ;
articles, the produce of tropical' climes, and some kuown to have
been from the West Indies, have been cast ashore on the coast
of Europe. Some of these places being to the N.E. of New
foundland,           difficult to believe these articles could have been
                    it   is
driven thither by the winds and the swell of the sea only. For,
these prevailing as much from N.W. as S.W. would give them
about an east direction            and   5they were immersed sufficiently
                                                if
                                                                                      tQ

                       of   a direct Passage over the            Pole.                  301
to Feel the force of             the great uvder       flow of cold fluid from the
north, which brings  the ice bergs down to 39° or 40° of latitude,
they would move in an east southerly direction.   It seems there
fore reasonable to suppose, that there may still be the remains
of a northerly movement of water, at and very near the surface,
to   cause "bodies floating there, to make course, as some have done,
to the north even of E.N.E. from Newfoundland.                      The great
body     of the  gulf-stream is, however,        much   reduced   in  tempera
ture about the Banks of Newfoundland ; and in proportion a3 it
feels the cold of the great under-flow from the north, it is turned
gradually to the eastward and southward past the Western Islands.
Whether any part of it reaches the coasts of England, France,
Portugal Or Spain, is a point much disputed.                    It is possible,
however, that it may, diverging as it appears to do to the east*
 ward and southward, some of the fluid that composed it may find
its way to the northward of Cape Finisterre, and add something
to the great body of water which the western swell heaves into
 the Bay of Biscay; and proceeding to the northward along the
 coast of France, sets over from Ushant beyond Cape Clear ; till
 meeting in that quarter with a fluid below, of a colder degree
 than its own, perhaps gradually joins the polar stream to the
 southward according to its depth and temperature.                 Some of the
 waters of the gulf stream it is possible (though hardly that), may
 assist in supplying the water expended by evaporation in the Me-
 diterranean, whose surface, therefore, it is presumed, must be
 lower than that of the Atlantic, as the constant current setting
  into it,  seems to prove.           Some philosophers, indeed, suppose
  that the quantity of water continually admitted through the Gut
  of Gibraltar into the Mediterranean,               greater than can be ex->-
                                                            is
  pended     by  evaporation         and
                                       ;  that  therefore,   there . must be a
  counter current setting out underneath. . To establish this opi
  nion, it   seems necessary first to prove that the temperature of
  the Mediterranean              lower generally than that of the Atlantic
                                 is
  which flows into into it. . For,               if higher, (as
                                                      it   is        more pro-is              .
  bable,) the surplus            there was any, and allowing their surfaces
                                 (if
  to be equal) would, presume, run out at the surface, and the sup-
                             I
  pry be received in underneath which        ;       contrary to fact — though
                                                           is
I    have supposed           barely possible,
                            it                  that  some of the gulf stream
   may cross    the    Atlantic,       1no means say that
                                            by                     so.   On the
                                                                         it   is
   contrary, it   is little felt     ships far to the eastward of the Azores
                                       by                                                     ;
   but in the vicinity of those islands, the S.E. portion of gradually             it
   turns to the southward, and as             advances in that direction, soon
                                                 it
   feeling the impulse again of the grand equinoctial current,                                i«i
   compelled to partake of its western motion.                 Thus forming a
   sort of circular eddy, which inaj be comprised between thclatU
                  '"'
                                                                            tude

802                          On the Practicability
 tude of about 18* or 19° north, and the parallel of the Western
 Islands ; and from about the longitude of 29° to 43° west; within
 which limits the gulf Weed is found floating on the surface, where
 I suppose it originates, lives its appointed time, and decays like
 any other vegetable production ; and I believe it is rarely or never
 met with beyond these limits.
     Though I have admitted the lore possilility that some of the
gulf stream may enter the strait of Gibraltar, I cannot agree with
 the writer of the article in the Quarterly Review, when he says
 (speaking of the gulf stream)
                                     " that it is of sufficient force and
 quantity to make its influence be felt in the distant strait of Gi
 braltar."    Thus implying       (if understand him right) that this
"
                                      I
    force and quantity," of the gulf stream, are the primary causes
of the constant current into the strait. On the contrary, think
 ing as do that the causes of this constant flow of water into the
         I
 Mediterranean,     are of    a purely local nature, connected exclu
 sively  with  that   sea;    Itherefore think     most probable, that
                                                    it
if  the great equinoctial current flowed (as         Ipresume    itwould,
 were there   a sufficient passage,) through the continent       of Ame
 rica into the Pacific, and consequently annihilated the present
 gulf stream, there would be the very same constant flow of water
 into the Mediterranean that there         now, as long as the sun's
                                           is
 power continued, and the localities exclusively belonging to that
sea remained the same.           In short,     am of opinion that the
                                                I
waters of the Atlantic (approximate to the strait of Gibraltar),
feel the influence of purely Mediterranean            causes; and that
neither the "force" nor "quantity" of the gulf stream has
any effect whatever in causing the current that runs into the
Mediterranean.      It   iswell known      by
                                            experience, that this cur
rent     strongest with easterly gales in the hottest weather, with.
         is
wind at the same time, and          diminished during the prevalence
                                   is is
of the westerly winds and;         weaker in winter generally than in
summer.      But to return.— The winds, and surface currents in the
PacificOcean, are influenced generally in similar way
                                                a               by
                                                                 the sun's.
power as those between Africa and America, making however
due allowance for the difference of the formation and positions
of intervening lands, for these obstruct the uniform general ten
dency of the winds and currents from east to west           :   therefore,
from the east coast of New Holland, to the east coast of Africa,
and within the limits of the sun's declination, the winds and cur
rents become periodical and changeable, according to his place.
But  it would be" leading us too far but of the way, to attempt to
trace the currents      iuthe Indian seas, influenced as they are so
Tariously   and  oppositely, in their direction and velocity, at dif
ferent seasons,    by  the monsoons, and the bodies of land within
     .                                                                their

                   of a     direct Passage over the Pole.            303
their limits.     Suffice it to say, what more particularly applies to
 the Nosth Pacific, and will lead us again to the Arctic regions.
     Having said that the air is rarefied and raised in the atmo
 sphere, and that the greatest degree of evaporation is effected
 between the west coast of Africa and the east coast of America;
 and that north of the line, the fluid is so returned towards the
 North Pole, and being condensed somewhere in its passage by
 cold, it perhaps supplies with water some of the rivers which dis
 charge into the seas of the temperate zone, or into the polar
 ocean ; and whether, falling in rain, hail, or snow upon the earth
 or not, it ultimately finds its way into the ocean ; and according
 to the temperature proportionate to its depth, the water takes a
 direction towards the regions of equatorial heat, is again raised
 by. that heat to the surface, and again evaporated.         For experi
 ments in the ocean have proved, that when the temperature of
 the atmosphere exceeds that of the surface of the sea, the super
 ficial water is generally warmer than that at certain depths be-
 neath
          it,
         (I      say generally, because in soundings, and confined
 waters, local causes effect many exceptions to this general rule),
 and in all probability, the greater the depth the colder the fluid in
 that case.    And as we know, that when the air (or water) re
 ceives an increase of heat, its parts will be put in motion towards
 that heat,   it follows that the colder water throughout its whole
 depth, must have tendency to flow towards the point of greatest
                        a
 heat;   and be continually Tising towards the surface      in the equa
 torial regions.     This probably     the routine of the general move
                                      is
 ment of the atmosphere, and the waters of the ocean, between
 Europe, Africa, and America, from the Arctic regions to the
 equator ;   and   it seems no less probable, that      the Pacific, they
                                                       in
 are subject to the same general laws.          For there also the great
 equatorial current        in constant motion to the westward, and
                          is
 like the gulf stream, and from causes too in some points similar,
it  gradually turns to the northward, when       itapproaches the lands
to the northward of New Guinea, and the Philippine Islands            ;
and being perhaps at the same time influenced          bycurrents setting
in a different direction, more particularly during the prevalence
of the S.W. monsoon in the India and China seas.
     Near the coast of Japan, the current has been found to get
N.E.     byN. at the rate of five knots an hour. At eighteen leagues
distance, about three knots in the same direction, but at greatera
distance from the land,         inclined more to the eastward
                               it                                ; and at
sixty leagues from the land,        itset E.N.E. three miles an hour,
then (like the gulf stream), inclining gradually to 'the southward; .
so that at the distance of 120 leagues from the coast of Nipon, its
direction wasS.E.and its rate not more than knot an hour. From
                                                   a
this current setting generally to the N.E. along thccoast of Japan
                                                                 '
                                                                    more

 304             . ..    On the  Practkabililij
more or less strong, probably, according to the season of the
year, it appears that the motion of the air and waters between
 the west coast of America, and the coast of New Holland, and all
 the lauds to the northward towards Behring's strait, is similar
 to that north of the line, between Africa, Europe, and America.
 It is therefore presumable, that though a superficial current may
run into Behring's strait, there must also be one running out of
 it underneath, if the principles this theory rests on, are correct.
     The writer of the article I am examining is of opinion, that
"   the constant circular motion, and interchange of waters between
 the Pacific and the Atlantic," must be by Behring's strait, other
 wise " it would be difficult to explain the perpetual egress of a
current from the polar basin into the Atlantic, without admitting
 a supply through the only remaining opening into that basin to
answer the demand of the current."
     He considers the principal object to a free communication be
tween the Pacific and the Polar basin, to arise from " Capt.Cook
having found little or no current to the northward of Behring's
strait ;" and answers that objection at once, by instancing " the
small current perceptible in a milldam, though the waters below
may be rushing out with the greatest violence under the flood
gate;" meaning, if 1 do not mistake him, that though little or no
current was found at the surface, there was one below " rushing
 (in) with the greatest violence" from the Atlantic to the Polar
 basin.
     I admit the probability of a surface current into the strait, for the
Teasons already given, and believe there may be one, because it is
mentioned thus in Cook's voyage : — " We were now convinced
that we had been under the influence of a strong current setting
to the north, that had caused an error in our latitude at noon of
twenty miles.       In passing this strait last year, we experienced
the same effect. On the 12th of July, when within the strait,
in latitude 69' 37', and half-way between the.two continents, the
current was found to set N.W. at the rate of one knot."
     This proves there was a surface current, though a small one,
both at the entrance, and to the north of the strait. — But what
have we to found the supposition on, that the waters may be
    rushing out," — that is — in, with the greatest " violence under
the floodgate," which is compared to " the impenetrable barrier
of ice which stopped the progress of Cook's successors ?" — The
author of the article in question supposes, that " if the Polar
basin should prove to be free from land about the Pole, it wiH
also be free of ice," and that this may be the case, is not inir
probable, in the summer season ; not however because of the
non-existence of land, but for other reasons which shall be ex
plained by and by.        He also supposes that " the barrier of ice
                                                                    which

                     t>fa direct Passage over the Pole.                   303
    *vhich stopped the progress of Cook's
                                              successors," was moveable,
    er no where touched the bottom.                             "
                                                                              .
       The writer of Cook's voyage was of the same
                                                            opinion about
    the ice nearest the ship, though it rested
                                                     on a foundation that
    perhaps might not equally apply to the largest masses of
                                                                           ice
    further to the northward, and not seen.         His words are — " We
    had twice traversed the sea in lines
                                             nearly parallel with the run
    we had just made ; and in the first of
                                                 those traverses we were
    not able to penetrate so far north
                                            by eight or ten leagues as in.
    the second ; and that in the last we had
                                                  again found an united
    body of ice, generally about five leagues to the southward
                                                                       of its
    position in the preceding run. — As this proves, that the
                                                                       large
   .compact fields of ice which we saw were moveable or
                                                             diminishing;
   at the same time, it does not leave
                                           any well-founded expectation
   of advancing much further, in the most favourable
                                                            season."
      Though this proves that the floating ice seen, shifted its posi
   tion, both to the northward and to the southward, but
                                                                    chiefly
                                        proved — Yet, it does not prove
   the latter, as will lie seen further
   that the larger masses to the northward, which
                                                        they did not see,
   might not be immoveable, by grounding at the bottom
   water became shoaler in that direction, as our
                                                                  ;  if  the
                                                          navigators ap
   peared to find it was, as far as they advanced. — Now
                                                                    should
  there have been any such immoveable masses of ice to
                                                               the north
  ward, it would in some degree account
                                                why the current, which
  the writer in the Review
                                supposes to set with such    "  violence "
  from the Atlantic, should not have carried the ice
                                                            away with it
                                     may he none. — But, if the whole
  towards the pole, where there
 of this ice was moveable, it proves, that whether there was a small
 current setting to the northward, or not, and whether at the sur
 face, and underneath, or both, there must have been a much
 stronger current from the northward, or something else, which
 still more powerfully impelled the ice to the southward in de
 fiance of the other, as well as of the wind, which
                                                        appears to have
 been generally from the S.W. when
                                         strongest. It is said in Cook's
voyage, " it may be observed, that in the year 1778 we did not
 meet with the ice till we advanced to the latitude of
                                                            70 ', on Au
gust 17th, and that then, we found it in compact bodies, extend
ing as far as the eye could reach, and of which, a part or the
whole was moveable ; since ly its
                                          drifting down upon us, we
narrowly escaped being hemmed in between it and the land. On
the Asiatic side, they encountered
                                          large extensive fields of ice,
and were sure to meet with it about the latitude of 70° quite across,
whenever they attempted to stand to the northward. On the 26th
of August, they were obstructed by it in
                                               69°| in such quantities,
as made it impossible to pass either to the north or west. In the
eecond attempt they could do little more, for
                                                       they were never
    Vol.51. Np.240.     JpriimS.                  U                   able

S06                  On the first Principles of Music.
able to appron^Vi the continent of Asia higher than 67a, nor that
^f America in any part, excepting a few leagues between the lati
tude of 68° and 68° 20' N. — But in the last attempt, they were
obstructed by ice three degrees further to the southward, and
their endeavours to push further to the northward, were princi-
cipaily confined to the mid space between the two coasts."
     Now all this does not seem to favour the supposition of a cur
rent " rushing in" from the Pacific through Behring's strait, with
such velocity as it may be fairly supposed a body of water would
 have, of sufficient quantity to supply the southerly current,
                                                                            " set
 ting perpetually     into   the  Atlantic  on  both   sides of   Greenland,   not
 only when the      ice  is  melting,   but  when    the  sea' is  freezing."
     Indeed, if we do but consider for a moment, the quantity of
 water that may be supposed to flow through so extensive a space
 as Davis's Strait,
                        "   with a velocity of four, and sometimes of five
 miles an hour," and then add to that the amazing quantity set
 ting as constantly to the southward in the still greater space to
 the eastward of Greenland and Spitzbergen, it does certainly ap
 pear to be improbable, nay impossible, that a current of at least
equal, or even of double velocity, and occupying the full extent
 of the breadth and depth of Behring's Strait, would be at all ade
 quate to answer the demand ; much less so trifling a current as
 we are warranted by facts to believe there is. For in Cook's voy
 age, the remarks on this matter are thus summed up :
                                                                       " We again
 ^ried the currents, and found them unequal, but never exceeding
 one mile an hour. By comparing the reckoning with the obser
 vations, we also found the currents to set different ways, yet more
 from the S.W. than any other quarter. But whatever the direc
 tion might be, their effect was so trifling, that no conclusion re
 specting the existence of a passage to the northward could be
 clraWn from them."            It is presumed, that all the currents here
  spoken of were superficial.           But even admitting they extended
  quite across the strait, and flowed the same way throughout,its
 whole depth ; still it seems quite beyond the bounds of possibi
  lity, that the quantity of water so admitted, and with a rate of
 flow so " trifling," could be sufficient for the supply of the cur
  rents constantly setting to the southward, through the other two
 openings into the Atlantic.
                                                         < .      •  "
                                  [To be continued.}
  LI I . On the first  Principles     of Music.      By A Correspondent.
                                  To  Mr.   Tilloch.
  Sir, — Every         lover of musie must derive great pleasure from
    ursuing the chain of reasoning elicited by your very ingenious
                                                                    correspondent

                     On the first Principles of Miisic.             307
  Correspondent H. Upington, Esq.; and I feel anxious to apprize
   that gentleman, as well as your musical readers, that a very
   plain and apparently correct illustration of his principles has made
  its appearance some time ago in a little publication called " The
 'Piano- Forte' Pocket Companion," which professes to investi
  gate the science and practice of music, not by drawing rules for
  vocal melody from the mathematical measures of the monochord,
  or the mere artificial arrangement of intervals as expressed by a
  keyed instrument, but by investigating the laws of melody, and
  even harmony, from plain and simple facts connected with the
  voice, the ear, and the mind, seeking in them for theirs* prin
  ciples of music, finding a counterpart of these principles in the
  monochord and other sonorous bodies, and applying them to
  artificial imitative instruments.
     Mr. Upington, at page 40 of your Magazine for January last,
  observes    that, what the nature or manner of transmission of
  those particles may be, which, after being thrown off by the vi
  bratingbody, arrive at the ear, has not been hitherto discovered;
  — and yet that our organ of perception has been gifted by the
  Creator with the faculty of comparing, through the medium of
  the ear, the relative magnitude or number, or perhaps the pe
  culiar arrangement, of these particles, equally as the proportions
  of a picture through the medium of the eye, appears too reason
  able to dispute.
     Most certainly; and Mr. Upington's difficulty is precisely that
 which has hitherto puzzled all writers on music. But that diffi
 culty is done away by the little work alluded to ; and a theory
 offered, which, if it is correct, bids fair toexplain every musical
 difficulty that has yet appeared in the science.
     Much light seems likely also to burst upon the science from a
 radical distinction drawn betweeu the major and minor; the
 one being stated to be naturally an ascending, and the other a
 descending octave — a distinction which at once explains why the
 artificial ascending diatonic minor octave requires flats and
 sharps which are rejected in descent.
     This distinction also seems capable of explaining many of the
 points noticed by Mr. Upington ; whilst others, especially in re-
•gard to the intervals both in melody and harmony, are demon
 strated to have their origin in the musical conformation of man
 himself, and not in the artificial arrangement of the key-board.
                                                               Unus.
                                                          LIH.  Notices

                              t   308   }
              LI II.    Notices respecting New Books.
An Essay on the Principles and Construction of Militarf
  Bridges, and the Passage of Rivers in Military Operations-
  By Sir Howard Douglas, Bart. Inspector-General of the
  Royal Military College at Farnham.
This   is a work of very considerable importance to engineers-.
The author informs us, that it was written several years ago, for
the use of the senior department of the college over which he
presides; and upon his embarkation for foreign service in 1S0S,
it being left in one of the offices, to which it was sent, accompa
nied by a proposal for extending its utility, it became mislaid,
and was never afterwards recovered. Anxious to prevent its meet
ing the public eye hereafter, without reference to the' purpose for
which it was designed, the author has now published     it,with many
additions derived from his own active services since that period.
    The long protracted, and strongly contested war which we
 have lately carried on, has given our officers great experience in
 all military operations; and the present work may be considered
 as the result of much attention to the practical part of the sub
ject. Its utility  is  not wholly confined to the hostile art; many
 parts ofit   being equally applicable to agriculture, and the con
 veniences of rural life and we should hail the appearance of
                          :
 many other treatises of a similar nature from the same source,
 possessing the result of an equal quantity of experience.
     The continual motion of armies, and the frequent necessity
-of crossing rivers of various sizes on short notices, render ready
                                                              a
 knowledge of this art of the utmost importance to those who di
 rect their movements.      The safety of the troops, or the success
 of an expedition, most commonly depends on the celerity with
 which bridges can be made,       by means of such materials as the
 country affords.     There are many instances on record of whole
 armies being destroyed, and large tracts of country desolated, for
 want of immediate communications across rivers,. The advantages,
 therefore, of a   thorough acquaintance with the nature of those
 materials which are generally employed, and the best way of com
  bining and using them, to engineers, and indeed to soldiers in ge
 neral, cannot but be evident.      To inform young officers who are
 unacquainted with the construction of military bridges, and to re
 fresh the memory of those who have previously learned and for
 gotten, is   the object of this publication:   and'
                                                   it   cannot but be
  pleasing to the country, to observe the author thus usefully occu
  pied in those researches which so immediately concern the service
 jor which the young gentlemen under his care are destined; whilst
  the influence which his rank commands, will tend strongly to in*
                                                                 due*

                        Notices respecting New Books.                309
  duce them to follow his example, and store their minds with in
  formation, that some day may be of the greatest consequence to
  the interest of their country.
       The number of different ways in which bridges may be made
  is very great, and the materials of which they may be formed very
  numerous : therefore, by thus collecting together into one volume
  so many resources, and arranging them in succession under vari
  ous heads, the authoi" appears to have adapted them for almost
  all the cases and all the situations that can occur in the usual
  march of an army. Its portable size, and the facility with which
  it may be referred to when occasion demands, must render it of
  service to those who are employed in defending the cause of their
  country. All the best writers on the art of war, both among the
  ancients and the moderns, have been searched for hints with which
  to enrich it ; and some useful matter respecting the mathematical
  principles of hvdrostatics, and the flowing of water, as well as the
  theory of floating bodies in general, has been collected from the
  most able writers. These auxiliaries, joined to the author's own
  knowledge, derived from long and active service on the contiuent,
  render the work valuable, and well-worthy the attention of all
  those who have occasion to build these useful means of commu
   nication, whether for the purposes of war or peace.
       It is divided into seven sections : The first treats on the prin
   ciples and effects of the motion of water in rivers ; on the figure
   of their beds ; and on the formation and nature of their sinuo
  sities.     It contains likewise the explanations and theorems that
  are necessary for the further prosecution of the subject, extracted,
  from the able writings of Gulielmini, du Buat, and Bossut.           It.
   concludes with some useful remarks respecting the choice of
  places, and the best direction to take in fording rivers.
       The second section contains the dimensions and weight of pon
   toons, accompanied by problems respecting the depth to which
   they sink with a given weight, and the weight corresponding to
   given immersions; also a table, showing these at sight. He then
   gives the practical mode of forming pontoon bridges, and some
   important hints, concerning the precautions necessary to betaken
   to prevent their being injured by any thing floating down the
    stream, by accident, or by design from the enemy. The whole
    is illustrated by real examples, collected from military meniojrs,
    or the result of the author's own experience.
        Section the third contains the mode of making bridges, either
-   of boats collected on the rivers, near the seat of war, or of port
    able bateaux, made expressly for the purpose; together with in*
    istances of the use of light bateaux and row-boats in the passage
    of the Limat and the Linth in 1799, and of the Rhine in 1800.
        The fourth Section contains the theory and practice of flying
                                      U 3                        bridges,

 310                   Notices respecting New Books.
  bridges with about twenty pages of good practical observations
  on forcing the passage of rivers.
     The fifth section contains the method of making bridges on
  rafts of timber, on casks, on air-tight cases, and on inflated skins.
  The different chapters are interspersed with a variety of theorems
  and details, of considerable use in practice.
     The sixth section describes the construction of carriage-bridges
  and rope-bridges. In this is given Colonel Sturgeon's celebrated
  rope-bridge across the broken arch of the bridge of Alcantara,
  which appears to have been a very complete one..
      The last or seventh section contains the construction of bridges
  on trestles; on piles; on trusses, and other principles of carpen
  try. Among the latter, is an account of a wooden arch of 250
  feet span, across Portsmouth-river in North America, which may
  serve as a good pattern, when the beams that can be obtained in
  the country are short, or when portable pieces of no great length
  are carried with the army. It appears rather too complicated for
  hasty military purposes; but may be advantageously applied as a
  permanent bridge over a river of no great width.        Its construc
  tion affords good hints to buijders in general. The chapter con
  cludes with practical modes of passing small rivers by felling trees
  across them in such directions, that they may combine with each
   other in forming a communication.
      A tolerably copious index is subjoined ; and the plates, which
   are thirteen in number, are well engraved, and illustrative.
      To an experienced engineer,manyother expedients and methods
   will occur, besides those which he meets with on perusing this little
   work ; but, probably, the author thought with good reason, that
   they would have increased the size beyond portability, and the ex-:
   pense beyond the reach of general purchasers. The plan and ex
   ecution of the book is however good, and may be easily improved
   and extended, if the public should require other editions, of which
  there is little doubt when it becomes sufficiently known.
   Chemical Amusement, comprising a Series of curious and in
      structive Experiments in Chemistry, which are easily per
     formed and unattended by Danger; the third Edition with
      Plates, and considerably enlarged.       By Fredrick Accum,
      Operative Chemist, Lecturer on Practical Chemistry, on
      Mineralogy, M.R.I.A.F.L.S.M.A.S.R.S.A.Berlin, &c,
      This work, of which a third edition has appeared, has been
   Written with a view to blend chemical science with rational
   amusement. To the student it may serve as a very useful manual
   for performing a variety of curious and instructive experiments,
   Well calculated for illustrating at a cheap rate, and in a pleasing
j fcrcanuer, the most striking facts the science of
                                                      chemistry has %a
                                                                   offer.

                                Royal Society.                          311
 offer.    The treatise is written in a concise and perspicuous man
  ner.    But as the knowledge of mere facts does not constitute a
 science, the author has added his rationale to each individual
 experiment, so as to interest the mind, and to enable the young
 chemist to contemplate the phenomena with advantage, and their
 relation and consequence.           All the experiments are well se
 lected, and well calculated to unfold the wonderful changes which
 various bodies are susceptible of in their mutual action upon each
.Other. The following experiments, among many others, cannot
 fail to diffuse mirth and surprise through a friendly circle unac
 quainted with chemical science.            To cause water to boil by ihe
 application of   cold,   and  to cause  it to boil by the application of
 heat, p.   1. — To set   a  combustible body on fire by the contact of
 cold water, p. 14. — Heat- and cold produced by the same body
 at the same time and at the same temperature , p. 29. — Three,
 metals, when brought into contact with each other, take fire
 spontaneously, p. 46. — Illustration of the art of calico printing,
 p. 253. — Of soap boiling, p. 260. — Of bleaching, 262, &c.
 The plates of the work are executed with great neatness and
 fidelity; they exhibit the most essential chemical apparatus for
 carrying on experiments in the small way ; and the whole of the,
 work is singularly well adapted to answer the purpose for which
 it is intended, namely ; to blend chemical science with rational
  amusement.
    Whittle and Laurie have announced the publication, in two
 parts, of a general description of, and directions for, the coasts of
 Brazil, from Maranham in the north, to Rio de Janeiro and
 Santos in the south ; accompanied with three large and elegant
 charts of the coast and harbours, from the surveys of Lieut,
 Hewett, R.N. and others; and in which, from original observa
 tions, the enormous errors of all preceding charts and directions
 for these coasts have been obviated.
     An  essay on a species     of mosaic pavement, formed of right-
 angled triangles    of  different  coleurs ; with the method of calcu
 lating  the   number   of  their  combinations    : illustrated by a series
 of engravings. By N. J. Larkin.
     The first volume of the Transactions of the Royal Geological
 Society of Cornwall, will, it is expected, be ready for publication
 in the course of May.
                LIV.    Proceedings    of Learned Societies.
                              ROYAL SOCIETY.
     April 23.   A  paper was read by Mr. Pond, Astronomer Royal,
 on the Parallax of Alpha Aquila, in which he states the result
                                      U4                                   of

312                    Royal Institute of France. — Coal Gas.
of his observations            to differ considerably   from   those of     Dr.
Brinckley.
     A<   communication        from   Dr. Granville to Sir Everard Home,
of   a singular Case of Malformation          of the Uterus, was also read.
     Part of a paper from Dr. A. Ure,         On the Elastic Force of Va
pour, communicated by Dr. Wollaston, was read, and the conclu
sion deferred till next meeting.
   April SO. The remainder of Dr. Ure's paper was read.
                           ROYAL INSTITUTE    OF FRANCE.
   April 24th. The Annual Public Sitting of the Four Academies
took place this day.
   M. De Rossel, President of the Academy of Sciences, presided.
   M. Biot, of the Royal Academy of Sciences, read a notice upon
the operations undertaken for determining the Figure of the
Earth, in the course of which he took marked notice of the emi
nent exertions which Sir Joseph Banks, " the Nestor of the
learned world," has made for the promotion of this object of
philosophical inquiry.
   M. Quatremere de Quincy, perpetual Secretary of the Aca
demy of Fine Arts, read a dissertation on the eleinentary principle
of imitation in the fine arts, and the primary cause of the plea
sure which they afford us. The theory he maintained is not new;
he wished to demonstrate that the design of the fine arts, like the
belles lettres, is not to reproduce the objects of nature, but to re
produce some one of the affinities which exist among these ob
jects.
      M. Abel Remusat, of the Academy of Inscriptions and Belles
 Lettres, read an article on the wandering nations of Upper Asia,
extracted from a work entitled Recherchcs sur les Langues Tar-
tares.   The most original observation for which it was distin
guished          is,
            that the Goths originally issued from Tartary    proof ;   in
of which he affirms, that near Mount Altai inscriptions have been
found in Runic characters similar to those of Scandinavia.
                   LV. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Arikles.
            IMPROVEMENT IS THE PURIFICATION             OF COAL-GAS.
It    sufficiently known, that the production of carburetted
       is                                                                    hy
drogen obtained from coal, and its fitness for the purpose of illu
mination, varies much according to the circumstances under which
the gas    obtained, and the means employed for purifying it. To
             is
deprive coal-gas of that portion of sulphuretted hydrogen, with
which       always more or less contaminated;
            it
             is                                  has hitherto been
                                                        it
                                                             made

                            Water Spouts.                        313
made to act on quicklime, either in a dry state, or combined with
water in particular vessels, so constructed as to bring a large sur
face of the lime into contact with the gas. This method must
naturally be very imperfect, on account of the feeble action of
sulphuretted hydrogen upon lime.          In proof of this statement,
the gas supplied to this metropolis, need only be examined in the
following manner.       Collect a four-ounce phial full of the gas, in
a wash-hand bason, or other vessel full of water, in the usual
manner, and then plunge into it a slip of paper moistened with
a solution of nitrate of silver, or super- acetate of lead. The paper
will instantly acquire a brown colour.
    A new method of getting rid of the sulphuretted hydrogen gas
has been lately resorted to with success ; and the facility, cheap
ness, and expedition with which this process may be employed in
the large way, give reason to believe that it will be highly bene
ficial to the manufacturer of coal-gas in general. The process con
sists in passing crude coal-gas, as it is disengaged from coal,
 through a heated iron cylinder, or other vessel, containing frag
ments of metallic iron, (the waste clippings of tinned iron will do
very well) or any oxide of iron it a minimum of oxidation ; for
 example, clay iron-stone, so disposed as to present as large a
surface as possible: by this means the sulphuretted hydrogen be
comes decomposed by the metallic iron, and the gas is obtained
in a pure state. This iron, if in a state of a metal, acquires by
 this process a crystalline structure, and affords abundance of sul
 phuretted hydrogen by the affusion of dilute sulphuric or muriatic
acid, a proof that it is converted into a sulphuret ; — a quantity of
 sulphuric and sulphureous aeid is likewise collected at the extre
 mity of the vessel. The gas thus treated affords no disagreeable
 odour during combustion, and its purity is attested by its not act
 ing upon the solutions of lead, silver, or any of the white metajs.
                             WATER-SPOUTS.
    The following observations of Capt. Thomas Lynn, commander
 of the E. f. Company's ship Barkworth, afford a striking corro
 boration of the statement of the ingenious writer in our last num
 ber, Mr. J. H. viz. that the particles of water ascend upward from
 the sea, in the phenomenon called a water-spout.
     " Barkworth, Dec. 11, 1816, in lat. 4° N. long. 129° E. (hav
 ing passed through the Siao channel yesterday) at 1 1 A.M. the
 officer of the watch, Mr. Dudinan, came down and informed me
  there had been a whale blowing close to the ship for several mi
  nutes, and that it was continuing to do so. I then, from curio
 sity, went upon deck, and was surprised to find it was the vortex
 of a water-spout, within one hundred yards of the ship, on the
 windward quarter : — ordered a gun to be got ready, by which

 3 14 St earn- Engines. —Pttalile.— Selenium. —Magnetic
 time it had passed under the stern, within thirty yards of the ship,
which afforded us an excellent opportunity of observing this won
derful phenomenon.
    "  The space it occupied upon the sea was apparently about
 thirty feet in circumference, and the water so much agitated in
 the centre, as to be quite frothy, ascending in a spiral form in
 visible particles like rain, and making a rushing noise about as
 loud as the blowing of a whale continued, and communicating
 with a spout* depending from a black cloud over head, gradually
 passing to leeward, and disappearing about a mile off."
                      STEAM ENGINES IN CORNWALL.
    From Messrs. Leans' Report for March 1818, it appears that
 during that month, the following was the work performed by
 the engines reported with each bushel of coals.
                                Pounds of water lifted    I Load per square
                             ifoot high with each bushel. \   inch in cylinder.
 25 common engines averaged              21,898,644               various.
 Woolf's at Wheal Vor                    29,511,211               17 2    lib.
 Ditto        Wh. Abraham                30,445,224               16-8
 Ditto         ditto     . .             26,978,054                 5-45
 Dalcouth engine                         40,499,113               10-5
 Wheal Abraham           ditto           35,715,298               109
 United Mines engine                     31,427,373               13-6
 Treskirby ditto         . .             41,867,601               10-6
 Wheal Chance ditto                      33,594,548                 8-9
                          PETALITE.— -SELENIUM.,
    M. Ardvison, assistant to M. Berzelius, has discovered                 a new
alkali, in a stone known to mineralogists by the name of petalite.
The new alkali is nanied lithion. The experiments have been
 repeated and confirmed by Vauquelin.              Berzelius has also dis
 covered a new metal in sulphur, to which he has given the name
 of selenium.        As it occurs only in the proportion of 13 grains
 in 500 lbs. it is not surprising it should hitherto have escaped the
 notice of chemists.       This new metal has not yet been obtained
m France.       -
                             MAGNETIC NEEDLE.
    In the meeting of the Royal Society of Sciences at Copenhagen,
on the 27th of March, Chevalier Vlengel read an essay contain
ing observations on the magnetic needle, from which it seems
probable, that its western variation has already been at its max
imum,                                                                          .i
• * We could not perceive the communication with the
                                                             spout, the particles
being too minute for the eye to discern much above the sea, but we had;
no doubt of       fact.
                         ,             -"                               .
                                                                             LIST

                             C   315    3
   . .          •
             LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
    To Sir Thomas Cochrane, knight, commonly called Lord
Cochrane, for a manufacture of lamps for streets which effectuate
and regulate the combustion of a certain purified essential oil or
spirit obtained from different ligneous, carbonaceous, or bitu
minous substances usually called spirit of tar, or oil of tar ; and
also working or making a manufacture being an arrangement or
arrangements of parts of lamps, whereby all other lamps in which
flame is inclosed as in street-lamps within glass vessels or cases,
capable of transmitting light and protecting the flame from the
wind and weather, are adapted to the production of a clear light
by the combustion or decomposition of the said purified oil or
spirit therein, and the use of the said purified essential oil or
spirit in such lamps. — Sth April 1818. — Allowed 6 months tq
enroll.
    To John James Alexander M'Carthy, of No. 4, Spring Gar
den, Westminster, in the county of Middlesex, gentleman, for
his method or methods of applying granite or other material in
the making, constructing, or forming pavements, pitching, and
covering for streets, roads, ways, and places. — 8th April. — 6
                                                               •  •
 months.
    To William Annesley,     of Belfast, architect, for certain  im
provements in the constructing ships, boats, and other vessels.
8th April. — 6 months.
    To William Hopkinson, of High Holborn, in the county of
 Middlesex, coach-maker, for his. machine or apparatus to pre
vent the wheels of waggons, carts, coaches, and all other car
riages from coming off by accident, and which he intends to de
 nominate or call a Wheel-detainer. — Sth April. — 2 months.
    To George Whitham, of [Sheffield, manufacturer of spindles,
 for his machinery for grinding, glazing, and dressing small cotton
 and woollen spindles, for spinning on jenney bills and mull and
 other kinds of machine for fine work. — SthApril. — 2 months.
     To William Booth, of Eckington, in the county of Derby,
•turner in wood, for his method or process of making by a certain
 machine or machines, wooden clogs for pattens, wooden clogs
 or soles for shoes, and a description of wooden clogs commonly
 called or known by the name of the Devonshire clogs, or by what
 soever other name or names, description or descriptions the same
several clogs or soles are commonly called, known, described, or
 distinguished. — Sth April. — 2 months.
     To William Church, late of the New Coffee- House, Sweeting's
 Alley, Cornhill, in the city of London, but now of Clifton-street,
 Finsbury-square, in the county of Middlesex, gent., for his im
               in the steam-engine.;— rSth April.— 4 months.
provements

316                            Astronomy. — New. Comet.
   To Robert Clayton, of Nelson-street, in the county of Dublin,
artist, for his method of depositing or inserting certain metals or
a mixture of metals in wood, ivory, bone, horn, paper, and pot
tery ware, whereby the old and tedious process of inlaying may
be superseded, and the same effects be permanently produced in
a shorter time and at a less expense than by any other process
now in use. — 16th April. — 6 months.
              ASTRONOMICAL PHENOMENA, MAY 1818.
 B. H. M.                                         D. H. M.
 3. 5.40     <T o     X                          14. 5.-J4    d *      TTE
 4.          O   eclipsed visible                15.   .      3 p      ©        * l6'S
      6.12,3 d   5                               16. 8.40     ((   yrrg
 7.     .    d   in apogee                       16.22. 54    d    »«J!
        .    H  763 Mayer
                                     * 3' S.     17.    .          9g b         * l6'N
 7.                                                           9
        .    c? 82 n
                     * 15'            N.        18     5.43        X it;j
 7.                                                           5
 9.     .    2 51 b  *5'S                       18.18.50      d    «
 9.     .    (J84H*17S                          19 2239       <[   J   tu.
10.    6.U   4   n                              20.  .        ff   in perigee
10.2155      d   4/*gs                          2L 5 48       ©enters             n
10.     .    9 56 b         *2'S                22.17.51           r    f
                               *llN
                                                              (I
11.     .    9   x<                             24. .         9    121 b          *9'S
11.     .    9 x1 b
                           *    17   N          25. 5. I      d    «K
13. 6.24     d 5) SI                            28. 3.57      d    29       H
13.  .       tf7ffi*3'S                         30.11.29      d    0   ft
              9 r b
14.  .              * 14'N
                                         KEW COMET.
                      To Mr. Tt/focA.
  The slow motion in declination, and that nearly perpendicular^
and descending toward the Ecliptic, ought apparently to have
made the new comet very easily discernible.     I thought that                           I
saw it on the 20th ; but very repeated efforts to find it since ia
the absence of the moon, and at a very late hour, have been all
unsuccessful.
   I thought at first there was some mistake in stating the Peri
helion in orbita to be 287°; but on investigation, I found the
number right. And this would place the descending node about
306° R.A. and give a striking resemblanee to the long-expected
comet of 1661.               -                                 C. L.
   Errata in Mr. Capel Lofft's paper in our last number. Page
204, line3, read revolution : ibid, line 21, read for W. Home's
— Mr. HIGGINS : ibid, line 26, for iron read gaseous. Page
205, line 1 1 , for equiunial read equicrural : ibid, line 19, for
plane read place : ibid, line 20, for rota read rate : ibid, line 36,
read Betelguese and Procyon : ibid, line 40, read with the ne
bule at all near          it,
                     and dele the
                                   " not."
                                                                                METliORO-

                                   Meteorology.                            317
Meteorological Journal kept at Walthamstow, Essex, from
                          March 15 to April 15, 1818.
[Usually between the Hours of Seven and Nine A.M. and the Thermometer
                 (a second time) between Twlve and One P.M.]
Date. Therm. Barom. Wind.
15    42      29-50      SE. — Some slight showers; gray windy            day;
      47                    rain after 4 P.M.; rainy and windy.          Moon
                            first quarter.
 16   37      29-30      W — NVV. — Clear, and cumuli; some showers ;
       49                   wind and sun ; cumuli and nimbus ; evening*
                            bright star and moon-light, and light cumuli.
 17    47      29^61     NVV. — Clear j cirrostratus, and wind ; cloudy
       50                   and windy ; some slight showers ; light, but
                            cloudy.
 18    43      30 09     S. — Gray and some wind ; a gray windy day;
       53                   light, but cloudy.
 19    47      29-90      SW. — Gray morn; some slight showers; a
       53                   gray day; cloudy and windy.
 20    47      29-61      W—NW.— Showers and wind; sunshine at
       51                   9 A.M.; fine day; windy ; moon- and star
                            light.
 21    34      29-90      SW.— White frost, and clear; very fine day;
       48                   some showers and sun       ;  clear moon-light.
 22    47      29-60      SW—NW— W—NW.— Storms of rain and
       50                   hail, and wind ; great showers and sun ;
                            night rain and wind.         Full moon.
 23    47      29-23      SW— W—NW. — Violent rain and wind;
       49                    [large elm trees torn up by the roots by the
                             storm;! showers and sun ; moon-light.
 24    37      29-60      SW.— Cloudy; sun and wind ; a storm at
       50                     1 P.M. ; fine day; bright star-light.
 25    37      29-65      SW—NW.— Clear, and cirrostratus; great
       50                    rain in the night ; dear and cumuli ; wind
                             and showers; star-light and windy; frost in
                             the night; and then rain and wind.
 26    39       29-60     SE—NE— NVV.— Very rainy till after 3 P.M.;
        39                . after 3, showery ; cloudy windy night.
 27    34       29 90      NW. — Sun and wind ; fine day ; some slight
        44                    hail ; star-light.
 28     35      30  21    SW—S.— Calm and hazy; fine dav; cloudy.
        49
 .29    42      30-10     SE— S.— Clear       ; cirrostratus,   and wind ;  fine
        53                   gray day; star-light,       and   windy.    Moon
                              last quarter.
 30     34      30-10      E— W.— Clear, and cirrostratus; calm; fine
        56                   day; star-light.
                                            "
           : .                                                          March

   318                        Meteorology
   Date. Therm. Barom.Wind.
   March
   31     38  30-30    N— NE, -Cirrostratus;         sun, and wind ; Cfi*
              mult,  i
   April
     1    38  30-30    NE. — Sun      and wind; very fine day; clear
          49              star-light and  windy.
    2     38  30-20    NE. — Clear, and cirrostratus ; fine day ; sun
          49              and wind ; dark night early; then star-light,
                          and aurora horealis.
 .3       43  30-30    NE. — Windy and cloudy, and very cold; fine
 .    .   46             day; dark night.
 .-A      36  30-30    N — NE — SE. — Sunshine; very fine dayj
          46             clear star-light.
 V*       36  30-11    SE. — Cirrostratus; white frost early; calm,
          52             and thick ice; very fine day; dark night.
t ,   :                   Fuji moon.
    6     49  29-31    SW—NW.— Small rain till near 9 A.M.; fine
.I                       day; stormy wind; a cloudy dark night.
          52
          41  29-70    SE — E — SW. — Rain and wind ; very rainy
          41             day, and but littlewind; at night violent rain.
    8     50  29-45    SW — S. — Cirrostratus, and gleams of sun;
          64             clouds, sun, and wind ; rkin after 1 P.M. till
                         about 5 P.M. ; night cloudy and windy.
    9     51  2935     NS. — Showers, and some sun        '
                                                              ; fine dayj
                                                            -
          55             windy,    and moon-light.
   10     47  29-65    SE, — Rain ; very rainy day; dark and windy.
          56
   14   . 47  29-30    S — N. — Sun     and cumuli', sunshine; slight
          60             rain; very rainy after ; stormy; wind, and
                         very dark.
   12     36  29-90    N — NW. — Sun and wind          ; and clear sky   ;
          50             sun, clouds, and wind     ;  some   hail storms j
                         clear night.
   13     36  30-05    S. — rHazy and white frost ; fine day; sun and
          52             cirrostratus; cloudy and windy. Moon first
                         quarter.
   14     46  29-65    E — SE. — Fine morn ; clouds and gleams of
          53             sun, from 8 P.M.; a fine halo round the
                         moon, slightly tinged with red ; bright moon
                         light till near 10 P.M.
   15     47  29-65    E.— Fine morn ; clear and cumuli ; a very
          58             fine day; bright moon-light.
       Errata in last month's Phil. Mag,,—for 29-90, read 28-90;
  8th March, for moon first quarter 13th March, read moon first
  quarter 15th March.                                            >
                                                                METBORO

                              Meteorology.                            819
          METEOROLOGICAL        JOURNAL KEPT AT          BOSTON,
                             LINCOLNSHIRE.
    [The time of observation, unless otherwise stated, is at 1 P.M.]
          \ge of
  1818     the   Thermo    Baro     State of the Weather and Modification
          Moon    meter.   meter.              ofthe Clouds.
          DAYS.
Mar.  15     8     46-      29-47   Rain
                                                 :
     16      9     44-      29-54   Cloudy
      17    10     46-      29-86   Ditto
      18    11     51-      30-06   Ditto       N
      19    12     52-5     29-97   Ditto
      20    13     50-      29'90   Fine
     21     14     45-      29-84   Cloudy
      22 full      4i-5  :  29-68   Fair
      S3 16        38-      29-39   Rain —blows hard
      24    17     46-5     29-73   Fair — rain and hail in the evening
      85    18     43'      29-58   Fine
      26    19     33-      29-51   Rain
      87    20     43'      30-25   Fine
      88    21     48-      30'43   Ditto
      SO    22     49-      30-39   Cloudy
      30    23     50-      30 36   Ditto
      31    24     45-      30-50   Ditto
April l     25     45"      30-47   Ditto
        2   26     47-      30-52   Ditto
        3   27     44-      30-57   Ditto
        4   28     4?.      30-49   Fine
        5 new      50-      29-31   Rain
        6     1    41-      29-83   Ditto
        7     2    58-      29-51   Cloudy — rain A.M.
        e     3    54-      29-35   Ditto
        0    4     45-      29-63    Rain
       10     5    42'      29-40    Cloudy
       ii     6    43-      30-11    Ditto — frost and hail in the morn
       12     7    50'      30-09 Fine                                 [inf
       13     8    51'      29-85 Cloudy
  The quantity of rain fallen has . beeta very great, though the number of
rainy days' is comparatively small.
                                                                METBOEO-

320                                                     Meteorology.
                                         meteorological table,
                              By         Mr. Cary, of the Strand,
                                                  For April, 1818.
                                                                           i    w
                      Thermometer.
                                                         Height of
 Day9 of                                         o t;                              of!                    Weather.
                                                                          Degrees
                   o'Clock,
                                                         the Baroui.
                              Morning.                                                   Hygrome
  Month.                                 §
                                                          Inches.
                                                                           ness by Le
                   8
March     27       40                    47      39       30-05                36                  Fair
          28       38                    47      40        .20                 30        ,         Cloudy
          29       42                    53      37        .10                 49                  Fair
          30       39                    55      40        .11                 39                  Fair
          31       40                    49      41        .22                 30                  Sleet showeri
  April    1       42                    48      40        .13                 36                  Fair
                   40                    47      39        .17                 39                  Fair
           4 3 2
                   39                    48      39        •20                 47                  Fair
                   38                    46      40        .29                 46                  Fair
           5       47                    53      46     2078                   40                  Fair
          e        48                    54      44        .32                 33                  Cloudy
                   44                    43      43        .50                                     Rain
                                                                                0 0
           7
                   55                    55      50        .40                                     Rain
          9 s      54                    57      47        .28                 36                  Stormy
                   47                    55      45        .40                                     Showery
                                                                                0 0
          10
          11       43                    43      39        .42                                     Rain
          12       39                    45      38        .88                 26                  Hail storm*
          13       43                    50      43        .80                 37                  Fair
          14       39                    54      44        .62                 46                  Fair
          15       43                    55      43        .58                 47                  Fair
          16       46                    55      42        .29                 48                  Fair              ;
          17       44                    53      43        .30                 50                  Fair
          18       43                    51      38        .39                 51                  Fair
          19       40                    47      40        .70                 49                  Fair
          SO 39                          49      43        .70                 39                  Cloudy            rt
          21 44                          54      46        .64                 47                  Fair
          22 48                          53      46        .56                                     Rain
                                                           .25                  0 0                Rain
          S3 47                          47      44
          S4 46                          55      46        .25                 24                  Cloudy
          85 47                          56      49        .26                 21                  Showery
          $6 56                          65      55        .40                 41                  Fair
                   NJB. The                   Barometer's height    is   taken at one o'clock.

                                    [  321      ]
LVl. On the Question              "  Whether ,Music is necessary to the
     Orator, — to what Extent, and how most readily attainable?"
     By Henry Upington, Esq.
                             [Continued from p. 186.]
                                To  Mr. Tilloch.
             Hj-                             Blair's Hill, Cork, April 12, 1818.
Sir, —       JVJLy former letters, the last of which has been published           .>
in your Magazine for March, were almost exclusively confined to
a cursory survey of harmony, and the particular analysis of our
modern        intervals.    To   these   letters occasional      reference may
perhaps be requisite ; but in themselves they are obviously in
sufficient for any final deduction with regard to our oratorical
question.        They merely point out —what very few persons could
have supposed — the superiority of the fourth, as well as the ex
cellent proportions of the minor 3d and minor 6th ; and indicate
the apparent danger of cultivating harmony, when dignity, which,
 is decidedly hostile to every species of jingle, shall become the
object of the speaker.          In place therefore of obtruding any pre
mature and perhaps ill-founded opinions upon the public, I have
considered it an indispensable task to analyse the genius of our
speech itself, as connected with tone, time, and forte; proceed
ing with all the necessary caution of a careful experimenter; —
first, by calling to my assistance the most discriminating ear of
 all my acquaintance ; and secondly, by selecting an eligible per
 son as the subject for investigation.
      Aware of the almost insurmountable difficulty of measuring
 the intervals of speech ; and determined that no favourite theory
 whatever should influence my judgement, I availed myself the more
 readily of the abilities of my musical friend — having previously
ascertained the accuracy of his ear by a satisfactory test*.
     • Experiment.     I divided the scale of my 30-inch monochord, described
  in your Magazine for November, agreeably to the various intervals of our
 actave, as found on our piano-fortes ; that is — taking the open wire as the
 fundamental, 1 marked across the surface of the board, a certain number of
 lines, every one of which exactly corresponded with every semitone be
  tween that fundamental and the centre of the wire or octave. In this ope
  ration I was merely guided by the ear of my associate, strictly conforming
  to those distances which he considered perfect        Now, having interposed a
  screen between him and the monochord, I struck the open string or wire
  for half a dozen times, more or less as he deemed expedient ; when promptly
  introducing the bridge at any previous line I thought proper, I sounded
   that interval, which he never failed to recognise : and what is more, when
   ever I committed an error by placing the bridge even one quarter of an,
   inch short of, or beyond the destined mark (which I frequently did, to try
   him), he was equally certain whether that interval was too sharp or too flat,
  although its deviation from accuracy could not have exceeded the one-fifth
  of  a semitone-
      VcJ.Sl.No.241.3%1818.                             X                   Being

322       "  IVhelher Music is necessary     to the Orator,^-
    Being thus sufficiently prepared for my intended scrutiny, I
          •
directed    my endeavours towards the obtaining of a suitable
speaker: — and with all due deference to the several provincial ha
bits of our English, Scotch, and Irish countrymen, the intonation
of the well-educated London gentleman habituated from infancy
to the higher circles, has always appeared, in my estimation, so
decidedly superior — that he, and he only, who in his delivery ap
 proximated most closely to that character, could interest my at
tention.
    I succeeded.    A gentleman just suited to    my purpose
                                                              — whose
articulation was extremely       distinct  — whose   modulation   was
 agreeable, — and yet, who neither could sing in tune, nor play
 upon any instrument, entered fully into my views; and consented
 not only to the examination of his ordinary language, but also to
 become the subject of any course of experiments that I should.
 deem it necessary to pursue.
              Examination    of his ordinary Language.
                              OF SOUND.
    Observation 1.    Two species of sounds or syllables were ma
 nifest — the sonorous and obtuse; the latter, in ratio to the for
 mer, as perhaps about one to four.       The sonorous syllables were
 obviously of the musical class, and could be sufficiently estimated
 to form a competent idea of their situation on the scale : — on the
 contrary, the obtuse syllables were altogether immeasurable, until
 persevering practice overcame the obstacle.
    Remarks.     The whole of our particles, viz. a, the, of, to, &c.
 were almost at all times (in the flow of conversation) of the ob
 tuse or non-sonorous order; as also, rather frequently, a consi
 derable number of more independent monosyllables, viz. at, but,
get, met, &c, together with a variety of commencing, interme
 diate, and terminating syllables of dissyllables, trisyllables, and
 polysyllables, as ob in obtain, suf'm sufficient, per in perfection,
der in consider, con in convenient, col in recollect, lerable in to
 lerable, &c. &c.
    It may indeed be alleged, without hesitation, that every syl
lable whose vowel is indistinctly uttered, opposes a decided ob
stacle to mensuration.       Hence the necessity, in graceful and
melodious delivery, of expressing those vocal elements with all
the clearness and euphony of which, consistently with the de
corous usages of speech, our language is susceptible ; a practice
highly extolled by Milton in his letter to Harltib,on Education.
                               OF TONE.
    Observation 2.    The musical intonations or notes were almost
                                                                wholly

        to what   Extent, and how most readily allainalle,?"            323
wholly of that description called fixed tones or monotones, — the
slide, or variation of tone on the same syllable, being very seldom
employed.      The vowel called " long         i"
                                             (or perhaps more pro
perly triphthong, for besides its ordinary character, if prolonged
it will terminate in ee,) must be considered an exception to this
general observation ; this letter appearing, at all times, to ter
minate somewhat higher than it began *. The latter character
indeed, viz. that of terminating higher than the commencement,
is equally applicable to almost every other slide that was ex
pressed ; — the opposite character or downward slide being
scarcely ever affected during the course of this investigation, ex
cept in a few instances where the vowel or diphthong u became
the terminating syllable of a period, as in you, news, refuse, &c.
   No circumflex             f
                      whatever was observable.
    Remarks. Dr.Burney in his " History of Music," with every
appearance of correctness observes     that it is extremely difficult
to preserve a slide, when speaking to any person at a consider
able distance; and that on such occasions we naturally use our
efforts to express ourselves infixed tones.     Quintiuan too, in
his     "
       Institutes of the Orator," makes a nearly sirnUar remark;
he positively asserting that the command of our inflexions is lost
upon the higher keys J.
   Some modern theorists, however, would insist that fixed tones
are the peculiar characteristics of song; and that a series of
speaking sounds cannot be accomplished but through the agency
of slides.
   A Mr. Steele (I believe of London), the author of a work
intitled " Prosodia Rationalis," hut deserving rather the appel
lation of " Prosody run mad," was the origin of this egregious
absurdity, which he deduced or rather fancied to have deduced
from a very obscure passage of Dionysius ThraX: — But of this
hereafter.
   The reality         is,
                    that slides must he considered as graces, and
    * May we not thus account for the well-known difficulty of singmg this
triphthong in perfect tune       ?
                                 .
    T Dwelling on the base of an upward, or on the summit of    a  downward
                                     \/,             /\
slide will be taken by the grosser ear for two species of the circumflex.
Thus,
I
            _/may be taken for          and ~"\ for       : errors into which
   am persuaded that our grammarians have constantly fallen, when speak
ing of the Scottish and other intonations. — See Sheridan, tVaVier, Sec.—
This deception     principally attributable to the management of the ictus.
                  is
    % Is   necessary to observe, that in calling to a distant object, we are
            it
compelled by necessity to the adoption of the higher keys or pitch? I    have
met with some professional musicians who imagined the reverse, until ac
tual experiment convinced them of their mistake.      Had they reflected on
the wide difference, both in loudness and acuteness, between the braced
and unbraced drum, the question had been instantly resolved.
                                       X   2                     oftentimes

324          "   Whether Music is necessary to the Orator,—
oftentimes peculiarly expressive ones, with which every language
may, and ought to be, occasionally adorned: but as a proof that
they are not actually indispensable for the constitution of speech,
in opposition to song, I shall proceed to experiment, by setting
the following sentence in fixed tones or monotones ; and this
too without any deviation from the ordinary intervals of our mu-                          *
sical scale.
                                          Experiment.
[1 would recommend
                       to the amateur to defer the execution of
   this passage.   By reading a little onward, he will find some
   necessary hints.]             '
           May tiie MonarcUs ol EnglaiiU         ever cultivate the happiness   of mau.
  Thus it would appear, that the essence of speech is depen
dent on the series of sounds, not on the individual character of
those sounds with regard to slides or monotones : and conse
quently that by the modification of the series, speech may be
converted into song, or song into speech, at the pleasure of the
composer.
   Preparatory to the execution of this passage, it will be neces
sary to offer some observations even to the intelligent amateur :
for, strange as it          is,
                      among the various musical gentlemen to
whom      have shown
           I                      it,
                           not more than two or three have been
able to perform       it,
                   until the following indispensable requisites were
laid before them.
              Requisites    for     the    Execution    of   the Experiment.
      1.   Of Tone. — Agreeably to Italian phrase (for which                    I   am
indebted to Dr. Burney) this passage must not be vocalized, but
syllabized: the meaning of which                     is,
                                         ..that the mouth must not
be unduly opened, nor must the larynx be almost solely occupied
as in song     but that every organ be preserved, and engaged in
                 ;
that exact position in which     would be necessarily placed, were
                                            it
every syllable   to be uttered in the ordinary way of language.
Thus will be obtained that peculiar modification of sound which
is the characteristic of speech.
     2.Of Time. — Every idea of musical time, or musical pauses
called rests, must be relinquished — forgotten: neither should
any syllable whatever be contraoted within, or extended beyond
its usual dimensions in speech.    Also,
  A   sufficient duration mnst be allotted to every consonant;                       by
no means suffering the whole period of enunciation to be                            al
                                                              most

       to what Extent, and how most readily attainable P"                 325
  most exclusively consumed by the vowel, as in song*; which,
  especially with the inarticulate singer, is the general practice.
  Without this necessary precaution, the closing syllable in parti
  cular, viz. " man," whose vowel is exceedingly short, will have
  a most unnatural effect.
     3. Of Forte. — The sentence should be rather energetically
  delivered, as a public toast, for example ; and sufficiently loud              .
  to be heard throughout the imaginary room. The due emphasis
  too, and no more, should be given to every emphatic and unem-
  phatic syllable ; while the genius of song which so frequently
  deranges this habitual order, must be studiously avoided.
     These premises being fully understood and carefully attended,
 — nothing further remains than merelv to suggest to the experi
 menter, that         after giving every vowel its legitimate sound, and
                    if,
 expressing every syllable without        jerk, should still the minutest
                                              a
 vestige of sing-song be discoverable — the substitution, in such
                                                  ;
  instance, of fixed quarter tone higher or lower, or some other
                   a
  unacknowledged interval, in place of the existing character, will
 effectually remove it.
     To the musical gentleman who would feel desirous of trying
 the experiment, but who may consider the execution of so many
 solitary and independent intervals (for they are           by
                                                            no means as
 sociated, and governed          by key-note, as in song) too trouble
                                      a
 some  a   task,   I would recommend the playing of this little pas
 sage   6n  the  piano,   and accompanying          with his voice in the
                                                      it
 best manner he can then setting aside the instrument, let him
                             :
 endeavour to speak the passage without ever reflecting on the
,necessary notes and he will be certain not only to express
                        ;                                              in
                                                                        it
 fixed tones or monotones, but likewise so very closely to the
 actual intervals, as will enable him to form sufficiently just opi
                                                       a
 nion of the subject.
     Now, after all this lengthened discussion, lest any objection
 should arise       the mind of my intelligent reader, with respect to
                   in
 the unvaried range of notes, or repeats, which two or three times
 may appear within this sentence; or that he should wish for an
    * Is not upon this principle that the stammerer can sing with more fa
       it
cility than speak? And, to cure his impediment, should he not, for some
time, be exercised in the opposite extreme; extending as much as possible,
every prolongable consonant, and proportionably contracting every vowel      i
 It true, that by so doing he will incur the danger of cacophony, to which
  is
the over-extension of       /,
                          m, r,  and other disagreeable consonants will sub
                                 s,
ject him: but, this habit can afterwards be abandoned.
    Having thus touched on the stammerer, will        be too digressive to oh*
                                                       it
serve, that changing his associations, with regard to time, may also prove
beneficial ?  Let this time be of whatever species     may,
                                                       it   it should be sim
ple and slow nor should the unfortunate person be suffered to protract his
               ;
cure by hurrying over any of his consonants, for the despicable purpose of
Crowding them within      bar,
                            a
                                          X
                                          3                         opinion

326                 Whether Music is necessary            to the        Orator,       &c."
opinion as to the probable number of slides with which it may
be adorned* — I shall hazard a few move, though perhaps un
necessary remarks, and terminate my letter.
   First then, as to the range of notes or repeats, — 1 would re^
quest him to consider that, having a different object in view, I
did not, by any means, attempt that variety of intervals which
very musical speakers may possibly introduce : and yet I can
hardly persuade myself that even the present intervals deserve,
when applied to language, the epithet " unvaried\," especially
when I compare them with one of the boldest and most expres
sive recitative compositions of the immortal Handel.
   We are indebted to Dr. Burney for a copy of this production,
taken from the last act of the Oratorio of Athalia.     He consi
ders it a master-piece, in which the genius of English (speech is
                                           It commences with " But
                                                                                                   I
                                                                                     as the young
                                                                           " I f ainted
wonderfully preserved.
Barbarian              I   caress'   d," and terminates with                                 and
fell."
      The music runs thus
                                            Recitative.
                                                                         -«f—
                                      .$    #
                           Blif       as   the young bar   -   ba   -   ruin, ccc.
                                           faint - ed,   and        I    fell.
     Of this          passage
                                  — the variations of interval require no com
ment : but with regard to the slides (which in regular music are
represented by slurs) ; — throughout the four lines from which
the above words are extracted, not a single instance of any such
can be found, except in the solitary case of "fainted
                                                       " or rather
"faint." Such was the conception of Handel.
   In speech, however, as I should imagine, these graces, by wav
of compensation for its comparatively unmusical character, may
be less sparingly employed.    Our short vowels, it is true, when
     * It will be seen, if my subsequent reasoning be well founded, that
**         "
     Eng  in England" by somewhat extending the vowel, is the only admis
sible slide, (and that, most undoubtedly, an upward one) within the passage.
      There        material difference between "unvaried" and" unmusical."'
                     is
     -J'             a
Speech      not very much inferior, in variety, to the simpler kinds of recita
               is
tive, although less musical in its intervals.  Recitative too,     governed by       is
a key;, speech by none.      Regular time, likewise, to    considerable extent,
                                                                         a
is granted to recitative    while, to speech, even this privilege
                                  :                                 denied.           is
                                                                                      legitimately

           On the Geological History of Loch Lomond.        827
legitimately sounded, will hardly admit them * ; and, therefore,
in the previous example, if the word "Jointed" which Handel
has adopted for the slide, he chosen ; the first syllable, as being
long and emphatic, should claim, no doubt, the prerogative.
    To conclude : In speaking this passage, if my judgement be
correct, the ha in barbarian is nevertheless the only syllable,
within the quoted portion, susceptible of a slide, and thai too an
upward one; which gives the speaker, on all such occasions, a
suitable command ; — whereas the very reverse must happen
whenever the downward slide is attempted : from which I would
naturally infer, that         for expression's sake, the downward,
                             if,
slide be effected on "faint f," the voice of the speaker will be
dangerously precipitated, and the succeeding syllable
                                                           " ed" be
rendered very nearly,      not wholly, inaudible.
                            if
    Such are the fatal effects of sinking through the scale, during
the enunciation of any syllable      and therefore the resistance of
                                          :
this practice, or judicious sustentatiim of the voice, cannot, in
my opinion, be too strongly recommended to the orator         for on ;
this sustentation, as the intelligent have uniformly observed, the
majesty of every language must depend.
                                 [To   be continued.]
   LVII.    On the Geological History              of Loch Lomond.       By
                            Gavin Inglis, Esq.
                                 To    Mr. Tilloch.
Dear Sir, — remember mentioning to you long ago,
             I                                                  cu-r     a
rious coincidence      the names of places upon the rivers Leven
                       in
in Fife, and Leven in Dumbartonshire.        In both counties their
names are derived from the Gaelic, and descriptive of their local
appearance and situation      but however the rivers and lakes may
                                 :
coincide in name and other circumstances, in their present and
former geological position there       prominent change.
                                           is is
   The lake in Dumbartonshire        now elevated twenty-two feet
                                              a
above its ancient level, which     an exception to the general fact
                                         is
— that lakes,     bythe impetuosity of their discharging streams,
in process of time wear down their channels till they lower
themselves to the level of some opposing rock, or' finally, to the
level of the sea, laying their former beds dry, or leaving marshes
in their place.    It appears perfectly evident, that the waves of
the Clyde have once beat against the bottom of Dumbuck,— that
the delightful road, after passing westward              by
                                                  Dunglass Castle,
along the base of the impending rocks, and the space between
  * From the
             very great difficulty of execution, as well as contemptible effect.
f   In speech, a well sustained diminuendo        sufficiently expressive.
                                                   is
                                       X   4                                 that

 328"        On the Geological History   of Loch Lomond.
 that and the Clyde, has been formed by the debris from the ele
 vations on the north, and the alluvial deposits from the river on
  the south ; that the tide at a former period has frown to the
  head of Loch Lomond, as it now does to that of Loch Long and
  Gair Loch; and that at that period Dumbarton Castle must have
 been surrounded and standing in deep water, rearing its basaltic
  mass above the circumambient element, like the Bass or Isla;—»
  that the flat ground round the castle, that on which Dumbarton
  now stands, with all the low grounds east of the Leven, extend
  ing from Dumbuck to Stonefield, with the crofts of Dalquhurn,
  Cordale Dillychyp, Bonhill, &c. with all the lower grounds round
  that part of the lake where the Leven escapes from its bosom,
  debouching towards the sea, owe their present elevation above
  the Clyde, to the stones, gravel, and other alluvial matter brought
  down and deposited by the river Endrick, which discharges itself
  into the mouth of the present loch.     So long as the abyss of the
  lake continued to receive the deposits of the Endrick, no alters
 ation could take place on the surface of its waters ; which must
 have then extended in one sheet of beautiful expanse, from the
  Clyde to the head of the present lake, and from Dumbuck on the
 east, to the head-land on the west of Dumbarton bridge.          But
 after the accumulated matter from the Endrick rose to the ele
 vation of the high water level, the lake getting brimfull every
 flood tide, there would then, as far as the slender state of the
 primitive but increasing barrier could oppose resistance to the
 weight and pressure of the collected waters, be a torrent occa
 sioned at every ebb, which would carry along with it the mud,
 clay, sand, gravel and stones, till the succeeding tide catching
 the waters of the Leven like a thief loaded with the spoils of the
 Endrick in its progress round the south head-land, would throw
 the Leven with its alluvial treasures on the opposite shore, where
 its stream would be impeded by the hill of Dumbuck ; and in
 rounding westward to join the Clyde, the castle rock would op
pose its stately resistance, to prevent the robbery and stilling the
 waters, or give time for the lighter alluvials to deposit and settle
 down; so that the first formation of alluvial soil must have been
 in that water.     The continual gatherings, the wreck of other
 soils brought down by the Endrick, increased by every autumnal
 torrent and winter flood, would collect and heap up from time to
time, till the waters thrown back upon the lake would accumulate
such weight as to force the augmented, but still loose and un
consolidated materials of its dam, forward into the vale below; till
the rushing water coming to its level, would lose its pressure and
allow the heavier matter to settle down, still carrying the lighter
substances on towards the Clyde, and lodging them behind the.
tastle rock. This in process of time would bring that part to

          On the Geological History     of Loch Lomond,
the level of the highest tide. The new-made soil would soon be
furnished with the seeds and many of the roots of the various
plants indigenous within the whole range of the lake, the Clyde,
and all the tributary streams.      Reeds, rushes, and other vege
tables would soon cover the surface, and add rapidly to its ele
vation ; in cases of autumnal floods filtering the water as it passed
to the sea, and retaining the slush, not only of the river, but in
a more eminent degree that of the land-rills and hill- burns,
raised by occasional thunder-plumps          and other heavy rains,
 winter freshes and storms, which must have brought down great
 quantities of soil and debris from their kindred heights, and given
 birth to the gradual and gentle inclination towards the rising
 ground, which now hides from human eyes all marks of their
 origin and former state. After the quantity of matter at the
 mouth of the lake had equalled the ordinary level of the highest
 tides, and acquired a solidity beyond the elevated pressure of the      .
 water during the recess of the sea, there were still great efforts
 to be made to bring the surface of the lake to twenty-two feet
 pf altitude, and the whole vale of Leven, from the castle to the
 lake, to a gently inclined plane. This must have been the wort
 of time, and a succession of heapings and levelings before the loose
 materials had gained that compact solidity to present an effectual
 resistance ; even after the dam had acquired a consistency and
 durability sufficient to repel the effects of any ordinary flood, the
 grand finishing strokes given to this fairy-land must have been
  the effects of a succession of winter freshes, after severe and
 lengthened storms and frosts. The vast surface of the lake being
 covered with ice of great strength and thickness, and swollen by
  the mountain torrents above its usual height, the accumulated
  ice would of itself become an elevated and powerful obstruction
  to the discharge of the surplus waters ; till overcome by the in
  creasing weight, it would sweep from bank to brae, tearing up
  and leveling every thing before     it,   carrying from round the
  edges of the lake and the islands, and still more from its newly-
 formed   dam, great quantities of stones, gravel, fragments of
 rock.   Even blocks of great size firmly fixed in the ice, might
 in this way have been floated down, till grounding somewhere,
 they remained, ordropped into the hollows     the melting or burst
                                              by
 ing of the crushing  ice dashed against the rocks of either shore.
    The shoals of herrings that abound in Loch Lomond have been
 adduced as a proof, that the obstruction of the original commu
 nication between the lake and the sea must have been the effect
  of some sudden convulsion but that idea proceeds from the pro
                             :
 pensity that many people have to account for every change          by
 something strange and marvellous, without deigning to look into
 pr inquire after the unceasing progress of nature in her most legi
                                                              timate

330                         On the Practicability
 timate and simple agencies.         These operations, from their Sim
plicity, although great      and   momentous     in their results, often
escaoe the observations of man, till, after a long succession of ages,
changes are effected, the cause and origin of which are for ever
hid from mortal research.          The parent-shoal of these herrings
may have passed from the sea into the lake at a very early pe
riod, when the waters of the latter might be less elevated above
the Clyde, perhaps aided by the circumstances of a flood in the
river and a spring-tide from the sea.           This might throw the'
waters so far back, as to render the pressure of the current from
 the lake little beyond the run of a brisk ebb.
    The herrings once fairly in the lake, might not so easily escape
from tlieir new element by the narrow and single outlet where
the water runs with some force.           In the regular migrations of
 herrings from the bays and shoals to the depths of the ocean, in
their endeavours to escape from the still waters of the lake, ar
riving at where the current acquires its greatest force, they might
 instinctively spring back, from the dread of impending danger or
any sudden impulse, and seek safety in the still waters and depths
of tbe lake, where, in time, they have become as completely na
turalized to the fresh, as they were originally to the salt water.
                  [Loch Leven in a future paper.]
 March 23, 1818.                                          G. INGLIS.
LVI1I.     On the Practicability    of a direct Passage over the  North
                                   Pole.
                          [Continued from p. 306.]
J   udging from such facts
a very small part,
                                as are before us, that a part, and but
                      of the demand to supply the southern current,
comes in from the Pacific through Behring's Strait, — it is neces
sary to inquire, From what sources, then, is all the water so flow
ing out of the Polar regions to the southward derived ?
    I have supposed them to be produced (at least the " motion
of the great deep," generally) by evaporation in the equatorial
regions of heat, and by cold returned, in various ways, in the at
mosphere by land and by sea, into all the northern regions, even
as far as the Pole.      For though " the way of the Almighty," aS
thr psalmist says,    " is on the sea, and his path in the deep wa
ters," yet it is also as surely in the clouds of heaven. And though
H his footsteps are not known" certainly, yet it is permitted us
humblv to endeavour to trace them.
    Whether Of not there is any increase of water from the melting
of the ice in the Polar sea so as to cause a current to the south,
appears to be not very material; and perhaps has little to do iri
                                                             increasing

                         of a direct   Passage over the Pole.                         33   1
increasing or diminishing the general quantity of water in the
"   polar basin."       In all probability, it remains nearly the same
at all times, whether there is more or less ice ; that                     is,
                                                                          taking
the ice and water together as an aggregate body to make up that
quantity.      I  agree with the writer in the Review, that
                                                                        " those
who could suppose the melting of the ice to afford such supply,            a
would betray a degree of ignorance," greater perhaps than that
of not being aware " of the very little influence which an Arctic
summer exerts on fields of ice, perpetually surrounded as they are
with  a  chillv, and mostly with        a   freezing, atmosphere, created
by themselves."        However, there         no subject, perhaps, on which
                                             is
opinions have been more at variance, than on the melting of the
ice in the Polar regions, as well as where, and how                   itformed.
                                                                           is
St. Pierre went so far as to suppose             was the cause of the tides.
                                                  it
But he does not appear to have been                   plain
                                                       a     " matter of fact
man," but of fancy and imagination.
    Others think the ice does not melt at all, or at least very little,
even in summer.          If ice, when once formed (be           ithow       may)it
round and along the coasts of those regions, does not melt at all,
 there must be      a  constant increase so long as that ice              " sur
                                                                            is
 rounded       by
                   freezing atmosphere created             by
                                                            itself," which we
                "
               a
 are told   it     mostly is" even in summer; and               if so, we may
 fairly presume     italways    is  in winter.     At this rate, with the ex
 ception of what may make its escape to the southward through
 Davis's Strait, and to the eastward of Greenland,                   would nei
                                                                      it
 cessarily  be  always advancing         towards    the  Pole   (admitting the
 land to be the place of       its first formation)    and  close  over       unit;
 less we can find some probable cause counteracting this effect of
perpetual frost. And perhaps we are warranted in supposing
 that there exists some such cause.             Indeed     itseems more than
 probable,   that  the   process   of freezing    and  melting may be going
 on in the Arctic regions on the same body of ice                 of magnitude
                                                                (if
 to be sufficiently immersed) at the same time, and perhaps in the
  winter as well as the summer.
     Water  is
            a     compound of ice and caloric.             The temperature of
 ice is 32  <; and while surrounded           by
                                               a temperature equal,           willit
 remain ice.      But whenever the temperature of the atmosphere
  exceeds 32°, and continues so long enough for the body of ice to
 receive a sufficiency of caloric to effect its dissolution,             will do
                                                                           it
  so.  It is probable that the temperature of the atmosphere, even
 in the Arctic regions, in summer, will sometimes exceed 32'0, and
  the more, perhaps, the nearer the Pole               and whenever
                                                       ;                     doesit
 sufficiently,   the  effect  on   ice  is obvious.      This  seems  sufficient
  to be said on the probability of ice above water melting in
  the Arctic regions in summer,         if  the temperature of the atmo
  sphere ever sufficiently exceeds 32°.            In the winter3 as the tem
                                                                                perature

  332                            On the Practicability
  peratHre of the atmosphere must be constantly below that, of
  course the freezing above the surface of the sea will be as con
  stant, though the surface of the sea itself probably will not freeze
  at a temperature much below 30% even in a motionless state.
  The same body of ice while freezing above water, that is in
  creasing in size and extent by snow and hail, and the salt water
  freezing in washing over         may perhaps at the same time be
                                           it,
  melting under water and this process will be probably accele
                                 ;
  rated according to the magnitude of the mass, and the depth of
  its immersion.      For when the atmosphere             colder than the
                                                              is
  surface of the sea, the water will (in proportion perhaps to its
  depth) be found warmer               by
                                some degrees, than          at the surface
                                                              it   is              ;
  and though few experiments have yet been made to establish
  this fact, yet sufficient to warrant this conclusion.         Thus, even
  in summer,       the temperature of the atmosphere should be 32°,
                  if
  and the surface of the sea, clear       land and soundings, three or
                                                  of
 four degrees higher, that of the water below would probably be
  much higher still; so that the, portion of           large mass of ice
                                                          a
  above the surface of the sea would remain ice and augment             and   ;
  the other portion of       lelow being immersed in a temperature
                                 it
 exceeding the point of congelation, would probably be melting
 and decreasing.
     The well attested facts, of large bodies of ice having been seen
 to capsize or turn bottom up, prove, that their centre of gravity
     altered     by
                 an increase of their bulk above, or         diminution of
it is
                                                                   a
     below, according to the excess of either effect.            Upon the
 whole, however,        seems
                            it  probable,   that in  the  Arctic regions,
 the process of freezing in the atmosphere, exceeds that of melt
ing under water, particularly on those smaller masses of ice which
 are immersed least; and therefore that there must be a general
 increase of ice in the polar basin, from the Pole {if the ice ori
ginates there) towards the lands surrounding the basin or from          ;
those lands         the ice first forim there) up towards the Pole,
                      (if
 On this question, too, opinions have been most various.             Every
circumstance seems to weigh against the opinion of its greatest
formation being about the Pole, except one, and that                    is,
                                                                   because
the sea-water there will most probably be found to contain the
least salt.      I am disposed to believe, that          must also in the
                                                          it
winter be colder at the surface of the sea, near the Pole, than any
where else.       Yet, on the whole,    seems most probable, that the
                                                 it
ice      originally formed
        is                     the rivers, and along the shores of all
                                      in
the lands surrounding the Polar, basin.           Being afterwards de
tached from those lands, and driven to sea               by
                                                      the winds and cur
rents in masses of more or less extent of surface, but no great
thickness    3    there accumulates
                 it                               by
                                          the falling of snow and hail,
                                                                              .   mi

                              of a     direct Passage over the Pole.                                333
and by the salt water freezing upon                          it,
                                               into immense mountain*
and fields.
   In the part of the Polar basin further to the southward, where
it    bounded
     is                   by
                    the land,        to be presumed the general pre
                                             it   is
vailing winds are from S. W. to N.W. particularly the former, in
bad weather       Northerly and easterly when most settled and fine.
                     :
And     so,
          if       equally to be supposed there will be
                    it   is                                      generally              a
prevailing   current  from the westward to the eastward, partaking
at the same time of that general tendency of the fluid to move
southward from the Pole, which           imagine       Iwill be found toit
have, from the coldness of its temperature.            These two general
combined impulses operating upon moveable bodies floating on
the surface of the Arctic seas, must impel them in an east-
southerly direction all round the globe being, in fact, that ;        " cir-
cumvolving current" which the           writer  in the Review mentions
as carrying " fir, larch, aspen, and other trees," the produce of
"  both Asia and America, from the polar basin through the out
let into the Northern Ocean."         But page or two further on, he
                                                           a
has " annexed        diagram, constructed on the plane of the Pole,
                              a
to assist the reader in the explanation of the notions he enter
tains on this interesting subject," but which            rather puzzling;
                                                                        is
for whoever turns over the leaf with an idea of his own, or adopt
ing that of the writer, that there really
                                                    " circumvolving cur
                                                                   is
                                                                    a
      "
rent from west to east in the Arctic regions, will be surprised,
when he cast* his eyes on the diagram, to observe two different
courses denoted         arrows.   by
    The first shows    the  probable direction of the ice bergs, from
New Siberia, and         nearly as follows — N.E.
                                  is                       N. to the lati
                                                           :                 by
tude of 80° from thence about E.; then S.E. S.E.                     E. and                    by
again S.E. into Davis's Strait.         This first route,         were not        if     it
for the north-easterly direction of the first arrow, accords pretty
well with the notion we had formed of               " circumvolving cur
                                                                    a
rent." But the second, which the ice fields are conjectured
probably to take from the western part of New Siberia, viz. about
N.W.W. then about S.W. to the N.E. part of Greenland,                     so                        is
contrary to the former, and so completely opposed to the direc
tion of the circumvolving " current which carried the trees of
both Asia and America into Davis's Strait," that                difficult to
                                                                                       by is
                                                                                  it
account for   so  very  obvious    discordance, except
                                               a                 supposing
him to have considered the diagram he looked on, to represent
indeed a plane surface, instead of         globular one, as
                                                       is         is.   The               it
case then stands thus —         there     If           a a
                                            current such as the second
for the ice fields, a circumvolving current cannot exist; and                                            if
there       circumvolving current,
           is   a                               quite impossible that the
                                                        it   is
ice fields can take the " probable direction
                                                      "
                                                         assigned them in
the diagram.                                                         Having

334                      On the Practicability
    Having presumed that there is a
                                            " circumvolving current '- in
the Arctic sea from W. to E. but southerly withal, it leads me to
inquire into the probable effect of                 it,
                                                 and the winds together,
upon floating     masses  of  ice.
    In the first place (let the ice be formed where         may), its ge
                                                                       it
neral direction will in all probability be from VV. to E. with a
tendency at the same time to set to the southward, too strong to
be much counteracted            the force of any winds from that quar
                               by
ter  ; its bulk under being greater than that above the surface.
    If we cast our eyes on chart of the north polar regions, con
                               a
structed on the plane of the equator, no opening               seen for theis
egress of ice to the southward, out of the Polar basin, from Nor
way and Lapland to the eastward, along the whole coast of Asia,
till we come to Behring's Strait. Through this strait              does not     it
 appear   at  all probable  that'  much  of  the ice can pass,  on  account
of its comparative small extent, and        the  depth of water, perhaps,
being insufficient to float the bodies of greatest magnitude.
There may also be " trifling" superficial current, as
                       a                                                sup          I
pose;    or  one   "of  the  greatest   violence,"   as the  writer  of  the
article in the Quarterly Review supposes, running in from the
Pacific, to oppose its passage through this strait.
    From Behring's Strait, then, to the eastward, all along the
north coast of America, we find no opening for the ice to escape,
till we get to Davis's Strait. Through this strait,          there     " an
                                                                       if            is
 uninterrupted communication,"                 not unfair to presume that
                                              it   is
 immense quantities would be carried               current " running per
                                                        by
                                                        a
 petually with  a    velocity,  as  it   stated, of four and sometimes
                                         is
 of five knots an hour     !    I  am, however, inclined to think that
 either from the interruption of lands, or shoals, between Green
 land and America, a comparatively small quantity passes from
 ihe Polar basin through Davis's Strait, and that much of the ice,
 as well as the current, may have Hudson's Bay for their origin.
If   any obstruction does exist to the free egress of ice through
 Davis's Strait, the consequence must be             vast accumulation of
                                                             a
it  in a mass, more or less consolidated, from about NovaZembla
 all the way to the eastward, as far as Greenland            and extending
                                                                       ;
 northward from every part of the coasts of Asia and America, at
 least to the parallel of latitude in which the north point of Green
 land may lie.
    For whatever masses of ice cannot pass through Davis's Strait!,
 piust be pressed continually            by
                                          others brought from the west
ward    and   northward    by   the  circumvolving     current, along the
.north part of the more connected ice.                    If
                                                     its progress through
 Davis-.s Strait to the southward was not somehow impeded,                                it
 would pass through.       If   impeded (let the impediment be what
it  may)   in  its course   to the  southward,           yet still mere im
                                                             it   is
                                                                                      peded

                      of a   direct Passage over the Pole.                  335
peuVed     in its progress to the eastward, by the west side of Green
land   ;and therefore must accumulate against this solid barrier,
as far at Least to the northward as Greenland extends.          Then,
and not till then, can ice of any comparative quantity driyfi
further to the eastward, or find any passage down to the south
ward.
   All the ice furthest to the northward of Greenland is then at
liberty to move on towards Spitzbergen, whilst the ice that may
be in motion closest in with the land, when rounding the N.E.
point of Greenland, will take a turn to the southward, and hi
towards the coast withal, because it will be within the influence
of an eddy that must necessarily be produced in the stream of
waters passing nearest to the N.E. part of that land.         There jt
 must collect ; and if it consolidates, extend to the shores of Ice
land, or even to Spitzbergen ; or else " burst its fetters," as it
.issaid to have done lately, and drift away to the southward into
the Atlantic.
    This    sufficient to account for the ice between Greenland and
            is
Spitzbergen having a general movement to the S.W. and there       ;
is the same reason to suppose that the ice nearest to the N.E.
 and E. coast of Spitzbergen has also a similar movement.         Biit
it will not warrant the conclusion of there being current in the
                                                             a
same direction, at any considerable distance to the northward
and eastward of Spitzbergen.         On the contrary,      seems post
                                                             it
probable that any     masses  of  ice found   in that direction to the
northward of 82° or 83°, will be more within the influence of the
general circumvolving current, and therefore make an east-
southerly drift towards Nova Zembla, and perhaps clear of its
N.E. point.
   Greenland and Spitzbergen being situated so mucb> further to
the northward than any other known land      the Arctic regions,
                                                       in
form an impenetrable barrier against the movement to the east
ward of any ice but what may be to the northward of them
both.
  Much of this northernmost      surplus ice finding its way to tbe
southward,      one
                 is reason why     seems very likely, that, ice in
                                         it
the greatest quantity, and most compact, will be found from
about Nova Zembla all along the coast of Asia and America, and
extending to the' northward as far generally as the north point
                                              '
of Greenland     and that perhaps less and less ice will be found to
                  ;
the northward of that parallel, as the Pole       approached
                                                        is      that    ;
 is,adopting the opinion that the ice   first produced on the lands
                                                  is
surrounding, and accumulated afterwards at sea, so as to extend
its surface from those lands, northerly, till    reaches the parallel
                                                       it
of the north point of which the surplus ice must round before it
can pass into the Atlantic,    Davis's Strait
                                    if             obstructed.
                                                        is
                                                                      Greenland

336                     On the Practicability
     Greenland and Spitzbergen forming so powerful a bar to thtf
  progress of the ice with the circumvolving current to the east
  ward, renders it extremely probable that there is always less ice
  between Nova Zembla and Spitzbergen, than any where else in,
  the same parallel, and perhaps still less the nearer the Pole in
  summer.
      Whether the ice during the winter encompasses the Pole or
'
  not, can only be matter of conjecture ; and, in all probability,
  the fact will never be decided by man.
      In that season, if the cold is intense in proportion to the near
  ness of the Pole, it is possible the ice may advance to it.           But
  yet, as it is more probably drifted out of the Polar basin, as fast
  perhaps as it collects to the northward of Greenland, it seems
  more reasonable to presume, that it seldom reaches much be
  yond the latitudes of 82° or 83°, in any consolidated or very ex
  tensive bodies all the year round.       On this ground for one, rests
  the opinion    I hold,  in  common with the writer of the article in
  question, of the probability of the vicinity of the Pole being free
  of ice in the summer; not, however, as a consequence of there
  being no land there, but whether there shall be any land or. not.
  For I have supposecTit likely, that the temperature of the atmo
  sphere in the Arctic regions in summer, may sometimes exceed
  82° ; and the more, perhaps, the nearer the Pole is approached.
      First, because there may be less ice, for the reasons I have
  given.     And if there is ice, there will probably be a warmer at
  mospheric temperature to dissolve it at the Pole itself, than any
  where else to the southward of      it, as far as 75° or 80°. Because,
  when the sun's rays first strike the Pole, they will be felt there
  incessantly for six months      ; but with what force and effect we
  have yet to learn.      On all other parallels, in proportion to their
   distance from the Pole, the duration of the sun's influence will be
  shorter.     And though the sun's power during the periods they
  feelit   may perhaps be greater than at the Pole yet, being in
                                                           ;
  terrupted while he    is   below the horizon,  it   is perhaps probable,
  on the whole, that the greatest effect of the sun's heat may be
   at the Pole, as there he  is   above the horizon for six months    ;   iu
  the latitude of 84°, about five months     ;   and in 78™, about four
  months only, at   a   time.
      We are next to inquire, what " facility the late disappearance
  of the ice from the east coast of Greenland offers; 1st, for at
  tempting  a   direct passage over the Pole and 2d, the more cir
                                                 ;
  cuitous   one along  the northern coast of America into the Pacific."
      As to the 1st, according to the view   I     have taken of the sub
  ject,
      it    appears  to  me,   that the  facility  this event offers for at
   tempting a direct passage over the Pole, would be very nearly
  tfa« tame, whether more or less ice       is  collected, not only on the
                                                                    eastern

                        of a   direct Passage over the Pole.                              337
eastern coast of old Greenland, but even all around             and even   it,
between  it  and Iceland and towards Spitzbergen.          That      pro            is,
vided the attempt        to be made, as
                        is                       to be hoped
                                                  it   is        will be,      it
to the eastward     of Spitzbergen     because, for the reasons have
                                          ;                                         I
offered, it    probable the least quantity of ice will be found there
              is
clear   ofthe land at all events, whatever masses may be found
                   ;
there, they will in all probability be of less magnitude, and more
detached from each other         because the space for them to move
                                 ;
in is least confined.     If any of the vessels fitting out are destined
to take this route, the probability           is,
                                           that    they advance beyond
                                                        if
the latitude of 82° or 83° N. the ice will less and less impede
their progress to the Pole; and to reach            will perhaps be the
                                                        it
least difficult part of the enterprise.
    To the northward of S2° or 83° up to the Pole,            likely that
                                                                     it   is
the weather in the summer will be for the most part fine, but
hazy generally — thick fogs will be very frequent.        The winds are
likely to be moderate, shifting often round from north to east,
by south and west, to north again           but prevailing chiefly from
                                              ;
the eastward.
    If our polar navigator        furnished with time-keepers set to
                                  is
 Greenwich mean time, or with known errors relative to that time,
whose rates of go.ing have been correctly ascertained, and which
 rates will not be affected          by
                                   cold, electricity, magnetism, and
other yet unknown causes perhaps existing there, which may
operate on the materials of their construction                 very true,
                                                                     it   is
the " time at Greenwich
                              " will always be known: but should this
                                                                 ;
compass become useless to him, this Greenwich time alone will
not enable him to steer his proper course unless he sees the sun,
whose bearing he must have now and then to regulate                    bv.           it
 Here then at the Pole difficulties may occur, that the more " un
                    "
divided attention      of the navigator can not alone enable him to
surmount.      For at the Pole being left entirely perhaps without
any guide, though he may chance to steer              true south course,
                                                             a
he cannot possibly know to what point on the globe              may hap   it
pen to lead him, until he        enabled to see the sun, which in all
                                 is
probability will be very generally obscured.
  If   he passes the Pole without any great difficulty, and finds the
true^outh course he has steered, to be                  by
                                                  chance, on or near the
 170"   west meridian,    and so leading   him  towards   Behring Strait,
he will, in all probability, soon get to the southward as far -as
 80°, or perhaps 78°, where        itas probable he vn\\ find his further
                                        is
progress stopt     byice, perhaps impenetrable.
    From this part of the expedition, therefore,         see no very rea
                                                                 I
sonable ground for entertaining "lively hopes," that a practica
ble passage for ships will be discovered into the Pacific^ 'though
    Vol. 51. No. 241. May 1818.                              Y       there

,138   On the Practicability         of a   direct Passage over the Pole.
there does not seem to be the least doubt of there being one for
water and fish.
   As to the second, viz. " the more circuitous passage along the
north coast of America into the Pacific," the prospect of success
is still more unfavourable than the other, because the navigators
are destined in the first place " to struggle against the ice currents
and tides in Davis's Strait, and on the east coast of America,"
which the writer of the article I have been examining, tells us
himself, " are of course never free from mountains and patches
of ice," and to which he attributes " the failure in every attempt,
either to make
                   " this
                            (very) passage or to
                                                    " ascertain its imprac
ticability,"     "so that the highest point the former navigators ever
reached, is the Arctic circle, or at most the 67th parallel." — But,
even allowing that the present adventurers do reach the N.E. point
of America, and discover a passage through what appears to be
" gratuitously called " Baffin's Bay, they will then have to make
no less than 100 degrees of Westing, most probably, through
immense masses of ice, fixed, or moving with the circumvolving
current as well as the winds, both prevailing in a general di
rection from west to east against them.
   If there is any ground to hope, that a practicable passage for
ships can be discovered between the Pacific and the Atlantic,
along the north coast of America, the chances are that it will be
done   (if ever   it    from Behring's Strait to the eastward; and,
                          is)
therefore,   it      much more likely to be accomplished
                     is                                            (if at all)
by  the  Russian    officers,  said to be making    the  attempt   this  year,
thaa   by ours because, most of the obstacles opposed to the pro
                  ;
gress of our navigators from east to west, will be in favour of the
Russians the other way, at least as far as the effects of winds and
currents go. And though (as the writer in the Quarterly Review
                         " be somewhat mortifying,
                might                                     (to national pride
observes)    it
and vanity,  I   suppose)       if
                                 anaval  power,   but  of  yesterday, should
complete     adiscovery    in the nineteenth century,    which   was so hap
pily commenced             by
                         Englishmen in the sixteenth," yet        it    to be
                                                                       is
hoped,  it  will be no less gratifying to those who are disposed to
estimate as highly, some of the still better feelings of our nature.
   Notwithstanding the little reason we have upon the whole to
expect, that all the objects of our expedition to explore the
Arctic regions will be accomplished            ;yet   it    possible some of
                                                           is
them may: but at all events,           perfectly agree with the writer of
                 have taken the liberty so freely to canvass, " that
                                     I
the article  I
the character of the several officers who have been appointed,
and the men of science who are to embark on this grand enter
prise, afford the strongest presumption, that whatever talents,
intrepidity, and perseverance can accomplish, " will be effected:"

                       On Chemical Philosophy.                      339
 at the same time, the probable obstacles they will have to en
 counter, should be fairly pointed out to their full extent, that
 the public may not be led, by a too flattering view of the matter,,
to expect wore from the utmost exertions of these excellent
officers, than known circumstances as well as conjectured pro
babilities would appear to justify.                           Phoca.
LIX.     On Chemical Philosophy.         By   Mr. Matthew Allan,
                               Lecturer.
                        [Continued from p. 122,]
                              Essay   III.
H aving briefly     stated my arrangement, and the reasons for the
names and order of division which I have adopted in the mean
time, for the purpose of conveying the views I entertain of the
subject in a more definite and less equivocal form ; we now come
to the express object of my particular plan, — To apply these prin
ciples — to try their adaptation to facts and to nature. We come,
if possible, to measure the dimensions of the trunk from which
all the grand and all the numerous branches of science arise.
   This Essay and the three which follow, are intended to in
clude an abstract view of the principles which form the basis of
the rest, and contain the principal ideas to be unfolded as we
proceed through the whole.
    To say that I conceive that attraction in general, gravitation,
chemical affinity, electricity, galvanism, magnetism, caloric and
light, arise from one power regulated by one law,— that their
diversified effects are merely modifications which circumstances
and substances produce on its actions — is easy.        But to support
this opinion by a clear explanation and exposition of facts, by
pointing out what those circumstances are, and in what way they
operate, is matter of some difficulty.     I conceive it however to be
a work which will tend to give us clear and simple views of each
part of science, and of the whole combined, as one undivided,
sublime and majestic fabric of nature.
   Similar conjectures have been made by every philosopher of
any conseque ce ; without, however, as far as I know, any idea
having been thrown out by which such apparent diversity might
be explained : much less has any chain of reasoning been adopted
to support such a view.      Many expressions occur, it is true, by
which we are given to understand that attraction and repulsion,
&c. are merely effects : but these are so loose and so ill- defined, as
to have been almost altogether overlooked by others. Many more
again, on the other hand, have offered powerful arguments and
objections against various assumptions on which modern science

340                     On Chemical       Philosophy.
 is 'founded, without however submitting any thing better in their
 place.
   '
     'rU It is
                by attraction," says Newton, (by which he meant one
 grand power, without intending' to convey any thing as to itc
 Yiature,)'^*thst we must expect to learn the manner of the change*,
  production'-, generations, corruptions, &c. of natural things, &c."
  Bacon too, who constantly recommends an inquiry into the phy
 sical causes and reasons of things, says, " that he who duly at
  tends to the appetences and affections of matter (which both
  in the earth and in the heaven are exceeding powerful, indeed
  pervade the universe) will receive from what he sees passing on
  earth, clear information respecting the nature of the heavenly
 bodies ; and contrariwise, from motions which he shall discover
 in the heavens, will learn many particulars relating to things
 below, which now lie concealed from us."                               -\
 •
       It is evident from this quotation, that Bacon considered at
 traction, or the general laws and principles of that power which
 moves and unites and regulates the different tendencies of mat
 ter (or as he expresses     it,   " the appetences and general ten
 dencies or affections," which matter has to unite), to be the same,
 whether      it acted on small portions or' large masses of matter;
 whether on minute particles or on celestial masses; and that the
 actions of these two when viewed together, would tend very
 much to illustrate each other. We might quote without end pas
 sages to the same purpose from the ancients, as well as from all
 the moderns, Kepler, Copernicus, Fermat, Roberval, Galileo, &c.
 All of them had the same sublime views of the majestic simplicity
 of nature and indeed with Dr. Hooke they prepared the way for
              ;
 the exertions of Sir Isaac Newton, who improved and extended
 the attraction of gravitation, and who first discovered or clearly
 stated the doctrine of attraction among minute particles, since
 called chemical affinity*       He not only frequently intimates that
 the same power        is  applied to both particles and masses, but
conjectures that the principles           by
                                           which they are regulated are
also the same, and that the apparent differences would vanish
when they were better understood "All those actions," says he,
" virtue of which the particles of similar and dissimilar bodies
                                          :
     by
tend towards each other (and to which he applies the term at
traction) are the same as that        by  which distant bodies tend to
wards each other."
                                      "
      " Again," says Lord Bacon, the harmony of system, each
                                                        a
part supporting the other,       is and ought to be the true and brief
confutation of all minor sort of objections."        "Again," says he,
"   it   is the harmony of a philosophy in itself which giveth   it light
and credence         whereasif
                             it    be singled and broken,   itwill seem
                                                                  " Ge
                   ;
more foreign and dissonant."            Again, in another place,
                                                                 nerally

                        On Chemical Philosophy.                      3AV
   nerally," says he,
                      " let this be a rule, That all partitions of know
   ledge be rather accepted as lines and separations, so that the
   continuity and entireness of knowledge be preserved:" for, says
   he " the contrary hereof hath made particular sciences to be
   come barren and shallow and erroneous, while they have not
   been nourished and maintained from the common fountain."
      Let it not be conceived that, in speaking of one grand power
   or agent in nature, I suppose that it is for us to understand its
   nature or essence, or even all its properties and effects.        But
  what I contend for is; that I conceive, with Lord Bacon, "that it
  is unphilosophical to introduce a number of powers and agencies
   in creation, when one will better apply and answer the purpose."
  When clear conceptions of this one, and of the modifications
  which circumstances, substances, and time, &c. must produce on
  its actions, will not only better apply in explaining all the facts,
  but even particular anomalies and partial difficulties, which exist
  according to any other view; — when this one agency, in fact, en
  ables us to ascend and descend another link in the grand chain
  of effects ; it cannot be vanity to suppose this is truth, or at any
 rate a nearer approach towards it.           Besides, what idea more
  sublime can be conceived, than that as by one power the present
  states and form and order of material existences were evolved; so
  also by the same power they are supported and preserved in that
 state, or changed from one state and stage of existence to au-
 other ? The power which produces all this I have therefore de
  fined as " that which produces all the motion and union of mat
  ter." Now, it is, 1 conceive, the object of Chemical Philo
  sophy to ascertain, or endeavour to ascertain, how this motion
  and union are produced : and 1 therefore consider this will be a
 more correct definition than the one usually given, " thai chemical
 philosophy is the science {or that part of our knowledge ofna~
  ture,) the object of which is to investigate the movements and
 changes of the universe, and which endeavours to ascertain the
  nature and properties, together with the laws and principles
  and modifying circumstances of that power by which they are
produced." The definition given of chemistry, I have already said,
  is partial and imperfect ; and it is particularly so, according to
  these views ; it in fact applies better to chemical affinity, as che
  mical affinity has in a great measure for its object the examina
  tion of the " minute and intricate changes of nature." Now
  chemical science is distinguished from this, as a whole is from its
  separate and distinct parts : it has to investigate the general
  operations and effects of this power; while chemical affinity treats
  only of some of those operations and effects : — the one is general,
;the other particular.       These definitions cannot at present be
  either approved or condemned, until the whole of those we have
.                                   Y3                                 to

342                    On Chemical Philosophy.
to introduce are seen in connexion as one whole.         I wish them,
if pdssible, to be each descriptive of parts belonging to one whole ;
and to present the mind, when they are seen together, with a
 connected and combined view of the different objects of science,
 or of the operations, changes and phenomena of nature. A*
 artist would not call separate limbs and features, put together
 regardless of proportion and harmony, a correct portrait ; and
 etill less do those definitions and views of different branches of
 science, which include too little or too much, give, however
joined together, any correct representation of nature          it would,
 however,    be unfair to judge   of the one  or the  other,  in  an un
 finished form.
     What then, it will be asked, is the nature of this power ? and
 why in its actions does it produce such diversified effects and
 phenomena? Such questions require to be answered; for I have
 ventured to assert,   " that I conceive one subtle and all-pervading
 power produces all the phenomena of nature and art ; is the
 sole agent which creates or destroys, unites or separates, pre
 serves or diversifies the forms of matter ; that to its agency we
 owe not merely the subdivisions and convertibility of matter into
 solids, liquids and gases ; their appearance in one state, and dis
  appearance in another ; their union with this substance, and
 their separation from that species of matter ; — but also all their
  various degrees of density, of colour, of quality, of form, and of
  arrangement : that in fact it is the grand agent, the universal
 solvent, that energy which pervades the universe, and modifies
 all the powers and properties of matter ; which in one quantity
 determinate in each species of matter, binds and unites it to
 gether, and is therefore its principle of aggregation or bond of
 union ; which, increased in quantity, produces all its movements
 and changes, and is therefore the principle or power which al
 ternately destroys or renews every state of its existence" — the
  Grand Power, which in different quantities, by its solvent and
 attractive properties, gives to and preserves matter in its various
 states and stages and forms of existence; which binds and unites
 Us particles together, and by which also they are separated and
 carried from one point to another.
      This power, therefore, I have defined as *' that which produces
  all the motion and union of matter." This definition, without
 presuming to explain in full detail its essence, will serve to ex
 hibit some idea, in the mean time, of its powers and its properties
 and its actions.     It points it out as the grand agent, the cause
 alike of the inconceivably minute and infinitely extended move
 ments and changes throughout nature.          Some of these are pre
 sented to exercise our senses and advance our knowledge j the
 rest we conjecture by the powers of reasoning, the peculiar cha
                                                             racteristic

                       On Chemical Philosophy.                                       343
  racteristic of humanity, and no where so well exemplified as
 here, as in these boundless and seductive investigations of tbe
 wonders of space. The more extended effects, I am afraid, will
 require a more enlarged treatment than can be given in this.
 form. The full explanation of these views cannot therefore at pre
 sent be expected, nor even any thing like a complete answer to-
 these questions : — What is the nature of this power ? How cau
 the same power produce such diversified effects? and, Why should .
 its actions be attended with such diversified appearances ? Yet
 they are questions of such high importance, that we may be ex
 cused if we should consider them at greater length than a mere
 abridged view would seem to warrant ; —for what in science can
 be of more importance than clear views on the nature of this
 power ? If we are imperfect in our conceptions here, all that
follows will only tend to involve us in controversy and confusion :
 and it is evident that this must be the case, if it be true, that
 there are no separate and distinct causes for each of our artificial
 and arbitrary divisions of science.        And is it not certain, that if
 this power has the properties and qualities which we have as
 signed it,   then every effect and phenomenon can only be modifi
 cations which different circumstances and kinds of matter pro
 duce on its actions  ?    That, in fact,   if  we have distinct views of
 its varied attractive relation to substances and of its solvent
powers,     by  which in different quantities    itchanges or preserves
their states of existence, then shall we not only know the effects
which  it    produces, but perceive its principles or mode of opera
tion,  by   which these effects are produced      ;and also, why certain
phenomena        attend  their  production       It because
                                                      is        firmly be
                                                      "
                                            ?                            I
lieve this to be the case, that have1      defined       it,
                                                        the power which
produces all the motion and union of matter                         ;"
                                                                 definition
                                                                         a
which  is   brief and comprehensive, which includes every other;
and conceive          ought not to do less, for      the definition of the
                                                 if it
   I             it                                      is
cause which includes every other cause, — those phenomena and
effects can with propriety be called causes, which, though they
produce other phenomena and effects, merely result from or at
tend the various degrees of energy, or extent, or nature of those
actions arising from differences in the quantity, intensity, and
direction of the grand power, and the substances on which and
circumstances in which         itoperates.
    If then be the grand power which in different quantities,
            it                                                                       by
its solvent and attractive properties, gives to and preserves mat
ter in its various states, stages, and forms of existence; and                       if
during these changes      it   produces appearances as diversified as            ;
these changes themselves differ in their nature, we shall not
only perceive why one portion produces and preserves matter in
one form, and an increased quantity changes this form or why                 ;
every substance varies in the relative quantity          requires to pre-
                                                               it
                                        Y
                                        4                             serve

  344                    On Chemical Philosophy.
                                                                         >
  serve it in one state, or change it into another ; but also why,
  when we apply its concentrated actions (or heat, according to
  its common acceptation,) to substances ; or when we mix bodies
  together, or change their relative position, this power effects
  their separation, motion, and deposition, or their solution and
  union ; and if not soluble, moves them in one wav and draws
  them in another ; and all this invariably in the same order, and
  as invariably attended with the same appearances.        And hence I
  have said that " it is not only the power which binds and unites
  the particles of matter together, but that also by which thev are
  separated and carried from one point to another."
       If then, I again repeat, different quantities are required for
  each species of matter, and if these quantities be relative as well
   as appropriate shares, then we perceive whv every increase or
   diminution of this power, every change of position and arrange
   ment, every solution of one substance in another, must alter
  these relative quantities, must take so much from one particle
   and give so much to another.          It is thus one bodv is precipi
   tated from it and another is dissolved in it; or if not soluble, they
   are drawn in one way and carried in another, in proportion as
   they have relatively to each other more or less of this power; so
   that " all changes are mere exchanges of this power," sepa
   rating; from one substance and entering into combination with
   another, passing from one and adhering to another : — Hence we
  have by these artificial means, as well as in nature, their sepa
   ration, motion and deposition, or their solution and union, on
   their being moved from one point and carried towards another,
   &c. ; and all this, as they are relatively to each other more or less
  soluble, or relatively require more or less for any given state of
   existence, is true, in those changes that are produced bv simple
   mixture, as well as in those where heat, or the concentration of
   this power, is applied. The power then, I repeat, that accounts
   for minute changes, such as are in general exclusively considered
   under chemical affinity, is the same as that which produces the
   more obvious and striking changes; and they differ in effect and
   appearance, because the extent and rapidity as well as the sub
   stances on which, and circumstances in which, they are pro
   duced, are infinitely varied both in their quantity and intensity,
   their nature and their situation.
                                  Essay IV,
       Thus it is evident, that the power which we designate by the
   words fire, heal, or caloric, is very improperly restricted by mo
   dern philosophers to the mere solitary effects of heat and flame:
N
   for though these words caloric, fire, and heat, are all at present
   used by chemists and philosophers as expressive of the cause and
   the effect which that cause produces j yet in all their writings
                                                                     and

                     O71   Chemical Philosophy.                      343
and lectures on this subject, they confine their attention so ex
clusively to the phenomena of heat and flame, as in the most
unequivocal manner proves they conceive these features and ap
pearances characterize its proper form and nature : that, in factr
caloric abstractly considered is something in its own nature hot
and fiery.
    This I conceive, as will be evident, is an erroneous and very
imperfect conception of its nature and of its actions: and hence,
on this subject there has been so much controversy and con
fusion of opinion. As, for instance, From whence is it derived?
Whither does it proceed? Why is there frequently heat without
light? Why, again, do they generally appear together? Whether
are they in reality separate and distinct powers ? Many contend
they are mere properties of matter, and nothing in themselves.
Some, that they are only the effects which the vibratory motion
of the particles of matter produces. And what appears to me
very curious, before any one of these questions is answered, al
most all our modern philosophers have either been exeiting
themselves with all their might to prove, or have admitted as
proved, that heat and light, while they have a repulsion for their
 own particles, possess not only an attraction for each other, but
for all kinds of matter ; and this is said even by some who at
the same time affirm, that heat and light are nothing in them
selves, mere properties of matter, or the mere vibration of its
 particles.    Nor have these various opinions and contending
 theores at all diminished since the Lavoisierian theory of com
 bustion; proving in mv opinion most fully, that the views of the
 nature of this power and of its actions, are still erroneous and im
 perfect: and in fact it is now admitted, that this theory does not ac
 count for the heat and flame which appear in many instances ; and
 1 conceive it is very imperfect in its application    to all of them.
     Now, from the theory a'ready briefly, and consequently from
 its brevity imperfectly, detailed as it is,  will, conceive, appear,
                                             it     1
 evident, (and I   trust still more so when we come to particular
 detail,) that heat and flame are the mere effects and phenomena
 which attend the more energetic operations of power on which
                                                    a
 every motion, change, effect, and phenomenon, throughout na
 ture depend  :   and though we do not apply the word caloric, m
 the cause   of those changes which are more slowly produced, the
 pGwer and the principles of its operation are the same, differing
 not in  kind but in degree, and the nature and circumstances of
 its actions.    Confounding the difference between that which
  may be the same in kind hut very different       in degree,  is, on all
 subjects, the most frequent cause of error in our conceptions and
  our reasonings, and, what    isworse, in our practice.     Perceptible
  heat and visible flame are effects and appearances which,      I    re
                                                                     peat,

  346                             On Chemical Philosophy.
  p«at, depend on the nature and the degree of rapidity and ex
  tent of those alternate subversions and formations, transforma
  tions and transmutations, of the various forms of matter which
  one power produces.             We are not, therefore, to confine the
  meaning of the word to the mere effects and appearances of heat
  and flame ; — effects and appearances which are only the more
  striking features of a power on which every effect depends; the
  mere specific and determinate effect depending on the mode or
  degree or nature or circumstances in its operations — which in fact
  depends on the rapidity and extent and nature of the change pro
  duced, the rapidity and extent with which old combinations are
  subverted and new products formed by this power.                    The quan
  tity of  heat or   flame   (1 say heat   or  flame,  not  and  flame, for they
  are not in equal but inverse proportion) are in proportion to this.
  It is during these actions            of'
                                       ignition and solution,            of
                                                                        combina
  tion and. consolidation           matter, that
                                       of                      by
                                                          its combination and
  concentration, disunion and radiation, its rapid movements to
  and from a point in this combined and condensed form,                      pro
                                                                              it
  duces,  as  well  as   these   changes    themselves,     that   also  which         is
 the most useful            all its effects, and that which
                             of                                          the most
                                                                         is
 beautiful of all its phcenomena, heat and flame. Agreeably
 to these views, define that part of our knowledge of nature, the
 object of which       of is I
                          to treat of heat and flame, or caloric, as that
 which treats           some of those particular and more striking
 operations and effects of the grand agent on dissimilar kinds
 of matter, attended with heat and sometimes flame, and                       obof
 serving and applying its actions in these states in order to as
 certain its nature and produce other effects.
  I    wish to be understood, that           do not conceive this power of
                                               I
 nature      caloric, either abstractedly considered or according to
             is
 the common acceptation of the word                but on the contrary, that
 heat   is
        a    mere   effect, and   that  flame       is ;
                                                    mere effect;— that heat
                                                       a
 and flame are mere effects, indicating some specific mode or de
gree    inits operations. That this          the fact not merely as respects
                                               is
 heat and light, but also electricity and galvanism; that                     asit
sumes either the form of electricity, galvanism, magnetism, ca
loric or light, when in its movements and changes which                       it
                                                                            pro-*
duces on matter            combines with or separates from them in
                          it                                                         a
more or less perfect manner, and                     greater or less degree,
                                                    in     a
according to the nature of the substances on which, and the cir-.
cumstances in which             operates.
                                  it          So true       this, that
                                                                is            it
                                                                            may
be reduced to the form of an axiom,
                                                 " that this power either  is
given out or absorbed           one form or the other in every change
                                  in                                                 ;
and this in proportion to the extent, rapidity, concentration, and
the nature         the change produced.'"
                  of                                From        partial view of
                                                                     a
this    applied    to caloric          in   its usual acceptation,       Dr. Black
                                                                              formed

                      On Chemical Philosophy.                       347
formed this axiom,        ''
                          that whenever a body changes its slates, it
either combines with     or  separates from caloric." This has been
found true to a much greater extent than was ascertained during
the time of Dr. Black.        His attention in forming this conclusion
seems to have been chiefly directed to changes from the solid to
the liquid, and from the liquid to the solid states.        But it is now
clearly shown,     however    slight  the  change  in any  one   of these
states, and however produced,        — whether mechanically    or chemi
cally; whether by compression or the removal of pressure; in al
most all instances of mixing substances together, and the solu
tion of substances in liquids ; and in all where the resulting den
sity of the compound is not the mean between them in their se
parated states, — a proportionate quantity of this power in one
form or another is either given out or absorbed : substances give
it out or demand      it,
                        in proportion as they are relatively to each
other in excess, or defective.
          not then most evident, that " all changes are mere ex-
   Is
   it
changes of this power," passing from one substance into an
other; separating from this, in order to dissolve and combine
with some other species of matter         ?  and in proportion to their
solubility or insolubility they are united or separated from each
other and this in
       ;              a more or less perfect and striking manner,
in greater or less degree, according to the nature of the sub
   a
stances, and the extent of the changes produced.
    If then the science of chemistry endeavours to ascertain the
laws and principles of that power which produces all the motion
and union of matter, we have to explain what have been consi
dered very different and opposite kinds of effects and pheno
mena and this
       ;              still the production of the same power, and
                     is
not, as has been considered, effects and phenomena belonging
to another and opposite power, called repulsion.           It   therefore
becomes necessary to state in what, according to my opinion, this
difference consists.        It
                            depends,  I   conceive, on different degrees
of the same power; which different degrees produce various ef
fects, according to the circumstances in which, and the substances
on which,       operates.
                it           In fact, in proportion to the quantity of
this power and the time taken to act, and the solubility of the
substances on which        acts,
                           it    it  tends more or less to change their
state of existence.       The quantity necessary to produce this
change      equally necessary to support this change. Chemists have
           is
called this their relative capacity; as        water and steam differed
                                              if
in any way, and in the relative quantity of this power required
for their respective states of existence. That water        in  the state
called steam, occupies and suspends the active energies of this
power,     evident from this fact, — that this gas or vapour does not
           is
scald more than air heated to that temperature       j     but when the
                                                                  water

348                           On Chemical Philosophy.
water is separated from           it,
                                the moment this power     libcrnted
                                                                 is           it
instantly passes   with all its  energies and force into  some   other
substances   — :these actions on ourselves we call scalding,     burn
ing, heating, &c. So in making coal-gas, or any of the gases
bv heat, the pipes are hot only so long as vapour comes over, &c.
 .                                                      consider (and
    The atmosphere and all the permanent gases,              1
I  trust in the subsequent Essays will prove satisfactorily) to be
the same grand power holding substances in solution, by which
its density    is increased, its active properties and energies sus
pended or occupied in the exact- proportion to its degree of
saturation, or of their quantity in any given volume.               Hence in
elevated regions, with less oxygen and nitrogen and no moisture
to act upon, its energies are not suspended; and thus its greedi
ness for moisture occasions intense thirst, and evaporation un
impeded        bypressure goes on with intense rapidity.             consider
                                                                      I
also that this atmosphere or the permanent gases are solution*
of substances in this grand and universal solvent, and differ from
the solution of water merely in this; that they are not separable
from     itat any known temperature        ; and that thus all above this
point acts upon any other soluble substance, dissolves                it,
                                                                   and mixes
it  with the atmosphere or any of these gases.             Moisture in. this
wav       dissolved
         is              this power, and that in quantities in propor
                         in
tion to its excess        ;and consequentlv the quantity of moisture
held in solution in our atmosphere varies with the temperature
 or uncombined state of this power, with season and with cli
 mate. Hence, when this excess or the temperature                 increasing,
                                                                  is
 and of course going before the saturated point, as in spring, we
perceive the greatest difference between the spring and autumnal
shower, — that vegetation goes on at           a temperature in spring, at
which     it decays  in  autumn     and
                                    :    hence  the difference of our feel
ings   in  one  season   and   the  other, and   of our  diseases      that at
                                                                        ;
one season we have inflammatory aud at the other putrid dis
 eases; that      thorough knowledge of this principle, and of its in
                   a
 fluence, explains the diseases of climate and of situation. Hence
 also the explanation of many singular facts connected with mag
 netism and the polar regions (of which afterwards): that this
 power, not being separable from these permanent gases at any
 known temperature; that all above this unknown temperature,
 and under         it,
                   necessary to raise and suspend water, as at the                  '
 polar regions, appears in this form of electricity, or                in
                                                                      its most
 separate    and  pure  state,  (we can  perceive  it   by
                                                        the sense   of  seeing)
 as  I consider its state in the form of electricity to be and thus    ;
 the northern lights change with the changes in temperature,
 and fellow the parts where the largest collections of ice are
 formed, &c. AH these and several other facts appear to me ex
 plained on these views. The power of the steamrengme de-«
                                                                            pends

                             On Chemical       Philosophy.                     349
   pends ori rendering this power too dense to escape through the
   apparatus as it would do in its pure state.              Its power is in pro
   portion as its radiating energies are unoccupied, and yet suffi
   ciently confinable not to pass through the vessel*; thence the
    powers of the air-machine lately discovered, (I conceive the
   word discovered is more correct than invented: the power is the
   discovery; the wheels, and pinions, &c. are the invention,) or, as
   it has been called, the rarefied air-machine. What is called the
   elasticity and compressibility of air is heat, or this power pass
    ing out and passing in : if altogether separated by compression
   from the substance held in solutionis in the German tinder-box,
   its elasticity instantly ceases.          In short, not to dwell more on
   these points at present, it seems to me that certain appropriate
   quantities are inherent in all passive substances, and may there
   fore, probably, bind them together ; and that all above this
   tends to dissolve and change their state of existence from the
   solid to the liquid, and from the liquid to the gaseous state ; and
   if not soluble, to separate their parts or particles, more or less,
   according to circumstances.             As for instance, a change of elec
   tricity will explode a small quantity of water, converting it into
   vapour; and if confined in a small tube, burst it with explosion,
   or cause pith-balls which are not soluble to diverge, &c.
      '
         The action of one quantity or proportion of this power, I
   therefore say, is necessary to the present relative order of things;
   and according to this order, and this state, is confined principally
   to the internal parts, and preserves and supports them in thi*
  ^relative and present form of existence.             The other, or additional
   proportion, is the excess, and has the power more obviously of                    .
   dissolving and uniting, or moving and separating particles and
   masses^ carrying
                         in one direction, and drawing in another.            And
   in proportion to their solubility or insolubility they are united or
   separated from each other.
        The first, or combined quantity, more particularly pervades
   passive substances throughout space. The last, the uncombined
   quantity, more particularly pervades space void of passive sub
   stances, and is the infinite medium or stupendous chain of con
   nexion between them.              This distinction, then, though it may
   in some measure be arbitrary and artificial ; yet it comes near
  to facts, and the natural state of things ; and it is one which I
  think will be found useful in assisting the memory, the only use
        * This and every part of this view or theory of the subject was entertained
' in 1806, as may be proved by a correspondence with the late Dr. Faweett,
  in Chester, if these letters are still in existence. I mention this, because
   many improvements in the steam-engine prove this view correct.                To
  speak of the expansive power of steam, conveys to me a very imperfect and "
   inadequate explanation of the mode of its action.
                                                                                  of

   S50                 On Cltemcal Philosophy.
  ef any such divisions.     It will be found, too, convenient not only
  in rendering  this  theory of chemical philosophy, of electricity,
  galvanism, caloric, light, and chemical affinity, or chemical
  changes, more complete and more fully and easily comprehended ;
 but also it will enable us with more facility to follow the appli
 cation of these principles to astronomy, or mark those means by
 which one celestial mass influences another.         It is from consi
 derations   such as these,   that  1 have been  induced to divide this
 power into two portions ; by which it is not to be understood         I
  mean any difference in the power, but in the quantity of that
 power and the circumstances attending the operation.
     The one then, I call the combined portion, or that which is
 internal and inherent in passive substances ; and the other I call
 the uncombined portion, or that which is in excess, and conse
 quently is external and extraneous of passive substances.
    The utility of this distinction, and its useful application to the
 phenomena of nature, will, I repeat, be perceived and acknow
 ledged, as we proceed in our course to point out the heads and
 principles of chemical affinity; and I conceive I am warranted
 in adding, demonstrated in our application of them to electricity,
 galvanism, caloric and light, and still more so in proceeding to
 particular facts.
     The existence of separate and distinct powers in nature is so
 far from appearing to me a maintainable position, that I cannot
 even form the most imperfect and vague idea of any such thing:
 but that one power should be modified in its effects and pheno-
 mena by circumstances and substances, is not only, a priori, a
rational idea ; but on a very slight investigation of nature it will
be evident that such modifications must take place.           We see it
proved by every fact of nature and art, that there is some active
grand and irresistible power and universal solvent; and if so,
then, as it holds substances more or less in solution, it must in pro
portion to this be more or less attenuated or condensed, and con
sequently more or less rapid in its movements, and more or less
energetic in its actions. All these and a variety of other things,
infinitely varied in their nature and their proportions and com
binations, must diversify the actions of this great agent, and pro
duce phenomena and effects so infinitely varied and apparently
widely different from each other, that, overlooking this view, we
may cease .to wonder that so many powers and agencies in crea
tion have been introduced and enrolled on the list by modern
philosophers; and which in my opinion threaten, by rendering
science so complicated and confused, to extinguish that general
love for it which must end in its monopoly by the few, and
thus cease to produce its benign and liberal effects on the
world. I contend that circumstances constitute the sole dif
                                                                ference

                      On Chemical Philosophy.                      351
ference of each ; that all natural knowledge can only be the
Science of the vis naturce; that whether we examine the bowels
 of our earth or the constitution and properties of our atmosphere,
 or ascend to the more elevated and sublime view of nature in
 the celestial circle of events, it is still a continuation of our in*
 vestigations of the laws and principles and modifying circum
 stances of the same unlimited power of nature.
    If it should appear that I repeat these ideas and vary the ex
 pression by which I convey them too diffusely, it arises from my
 anxiety to be fully understood ; and I do this particularly from a
conviction of its necessity — a conviction which has been produced
by the difficulty I have experienced, in conversing on the subject
for years past, in making these views fully comprehended, which
 I have been in the habit of doing almost incessantly, and with
 those most conversant with such things, some of whom seem to
have imperfectly adopted them in their after writings.      It is very
different to have in our own minds the clearest perception of a
 subject, and the fullest conviction of its truth (which can only
arise from having long confined our thoughts to such subject),
 and to be able to produce the same effect on another.            Nor
need we wonder at this, when we reflect on the amazing length
of time and degree of labour it requires, even stimulated by an
enthusiasm which cannot be transferred, to produce this effect
 on ourselves.    I shall therefore be yet more particular.
    By"    the combined  portion," I mean that fixed internal and
inherent quantity, of which I conceive every distinct species of
matter has, in the same circumstances, its allotted portion, as
that principle which gives, retains, and continues its form, pro
perties, and state of existence.
    By " the uncombined portion," I mean that moving, external
or extraneous or projectile or radiating quantity, which, in propor
tion to its abstraction or its excess, produces either the solution,
deposition, or separation, motion, or change of place, of parti
cles, or of substances.
    Together and as one power they fix the place, regulate tha
form, and determinate the movements of matter, whether it re
spects the particles, or the aggregate masses of matter.
   This science of attraction, then, not only investigates the force
of that inherent or combined portion of this power, which is al
lotted to particles or to masses of matter, but it ascertains also
the influence which its excess, or the radiating or uncombined
quantity, has also upon them ; or not only of that quantity which
produces the union, but of that also which produces the motion
of matter:
   This science then has to ascertain the grand law by which
                                                                   this

352       Description      of an     improved.     Apparatus jot distilling.
 this force and this influence are regulated, and mutually act ort
 each other ; and it is evident they act on each other with a force
 exactly in proportion as the one or the other is in excess or de
 ficient.    In juct, there appears in nature a strong tendency to
-possess a relative and an appropriate share           this principle; and
                                                                of'
  whenever this distribution          disturbed or accumulated on one
                                          is
 point, and abstracted from another, this power                at the same is
  instant exerted.     The one body          as ready to part with its ex
                                                 is
  cess as the other      to receive its deficiency, and this-exertion to
                          is
  effect  a  proper   distribution   keeps up all the movements and
  changes  of  the  universe.     The   quantity in that place which is
  overcharged, rushes      to that which       undercharged, with
                                                      is               force     a
  bearing an exact ratio to the overcharge of one and the under
  charge, of. the other, when nothing intervenes to oppose the ac
  tion of this law. But as          from substances intervening of dif
                                     it   is
  ferent specific capacities and conducting powers, &c. that these
. commotions themselves take place, in its distribution          this law                  is
  modified      by
                 an infinite   number   of  circumstances,   and  of course
  produces, bv the qualities of the particles, and these qualifying
  circumstances attending these agencies, all the various results
  which   it   the object of chemical philosophy to investigate. —
               is
-Whether these results are those of nature or those of art, and
  however varied the circumstances, the power and the primary
  law of that power are the same.
                              [To be continued.]
  LX.      Description          of   Mr. Henry Tuition's               improved       Ap
                               paratus Jcr Distitlaiion. .
This      apparatus, for which the inventor has obtained patent*
  for the United Kingdom and the Colonies,       so simple, so effi
                                                                is
 cacious, and at the same time so important in its results, that we
 are persuaded our readers will feel gratified in being made acr
 «juainted with it.                                                                        ,
      Mr. Tritton incloses the body of his still in an outer case
 filled with water in such    manner that no heat can get to the
                                     a
 rtill, but through the medium of the water, and consequently
•jio heat greater than the boiling point of water can reach
its contents.      Before commencing the distillation, the -still
 and the     other vessels connected with     are exhausted of air
                                                           it
 bv means of an air-pump.          close condensing vessel
                                           A                   used,             is
 instead of the worm commonly employed, which             connected         is
 with a  close receiver    means of
                                by    pipe and a   the pipe there
                                                           ;      in                       is
a stop-cock        which this communication may be closed as oc
                     by
casion requires.      The receiver has on its top     stop- cock for   a

      Description   of an  improved Apparatus   for  distilling.   353
the admission of the air when necessary, and both the receiver
and the still have proper discharge cocks, and may have man
holes or cap-screws in any convenient situation for cleansing
 them, and any other useful appurtenances.
    Th* construction is shown in Plate II. and will be easily un
derstood from the following description : — A is the still; LL
the outer case attached to it ; B is the close condensing vessel;
C is the close receiver, having an air-pump E on its top, and
also a stop-cock D ; H is the discharge cock of the receiver ; I
 the discharge cock of the still ; G is the stop-cock in the pipe
 connecting the close condensing vessel and the receiver.          The
 condenser and receiver are also in cases, but surrounded with
 cold water.
    In this improved apparatus, the produce in the receiver may
 at any period of the distillation be examined without interrupting
 the progress of the operation ; for by turning off the stop-cock
 G, so as to close the communication between the close condenser
and the receiver, the latter may be opened, without suffering air
 to get into the other vessels, so as to stop or impede the distil
 lation. The advantages presented by this invention are many
 and important.       By the removal of the pressure of the air from
the surface of the liquid in the still, a very moderate heat suffices
 to effect distillation — far less than in the common process ; and
a great saving of fuel is effected, which (for the colonies espe
cially) is a consideration very important.
    To show the extent of this benefit, it may be stated, as the re
sult of repeated experiments, that distillation in this improved
 apparatus takes place at a temperature full 80° below the com
mon boiling point of 212°.         By the regular application of this
low degree of heat through the medium of the liquid in which
the still is immersed, any empyreuma is entirely prevented, and
 the produce in the improved apparatus is rendered far superior
 to the best produce of common distillation. No accident of
 burning to the bottom can occur in this apparatus, nor can loss
 by evaporation, inevitable at the worm's end in the common
mode, and sometimes great when too fierce a fire is kept up.
 The durability of the vessels is also promoted by this new con
struction and mode of operating ; and as less heat is required for
distillation with this apparatus, so less cold water is wanted for
condensation, which in several of the West India islands, that
have but a very scanty supply of that useful article, is a very desir
able saving. These advantages have been proved by many decisive
experiments, and the quality of the spirit obtained by distillation
in this improved method has been pronounced unrivalled by
gentlemen eminently competent as judges on    '
                                                 the subject.    Those
    Vol. 51. No. 24 1; May 1818.                 Z                 who

                                                                       '
35  1    Description   of an  improved Apparatus     for  distilling.
 who are interested in such improvements may see the apparatus
 at work at the premises of the patentee, No. 63, Whitechapel,
 London, who has the permission of the Honourable Commis
 sioners of His Majesty's Excise to erect his improved apparatus
 for distilling, for the use of distillers, rectifiers, &c.
 Copy    of a Letter from Joseph Benwkll, Esq. (a Gentleman
     of long Experience, and of great practical Skill, in the Eng-
     lish Malt Distillery,) addressed to Mr. Henry Tritton, on
     the Subject of his Patent improved apparatus for Distilling.
                                                    Henley, Oct. 9, 1817-
     Dear Sir, — Having      attended repeated trials made with your
 apparatus    for producing a vacuum and distilling by the com
 bination of the balneum with the air-pump, and having consi
 dered the principle thereof, — I feel much satisfaction in commu
 nicating my full conviction, that it is a mode by which a purer
 spirit will be extracted, than by any other that has been hitherto
 practised ; that a considerably less proportion of fuel will be re
 quisite, and that the operation may be performed with equal fa
 cility. I remain,
                   Dear sir, yours very sincerely,
                                                   Joseph Benwell.
 To Henry Tritton, Esq.
 Copy    of a Letter from Mr. William Allen, (Fellow of the
    Royal and Linncean Societies,) addressed to Mr. Henry
    Tritton, on the      Subject  of his Patent    improved Apparatus
   for Distilling.
                             Plough Court, Lombard Street, Oct. 7, 1817-
    Mv Dear Friend, — I         consider that the plan for producing
a vacuum, or even a partial vacuum, in the vessels destined to
receive the products of distillation, is a great improvement : for,
in proportion as the vacuum is rendered more perfect, the spirit
will be drawn over at a lower temperature, and will be more
fragrant, and better in every respect ; and the still being sur
rounded with water, the heat can never rise beyond two hundred
and twelve degrees ; and consequently, that unpleasant smell
which the spirit always has when the matter in the still is over
heated or burnt to the bottom, is entirely avoided.          It is further
obvious, that upon this plan distillation may be carried on with
a smaller expenditure of fuel than upon the old system.
                        I remain, thine sincerely,
                                                    William Allen.
To Henry Tritton.
                                                         'LXI.    Account

                             [    355   ]
LXI.    Account of a Shower    of Meteoric  Stones which fell in the
       County of Limerick.       Communicated by William Hig-
      gins, Esq.
                          To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, —    I send you a copy of a letter which I, have received
from a gentleman of the highest respectability, who was an eye
witness to one of the most remarkable showers of meteoric stones
on record.    This shower fell in the county of Limerick.
   The information with which I present, you, was in answer to
the following queries, which George Tuthill, Esq. of this city was
good enough to transmit to his friend in Limerick, soon after the
event occurred.
   1 . Have any persons seen the stones in the act of falling ?
   2. How soon after the large 3tones fell were they discovered ?
and were they hot ?
   3. Was the fall accompanied by thunder and lightning ; and
if so, was there but one clap and one flash, or how many ?
   4. What was the state of the weather ?
   5. What is the shape of the larger stones?      ,
   6. Have smaller stones fallen at the same time, and at what
distance were they found from the larger ones ?
   7. Were there appearances of recent fractures on the surface
of the large masses ; and if so, whether those fractures corre*
sponded in shape and number with the small fragments ?
    In consequence of the foregoing questions, I received the fol
lowing letter :                                         « Limericlr.
   "Sir, — Friday   morning, the 10th of September 1813, being
very calm and serene and the sky clear, about nine o'clock a cloud
appeared in the east, and very soon after 1 heard eleven distinct
reports, appearing to proceed from thence, somewhat resembling
the discharge of heavy artillery.   Immediately after this followed
a considerable noise not unlike the beating of a large drum, which
was succeeded by an uproar resembling the continued discharge
of musquetry in line. The sky above the place whence this noise
appeared to issue became darkened and very much distmbed,
making a hissing noise ; and from thence appeared to issue with
great violence different masses of matter, which directed their
course wjth great velocity in a horizontal direction towards the
west.    One of these was observed to descend ; it fell to the earth,
and sunk into it more than a foot and a half, on the lands of
Scagh in the neighbourhood of Pobuck's Well, in the county of
Limerick.    It was immediately dug up 5 and I have been in
formed by those who were present, and on whom I could rely,
that it was then warm, and had a sulphurous smell.        It weighed
about seventeen pounds, and had no appearance of having been
                               Z 2                          fractured

Sj6          Account       of a   Shower   of Meteoric   Stones
 fractured in any part, for the whole of its surface was uniformly
 smooth and black as if affected by sulphur or gunpowder.           Six
 or seven more of the same kind of masses, but smaller,     and   frac
 tured, as if shattered from each other or from larger ones, de
 scended at the same time, with great velocity, in different places
 between the lands of Scagh and the village of Adare.       One more
 very large mass  passed with great rapidity  and  considerable  noise
 at a small distance from me ; it came   to  the ground  on  the lands
 of Brasky, and penetrated a very hard and dry earth about two
 feet.   This was not taken up for two days ; — it appeared to be
 fractured in many places, and weighed about sixty-five pounds !
 Its shape was rather round, but irregular: it cannot be ascertained
 whether the small fragments which came down at the same time
 corresponded with the fractures of this large stone in shape or
 number ; but the unfractured part of the surface has the same
 appearance as the one first mentioned.       There fell also, at the
 same time, on the lands of Faha, another stone, which does not
appear to have been part of, or separated from, any other mass :
its skin is smooth and blackish, of the same appearance with the
first-mentioned,   and weighed above twenty-four pounds.           Its
shape is very irregular.   This stone is in my possession, and for
its volume is very heavy.
    *' There was no flash of
                              lightning at the time of, or imme
diately before or after, the explosion ; the day continued very
calm and serene; was rather close and sultry, and without wind
or rain. It is about three miles in a direct line from the lands
of Brasky, where the very large stone descended, to the plase
where the small ones fell in Adare, and all the others fell inter
mediately ; but they appeared to descend horizontally, and as if
discharged from a bomb and scattered in the air.
                   "   I   am, sir,
                                    " Your   obedient servant,
                                                   "  Sam. Maxwell.
"   William Higgins, Esq.
    " Dublin Society-House."
    There is no phenomenon in nature so strange or so difficult
 to be accounted for, as the existence of meteoric stones in the
 atmosphere, and the circumstances attending their motion and
descent to the earth.        The fiery meteors which deposit them
are often seen at a considerable height above the clouds, moving
in a horizontal direction with great velocity, but gradually ap
proaching towards the earth. When they reach within a certain
distance of it,   or when they meet with clouds, the phenomena
of thunder and lightning are produced, the ignition ceases, and
the stones come down, most frequently shattered into masses of
different sizes, with the effects of fusion, without exception, on
                                                              their

                   which fell in the County       of limerick.               357
   their surface, the fractured parts excepted,
                                                         although internally
   they exhibit no such appearance.
       In whatever part of the world those stones are
                                                                  found, they
   exhibit very nearly the same appearance as to
                                                             colour, texture,
   fracture, &c. and on analysis give the same
                                                         ingredients, some
   times varying very little in their proportions.
      The stone which fell a few years ago in the
                                                              county of Tip-
   perary, and which weighed seven pounds and a half, was
                                                                          found
   by my analysis to consist of the same substances
                                                                   with many
   which had fallen on different parts of the
                                                        globe, according to
   the analyses of Mr. Howard.
      The following are the constituents of those
                                                           stones, via.
                       Silex in large quantities.
                       Magnesia.
                       Iron in its metallic state.
                       Nickel in small proportions.
                       Sulphur and oxide of iron.
      As no other mineral substance hitherto
                                                         discovered on our
   globe consists of the above ingredients, we must
                                                            consider them as
   foreigners.   Some philosophers suppose that
                                                          they are projected
   from the volcanoes of the moon — that                are
                                                  they        projected from
   the earth by means of volcanoes — that
                                                 they are produced in the
  atmosphere by the gradual accumulation of minute and
                                                                      invisible
  atoms, & c. But as these speculations are inconsistent
                                                                   with sound
  philosophy, or even with plausible hypotheses, I shall
                                                                      drop the
  subject here.
      It is supposed by Cladini that they never belonged to
                                                                            any
  planet, and that they were opaque wandering masses, before
                                                                           they
  reached the confines of our atmosphere.            This, certainly, is the
  most rational mode of accounting for their presence
                                                                 in the situa
  tion in which we first behold them in the
                                                    atmosphere.
      However, to account for their becoming luminous or red
- when
                                                                           hot,
          they descend into the upper regions of our
                                                                 atmosphere,
  regions of eternal frost, has been a desideratum with me, and en
  gaged much of my attention some time past.
      These masses, like all other ponderable
                                                         materials, contain
  specific heat round their atoms and particles ; in moving
                                                                      through
  the atmosphere they collect electricity ; and this
                                                               continues in
 creasing, as there is no other solid matter in those upper
                                                                       regions
 to prevent its accumulation *. When they acquire a
                                                                     sufficient
 quantity of electric matter, the entire or a portion of their specific
 heat is liberated, and much of it is thrown on their
                                                                surface; this
     * The upper part of the atmosphere which
                                                 extends beyond the reach of
 clouds, contains a.considerable quantity of free electricity, as the
                                                                        pheno
 menon of the aurora borealit sufficiently evinces.
                                      Z 3                                 gives

 358          Observations on the Letter    of Mr. Friedlander
 gives the luminous appearance : as they contain much iron and
 sulphur, a portion of oxygen unites to their external parts. The
 degree of heat produced by these different circumstances will
 account for the superficial fused erust which invariably surrounds
 these substances.        It is probable also that a quantity of electri
  city collects round those masses, so as to form a considerable and
  dense atmosphere, and that this electric atmosphere as they
  move along keeps the air in contact with them in a constant
  blaze.
      These electric stones in descending towards the earth, when
  they meet a cloud comparatively negative, lose a portion of their
  electricity; which bursting forth with great vehemence exhibits
  the ptraenomena of thunder and lightning; at the same time that
 they are most commonly shattered into pieces.           So soon as this
  takes place, their luminous appearance ceases, their specific heat
 resumes its former station, and they are -precipitated to the earth,
  still retaining a considerable degree of heat. The stone that
  fell in the county of Tipperary could not be touched with the
 hand some time after its descent.
      It is somewhat strange that those meteors should be found to
 move from E. to W., which is contrary to the motions of the
 earth ; unless it had been occasioned by the electrical explosion,
 which might have scattered the stones in every direction by its
 violence.      It is impossible that such explosions could be pro
 duced but by means of electricity : therefore, it appears rather
 singular that they should not be accompanied with lightning,
 which is generally the, case; but probably the opacity or dark-,
 ness of the clouds, during the fall in the county of Limerick, ren
 dered it invisible.      I am, sir,
                                   Your very humble servant,
           ,  .                                          W. Higgins.
 LXII.       Observations on the Letter of Mr. Friedlander on the
     actual Slate of Magnetism in Germany. By M. C. Oppert,
     M.D*
The' readers of the Gazette of Health will find in the first num
ber of that work for 1817, a letter from Mr. Friedlander to the
editor of that journal, On the present State of Magnetism in va
rious Parts of Germany.
    The author, who has just performed a rapid journey through
that country, begins by giving a succinct account of the history
of a sick person whom he saw at Hamburgh, who, having fol
lowed a course of magnetic treatment for several months without
deriving therefrom any benefit, had been prevailed on hy Mr. F.
                        • Translated from the Genwin.
                                                                      to
 -

          on the  actual Slate of Magnetism in Germany.           359
to abandon it.      Going thence to Berlin, where magnetism is
practised with more success and more zeal than any where else,
he describes what he believes he there observed ; — he displays, or
rather he interprets, the opinion of the most eminent physicians
of that metropolis ; — he then gives his own particular opinions ;
and resting on general considerations, he endeavours to deny
most of the effects of magnetism, by attributing to the force of
imagination those effects the existence of which he is obliged to
acknowledge.
     The incorrect statement of facts related in that letter, and the
                                                                      '
false consequences drawn from them, impel me to answer the
author.     It is not my intention to enter on any controversy on
the reality of the effects of magnetism, — on the methods em
ployed in the practice of it,--— nor on the applications which have
hitherto been made of it for the cure of different diseases. These
different subjects have already been treated in so many writings,
that it appears unnecessarv for me to discuss them anew.         But
I believe I owe it to this science and to truth, to rectify those
relations, the incorrectness of which obscures the light of a doc
trine which ought to be made perfectly clear; and to repel a sa
tire the more misplaced, when attempting to throw ridicule upon
subjects which from their nature ought to be treated in the most
serious and even solemn manner.
     Educated at Berlin, where 1 devoted five years to the study of
medicine, I did not neglect any thing from which 1 could derive
 instruction in that science: and I believe 1 have it in my power
to explain to philosophers and the learned, those facts, most of
which are misrepresented in the letter of Mr. Friedlander.
     The institution of Mr. Wolfart, Professor in the University of
 Berlin, is the principal object of the descriptions and satire of
 Mr. F. It has been established between ten and eleven years ;
 and it has extended itself and obtained more success every year.
 The discovery of the property of the agent denominated mag
 netic fluid, of parsing to unorganized bodies, impregnating them
 during a certain time, and of passing thence into the human body,
 suggested the apparatus known by the name of baqaels. These
 are isolated vases filled with water, magnetized by a proceeding
 similar to that by which we magnetize human beings ; and which
  thus become in some sort reservoirs of the magnetic fluid. Iron
 or steel conductors emerging from the water, direct the fluid to
  the patients placed round the baquct.
    . The necessity of multiplying the means of distributing    mag
  netic aid, made it advisable to have recourse to those apparatus;
  for one magnetizer could not have strength or time sufficient to
  magnetize a great number of patients. — Experience has brought
  to perfection their use ; and the luxury which prevails even in
                                  7. 4                              the

360        Observations on the Letter     of Mr. Frieilander
the simplest retreats of science, has given to these machines ah
elegance under which the sceptical think they trace mystery and
chicanery.      Mr. Wolfart's baquets were at first of the most sim
ple   construction;   those of other physicians, whether in Berlin or
any   of the  smaller towns of Germany , are so still: in fact, they are
nothing but vessels filled with magnetized water and furnished
with steel conductors.       In the course of his practice Mr. Wol-
firt made additions to this apparatus ; some of no importance,
 and others useful in promoting the circulation of the fluid.         He
inclosed the vessel of water in a mahogany case, which Mr. F.
 is pleased to compare to an altar, with the same aptitude with
 which he compares to a sanctuary a room in no respect different
 from any ordinary apartment. A steel rod is immersed perpendicu
 larly in the middle of the vase, woollen ropes of about three lines
 diameter are attached to this conductor, and the patients surround
 with these cords such parts of their body as they conceive to be
 the seats of their disease.     Mr.Wolfart thinks they increase the
 effect of the apparatus, by conducting the fluid which emanates
 from the reservoir.      They are not of silk, as Mr. F. states them
 to be, but of worsted ; for, according to Mr. Wolfart, silk will
 not serve the purpose of a magnetic conductor.           As to the brass
  wires of which Mr. F. speaks, there are not any in the machine;
  and he is deceived in imagining that he recollects any communi
 cation established from the baquet to the sides of the apartment ;
 for this would be entirely useless.      In the upper part of the ma
  hogany case there is a space above the baquet, which is filled
  with lambs' wool.        The wool thus placed becomes charged
  with the magnetic fluid ; and is applied in several local affec
  tions, to continue on the parts affected the constant influence of
  magnetism.      Above the machine Mr. Wolfart has suspended a
  glass globe, quicksilvered like a looking-glass, which communi
  cating with the central conductor by means of a woollen cord,
  partakes of the properties of the machine*- He believes, in com
  mon with many magnetizers, that magnetism is propagated like
  light by irradiation ; that, concentrating itself in a body within the
  glass globe, it is thence radiated so that its effects are diffused
  every way.     For this purpose, and not to use as a lustre, he
  added a ball of glass to his apparatus.
     Mr.Wolfart makes use of the baquets as they were at first used
  in the magnetic treatments.       The patients seated round it take
  hold of the steel conductors, to draw thence the streams, which
  they direct according to their complaints.           They experience
  nearly the same effects as from direct manipulations, — cessation
  from fatigue; the sensation of warmth; perspiration; every de
  gree of sleepiness, and somnambulism ; — indeed, all the effects
 consequent on direct manipulation are produced equally in the in
                                                                dividuals

          on the actual State    of Magnetism in Germany.         361
dividuals who have recourse to the baquet, more or less strongly,
as they may be more or less sensible of magnetic action.              I'
should repeat what has been said a thousand times, were I to
attempt here to detail the course of those phenomena which,
notwithstanding an infinity of hypotheses, are still incomprehen
sible.
    To convince oneself of their reality, a transitory visit, a super
ficial view, is not sufficient : — an attentive examination, impartial
researches, and observations closely followed up, are necessary to
give this conviction.       Had Mr. F., in his examination of this,
exercised the same impartiality of which he has given proofs in
other branches of science, he could not have stated the cases
with the want of accuracy so evident in his letter : he would
not have permitted himself to criticize so unjustly ; he would
not have endeavoured to deter the physicians of France from
 making trial of a means of cure, which, under their direction,
would produce results the most advantageous to the progress of
 physiology and of the art of healing.
    Mr. Wolfart's institution has existed, as I have already said,
above ten years, and his practice has gradually increased. Most
of his patients are individuals who had already exhausted all the
resources of medicine; — yet this serves only to enhance the value
 of that agent of nature of which the powers are but beginning
 to be known, and to increase our respect for those physician*
who are willing to study them and superintend their effects. Mr.
 Wolfart's success has been very greet : and as his experiment*
 have been multiplied, the confidence of the public has increased;
and the number of the sick who have resorted to his treatment
 has become so considerable in these last years, that he found
 himself under the necessity of sending some of these patients to
 other gentlemen of the faculty who have established treatments
 similar to his own.       As to the result of the numerous experi
 ments   made   by Mr.Wolfart,     the method he follows, the theories
 by which he explains these effects, — it is to him we look for a
 detail of these, which he will not delay any longer than until the
 labours which he has undertaken shall afford him leisure : — to
 anticipate the explanations he intends to offer, would be both
 hazardous and indiscreet.
    To one assertion of Mr. F. I must however reply in this place,
 because it might give ground for a serious attack on Mr. Wol
 fart's system.     It is, that this gentleman prescribes and distri
 butes medicines to his patients — so that the salutary effects of his
 treatment ought to be attributed to these common remedies, and
 not to magnetism.        In the first place, these remedies are verv
 simple, and have for the most part been employed only to ae

362           Observations on the Letter   of Mr. Friedlunder
quire the confidence of patients of that class of persons who
think it impossible to relieve them without giving them some
medicine to take.         In the next place, Mr. Wolfart's institution
not being intended for the trial of experiments, but for the cure
of disease; this gentleman made use of all the means which his
previous studies afforded for the attainment of that end, in the
quickest way. Being perfectly aware of the effects of the several
medicines, and of the benefit arising from their association to
magnetism in the cure of certain diseases, he would not renounce
 their aid, to satisfy those persons who would have magnetism
treated like the physical sciences, without regard to the cases of
 those who submit themselves to its action. Besides, the establish
 ment of Mr. Wolfart was not a criterion at the time of Mr. F.'s
visit : it was not under the direction of a medical practitioner ;
and though Mr. Wolfart permitted such of the faculty as had
                             it,
the curiosity to go into     it       was neither to instruct them in his
system,     nor to try  to  make    proselytes to his doctrine :     for truth
will      the end never fail
         in                      to  establish  herself.    In short,
                                                                   it    must
be remarked,    —  and this entirely removes the objection to which       I
have been replying, — that in the number of persons who presented
themselves, internal or external remedies were not administered
to   a fourth part of them.         Thereis    no doubt that from hence
forth   Mr.  Wolfart    will  altogether give up their use     ;   his insti
tution being now raised to the rank of          a     medical academy der
stined to the purposes of instruction, magnetism will be exclu
sively adopted,     in order to preserve the purity of the experi
ments: but for that reason he will send out to another treatment
such of his patients as may require the union of medicine in the
aid of magnetism.          As to the credit enjoyed       by   magnetism at
Berlin as a meansof cure, maybe said that increases everyday,
                             it                      it
and that the most eminent physicians of that city hold this to be
one of the most efficacious remedies yet known.                 They are far
from considering     it  a  specific  in all cases
                                                 ;    nor  do  they resort to
it   in such slight  affections    as  yield easily  to  the common medi
cines; but numerous examples, observations collected from all
quarters, have at length placed beyond all doubt that               it   is
                                                                         a
valuable resource in different disorders, and, in many which are
beyond the reach of medicine, that         it   is  of inestimable utility.
It  frequently happens       that   Dr«.  Hufeland, Heim, Formey, and
other celebrated physicians, send to Mr. Wolfart's institution
patients who have been long under their hands without deriving
benefit, and these persons leave the institution entirely cured           by
the sole application of magnetism.             Nor are these cases rare   :
I  have often witnessed them, and every inhabitant of Berlin may
assure himself of their truth.          That magnetism does not always
                                                                        cure
                                                                         j

           on lhe  actual State of Magnetism in Germany.         363
cure ; nay, that in certain cases it does not appear to have any
effect, cannot be denied; — but unfortunately we are nor more ad
vanced with respect to most of the other remedies in our art :
we do not know their manner of acting ; we cannot determine
with certainty what effects they will produce; we fail repeatedly
in employing them in diseases of the nature of which we know
no more than of the remedy ; nor as yet are the physicians of
Berlin, most of whom have recourse to magnetic treatment in
oertain cases, quite agreed as to the extent of its efficacy. Some
apply it without distinction to every internal malady ; others li
mit its application to determined cases.        But in this respect
magnetism      shares the  fate of all other remedies, which atone
time rise, and at another fall, in the opinion of the faculty.    Dr.
Hufeland has himself too often and too clearly declared his own,
sentiments, to leave it to any one else to interpret them. He ac
knowledges the efficacy of magnetism ; he ranks it among the
most powerful remedies in his materia medica ; and it is incon
ceivable that Mr. F. should appear to know nothing of this.
Dr. Heim, Dr. Formey, and other eminent physicians, are of the
same opinion.       There are, indeed, a few who cannot yet bring
 themselves to admit the existence of a power of which they have
no conception : but these persons are too wise and too modest
to judge of and condemn what they as yet know very imper
fectly.
     The public usually side6 with those physicians who are most
esteemed. The majority are by this time acquainted with the
effects of magnetism, and the admirable phenomena which some
 times accompany it.       The great influx of sick persons to the
 magnetic treatment of Mr. Wolfai t and of some other physicians,
 is sufficient proof of their confidence in it.
     Persons of the highest consideration are not above inquiring
 into all that this new doctrine offers, that is remarkable and in
 teresting; but indeed here all the mystery and juggling, which in
 other countries have been so inimical to the propagation of this
 discovery, have been carefully avoided.     No man thinks of esta
 blishing a magnetic treatment to make his fortune.       At Berlin,
  as jn the greatest part of Germany, the disinterested love of truth
  and the most rigid principle reign in the empire of the sciences.
     The government in Prussia has not seen with indifference the
 progress which the doctrine of magnetism has made towards
 perfection.     Too enlightened not to be sensible of the advan
  tages derivable from its protection of the science and of indi
  viduals, but too circumspect not to foresee the ahuses which
  might counterbalance them, — it has taken such measures as are
  favourable to them, while they prevent the other,. The public
                                                             practice

 ^64         Observations on the Letter        of Mr. Friedlander
  practice of magnetism has been forbidden to all persons who have
  not attained a knowledge of the elements of medicine, and who
  have not received a certificate, proving them duly qualified, from
  the committee appointed to examine the capability of the phy
  sicians.     By this means there is now nothing to fear from a
  power which, in the hands of the ignorant, of enthusiasts, and
  quacks, might have been subversive even of social order. On the
  other hand, the government has raised magnetism to the rank
  of those sciences which are to form a part of the public instruc
  tion v — it has named Mr. Wolfart, Professor in ordinary of the
             '
  Faculty, and Director of a Magnetic Seminary which it has
  added to the numerous useful public establishments existing at
  Berlin. Magnetism is thus placed within the observation of such
  of the faculty as can appretiate its advantages and its inconve
  niences, and separate that which may be illusory or exaggerated
  from that which is incontestably true.
      The practice of magnetism is more or less known in the rest
  of Germany. I have travelled over a part of                 it,
                                                              and have found
  that it   is generally pursued with tolerable impartiality and zeal.
  At Vienna       had been prohibited
                 it                            by government        ; was em
                                                                        it
  ployed notwithstanding,        and    that even  publicly.   At  the  time of
 the Congress,      several  magnetic experiments        were  made    in   pre
  sence of the august strangers there assembled, which succeeded
 to their entire satisfaction.         In fine, last summer the prohibition
 was entirely taken off          by  government order, and the practice
                                      a
 of magnetism was confided to medical gentlemen particularly
 approved. On this subject, Mr. F. seems ignorant of this decree,
 for he says nothing of         in his letter.
                                it                 He doubtless not aware
                                                        is
 that the King of Sweden has just sent an eminent physician
 to Berlin. to be instructed              Mr. Wolfart and that the Em
                                          by            ;
 peror   of Russia    has   sent   thither   Mr. Stoffregen, first physician
 to the Empi-ess.       Other foreign physicians have visited Berlin of
 their own accord, with the same views.               This    sufficient proof
                                                               is
 that in the Northern countries magnetism                isnot regarded as        a
 chimera.
     In fact,    it time to leave off disputing the reality of
                      is                                                  thing
                                                                             a
which has for the last thirty years occupied the attention of the
public. Nothing            more easy in medicine, than to reason, as
                           is
 Mr. Pinel frequently says but at the same time nothing
                                     :                                    more
                                                                             is
useless: indeed, nothing tends so much to prevent real observa
tion and accurate experiment.              This has unfortunately been the
lot of magnetism.         Each man arrogates to himself the right of
reasoning and deciding           ;they exhaust the arguments            priori,
                                                                         a
drawn from the elements of physiology               : but no one examines
into facts no one gives himself the trouble of making accurate
             ;

         on the   actual State of Magnetism in Germany.             365
and continued    researches. Ask these reasoners, who fill the me
dical and literary journals with their satires and declamations,
whether they ever applied seriously to the study of the doctrine
they attack; — in all probability, not one of them grounds his as
sertions on experiments tried by himself.         Many of them fancy
it would derogate from their dignity, even to make an inquiry
on a subject against which they are prejudiced.         Since the pub
lication of the first Memoir of M. dePuysegur, printed in 1784,
a great many collections of facts have been published both in
France and Germany.         Some of these were probably of doubt
ful authority, but many were authenticated.              The works of
Messrs, Wienhold, Gmelin, Kluge, and still more recently that
of Mr. Deleuze, contain a body of doctrine not one word of
which is contrary to the actual state of the medical sciences.
The phenomena there mentioned are given without exaggera^
tion; the proofs discussed with impartiality: and yet the ene
mies of magnetism repeat the objections which are there re
futed : — if they have taken the trouble of reading them, it must
have been very superficially and with strong prejudice.               In
quoting   from  them, they    cite  a  few  sentences, which  being de
tached from what precedes and from what follows, give occasion
for ridicule.   I do not see any candour in this mode of making
quotations, but there is certainly in it great levity; and it is not
by such means that they can ever arrive at positive results.
   Magnetism had the misfortune to fall during the infancy of
the discovery into the hands of individuals entirely ignorant of
the elements of physiology and medicine.            Some persons per
verted it for their own interest, and thus abused a doctrine which
they were not called on to profess, and the truth of which they
even brought into disrepute by the pretensions of quackery.
The regular physicians withdrew from the practice in proportion
as these empyrics gained ground : they abandoned the practice
of magnetism, and endeavoured to bring it into contempt.               In
consequence of this, for along time the examination of the phe
nomena it presented was given up to men who had not suffi
cient instruction to weigh the circumstances in order to connect
and compare them with other phenomena of nature.                 We are
•till engaged in establishing facts which have been seen a thou
sand times ; in seeking the laws by which they must invariably
be reproduced ; in distinguishing what belongs to this new prin
ciple, from what might be effected by other causes. Those
sciences which treat of the physical properties of animal bodies
have advanced more rapidly.            Electricity, galvanism, mineral
magnetism     have   been  studied  ; and although the phenomena
which they present     are  neither  less singular nor less inexplicable
than those of magnetism, we have not neglected to examine, to
                                                               establish,

366                   Observations and Experiments
establish, and to register them. — The contrary is the case With
magnetism.         They reason, they dispute, but do not examine ;
they judge     without   having observed ; conclusion comes before
experiment, instead of after ; and how many prejudices, how
many prepossessions, how many interests produce these conclu
sions ! It is impossible to mistake them in reading the opinions,
the decisions scattered through the periodical papers,                  ff the
medical men and the wits (for wits too will argue on medicine)
would study the doctrine which they oppose, the tiuth of it
would soon be evident to them ; and we should then perhaps
hear them giving to rnagnetism panegyrics as exaggerated as
their present criticisms.
                                                               C. Opfert.
    P. S.— My Observations        were in the press when a letter was
communicated         to me of the Count de Lcewenhielm, minister
plenipotentiary of the King of Sweden at the Court of Russia.
 This letter bears date Stockholm, 7th October 1816, and the
 person to whom it is addressed has given me permission to tran
scribe thence the following paragraph :
    "  I forgot to tell you that at Berlin Magnetism, known by the
name of Mesmerism, receives much greater honour than With
you or even with us4          The King of Prussia has just appointed
 Mr. Wolfart, Professor of Mesmerism in the Academy ; he has
 also founded an hospital of a hundred wards for the wounded,
 who are to be placed under exclusive magnetic treatment.
     " I have just learnt from M. de Cederschoeld, a very eminent
physician of Stockholm, whom I sent to Berlin at the expense
of the Court, that Mr. de StofFregen, physician to the Empress
of Russia, and Mr. Malfatti, physician to the Court of Vienna,
 are also sent to confer with Mr. Wolfart, and to learn his prac
 tical system in the mode of using the baqnet, a system founded
on the surest principles of approved medical science."
LXIII.      Observations and Experiments on oxy sulphuretted              Mu~
          riatic Acid* ; by the Marquis Cosmo RrooLFif.
 While         the important uses of oxygenated muriatic acid gas
 are daily multiplying in the arts, and many of its new combina
tions and properties are discovered with great advantage to che-
    * However extraordinary    some ideas contained in this memoir may ap
pear, the author seems to have Used so great circumspection in the expert
ments, and announces his hypothesis with so much modesty and diffideuee,
that we apprehend his labours will be acceptable to chemists. — Edit.
    t From Giornale di Fisicn, Ckbrrica, fyc of Pavia, by Brugnatelli, Brumicci
 and Configliachi.              ....                           . , -
            ,                                                            mists,

                    on   oxysulphureltcd Muriatic Acid.                    3G?
 mists, its theory is still a subject of controversy; and its nature,
 to the disgrace of the first philosophers of the age, still remains
 enveloped in obscurity.         Important facts exist in support of the
 ancient theory of Vauquelin and Berthollet,&c.; and many Ger
  man chemists, at the head of whom is Berzelius, wish to pre
 serve it against the delicate and ingenious experiments made by
 the celebrated Davy to establish his theory of chlorine, in which
 he is followed by the French and some Italian chemists.                 Since
  then Europe is divided in opinion, and the facts already known
 respecting this substance arenotsufficient to settle the controversy,
  it would be too bold to pronounce sentence without adducing,
 'as motives of the decision, new facts and conclusive experiments.
  It is therefore desirable that all chemists would communicate to
  the public the facts which present themselves in operating on
.oxygenated muriatic acid and its infinite combinations, whence
 some able chemist might combine, and, comparing them, decide
  the question.      If I do not deceive myself, I hope that I have not
 been altogether unsuccessful in the following few simple obser
  vations on oxysulphuretted muriatic acid, although they are
 neither so complete nor extensive as they might have been, owing
 to some personal circumstances which impeded me*. I ought
  also to add, that I was led to these experiments by the reasonings
  of my friend D. Taddei, who assisted me in a great part of them ;
  and hence they are announced under the name of both.                      We
  have already published our first attempt to demonstrate the pre
 sence of oxygen in oxysulphuric muriatic acid, and consequently
 support the theory of Berthollet.             I have only to add, that the
 oxygenated muriatic gas which was passed over sulphur as pure
 and dry as possible, was passed over muriate of lime in a thou
 sand different ways, to obtain the highest possible degree of dry
 ness ; and that, previous to beginning the experiment, it was en
 deavoured to fill the whole capacity of the apparatus with the
 same gas, thus expelling the atmospheric air which it previously
 contained.       The sulphuric acid, in which the sulphur was changed
 by the action of nitric acid, was as highly concentrated as possible.
 Encouraged by the satisfactory result of our first attempt, we
 made others corresponding.
      Over 315 parts of oxysulphuric muriatic acid put into a ves
 sel full of muriatic acid gas, we threw 20 parts of pure and very
  dry phosphorus.         By simple contact only, after some hours the
     * In a note the author states these to be the injurious effects of oxy-
 ttuiriatic aeid gas on his lungs,
                                 ^    exciting cough, &c. which have compelled
 Uim   to  abandon the  inquiry.   It may be proper to observe, that this gas is
 not so dangerous to many others who are daily employed in preparing it for
 the arts, and that in several manufactories visited by the translator he nevef
 heard its being considered as extremely insupportable.
                                                                  phosphorus

  36S                 Observations and Experiments
    phosphorus was melted without any sensible increase of tempe
    rature, and liquor placed over it lost its red colour, becoming yel
    lowish and somewhat turbid.           As it appeared that by repose no
    subsequent change could take place, we applied a moderate heat;
    and fixing a bent tube in the vessel in which we operated, carried
    it to a bell-glass receiver over mercury. A strong ebullition im
    mediately took place, and continued as long as there existed any
    uncombined phosphorus, although at its commencement the ap
    paratus was removed from the action of the fire.           The mass be
    came of a transparent citrine colour, and an elastic fluid was
   separated during the experiment, which we recognised to be pure
    muriatic acid gas. As the experiment was made in a retort,
   distillation was easily effected without permitting the contact of
    the atmosphere : the muriatic acid passed over, and a little sul
   phurous acid ; the sulphur was sublimed ; a mass remained hav
   ing a red colour, and the density of paste. Exposed to a naked
   fire without removing it from the same receiver, sulphur was
   again separated from it, and a white solid mass remained, so
   luble in water and with all the properties of phosphoric acid.
   This weighed 60 parts. Hence the phosphorus was found in
  creased in weight by 30 parts of oxygen. Now in 315 parts of
  oxysulphuretted muriatic acid, there exist 24 of oxygen : thus we
  see that there was no other loss in this experiment but four parts
  of oxygen, which probably constituted the very small portion of
  sulphurous acid.       The existence, therefore, appearing evident of
  a quantity of oxygen in this liquor, in such a state as to form
  new combinations with bodies greedy of          it,   we believed   it our
  duty not to omit experimenting with carbon, thinking that by
  this means the theory of Berthollet might be established        ;   since,
if    earbonic acid were formed, we should have             valuable fact to
                                                        3 a
  add to those already stated.        Taking therefore  1     parts of oxy
                                                              5
 sulphuretted      muriatic  acid,   we  put them   into a tubulated  retort
 communicating with     a     glass tube, within which was carbon ob
 tained from the action of pure sulphuric acid on pure alcohol.
 This carbon was during an hour exposed to the most violent
 heat, and rapidly introduced into the tube (which passed through
 a small furnace, and after having two bends was united to a
 Woulf apparatus). We commenced
        's                                   by    rarefying the air within
 the vessels     by  means of a strong heat applied to the whole of
 their surface, and afterwards we heated the tube.              But owing,
perhaps, to the badness of the lute which we employed, we
found this experiment extremely difficult to conduct to a for
tunate result; as too great   a      heat melted the glass, while a    tem
perature     a   little inferior   left the  experiment incomplete.       A
porcelain tube, had we been able to procure             it, might perhaps
h*ve obviated this difficulty, and prevented the necessity of re
                                                                  peating

                    on oxysulphurelled             Muriatic Acid.                   3G9
gating the same experiment several times before attaining the
debired exactness.        When the apparatus had attained the tem
perature of 35" of Wedgwood, we heated the acid in the retort,
making it volatile, and keeping the furnace at a uniform tempe
rature.     A very great quantity of gas was evolved, which tra
versing the pure water in the connected vessels, the lime water
in the globular glass, and afterwards a column of the same within
a cylinder in order to wash it well, it was finally collected in the
bell-glass.      The experiment finished, we found the coutents in
examining every part of the apparatus and in analysing the pro
ducts.
   There was no residue in the retort which contained the oxy-
sulphuretted muriatic acid, except a few drops of           which wereit,
owing to portion of vapour that had not passed into the ap
             a
paratus, and which condensing             by
                                        the cold had resumed the fluid
state.   These weighed five parts: Hence of 315 parts, only 310
passed in vapour over the red-hot carbon.           In the space of the.
anterior tube with carbon there was a little sulphur regenerated
and attached to its sides of        heavy red colour, and pasty-like
wax, not acid       by
                     itself, and   in a
                                    that state which Berthollet Called
oxidated sulphur        in the posterior part of the tube with carbon
                         ;
there was also sulphur, but in            very small quantity and of a
                                               a
natural colour.       This sulphur, besides the former, weighed lti
parts Hence only 84 parts experienced the joint action of the
      :
heat and carbon, from which also should be deducted the pro
portional quantity of sulphur contained in the five parts of oxy-
smlphu retted muriatic acid remaining in the retort.           This sul
phur, however^ found in the posterior part        of the tube with thfev
carbon we considered as left              by
                                       the sulphuretted hydrogen gas
(evolved    as  we mighjt  say)    by
                                   some   peculiar decomposition.      In
the bends of the tubes which contained water, we found             large        a
drop of   a  fluid which evinced many characters of hydrogenated
sulphur   ", called      Lampadius alcohol of sulphur.
                         by                                Its volatility
  * The following   is the experiment alluded to.   He took 315 parts of sul
phuretted muriatic acid with nitric acid prepared by synthesis, and with
 160 parts of this acid converted into sulphuric acid all the sulphur con
tained in that substance, which was 100 parts therefore 100 parts of sul
                                                      :
phur to be Converted into sulphuric acid require 133 parts oxygen of which  ;
only 97 parts were furnished by the 160 of nitric acid. Now the 36 parts
deficient are nearly found bythe ancient theory, which considers 315 parts
of sulphureft .-d muriatic acid as consisting of 100 sulphur, 181 muriatiz
acid, and 34 oxygen Hence he infers that chlorine contains oxygen.
                         :
   The author follows the opinion of those chemists who believe that                 al
cohol of sulphur     composed of sulphur and hydrogen
                    is                                     but Clement and
                                                                  :
Desormes with others maintain that        consists of carbon and sulphur. —
                                             it
Note of  the Paeia Editors.
  ,Vol. 51 .     No.il   1
                         .    May !8
                                   1    8.                A   a             appeared

3/0                   Observations and Experiments
appeared to be still greater than that which- is commonly pre
pared ; and perhaps this fluid differs something from it in other
 particulars, as wc shall see.     The liinewater was excessively tur
bid, and proved to contain much calcareous carbonate and hydro-
 sulphuret of lime.        It passed to the state of an elastic fluid.
 merely from hydrogen gas slightly sulphuretted.       The formation
 of calcareous carbonate should be sufficient to confirm us in our
 mode of thinking respecting the presence of oxygen in oxysul-
 phuretted muriatic acid; and in fact without it carbonic acid gas
 could not be formed, and in consequence we should not have
 .obtained calcareous. carbonate : but as this phenomenon was
  combined with others of muf.h importance, we were thus led to
  make new researches, which produced the following results.
      At first there appeared a quantity of calcareous carbonate, such
  as to contain so much carbonic acid which could not be sup
  posed to proceed solely from the 34 parts of oxygen that seemed
  to form a part of the oxysulphuretted muriatic acid: besides, not
  having found the smallest quantity of the 181 parts of muriatic-
  acid, except a slight indication in the anterior part of the tube,
  where the carbon was mixed with the sulphur, hence arose a
  doubt that the muriatic acid itself was decomposed, and that it
  had administered fresh oxygen.        The carbon was diminished in
  weight, become of a surprising blackness, had an insupport
   able odour of sulphureous acid, and could not be inflamed if not
  previously exposed to a vivid heat: mean time by this process it
 .was burnt to the surface of the sulphur, its bad smell had va
   nished, and it was thus become sufficiently combustible to con-
  sume entirely without leaving almost any residue, being probably
   converted by means of atmospheric oxygen into carbonic acid
  gas.     In close vessels exposed to a heat much more intense than
  that which it experienced in the glass tube, it did not lose its
  strong smell, if not previously mixed with new and pure carbon,
  in which case some sulphur was sublimed.          The sulphur which
   was deposited on the sides of the tube behind the carbon, and
   whose physical characters we have already described, being placed
   by us in a glass subliming vessel, left in the aet of sublimation
   traces of carbon sufficiently sensible to be scraped, and from
  which we obtained a blackish powder extremely fine. It imme
   diately occurred to us that this carbon mixt with sulphur pro
   ceeded from a reciprocal decomposition of a little carburetted
  over a greater portion of sulphuretted hydrogen gui; but as it
  presented an extraordinary brightness and combustibility, shining
  like iron filings and inflaming by the discharge of a small Lcydeu
  phial, we determined to combine it with superoxygenated muriate
  of potash to produce detonation.         We were much surprised in
                                                                   this

                   on oxy sulphuretted Muriatic Acid.             371
  this operation by the unexpected fulmination which happened,
  while we exercised on these two substances but a slight tritu
  ration to combine them intimately, a trituration effected with
  two fingers holding the mixture in the folds of a thin dry paper.    .
   The noise of the explosion was very great, and such as not to
  be reproduced by four times the quantity of the same salt mixed
  in any proportion with different combustible bodies. All the
   characters of this powder, its unequivocal odour of sulphureous
  acid, whereas previously it was entirely inodorous, made it be
  considered as a compound of sulphur and carbon combined to
  gether in unknown proportions, and perhaps both modified in
  their chemical properties.       The large drops of hydrogenated
   sulphur which we found in the cavity of the apparatus, and which
  was as limpid as water, did not appear to contain an atom of
  carbon or of sulphur in the mixture. We divided it into three por
  tions, which we treated as follows : the first was inflamed by the
   electric spark, burnt with a blue flame developing white vapours
- with a sulphureous smell, and leaving no residuum ; the second
  portion, introduced into a glass globe of large capacity contain
   ing oxygenated muriatic acid gas very dry, became pale yellow,
   and terminated by leaving simple sulphur and destroying the
   colour of the gas.     We then examined the atmosphere in the
   balloon glass, and found it to be pure muriatic acid gas. This
   fact, noticed by other chemists, has not been well observed or
   duly considered ; and to explain this phenomenon with greater
   exactness, we employed, for the same experiment, the third por
   tion of hydrogenated sulphur which remained.          Instead of a
   simple spherical glass vessel, as in the preceding experiments, we
   used one elliptical and doubly tubulated.      The inferior neck or
   tubulature of this vessel was closed by a steel stopcock, to which
   was attached a curved glass siphon, in which mercury was included,
    to show by its height in the one or other arm, the increase or
    diminution of the atmosphere in the glass. The other tubula
    ture was armed with a steel joint, through which was passed a
    male screw of the same metal (all the steel parts were covered
   with a hard varnish to prevent the action of the oxygenated
    muriatic acid), at the extremity of which, introduced into the
    inside of the vessel, was a platina wire, to which was suspended
    a little platina cup.   The inner rim was covered with skin, irr
    order that the hydrogenated sulphur which was placed in the cup
    should not come in contact with the oxygenated muriatic acid,
    but at the pleasure of the operator, which was effected by mean*
    of a screw and the edges of the cup being brought in communi
    cation with it. The whole being thus disposed, by means of a
    strong pneumatic machine the atmospheric air was confined
    within the receiver, and afterwards we substituted very dry oxy-
                                     A a2                      genated

372                 Olservalions and Experiments
genated muriatic acid gas.          The apparatus was again emptied,
and filled with the acid gas until we concluded that it could
contain nothing but oxygenated muriatic acid gas; when we ob
served the temperature of the internal air by means of a thermo
meter which was immersed in it.             Adapting the siphon to the
stopcock,   We   observed   the  stationary  point of the mercury in its
two arms.       Lowering    the  platina cup containing the hydrogen
nated sulphur by     means    of the  screw, we noticed in an hour the
following appearances, having the stopcock shut. The tempera
ture of the inside of the vessel rather increased, and afterwards
returned to its original state.          The gas confined in the vessel
 had no colour, although at the commencement of the experiment
it was greenish yellow.        The hydrogenated sulphur from a fluid
became a little pasty,    from   a perfect transparency to a somewhat
milky appearance.        The stopcock being opened, the mercury in
the siphon evinced an increase of volume in the air of the re
ceiver, the barometer indicating no diminution of pressure. Af
ter another hour we found the same things, only the increase of
volume of the internal air was greater. At the end of a third hour
we observed no change.         We then resolved to try a higher tem
perature in the balloon glass, exposing it for a few moments to
a bar of iron heated, but not shining.         With this heat the paste
in which the hydrogenated sulphur had been converted, became
 dry, and the sulphur remained in the c,up in a white powder :
some of this powder was sublimed on many parts of the sides of
 the vessel ; this happened without the mass being melted, and it
is evident that it was a sublimate from undecomposed hydroge
 nated sulphur, which abandoning its hydrogen had left this pow
 der adhering to the sides. We left all to repose a little, and
 when it resumed its original temperature we observed a new in
 crease of air.     At this period we introduced a small quantity oi"
 oxygenated muriatic acid gas, the driest and purest possible.
This was effected by means of A bladder, which threw into the
 apparatus oxygenated muriatic acid gas without permitting the
 condensed air to escape.        After a few minutes the stopcock was
opened,   to  see if  there  was  any increase in the air, as it seemed
 there should be in proportion to the quantity of gas added; but
 instead of this we found a diminution, and the temperature of the
gas as much raised: restored to its original degree, we added
some new oxygenated muriatic acid gas, and after a certain re
pose found a diminution of air, an increase of temperature, and
the white powder of sulphur had assumed its ordinary yellow co
lour.   After a little repose we added more oxygenated muriatic
gas, but we then observed an increase of the air and no change
of colour.                                       • »
    We  deemed     it superfluous to continue      longer these experi
                                                                  ments,

                   on   oxysulphurelled Muriatic Acid.                        373
incnts, and resolved to examine the different residuums in the
operations.    We found that the weight of the sulphur corre
sponded   to that of the hydrogenated sulphur employed, and that
the mixt gas was composed of simple muriatic acid gas 92, and
hydrogen gas 8.       From these facts it seems just to conclude that
the hydrogenated sulphur absorbed with avidity the oxygen,
throwing off a little of its hydrogen ; and such was its tendency
to combine with the oxygen that it decomposed the oxygen -
ated muriatic acid gas, taking from it the oxygen with which it
was charged, and reducing it to simple muriatic acid gas.                It
appears therefore that common sulphur contains a dose of oxy
gen, as in our process sulphur of a white colour was obtained,
which was coloured yellow in proportion as it absorbed oxygen
from the oxygenated muriatic acid, after which it displayed all
the characters and properties of common sulphur.              It also con
tains hydrogen, according to the experiments of Berthollet ; and
after passing over the red-hot carbon, in such circumstances it
furnished the inflammable liquor known by the name of hydro
genated sulphur: it appears that it only gave out a portion of its
«xygen, which constituted perhaps the carbonic acid gas with
carbon surcharged with hydrogen, of which charcoal is a copious
source.     Hence we could only form a theoretic hypothesis, since
the principal object of our labours was not to obtain hydroge
nated sulphur; and consequently we could not determine with
certainty  if,  from the copious quantity of carbonic acid gas ob
 tained  by  the action of the oxygen of the oxysulphuretted mu
riatic acid, some atom might not be involved in                  it,
                                                            or might pro«
ceed from the oxygen in the pre-existent sulphur.                therefore
                                                                         If
anyone should think         itprincipal object to repeat and extend the
                               a
experiments of Lampadius, Robiquet, Vauquelin and Berthollet
 on this substance,     itwould be perhaps the most useful thing to
observe accurately,         it by
                             analysis,      sulphur naturally contains a
                                               if
 dose of oxygen, or     if    apt
                                is to  combine   with oxygen after being
              by
               the action of carbon, and perhaps             that of mu
 modified                                                        in by
 riatic acid, as we have seen             by
                                        synthesis    and ;  case  that this
 should be the fact, to determine           this reobtained sulphur had
                                               if
 any property not common to natural sulphur              or  ;  at least
                                                                       if      it
 were not at the same time observed under the aspect of a white
 powder.     Whoever will reflect that, although hydrogenated, sul
 phur   absorbs    a portion of oxygen,          does not appear that
                                                    it                         it
could deprive      the  oxygenated      muriatic   acid gas of its super
 abundant oxygen, reducing         to simple
                                     it        muriatic  acid gas, at least
 not without using      astrong dose of hydrogenated sulphur, always
 supposing 85 parts of muriatic acid gas to be surcharged with
  15 of oxygen to constitute oxygenated muriatic acid gas.             But
if  the facts which we have announced should throw any doubt
     .                                         Aa
                                                3                              in

374               Observations and Experiments
on the theory of chlorine, we cannot, hence, unequivocally reas-
sume the Lavoisierian doctrine in all its extensions, although it
may be fair to institute the following deductions.
  The hydrogenated sulphur changed the oxygenated muriatic acid
into simple muriatic acid, giving out hydrogen, and absorbing a
portion of its acidifying principle. Now this seems to be oxygen,
from its property of producing sulphuric, phosphoric and carbonic
acid, facts which we have already cited.      The quantity of oxygen
absorbed corresponds    tothe  quantity of hydrogen emitted: now the
hydrogenated sulphur absorbed from 100 parts of oxygenated
muriatic acid gas eight parts of oxygen ; there remain there
fore combined with the 85 parts of muriatic acid gas only seven
of surplus oxygen, and the properties of the acid gas are scarcely
those of simple muriatic and not oxygenated muriatic : hence
we conclude, that the muriatic acid gas may be surcharged with
oxygen to a certain point, without evincing the properties of oxy
genated muriatic acid gas ; that the ultimate portions of oxvgen
under the circumstances in which they exist, determine its true
formation, and thus subtracting its properties restore it to the
state of simple muriatic acid gas.      This reasoning is not entirely
void of probability, as in like manner it is known that sulphureous
acid has divers quantities of oxygen without altering its pro
perties ; so also nitrous acid, the ultimate portions of oxygen
uniting and constituting it sulphuric or nitric acid : Hence may
we not suspect that muriatic is a simple gradation of oxygenated
muriatic acid ? I know that the modern doctrin^ opposes this
mode of reasoning, and considers these bodies as in a state of
mixture and not in divers degrees of oxygenation ; but this doe*
not appear to me to be yet well ascertained ; and if it were, it
is easv to apply it to our case.
    The water which lodged over the bubbles of hydrogenated sul
phur in the cavities of the apparatus, and in which the gas was
washed, was milky, and contained sulphuretted hydrogen and cari
bonic acid gases.     The limewater in the balloon glass was con
verted into a hydrosulphuret of lime, and calcareous carbonate,
was formed, which, after being washed and dried, gave lime 114,
carbonic acid gas 84, water 2 = 200.         The carbonic acid gas
consisted of 51-4 oxygen, 19 carbon, 10-6 water =84.            Here
we find a quantity of oxygen equal to 1 7-4 more than what
should really be found if the carbonic acid gas was all formed
at the expense of the 34 parts of oxygen which accompanied
the sulphur submitted to experiment, recollecting that the sul
phuretted muriatic acid was at 10° of Reaumur (55°Fah.) under
the barometric pressure of 27 inches eight lines (French), spe
cific gravity 1-7, and composed of 100 parts of sulphur, 181
muriatic acid, 34 oxygen, =315 parts.         Neither the extra 17-4
                                                                parts

                    ott  uxy sulphuretted     Muriatic Acid.                  375
 parts of oxygen which were found, can be attributed to the sul
 phur, in which I have intimated a doubt of the natural existence
 of oxygen as not being yet directly proved, and as not being ca
 pable of existing in a proportion exceeding 17 per cent., nor to
 the carbon, as it was not observed to be developed by Lampadiua
 •or Berthollet ; nor from the atmospheric            air, which was expelled
 previous tocommeneing the experiment; and even had it not been
  *o, the whole capacity of the apparatus was not such as to con
  tain so much oxygen, combined in the proportion in which it
 exists in the atmosphere.           Recalling to mind the diminution of
 the 181 parts of muriatic acid, shall it not he permitted to doubt
 that the oxygen proceeded from some decomposition of this sub
 stance, of which the other elements being unobserved, their nature
 is unknown ?        Who would again offer the hypothesis that mu
 riatic acid may be composed of hydrogen and oxygen, and that
 it differs from water only by the different proportions of its con
 stituent parts?        If it were permitted to think thus, we should
 doubt that in decomposing it might have yielded water, the for
 mation of which we could not perceive, not having first weighed
 the water in the vessel, and some free oxygen that combining
 with the carbon had produced the extra carbonic acid gas, of
 which we have already spoken.               We recommend to chemists
 the facts here stated, while we request their indulgence with re-
 speot to the above hypothesis; declaring that we are not fanatical
 framcrs of new systems, hut only desirous of accumulating facts
 from which the most ingenious of the age may deduce new
 theories*.
                                                                     LXIV.    On
    * Obtervation  by the Translator.  — Marquis   Ridolfi is one of the very few
 Florentine nobles who devote their attention to the sciences ; and hence, per
haps, we may discover more causes than reasons for some of the opinions
Contained in this memoir.     It is evident that the author began his researches
 not so much like an inquirer after truth, as with the view of confirming
 some preconceived opinions which analytical experiments have proved, if
 not altogether erroneous, at least of a very equivocal character. To this
sentiment must be ascribed such a series of facts and deductions founded
on a single experiment with phosphorus, although the labours of Professor
Branchi were surely sufficient to prove how little dependence should be
placed on our actual knowledge of this body and its relations with others.
Professor Brugnatelli is evidently of an^epinion very different from that cf
the author; and in a comprehensive exposition of Berthollet's candid state
ment of his conversion to Sir H. Davy's theory of chlorine, clearly shows
that nearly all the facts and circumstances which Ridolfi adduces, may be
explained without admitting the unproved assertion of its containing oxy
gen.    If indeed the Marquis Ridolfi's position be just,— that it cannot be
proved by analysis to be a compound body, — no argument, d priori, should
be admitted to the contrary from synthesis : — if it cannot be decomposed,
ail our knowledge and logical reasoning sanction the induction that it is sim-
                                        Aa4                                   pie.

                                  C    37*.    J
                    LX1V. On the Kaleidoscope.
This     amusement being now in the hands of almost every per
son, any description, more particular than what will present it
self in the subjoined historical detail, will here be unnecessary.
    Dr. Brewster, the patentee of this amusing instrument, is
charged by many with being a plagiarist, and claiming that, as a
new invention of his own, which is really old, and the discovery
of another.     We shall lay the grounds of this charge before our
readers; — and we begin with some remarks which have appeared
in the French Journals :
    " Scarcely," says one of them, " had the Kaleidoscope been
imported into Paris, when' twenty competitors started forward,
and each, his glass in his hand, contended for the attention of
the public.    To the Kaleidoscope one opposed the Pohjoscope;
another the Metamorphosiscope ; and as the great majority of
spectators called out for something French, we saw immediately
this wish gratified bvthe Tr a nsfigur a teur, the French lamp,&c.'J
    " M. Robertson," a mathematical-instrument maker in Paris,
of some eminence, " reclaims for France the priority of this in
vention.    He brings in proof an instrument, of great dimension
it is true, but which for many years has furnished in his cabinet
the same various pictures which an adroit speculator has intro
duced into the Kaleidoscope.       Thus the Professor Brewster of
Edinburgh,    to  whom  the English have attributed the honour of
this discovery, is nothing more than an imitator. This is uot
the first time that a French discovery has taken the longest way
of arriving at Paris. M. Chevalier too enters the lists; holding
in one hand a work, published more than fifty years ago, in
which the principle of this agreeable illusion is described, while
in the other he presents us a lamp which, by adding much to
the magic of the effects, merits truly the name which he gives
 it of the French Multipliculor."
    However mortifying it may be to our ingenious neighbours,
the French, to have their claims to the originality of this inven
 tion denied, the fact      is,
                             that, should the optical principle oh
<ple.   But
          it   requires little experience to know how fallacious and inade
quate are all synthetical experiments and as in their nature they must be
                                           :
founded on preconceived notions, they can never be of value, but only
where they tend to confirm the accuracy of analysis, as in the decomposition
and recompositipn of water. But the facts here adduced prove any thing,
                                      if
it    rather that chlorine and hydrqgen produce muriatic acid, instead of the
     is
latter becoming chlorine by the addition of oxygen.    This is not altogether
improbable, nor incompatible with the reputed discovery of Lampadius, who
supposes that muriatic acid  is   composed of hydrogen and oxygen united to
an inflammable bese. — Rome, Feb. 1818.
                                                                      which

                         On      the Kaleidoscope.                      377
.which the instrument is founded, and earlier publication, be held
 to constitute the invention, the discovery will he found to be
 long to England, notwithstanding the French work " published
 more than fifty years ago, in which the principle of this agree
 able illusion is described ;" for the principle was published in
 London more than eighty years ago, in a work entitled " New
 Impnwevients of Planting and Gardening, both philosophical
 and practical, 6th Edition.   By Richard Bradley, Professor
 of Botany at the University of Cambridge, and F.ft.S. Printed
for J. and J. Knapton, in St. Paul's Church-yard, 1731." The
 following is printed from Bradley's first chapter.
f<
  Description and Use of a new Invention for the more speedily
  designing of Garden Plats, whereby we may produce more
  variety of Figures in an Hour's Time, than are to be found in
  all the Books on Gardening now extant.
   *' Since the
                instrument I now design to treat of has afforded
some pleasure to many of my acquaintance, I have been easilv
persuaded to make it public.   It is of that nature, that the best
                                                                                 '
- designi'is or draughtsmen may improve and help their fancie*
by   it, and may with more certainty hit the humour of those gen
tlemen they are to work for, without being at the trouble of
making many varieties of figures or garden plats, which will lose
time and call an unnecessary expense, which frequently dis
courages gentlemen from making up their gardens.                 In short,
the charge of the instrument        so small, and its use so delight
                                       is
ful and profitable, that     Idoubt not its favourable reception in
the world.     But to proceed
     " We must choose two pieces of looking-glass of equal big
                                   :
ness, of the figure of long square, five inches
                        a                                    in
                                                         length and four
in breadth they nr. st be covered
               :                       on the back with paper or silk,
to prevent rubbing off the silver, which would else be apt to
crack off      byfrequent use.    This covering for the back of the
glasses must be so put on that nothing of             may appear about
                                                        it
 the edges of the bright side.
     " The glasses being thus prepared, they must be laid face to
 face and hinged together, so that they may be made to open and
shut at pleasure, like the leaves of book.      a   As for example, the
 first figure (PI. III.) shows us the backs of the two glasses        and
                                                                       A
B   joined together     byhinges       Cand C   D,  so
                                                    D  that  they may be
 opened and shut to any part of          circle.
                                            a    And    now the glasses
 being thus fitted for our purpose,       shall proceed to explain the
                                            I
 use of them,
     " Draw a large circle upon paper, divide into 4,   it        3,   5,
                                                                        or
                                                                       6,
                                                                        7
 8  equal parts,   which  being  done,  we   may   draw   in  every one of
 the divisions      afigure at our pleasure, either for garden plat*,
                                                                            or

                            Oh the Kaleidoscope.
or fortification*.     As for example ; in the second figure, we see
a circle divided into six parts, and upon the division marked
A is drawn part of a design for a garden. Now to see that de
sign entire, which is yet confused, we must place our glasses upon
the paper, and open them to the sixth part of the circle, i. e., one
of them must stand upon line b to the centre, and the other
must be opened exactly to the point c ; so shall we discover an
entire garden plat in a circular form        (ifwe look into the glasses)
divided into six parts, with as many walks leading to the centre^
where we shall find       a  basis of an hexagonal figure.
    " We may more plainly see how the glasses ought to be placed
upon the design      by  viewing the third figure.       The line         A,
                                                                        where
the glasses join, stands immediately over the centre of the circle:
the glass   B  stands upon the linedrawn from the centre to the point
C,   and the glass  D    stands upon the line leading from the centre
to the point E. The glasses being thus placed, cannot fail to
produce the compleat figure we look for            and so whatever eqi^
                                                   :
part of    a  circle you mark out, let the line         Astand always upon
the centre, and open your glasses to the division you have made
with your compasses.           If instead of a circle you would have the
figure of an hexagon, draw the straight line with               pen from the
                                                                    a
point to the point
       c                  d   in the second figure      and
                                                        ;            by
                                                                  placing the
glasses as before, you will have the figure desired.
    " 80 likewise    a    pentagon may be perfectlv represented                    by
 finding  the   fifth part of  a    circle, and placing thf glasses upon
the outlines of it, and the fourth part of               circle will likewise
                                                            a
produce     a square   by means of the glasses, or,           the same rule,
                                                                by
will give us any figure of equal sides.          I  easily suppose that            a
curious person
                   by
                   a      little practice with these glasses may make
 many improvements with them, which perhaps                     may not vet
                                                                    I
have discovered, or have for brevity's sake omitted to describe.
    " next. follows that explain how
      It                      I                    by
                                                    these glasses we may,
from the figure of circle drawn upon paper, make an oval and
                     a                                                         ;
also   by  the same rule, represent a long square, from                perfect
                                                                          a
square.     To do this, open the glasses and fix them to an exact
square :   place them over a circle, and move them to and fro till
you see the representation of the oval figure you like best; and
so having the glasses fixed, in like manner move them over                         a
square piece of work, till you find the figure you desire of a long
square.      In these trials you will meet with many varieties of
designs.      As for instance, the fourth figure, although              seems
                                                                          it
to contain but     a    confused representation, may be varied into
above 200 different representations         by  moving the glasses over
it, which are opened and fixed to an exact square.                In a word,
from the most trilling designs, we may                this means produce
                                                       by
some thousands of good draughts.                                •
                                                                        " But

                       On the Kaleidoscope.                       379
  iC
      But that the fourth figure may yet be more intelligible and
useful, I have drawn on every side of it a scale divided into equal
parts, by which means we may ascertain the just proportion of
any design we shall meet with in it.
    " I have also marked every side of the fourth figure with a
letter, as A B C D, the better to inform the reader of the use of
the invention, and put him in the way to find out every design
contained in that figure.
    " Exp. 1 . Turn the side A to any certain point, either to
the north or to the window of your room, and when you have
opened your glasses to an exact square, set one of them on the
line of the side D, and the other on the line of the side    Cf   jpu
will then have a square figure four times as big as the engrail
design in the plate ; but if that representation should not we
agreeable, move the glass (still open to a square) to the No. 5
of the side D, so will one of them be parallel to D, and the other
stand upon the line of the side C : your first design will then be
varied; and so by moving your glasses in like manner from point
to point, the draughts will differ every variation of the glasses,
till you have discovered at least fifty plans differing from one an
other.
    " Exp. 2. Turn the side marked B of the fourth figure to
 the same point where A was before, and by moving your glasses
 as you did in former example, you will discover as great a va
 riety of designs as had been observed in the foregoing expe
 ment : then turn the side C to the place of B, and managi
 the glasses in the manner I have directed in first example,
 may have a great variety of different plans which were not in,
 the former trials; and the fourth, D, must be managed in the;
same manner with the others; so that from one plan alone, not,
 exceeding the bigness of a man's hand, we may vary the figure at
least 200 times ; and so consequently from five figures of the like
nature we might show about 1000 different sorts of garden plats;
and if it should happen that the reader has any number of plans
 for parterres or wilderness works bv him, he may by this method
 alter them at his pleasure, and produce such innumerable varieties
 that it is not possible the most able designer could ever have
 contrived.
    "And seeing I have given such directions as I hope may inform
 the curious of the use of this new invented instrument, I think
 it may not be improper to advertise that the publisher of these
papers is provided with glasses of several sizes ready fitted up for
 the experiment, at the following prices : the smaller sort at 3*.
and the other at 5s."
    In the foregoing description of Bradley's invention, the prin
ciple of reflection on which he constructs       it,    precisely that
                                                       is
                                                               which

380                                   On the Kaleidoscope.
which Dr. Brewster has employed in his Kaleidoscope        ; but the
means by   which  the latter presents to the reflecting surfaces the
objects that are to be reflected, are quite different.    Even with
Bradley the kind of objects and the means by which he presented
these objects to the mirrors were what constituted his instru
ment a new invention ; for the arrangement of the refiectors
themselves was not of Bradley's discovering, as we shall prove
immediately.
  We copy the following from John Bapthta Porla's                        Natural
Magic, the English Translation published in 165S.
     "   To make a plain Glass that shall represent the Image
                              manifold.
JP'      A glass is made that will make many representations, that
h,   that many things may be seen at once ; for by opening and
shutting       you shall see twenty fingers for one, and more. You
                  it,
shall make         thus itRaise two brass looking-glasses [metallic
                                  :
mirrors], or of crystal, at right angles upon the same basis, and
let them be in a proportion called sesquialtera, that            one and
                                                                    is
a half,  or some   other proportion,  and  let them  be joined together
longways, that they may he shut and opened, like a look                 and
                                                                          ;
the angles be divers, such as are made at Venice            For one face
                                                               :
being objected you shall see many in them both, and this                  so  by
much the straighter, as you put them together, and the angles
pre less     but they will be diminished
              :                                           by
                                                opening them, and the
°ngles being    more   obtuse, you shall see the fewer; so showing
one figure, there will be more seen and further, the right parts
                                                     :
will show right, and the left to be left, which              contrary to
                                                               is
looking-glasses      and this;    done               by
                                            mutual reflection and pul
                                                is
sation, whence ariseth the variety of images interchangeable,"
    From the foregoing         manifest whence Bradley derived the
                                      it   is
principle which he applied to the construction of his instrument,
for he borrows the very words of Porta, " that they (the mir
rors) may be shut and opened like         book;" and hence
                                                     a             follows
                                                                    it
that the discovery
         if                 the principle cannot be allowed to the
                                      of
French, so neither can-       to the English
                                       it         for Porta's work was
                                                           :
first published (at Naples we believe) in 1538, in four looks,
and 35 years after (that       about the year 1573), in its enlarged
                                           is
form, comprising twenty looks.          Bradley was not called         plaa
giarist, —  probably  because  his instrument,   though   identically the
same as Porta's, was applied in a different way and to different    a
purpose.      Should Dr. Brewster then be considered in that light,
for having made use of the same principle in his instrument,
which in construction         different from either Porta's or Brad
                                       is
ley's? Porta,                by
                      looking at objects before him, along the angle
formed at the joining of his glasses, saw them multiplied: Bradley,

                     Noliccs respecting New Books.                  3B\
 hy placing his joined glasses upon his drawings, at right angles to
 them, and looking at them, in the same manner, saw them multi
 plied ; but the number of reflections could be calculated.         Dr.
 Brewster, by putting the reflectors in        a tube, and attaching
 thereto, and at right angles to them, two discs of glass with ob
jects interposed, forms an optical instrument capable of produ
cing an incalculable (if not an infinite) number of combinations,
by merely making the discs, or the whole instrument, to revolve
 on its axis, while the eye looks through it. If the previous ap
 plication of any known principle to the construction of instru
 ments, is to be considered and held as embracing all future ap
 plications of the same principle, there can be no new inventions ;
for to obtain knowledge of a principle, not before known, is a dis+
covery, and not an invention: no person can invent a principle;
 but he may apply a principle, when known, to a new purpose,
 and this new application with the new means employed, is what
constitutes a new invention.                                        T.
                LXV.   Notices respecting New Books.
 A    Treatise on the General Principles of Chemical Analyses.
     Translated from the French of'L. J. Thexard, Member of
     the Institute rf France,      Professor of Chemistry, &c. &C.
     By Arnold Merrick.           Svo. 346 pages.
 In    the original this Treatise forms the concluding volume of
 Thenard's Chemistry, published in 1S16.          Some slight altera
tions    and many additions, consisting chiefly   of extracts from the
 other volumes, have been made by the translator, to render the
 work more complete as a treatise.          The translator states that
 possessing,    as we  do,  the  excellent  works of Dalton, Davv,
 Henry, Murray, and Thomson, a translation of the whole of
 Thenard's Elementary and Practical Treatise on Chemistry was
 quite unnecessary;
                      " but as we have no separate and convenient
work in English on chemical analyses, (the Essays of Bergman
 and Kirwan having been long out of print,) it has been judged
that a translation of Thenard's- treatise on that subject would
be a valuable acquisition to the practical chemist.         It is hoped
 that the present Translation will be found sufficiently perspicuous,
faithful and concise," and the translator modestly adds that " it
 pretends to no other kind of merit."
    We consider the work before us as a valuable acquisition to
the practical chemist.      Its nature will be better understood from
 a summary of the contents than from an extract.
                                    .                         Content*.

 882                 Notices respecting   New Books.
                                Contents.
      On the General Principles of Chemical Analysis. Ch. I. On
  the Manipulations common to a great number of Analyses.
      Ch. II. On the Analysis of Gases — Distinctive Properties of
  ihe Gases : § l . A Gas being given, how to ascertain its nature :
   § 2. A Mixture of Gases being given, to determine what they
  are.     Analysis of a Mixture of two Gases, — one comprised in
  the series oxygen, hydrogen, carbureted hydrogen, phosphureted
  hydrogen, arsenureted hydrogen, oxide of carbon, azote, deut-
   oxide and protoxide of azote : and the other, in the series,
  nitrous, sulphurous, muriatic, fluo-boric, hydriodic, silicated
   fluoric, carbo- muriatic, oxymuriatic, hyperoxymuriatic, and car
   bonic acids, sulphureted hydrogen, tellureted hydrogen, and am
   monia. —-Analysis of a Mixture of two Gases belonging to the first
   of the two preceding series. — Analysis of a Mixture of two Gases
  belonging to the second of the two preceding series. — Analysis of
' a Mixture of three Gases, the one absorbable by alkalies, and the
   two others not absorbable by those bodies. — Analysis of a Mix
   ture of five Gases, not absorbable by alkalies; namely, Hydro
  gen, Azote, Oxygen, carbureted Hydrogen, Oxide of Carbon.
  —Analysis of a Mixture of four Gases, absorbable by alkalies.-
  — Analysis of a Mixture of absorbable Gases, and of Gases not
   absorbable by alkalies ; namely, Azote, Protoxide of Azote, Deut-
  oxide of Azote, Carbonic Acid, and sulphureted Hydrogen.—
  Analysis of a Mixture of Azote, Protoxide of Azote, Deutoxide of
  Azote, Hydrogen, Carbureted Hydrogen, Oxide of Carbon, Car
  bonic Acid, Sulphureted     Hydrogen, and Muriatic Acid. — § 3.
  Analysis  of Compound    Gases.
     Ch. III. On the Analysis of Combustible Bodies. — § 1. A
  Non-metallic Combustible being given, how ascertain the nature,
 of it ? — § 2. A Metal being given, how ascertain its nature ? —
  § 3. A Mixture of Metals being given, how discover them ?
                                                                —
 Analysis   of some  complicated  Metallic Mixtures ; namely, Tin,,
 Bismuth, Lead, Copper, and Silver. The preceding metals and
 Zinc The preceding and Manganese.            The preceding, Gold
 and Platinum.      The preceding metals and Iron. — § 4. Analysis
 of some useful Alloys, and of spme others more complicated in
 their composition; namely, Mercury and Tin; Mercury and
   ismuth ; Mercury and Silver ; Mercury and Gold ; Tin and
   ead ; Tin and Copper ; Zinc and Copper, or Brass ; Silver
 fvnd Gold; Silver and Copper; Silver, Copper, and Gold; Bis
 muth, Tin, and Lead. — § 5. Analysis of some Alloys by cupel-
 lation, and particularly Gold and Silver Vessel*, Utensilst and
 Money.— §     (3.Determination of the Proportion of the consti
 tuent Principles of the Metallic Sulphurets, lodurets (Iodides),
 Azoturett, and Phosphurets.
                                                            Ch. IV.

                    Notices respecting New Books.                    3 S3
    Ch. IV. Analysis of Burnt Bodies (oxides, acids).' — § 1. An
Oxide being given, how ascertain its nature ? — § 2. A Mixture
of Oxides being given, to determine the nature of each of them.
— Analysis of numerous Mixtures of Oxides. — Analysis of Stones.
— Analysis of Clays. — § 3. On the Principal Methods that must
f>e employed for determining         the Proportion of the constituent
Principles    of  a  Metallic   Oxide. — § 4. A Mineral Acid being
given, to discover it* nature.     —  To determine the Proportion of
the Constituents of the Mineral Acids.
    Ch. V. Analysis of Mineral Salts.— § 1 . A Mineral Salt be
ing given, to determine its nature. — § 2. Methods of determin
ing the Quantities of Acids and Oxides of which Salts are com
posed.   .
    Ch. VI.     Analysis of Mineral Waters.        Substances discovered
 in Mineral Waters.       The way to detect those Substances.           A
general Method of Analysis for Mineral WatPrs.              Dr. Murray's
 General Formula, note {in). A Table of the Constituents of
 gome Mineral Waters.
    Ch. VII. Determination of the Proportion of the constituent
 Principles of Vegetable and Animal Substances.          Gay-Lussac and
Thenard's Method. A Table of the Analysis of 15 Vegetable Sub
stances by this Method.         A Table of the Analysis of four Animal
 Substances by this Method.          Berzelius's Method.       A Table of
 the Analysis of thirteen Vegetable Substances by the Method of
            '
 Berzelius. Comparison of the two Methods.               M. Theodore de
 Saussure's Method. A Table of Results obtained by M. de Saus-
 sure.   Observations on his Method.
     Ch. VIII. On the means of ascertaining to which Chapter any
Substance belongs that is required to be analysed.
     Additions. 1. On Iodine. 2. On Muriatic Acid. 3. On
 Prussic, or Hydrocyanic Acid ; on Cyanogen, or Prussic radical ;
 onOxyprussicorChloro-cyanic Acid. 4. On Alcohol, Sulphuric
 Ether, and Fermentation.          On the Decomposition of Salts by
 Sugar.    On Oxalic Acid and some Oxalates.              On Wollaston't
 Chemical Scale of Equivalents.           On the Blowpipe, by Gahn.
 A Table of undecomposed Ponderable Substances.. A Table of
 Gases.    A Table of the quantity of Moisture in a Cubic Inch of
 Vapour at different temperatures.         A Table of the composition
 of the Acids, with the weights of their Atoms. A Table of real-
 Sulphuric Acid in dilute Acid, at different densities.           A Table"
                                                                           "
 exhibiting the proportion of real or dry Nitric Acid in 100 parts
 frf the Liquid Acid, at successive specific gravities.        A Table of.
 dry  Muriatic   Acid  in  dilute Acid,  at  different densities.   A Ge-.
 »eral Table of Precipitant?.       Description of the Plates. Index.

.184                      Koikes respecting New Soaks.
Delia Lnngiludine,           e   Lalitndine, delle Citta di Pisloja               e   Train,
     &c. Delia Longitudiue,           e   Lalilndine, Getiarafica delle Chid
    di Volterra, S. Minialo, e Fiesole, Memurin, £y-c.
"On    the Latitude and Longitude, &c. of the Cities of Pistoja,
    Prato, Volterra, St. Miniato, and Fiesole.         By Father In-
   Chi RAMI, Public Professor of Astronomy in the Ximenian In
   stitute, and of the higher Mathematics in the College of the
 '
   Scuole Pie of Florence. 1817."
   The former of these Memoirs is printed in the Transactions of
the Roy<il Academy of Pistoja, and is the first account of the tri
gonometrical Survey of Tuscany now executing by the author ;
the latter is printed in a distinct tract.         Those who believed
every thing promulgated by Buonaparte, perhaps expected that
mftch an undertaking originated with him, but the contrary is the
fact ; and so far from encouraging                   it,
                                             he absolutely prevented
Baron Zach from proceeding in his experiments in 1808.
                                                                                          it It
is true he made      road over
                      a           part of the Alps but
                                      a                       he did,
                                                                ;            if
was merely   to facilitate  the  passage  of  the plunder    of Italy to
Paris.      was reserved for the paternal government of Ferdi
           It
nand III. and a professor of religion, not of infidelity, to execute
this arduous part of national geography: and the unassuming
manner as well as judicious accuracy with which            commenced,
                                                                it      is
is the best answer which could be given to the French reproach
©f ignorance and incapacity in the natives of Tuscany.          The in
struments used          by
                        Professor Inghirami were constructed                              by
Baron Reichembaeh of Munich, and consist of               theodolite or a
repeating circle, telescope, &c. which he has found singularly
accurate and perfect. The greatest triangle which the author has.
hitherto been able to observe and measure                  in
                                                       country covered
                                                                a
with mountains          about
                        is     40,000  French   toises   as he repeat*,
                                                                    ;
his observations always nine or ten times, with the difference
very rarely of two seconds            in
                                   each observation, he justly con
cludes that         impossible an error greater than IS" could oc
                by it
 cur; but in     far the greater number of instances he has found, —
                   is
thanks either to the extreme accuracy of his instruments or to
his own skill in observing, — an almost total identity.          Thus, in
the angle from Pietra Marina to Volterra he found only 27 hun
dreds of   a toise in 10,000 toises, and in that from St. Miniato to
Volterra only 26 hundreds of            toise
                                           a    in other instances much
                                                     ;
less.  But in brief analysis
                  a                      impossible to convey any ade
                                          it   is
quate idea of the author's labours            this interesting branch of
                                                    in
trigonometry.      The   latitude  of Florence   at the Observatory over
the Museum on        the  left bank of the Arno,       calculated at 4o^
                                                           is
46', '6" north, atid the longitude from the Island of Ferro 2S*
       4
So' 2-4". The author's first station was on the Cocollo, one of
                                                                      the

                     Notices respecting New Books.                          885
  the ridge of mountains which bound the province of Carsentino,
  hnd separate Tuscanv from the Ecclesiastical States on the north-*
 east; it is situated' S.E. by E. of Florence 57° 58' 9"*, and
 from thence he carried his triangles to Monte Serario, north, to
 Pistoja, north-west, to St. Miniato, W. by S., and finally to Vol-
 terra, which is S.W. of Florence.             The latitude of Fiesole, at
 the bell-tower of the cathedral, he found to be 43° 48' 38-7",
 and longitude 28° 57' 45-9", which is 2432 98 French toises
 distant from Florence: latitude of the city of Prato at the CoU.
 lege Cicognini 43° 52' 5t>6"; longitude 28° 45' 49-8; latitude
 of the city of Pistoja at the episcopal palace 43° 56' 4-6"; lon»
 gitude 28° 34 48-7".          Latitude of St. Miniato, south angle of          .
 the Tower 43° 41' 3-8"; longitude 28" 31' 21-0", and distant
from Florence 22-94 Tuscan miles of 68 to a degree. Latitude
 of Volterra at the Mastio Tower 43° 24' 13-6"; longitude 2S°
31' 69-3", and distant from Florence 31-59 Tuscan miles. The
 author's topographical description of his different stations, and
 the extensive views which they afforded of a beautiful country,
 will be found useful to future geographers and topographical
travellers ; but an abridgement of them would not be intelligible.
Professor T. notices the discrepancies between the results of the
English and French' trigonometrical surveyors, and observes with
more candour and no less judgement than some other geometers,
that as the. English surveyors have found it necessary to change
their basis, " if we suppose an equal necessity for change and
correction in the base of the French triangles, we might perhaps
obtain an approximation in the results of the two operations,
where all the diversity should not be attributed solely to the ob
servations." The author, doubtless from his experience, well
knows how much of this disparity may be attributed to a certain
kind of dexterity in the production of plausible and uniform re
sults, for which the French are not a little celebrated, as well as
for address in overlooking certain difficulties which more candid
and philosophical minds not only confess, but seek to trace to their
cause.      He seems to think that one of the causes or sources of
error in the observation of angles may be ascribed to the lateral
reflection of the atmosphere ; but he dissents from the opinion
of Dr. Brewster, that they are owing to some defect in the eye of
the observer.       On this head, as well as in the whole series of his
observations, there are such evident traces of candour, judicious
ness, and accuracy, that some person interested in such inquiries
    * With this calculation the Professor favoured the Translator, it not being
necessary to his plan to specify the different bearings of his stations from
Florence.                  ,
     Vol. 5 1. No.  24  1.   May  1 S 1 8.           B   b                 will

388                    Notices respecting New Books.
will no doubt transfer them into English.     For the reduction of
                                   -
his angles the Professor prefers the following formula :
     « C s» O   r
              +        D sin 1"         G sin. 1"    ' where C is the deduced
angle, O the one observed, r the distance between the place                       oif
observation and that of reduction;           and     Dthe approximate
                                                              G
distance between the two objects observed, the one on the right
the other on the left, and between which         comprised the angle
                                                         is
O ;   lastly, y    the angle of direction, that
                  is                                  the angle of the
                                                              is
object on the left with the place of reduction."        With this for
mula he reduces all his angles, and found between Corollo his
first station and Pistoja 33916-23 French toises.         From    me          a
moir read to the Society of Georgqfili, on the 1th December,       1
in Florence,     appears that the Tuscan government has ordered
                it
the immediate completion of this trigonometrical survey of Tus
cany, which       to be followed
                  is                        by
                                       the publication of     new and    a
accurate map of the Grandukedom, and many other improve
ments in the agriculture, irrigation, management of the waters,
&c. in that most interesting province of Italy. At the same
time a mineral, geological, and botanical survey of that country
is executing      by
                  different naturalists of known talents and know
ledge.
An Essay     on the Origin and Operation       the Dry Rot, with a
                                                         of
     View        Prevention or Cure; to which are annexed Sug-r
            to its
   gestions on the Cultivation      Forest Trees, and an Abstract
                                            of
      the several Forest Laws from the Reign
     of                                               Canute to theof
   present Time. By Robert M' William, Architect and Sur-.
   veyor. 4to. pp. 420.
   The disease which         the object of this work to aid in pre
                            it    is
venting or curing, has of late become familiar, in its baneful
effects, to all who are conversant with building.      has not only It
become    more  general than     ever was
                                       it  in former times, but in
this country its ravages have increased beyond all proportion to
what has taken place in other parts of Europe.             has been      It
reckoned that the annual expense occasioned                    by
                                                    the destruction
of timber, and the loss of labour in the necessary repairs, has
been to government not less than from two to three, and to the
whole nation from four to five millions sterling.
  It   isnot surprising that under such circumstances the subject
should have attracted very general attention, and that many re
medies should have been proposed        but we agree with the in
                                                 ;
genious author of the Essay before us, that even those who have
gone furthest into the matter have merely contented themselves
with having detected the proximate cause, without endeavouring
                                                                                  to

                    Notices respecting New Books.                3S7
to trace those remoter circumstances in which the     disease  origi
nates.
    In thehope of supplying this deficiency, Mr. M'William has
attempted to trace the disease to its remotest source, and inves
tigate all the causes that may co-operate in bringing it to ma
turity ; whence he deduces the means of preventing its attack,
arresting its progress, and remedying its effects.
    The author in following out these objects has produced a vo
lume of considerable bulk j which will be found to contain a
great deal of highly interesting and important matter, conveyed
in distinct and perspicuous language.      In the extract from it,
which we gave in our last number, on the Fir Tree, our readers
have been already presented with a specimen of the work, to
which we beg to refer them for ample confirmation of its claims
on their attention.
Theorelisch, practische Wasser, laukunst von C. T. von Wie-
     beking. Munchen 1809-1817: — "Hydraulic Architecture
     theoretical and practical, by C. F. de Wiebeking, Privy
    Counsellor to H. M. the King of Bavaria, '4 vols. 4to, with
    upwards of 150 large folio plans and maps. Munich 1809-
      1817.
    The work on Hydraulic Architecture, by the Chevalier de
 Wiebeking, in four quarto volumes, is generally considered as
 one of the most complete and extensive treatises on this interest
 ing science. The fourth and last volume, which was published
 in the course of last year, and has only lately reached this coun
 try, contains much highly interesting and valuable information
 respecting all the great works of Hydraulic Architecture, executed
 in different parts of Europe, developing their principles, mode
 of execution, advantages and defects ; and suggesting useful
 ideas for their further improvement and conservation.        Thus it
 serves to the student, as well as to the experienced engineer, as
  a never-failing assistant, and as a valuable book of reference in
  his pursuits and plans.
      The fourth volume chiefly contains supplementary matter to
  the different divisions of the three former ones, and particularly
  treats in several chapters on the Inland Navigation of Great Bri
  tain, enumerating the different canals in various parts of this
  country ; and of the great bridges that have lately been con
  structed across the river Thames at London.       The Chevalier's
  observations on these subjects are very judicious, and exhibit
   much mind.
       In speaking of the river Thames, M. de Wiebeking chiefly la
   ments, that no proper means are used to promote the navigation
                                 B b 2                             and

                                                       '
    388   .          Notices respecting New Books.
    and to preserve the necessary depth of the water in the river, and
    that thus in the greatest mercantile city of Europe, the finest river
    is in a state of actual neglect and degradation, the principal
,   cau.se of which is the irregular width of its bed, which near
    London Bridge is considerably narrower than at Waterloo
    Bridge, and again contracts at Westminster Bridge ; whereby
    the tide loses the power of removing the shoals and mud banks,
    that are daily increasing and diminishing the depth of the water,
    which at some not very distant period may prove fatal to the
     navigation of the river.
        In order to obviate these inconveniencies, the Chevalier sug
    gests, that the whole bed of the river, from Westminster Bridge
     down to the Tower, should be reduced to a certain uniform
    breadth, which he fixes at 550 feet ; that London Bridge be re
    moved entirely; and that, in the construction of new bridges,
     this principle be always adhered to.         As to the removal of
     London Bridge, and the great advantages that would result from
     this operation to the navigation of the river, all the British en
    gineers are, HO doubt, of M. de Wiebeking's opinion ; but as to
     his project, to reduce the width of the river to 550 feet, many
     may doubt whether, under the present circumstances, such an
     alteration would be advisable or even practicable, though the
     reasons which the Chevalier suggests for it are founded on
     sound principles and corroborated by experience.           The im
     mense saving, which a reduced width of the river would have
     caused in the construction of all the bridges over it, certainly
    would have been a matter of great consequence ; and we may
     safely assert, that if before the year 1 737, or the construction of
     Westminster Bridge, the public mind had been as enlightened
     as it is at present on the subject of the navigation and manage
     ment of rivers, and if an experienced. engineer had brought for
    ward a plan similar to that of M. de Wiebeking's, the adoption
    and execution of it would have been highly beneficial to the na
    vigation and conservancy of the river in general, to the port of
    Loudon in particular, and to the improvement and embellishment
    of the city of London.
        Instead of the London Docks, the Chevalier de Wiebeking is
    of opinion, that it would have been more advantageous for the
    trade and commerce of the city of London, if a solid quay had
    been constructed from Westminster Bridge down to London
    Bridge ; and   if,   in the place of one great bason, several small
    basons had been excavated    in   different parts of the town, which
    by   means of locks would have communicated with the river.
     The dimensions of these small basons he fixes to 120 feet breadth,
    and to    4  or 500 feet' length.    M. de Wiebeking further pro
                                                                   poses

                       Notices respecting New Books.                     3S9
  poses to    join these small docks together by a canal parallel to
  the quay, which would produce the advantage of scouring alter
  natively, as the tide served, every one of these basons by the
  water contained in the others.          At the side of this canal and
  the docks, warehouses of different descriptions could be con-'
. strwted, and thus the mercantile depots would have been nearly
  central in the metropolis ; besides this advantage, the water in
  the canal would have been of great use in case of fire.
      The Chevalier concludes these observations with the following
  passage (page 190) :
                             " According to this plan, the length of the
  Bridges     of Westminster, Waterloo, Blackfriars, and Southwark',
  would have been considerably lessened, and the saving thus pro
  duced would have been more than sufficient for the building of
  a new bridge in the place of London Bridge; the great expense
  of" the London Docks would have amply covered the costs of the
  execution of the plan which I have thus sketched in its outlines,
  if it had been pioposed and attended to at the proper time.
   But at present the only object which is most deserving of the
   public attention, is the construction of a new bridge in the place
   of London Bridge, and that of a regular solid quay along the
   banks of the river, and whether, notwithstanding the excavation
   of the London Docks, the small shipbasons, which I proposed,
   would yet be of moment and use for the trade.                 I therefore
   leave  it  to the judgement    and to the consideration  of  the  British
  engineers, to decide whether this part of my plan still deserves
  to be attended to, and in what manner the principal ideas of it,viz<
   the construction of solid banks of the Thames, the excavation of
  small shipbasons, and the project of the new Bridge in place of
   London Bridge, might best be determined and executed. But
  before it is possible to enter into the particulars of these pro*
  jects, it is indispensably necessary to procure more minute sound
   ings of the river, than those that to the best of my knowledge
   have yet been made."
       M. La Beaume       has  in the press  " Observations    on the Pro
   perties   of  the Air-Pump Vapour-Bath, pointing        out    their Effi
   cacy in the Cure of Gout, Rheumatism, Palsy,          &c. with    cursory
   Remarks on factitious Airs, and on the improved State of medical
   Electricity in all its Branches, particularly in that of Galvanism,
   and their Efficacy in various Diseases."
       Mr. Jonathan Otlev,       an ingenious mechanic, of Keswick in
    Cumberland, whose        intimate  acquaintance with the district of
    the Lakes, and with its curiosities and natural productions, has
   frequently occasioned him to be selected as a guide to visitors ;
                                      Bb3 -                                  to

                                                  - •          •'.
390                             Royal Society.          .
to those     particular who have travelled therein in search of
             in
Mineral information      about to publish
                               is            very improved and
                                                        a
     "
                          ;
neat   Map of all the Lakes in Cumberland, Westmorland and
Lancashire;" which, embracing the Coast from Lancaster to
Workington, will show the heights of the principal Hills, and
many other matters (useful or interesting to persons making
the Tour of the Lakes) that have not hitherto been included in
any Map.     The scale   four miles to an inch, and the size 13
                               is
by    lOf inches.
JPharmacnpwia Medici Practici               Universalis, sistens Medica-
     menta Prceparata              cum eorum Usu et Dosibus
                            et Composita,                                      ;
     et Pharmacopoeia Chirurgica, sistens Medicamenta Prce
  parata et Composita, Usui externa et Morhis prcecipue ex-
  ternis curandis dicala. AuctoreY. Swediauh, M.D. Juxta
  Auctoris Textum recusa. Edilionis Curam gessit, Additamentis
     locupletavit, et Notis elucidavit   B. Van Mons, M.D. in
                                             J.
     Regia Universitate Lovaniensi Professore Publ. &c.  vols,             2
     duodecimo.
   Medical science      much indebted to M. Van Mons for this
                          is
new edition of Swediaur's excellent work, which had of late
become rather scarce.    The notes show      perfect acquaintance
                                                    a
with all the other Pharmacopoeias of repute, such as the London,
Edinburgh, Berlin, Danish, &c. from which many valuable                        il
lustrations and corrections have been drawn       and the whole;
work   is edited in manner which does credit to the well-known
                      a
ingenuity and diligence of the learned Professor.
  Sir Humphry Davy has just published an interesting volume
on the Safety Lamp for Coal Miners, with some Researches on
Flame.
                LXVI.     Proceedings   of  Learned Societies.
                               ROYAL SOCIETY.
May     7.  —   A.
                communication was read from Mr. Bevan, of the
result of    series of meteorological observations made at Kes
             a
wick   inCumberland.
    14. No meeting.
    21. Read      paper,
                  a          Col. W. Lambton, containing
                                by                           va            a
riety of deductions from the calculation of au are of the meri
                                                Mr. Pond Astro
                                                        a by
dian taken in India.     Read another paper,
nomer Royal, on the best mode of making         Catalogue of the,
                                                                     --'   Fixed

            Steam-Engines. — New Extracts from Coal.                    391
  Fixed Stars, in which     he points out several imperfections in the
  plan followed by the late Astronomer Royal, and proposes one
 of a more definite and comprehensive character.
     28. Read a paper, by Mr. Pond, on the Parallax of the
 Fixed Stars, containing a further application of the principles
 developed in his former paper on Alpha Aquile.
    A paper was read at the same meeting by Mr. M. Donovan,
 on the Oxides and Salts of Mercury.
           LXVII.    Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                    STEAM ENGINES IN CORNWALL.
 From      Messrs. Leans' Report for April ISIS, it appears that
during that month,      the following was the work performed by
 the engines reported with each bushel of coals.
                              Pounds of water lifted    Load pgr square
                           \foot high with each bushel.  inch in cylinder.
23 common engines averaged              22,982,057           various.
Woolf's at Wheal Vor            . .     26,064,526           17'2 lib.
Ditto         Wh. Abraham ..            32,723,166            16-8
Ditto          ditto   ..       ..      23,626,456             5-63
 Dalcouth engine        ..      ..      41,888,316            11-2
Wheal Abraham          ditto    ..      33,934,245            109
United Mines engine             . .     33,564,503            136
Treskirby ditto        ..       ..      41,823,209           10- 8
Wheal Chance ditto              . .     33,932,578           11- 3
                      NEW EXTRACTS FROM COAL.
    Dr. Jassmeyer, Professor of Chemistry in Vienna, has made
the discovery of a means to extract from coals two hitherto
unknown acids, a resin, a resinous gum, and other elements,
which he has employed with surprising success to the purposse
of dyeing wool, silk, hair, and linen, and has produced from
them red, black, yellow, and various shades of brown and gray.
Count Von Chorinsky, President of the Aulic Chamber, and
many other enlightened judges of these matters were present at
these experiments, and testified their entire approbation of this
useful discovery.                 — —  —
                           LOCUSTS IN INDIA.
    About the 20th June 1812, a very large flight of locusts was
observed hovering about Etawah, which at length settled in the
fields east of the town, where they remained some time, and
were seen copulating in vast numbers; they then took their de
                                     li  b
                                           4<                    departure

392                       Locusts in India.
parture, but continued to hover about the place for a month af
terwards..
    On the 18th of July, while riding in that direction, I discovered
a tremendous swarm of very small dark-coloured insects in the
vicinity of a large pool of stagnate water; they were collected
in heaps, and covered the ground to a considerable distance.
These, on minute inspection, proved to be locusts in miniature,
but without wings. In this place they remained, hourly increasing
in numbers, for some days, when the great body moved off, taking
 a direction towards the town of Etawah : they crept and hopped
 along at a slow rate, until they reached the town, where they
 divided into different bodies, still however keeping nearly the
 same direction, covering and destroying every thing green in
their progress, and distributing themselves all over the neigh-
bourhood.      The devastation daily committed by them being al
most incalculable, the farmers were under the necessity of col
lecting as many people as they could, in the vain hope that they
might preserve the crop by sweeping the swarm backwards; but
as often as they succeeded in repelling them in one quarter, they
approached in another : fires were then lighted all round the
fields with the same view: —-this had the effect of keeping them
off for a short time; but sufficient fuel could not be supplied, and
the moment the fires became extinguished, the insects rushed in
like a torrent.    Multitudes were destroyed by the birds, and
many more by branches of trees used by the farmers for that
purpose, as well as by their being swept into large heaps, and
consumed by fire; yet their numbers seemed nothing diminished.
They so completely covered some mangoe trees, and the hedges
surrounding the gardens, that the colour of the leaves could not
be distinguished.    They had no wings, and were about the size
of small bees. They continued to creep along the ground, or
hopped when their progress was interrupted.
    July 27. — They were increasing in size, and had overspread
that part of the country in every direction.       From the want of
rain, and the overwhelming inroad of these insects, the farmers
were nearly ruined. Nothing impeded their progress; they climbed
up the highest trees and scrambled over walls; and notwith-.
standing the exertions of several people with brooms, the xe-.
randah and outer walls of the hospital were completely covered
with them. They no longer continued to move in one particular
direction, but paraded backwards and forwards, wherever they
could find food.
    On the 28th of July the rains set in with considerable vion
lence ; the locusts took shelter on trees and bushes, devouring
every leaf within their reach ; none seemed to suffer froni the
rain.

                         Monstrosities — Bakers' Bread.                   393
   On the 29th it did not rain, and the young swarm again were
on the move, continuing their depredations ; they were fast in
creasing in size, and equally lively as before the rain.
   It again rained on the 30th, and again the locusts took shelter
on the trees and fences ; several large flights of locusts passed
over the cantonments, and I observed that the wings of the
young ones began to appear.        The head still retained the dark
red colour, but the black lines on the body had become much
fainter.
    Again on the 3 1 st large flights continued to pass, driven by
the wind to the southward ; of course very few alighted.      They
caused little mischief within our view.     The wings of the young
tribe (the whole four being now formed) were about one-eighth
of an inch in length.     After this time I made no particular ob
servations on their progress, being otherwise engaged, but they
disappeared in a few days*.
        A   curious   case   has    recently   been   communicated   to   Dr.
Thomas Forster, of three children successively being born of
the same mother, and each of them having five fingers and a
thumb on each hand.       Thev are the sons of a labouring man
in Buckinghamshire, and the family are in all other respects
healthy.     The extra finger was situated on the outside of the
little finger and on the same bone. It was in all the three cases
amputated close to the joint during the first three days of in
 fancy, and there is no apparent defect left on the hand,     These
 sorts of monstrosities frequently are hereditary, and appear again
 and again in successive generations of the same family.     But in
 the present case, no traces can be found of any thing of the
.kind having happened in the family before.
                                   bakers' bread.
        A
      recent investigation into the composition of London bakers'
bread, on the part of some chemical gentlemen, has led to the
detection of a quantity of alum contained in                it,
                                                     and of some
potass; ,    circumstance which accounts for the constipating
               a
effects of this bread on the bowels.    Our readers will find cu      a
rious account of the adulteration of bread, under the article
Baking, in the Supp. to Encyc. Britannica.
                              NAUTICAL EPHEMERIS.
                                 To Mr. Tillock.
        Sir,—  -I   would call the attention of your numerous nautical
   * These
            extraordinary facts are communicated to us hy an intelligent
correspondent, who with some of the officers of the 14th Native Infantry
was an eye witness.— .Ed.    Calc. Mag.
                               of
.   .                                                                readers

 394"         Nautical Ephemeris. — Dr. Henry Clarke.
readers to two important errors of the equation of time, in the
 Nautical Ephemeris for 1818, and seven in the one for the year
 1819.      It becomes of consequence these errors should be known,
as during the last year several vessels put into Portsmouth, out
of their course, for the correction of their chronometers ; which
appearance 'of errors arose from the misprint of the Ephemeris.
                     1818.        min. sec.               min. sec.
              March    9    for 19      54    0    read    9   54   0
              May      8   — 4          43   6      —     3    43   6
                   -
                     1819.
                            —                       —
              —
              April   12
                      13    —
                                   1
                                   1
                                        58
                                        41
                                             0
                                             9
                                                          0
                                                           0
                                                               53
                                                               41
                                                                    0
                                                                    9
                                                   _
                      14    —      1    26    1            0   26   1
                      15    —      1    10   6             0    10  6
                            —
              June
                     28
                       5
                           —
                                   1
                                   1    40
                                          2  2
                                             0      _      2
                                                           2   40
                                                                 2  2
                                                                    0
    Dec. 1, the letters     " add,"     the top of the column, page 134,
should be " subtract."
                             I  am, sir, your obedient servant,
                                                              R. Webster.
                           DR. HENRY CLARKE..
    It is with concern that we record the decease of another
eminent mathematician             and philosopher,       Dr. Henry Clarke,
on   the  29th    of April,    at  his   house  at  Islington, in his 76th
year.     His death      was   occasioned by a fit of apoplexy, with
which he was seized on the preceding day.                    He was fifteen
years Professor of History, Geography, and Experimental Philo
sophy at the Royal Military College, from which he had just re
tired.    He was the author of several mathematical and literary
elementary works, and had an extensive knowledge of philosophy,
mathematics, and the languages.               By the Universty of Edin
burgh he was honoured and rewarded with the degree of Doctor
of Laws. He was a contributor to many mathematical and perio
dical journals, and corresponded with most of the eminent men of
the last century.      He has left behind him a blind aged widow to
whom he was married fifty-two years, and a family of two son?
and four daughters.          His elegant and very choice collection of
philosophical instruments, by which he delivered his lectures,
and his select library of scientific books will shortly be given# to
the public by sale at auction.
               LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
   To Gilbert Lang and Robert Smith, both printers in Glas
gow, for their mode of producing the Swiss new deep and pale
        ;  .                                                           reds

              List of Patents for    new Inventions,          395
reds by topical mordants and a pale blue discharge in said reds.
— 11th April 1818. — 2 months to enrol specification.
    To William Crawshay the younger, of Cyfaithfa Iron Works,
in the county of Glamorgan, esq., and David Mushet, of Coler
ford in the county of Gloucester, iron master, for their improve
ment for the making and manufacturing of bar or other iron
from certain refuse slags or cinders in the smelting of copper
ores in the manufacturing of copper. — ISth April. — 2 months.
    To Augustus Applegarth, of Nelson-square, Great Surrey-street,
in the county of Surrey, printer, for certain improvements in the
art of casting Stereotype or other plates for printing, and in the
construction of plates for printing bank or bankers' notes or
other printed impressions where difficulty of imitation is a desi
deratum. — 23d April. — 2 months.
    To Edward Lillie Bridgman, of Goswell-street Road, in the
 parish of St. Luke, Middlesex, for certain improvements in
making coffins, and in machines for conveying coffins for inter
 ment, and appendages to the same, in the church and burial-
ground. — 23d April. — 2 months.
    To George Tyer, of Homerton, Middlesex, for his chain pump.
— 2d May. — 2 months.
     To Joshua Rowe, of Torpoint, Cornwall, for certain improve
 ments or processes applicable to the printing of cotton and other
 cloths, and to other purposes. — 4th May. — 6 months.
     To Sir Thomas Cochrane, knight, commonly called Lord
 Cochrane, and Alexander Galloway, of Holborn in the county
 of Middlesex, engineer, for the working or making a manu
 facture, being a machine or machines for removing the incon
 venience of smoke or gases generated in stoves, furnaces, or fire
 places, by the ignition or combustion of coals or other inflam
 mable substances, and in certain cases for directing the heat and
 applying such smoke or gases to various useful purposes, which
 will be of great public utility.-— 4th May. — 6 months.
     To Thomas Jones and Charles Plimley, both of Birmingham,
  for their improvement to blast engines and steam engines. —
 7th May. — 2 months.
     To William Bush the younger, of Bermondsey, Surrey, for
 his improvement in the method of frying and preparing of malt,
 wheat,' and other grain. — 5th May. — 6 months.
     To Wolf Benjamin, of Plymouth Dock, Devon, for his com
 position varying in colour, with a peculiar method of applying
 for the purpose of rendering canvass, linen, and cloth durable,
 pliable, free from breaking, and water-proof, and also for pre
 serving every kind and description of wood from wind or weather,
 whether applied to ships, houses, or manufactories, and' for all
 purposes where paint? varnish or tar, are used for the purpose of
 ;    . < •  <'*  '
                     '  .              ..'....  -
                                                       preseryatil n

396       List of Patents for new Inventions.— Astronomy.
preservation or beauty, and whether applied to cannon or iron
of every description. — 5th May. — 2 months.
    To Thomas Todd, of Swansea, Glamorgan, for certain im
provements in rolling of iron, and making wire, nails, brads,
and screws. — 7th May. — 6 months.
    To William Church, of Turner-street, Commercial-road, for
certain improvements in or upon the machinery for making nails
and spikes of various forms and dimensions, and also wire and
screws of iron, copper, brass, or any other suitable metal. — 7 th
May. — 6 months.
    To Henry Constantine Jennings, of Carburton-street, Fitzroy-
square, in the parish of St. Marylebone, Middlesex, for his im
provement in the mariner's compass. — 7th May. — 6 months.
    To Robert Eccles, of Edinburgh, for his certain improvements
in the masts, sails, and rigging of ships or sailing vessels.— 9th
May. — 2 months.
    To Thomas Wills, of Bromley, Middlesex, and Uriah Had
dock, of the City»terrace, City-road, Middlesex, for improve
ment in the manufacture of sulphuric acid.— 13th May. — 6
months.
    To Thomas Brown Milnes, of Lenton, Nottinghamshire, for
certain improvements on machinery for the finishing of cotton,
angola, and lambs' wool stockings, and other frame-work goods ;
also for the application of known powers to the working of the
said machinery. — 19th May. — 6 months.
    To Maurice St. Leger, of St. Giles, Camberwell, Surrey, for
his improved        method of making lime. — - 19th May. — 6
months.
   To Thomas Motley, of the Strand, Middlesex, for his improve
ment on ladders. — 19th May.— 2 months.
             ASTRONOMICAL PHENOMENA, JUNE 1818,
 D. H. M.                            D. H. M.
 2. 11.20     <r  A »               18.     . <[  in perigee
 4.    .      d  in apogee          18.     . V v'f * 6'N.
 6.12.14.     dun                   18.20.42
 7-    -       ? ija *3' s.         19. 4. 4  a   r t
 7.   4.0.    d  V   25             21. .     2 7 ss    *2' S.
 9-    -      8  7 ss   *7'S,       2113.34   <L  e vj     •
 p.12. 3.     « a   si              21.14.25  0   enters   25
                                                           * 5'S.
12.17-54.     d  ym                 23.     . C? 11   ft
13. 8. 0.                           24.10.32  <L  29 H
14.15.43.     a a tut               26.} 7.22 <L 0  K    .
16 o.22<.     5 1  ni               29.17.12  a  a s
                                                               ASTRO

                      ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS.
            Longitude   9m   26-5 W.       Latitude   5 1°  43' 1"-8.
 Eclipse of the sun. May 4th. Beginning             5h 48m 15s    mean time.
                                       End    .. 7     33     26
    Thin clouds passing during the whole of the observation ren
der it in some degree imperfect : it may however be depended
upon to five seconds.
 Meteorological Journal kept at Wallhamstow, Essex, from
                        April   15 to   May 15, 1818.
[Usually between the Hours of Seven and Nine A.M. and the Thermometer
               (a second time) between Twelve and Two P.M.J
Date. Therm. Baroai. Wind.
April
 15     47    29-65     E. — Sunshine; clear, and cumuli; very fine
        58                 day; bright moon and star-light, and windy.
 16     52    29-35     E. — Sun and wind; very fine day; rain and
        55                 windy.
 17     51    29*25     E.— Rain j     fine day; moon-light, and windy.
        53
 18     44    29-30     E. — Wind and cirroslratus          ; very fine day;
        51                 bright moon-light.
 19     45    29-69      NE. — Clear and clouds, (cumuli); very fine
        51                 day; bright moon-light.
 20     37    29-85     NE. —White frost early; sunshine; very fine
        54                 day; bright moon-light.          Full moon.
 21     39    29-65      NE— SE.— Clear         cold wind, and sunshine j
      , 56       /         fine day ; windy, and cirroslratus.
 22                     SE — S — E. — Gray morn ; gray day; very
                           dark night.
 23     46    29-45     NE. — Rain; very rainy day; night rainy and
        43                 windy.
 24     48    29-39     NE. — Damp and calm; rain; cloudy and
        50                 wind rising; night, great rain and wind.
.25     44    20-09     SE.— .Very damp      ; gleams of sun; fine day;
        57                 star-light.
 26     53    29-45     £ by S. — Sunshine     and calm    ; sun and showers;
        5 1                cirrus and clear ; great lightning at night ;
                           cirroslratus low ; clear night.
 27     52    29 35     SE. — Rainy; fine day; cirroslratus, and clear
        63                 night. Moon last quarter.
 23     51    29-85     SW—NW.— Fine morn; very fine day; star -
        58                 light.
                                                                        May

 398                        Meteorology.
 Date. Therm. Barom. Wind.
 29     42  30-05    SE. — Sunshine    ; fine day; star-light.
        62
 SO     52  29-75    SE—NE—SE.— Cloudy;              rainy  till about
        50             5  P.M. ; very dark night.
 May
     1  56  29-70    SW. — Clear and cumuli; fine day; star-light.
        64
     2  56  29-90    SE. — Slight rain   ; small showers, and gleams
        65             of sun ; star-light.
     3  53  29-51    E. — Rain in the night; cirrus and clear ; fine
        61             day; after 5 P.M. great showers, and thun
                       der ; dark night.
   .4   50  29-50    NW. — Sun; fine windy day; bright star
        69             light.
                     NE — SE. — Eclipse of the sun; sunshine, and
'
    '5  49  29-50
        66            foggy; fine day; frequent showers, and
                       thunder after 7 P.M. rainy.      New moon.
     6  50  29-40    NE — SW. — Damp and rain; wind and cu
        64            muli ; showers ; clear and cirrus.
     7' 51  29-35    SW. — Windy and hazy; fine day, but some
        61             showers ; star-light, and windy.
    9   50  29-50    SW. — Sun, and cirrus ; fine day ; great rain
        61            after 5 P.M.; very rainy night and windy.
     9  48  29-50    S— NW. — Great floods; sun, and cumuli',
        61            fine day, but some showers ; moon and star
                       light.
  10    57  29-90    SW — S. — Sun, and cumuli; very fine day;
        63            moon-light.
  11    50  29-85    SW. — Sun and cumuli; very fine day; cloudy.
        67
  12    51  29-50    NW—W. — Rain;           clear, and cirrostratus;
        67            fine day; moon-light.
  13    49  29-55    SE. — Rain early; clear, clouds, and sun; very
        67            fine day; clear, and moon bright.          Moon
                      first quarter.
  14    49  29-40   SE — S. — Sunshine early; some rain; fine
        58            day; moon, stars, and cirrocumuli.
 15     52  29-50    SE — NW — SE. — Cirrostratus, and clear;
        68            very fine day, but not much sunshine ; moon
                      light, and some cumuli.
                                                            METEORO-

                             Meteorology.                              399
         METEOROLOGICAL         JOURNAL KEPT AT           BOSTON,
                            LINCOLNSHIRE.
    [The time of observation, unless otherwise stated, is at  1
                                                                P.M.]
                   '
         .Age 0 1
  4818     the    Thermo   Baro     State of the Weather and Modification
         Moon      meter.  meter.              of the Clouds.
         DAYS
April 15   10         51-  29'55   |Very fine
      16   1 1       50-5  29-53    Ditto
      17   12        51-   29-51    Cloudy
      IS   13        47.   29-56    Fine
      19   14        44-5  29-93    Cloudy
      £0 full        52-5  29-94   Very fine — the air was drier these
                                       two days than it has been for the
                                       three last years — wind E.N.E.
     SI    16        52-   29'89 [Ditto
     22    17        44-   29-83 Rain
     23    18        43-   29-71 Ditto all day
     24    19        42-   29-53 Ditto, both morning and evening
     25   20         46-   29-35 Cloudy — rain A.M.
     26   21         51-5 29-67 Cloudy — heavy rain in the evening
                                       with tremendous thunder-storm
     27   22         61-5 29-63   iDitto  — rain A.M.
     28   23         59-  3001 [Very fine
     29   24        60-5  30-09 Ditto
     30   25        47-   29'85 Rain
 May   1  26         57-5 29-87 Very fine
       2  27        61-   29'98   Ditto
       3  28        53-   29-63    Rain
       4  29        60-   29-66   Fine
         new        56-5  29-61   Ditto
       6    1      58'    29-48   Cloudy — rain in the eveni
       7    2      535    29-49   Rain
       e    3      63-    29-71   Fine — rain in the evening
       9    4      59-    29-69   Ditto               ditto
     10     5      57"    29-94   Ditto
     11     6      63-5   29-76   Ditto— rain P.M.
     12     7      6r     29-77   Ditto
     13     8      53'    29-51   Rain
     14     9      60-    29-49 Rain
                                                                MHTEORO-

400                                           Meteorology.
                        meteorological tablh,
                      By Mb. Ca&y, of the Strand,
                                     for May,              1818.
                  The   §         Her.
 Days of                             o    .    Height of            DegreesofDry
                                                                                         Hygrometer.
                 u a
                 o                             the Baroin.                                                    Weather.
 Monlli.
                         Noon.
                                                                           by
                                                                    ness      Leslie's
                 P                                 Inches.
                                     °2
                  §
                 CO
 April   27      56     66           55            29-52                47                             Fair
         28      52     62           50              -80                49                             Fair
         29      50     64           47              -82                 61                            Fair
         30      50     54           54              -56                      0                        Rain
  May     1      53     62           55              '75                 48                            Fair
                 55     64           55              -72                 39                            Fair
         4 3 2
                                               -
                 54     65           57              -42                 30                            Showery
                 56     65           55              •50                 38                            Fail-
          5      55     64           52              -38                 42                            Fair
         6       52     63           53              -26                 20                            Showery
          7      53     64           52              -32                 27                            Showery
         s       55     64           50              -50                 26                            Cloudy-heavy rain
                                                                                                         at night
          0      54     63           49              -62                 39                            Showery
         10      53     62           54              -72                 51                            Fair
         11      54     64           55              -60                 50                            Fair
         12      55     63           54              -58                45                             Fair
         13      54     60           48              -32                40                             Showery
         14      50     58           50              •34                 36                            Showery
         15      55     62           54              -45                42                             Cloudy
         16      55     63           55              -62                48                             Fair
         17      55     55           54              -65                     0                         Small rain
         18      56     68           50              >82                50                             Fair
         19      50     56           48              -90                42                             Cloudy
         20      48     64           47            30-00                57                             Fair
         21      47     56           47              -11                52                             Fair
         22      48     58           46              .16                54                             Fair
         23      46     58           46              -21                50                             Fair
         24      50     63           60              -26                45                             Fair
         25      50     65           52              -22                46                             Fair
         26      55     67           54              -23                52                             Fair
                                 >        I                >
                 N.B, The        Barometer's height          ii   taken at one o'clock,

                                     C   401     J
 LKVIII.      On the Pressure        of  the Earth against Revetements
       and Retaining Walls.            By Mr. Thomas Tredgold.
It has      been observed, in making experiments on the strength of
 revetements, that the pressure of the earth increases in a certain,
degree, the stability of the wall *. To account for this increase
of stability, the writer of an article on the subject, in the Ency
clopaedia Metropolilana\, has adopted the method of resolving
the force, resulting from the pressure of the earth, that appears
to have been first practised by Rondelet % : but thjs method is
evidently inferior to the one used by Coulomb and Prony, as it
does not indicate the angle of fracture ; consequently does not
give the maximum pressure of the earth ; and when the cohe
sion is omitted, it is much inferior even in point of simplicity.
    The cohesion of the earth, which is so strongly objected to by
the writer above mentioned, is not a necessary appendage .to
Coulomb's Theory, and would, perhaps, be better left out; also,
similar objection's might he urged against introducing the cohe
sion of the mortar in calculating the strength of the wall.              . ,
    But to return to the stability imparted to the wall by the pres
sure of the earth. — It appears to result partly from friction ; as it
must be evident no motion could take place without friction
against the back of the wall.             I will, therefore, attempt to in
clude its effect in an investigation of the pressure of the earth.
                       J
Let ABCD (Plate V. fig. 12) represent a section of the wall; and
BDE a section of the prism of earth that slides forward in the
case of fracture, DE representing the plane of fracture, which we
 will suppose to be a plane surface.
   Put   Wa=. the weight      of the prism of earth acting against the
              wall.
          R= the resistance of the wall, or the horizontal force that
              retains the sliding prism on the plane of fracture.
         fl = the angle which the plane of fracture makes with the
         J '
              horizon.
             = the friction when the pressure is unity.
         //= the height of the wall = BD.
And,      S= the weight of a cube of earth wltose side is unity.
    It is shown, by writers on mechanics,               that when a body is
sustained upon an inclined plane, and is in equilibrio, the whole
                                          w (mn.a-fcoc. »)
force in the direction ED is =                                ,
                                                                N '
                                                 radius
   • Col. Pasley's " Course of Military Instruction," vol. iii, chap. xxv.
   T Art. Mtchumei, section xxv. part i.
   J  L'Artde   B&tir, tome iii. p. 128.       .                      -.
                                                                              -
Vol. 51.No.242.        ^«el81S.                         Cc                 This

                                                    '
402        On   the Pressure     of (he Earth         against RevStements
     This force      is opposed      by the resistance of the wall, which
                                                                                     when
hi ay be supposed to act in a horizontal direction ; and
                                                        _rR-(co? a+fsm.«)^
reduced to the direction DE it becomes
     Also, the pressure against the back of the wall is equal to
                                                                                        R ;
 consequently the friction is =              R/;       and when this force is re
 duced to the direction          DE, it    is  = ?l'-(/'in 1=1—
                                                             radius
                                                                            A     (C)
                                                                                  v '
     And, when the forces (A)i (B), and (C) are in equilibrio, we
 have
                                                                         —
       R. (cos. a + 2/sin.a — f1 cos. a)=W.(sin. a                          fcos.d).
      But, making the radius =1, this equation may                          be  put under
 a.  form better suited to the present purpose                  ;   that is
            i . -
                          "_        W(tan.a-/)
                                                            W
              _
         .
  . ,                              1+2/tan..-^'
      Or,'  because
             ,
                       W=ix     A»  S  x —   ^— :
                                          ran. a
                                                  '
                                                                        *
                            tan. a + 2/tan.* • — ./'tana'           >
      The second part of this expression becomes a maximum when
                          tan.«=/+v/(^>
      And    if   the angle which the plane of repose makes with the
  horizon      be denoted by       c;   then   f—       ~^-c; consequently
                            tan. a     =                   .   (F)
                                               w<
      If the friction    against the     back of the wall had been neglected,
  the expression for the tan.            a would have become equivalent to
  the simple and elegant one             obtained by M. de Prony.
      The value of the tan. a            (F) being introduced in the equation
   (E), it becomes
   '                                  »*S
           R=                                                        v           (G)
                         ,—                   v  2 + stn. 5 c
                   sm.e vi      ,
                              + 1 +
                                      «m.s c
                                              cos. * c
                                                           r—     +
                                                                          2
                                                                     2 cos. c
                                                                              "
       But the numeral value of the denominator will be constant
  for the same kind of earth ; and let this value be = / ;
                                  *en**=~p. (H)
       And as the wall may either sljde on its base, or turn on the
   point C as a centre of motion; it may be shown, that in the
   latter case* the leverage D p = ^h.
       The preceding inquiry extends only to retaining walls, coun
    terscarp revetements, terrepleins without parapets, &c. But a
                            ,                                                         simple

                                                  and Retaining Walls.
                                                                      403
   simple case of partial scarp revetements presents
                                                          itself, which it
   would be as well to consider.
      Suppose the revetement (fig.
                                      13) to have aberm AB equal to
   the breadth of the top of the wall, and that
                                                   the plane of fracture
   produced would intersect the earthen
                                             scarp at G ; also let h' be
   the height of this point above the
                                       top of the wall = FB ; h being
   the height of the wall as before.    It is obvious that the equation
   (D) still expresses the conditions of equilibrium ; that                                              is,
                                              R        = wftan           «-Q
                                                           1
                                                                     /»-
                                                               + si/tan.a—
         But     if       b   be the angle              which the front of the scarp BG make*,
   with the horizon                   ;      then       by     supposition          —    -,   =     ;    therefore
   W= IAS                                    And       as this change           in the value of W will not
                1
                                                                   °
                                   .
        ,                    tan. a
  affect that of the angle of fracture                                     in   any considerable degree,            it
  may be neglected     in which case   ;
                                                       R=       AS               (I)
        Hence the leverage becomes Dp                                      =
   ....
                                                                                h
                                                                                    gjj^yri and the value
         ft'
                                  h   tan.   /•
  Of            13      SB                        -.
                              tan. a— tan.        b
        But in the actual construction                                   of revetements the angle               b   is
 generally 45°, and in that case rt'=
                                                                             tan*a_1
                                                                                         ;    consequently
                                         R        =    k'S                *— . (K)
                                                                   2/(tan.o-l)
                                                                                    v   '
                             And, Dp
                                  3r          =        h   2t;n-"+1
                                                              fan m
                                                              tan a
                                                               6
   The equation (K) might be applied to
                                        demirevetements, and to
 partial revetements                         in   general, where            it   would be
                                                    accurate enough,
 for practical purposes: and     must be remembered that the   it
 methods fail completely when                                    old
                                applied to these revetements.
    According to the principles    have endeavoured to
                                                          point out,
                                                                   I
it it
              that
        appears,                      when the earthen scarp exceeds
                                                                     the
                                                                     height //',
        might         be raised to any height
                                               without increasing the pressure
against              the wall; as      indicated   is                      by
                                                     the                                experiments      of
Pasley*.    But     we suppose    if                              Col.
                                 (with Belidor, Rondclet, &c.
 that the angle of fracture coincides                            &c.)
                                        with the natural slope of the
earth    and also that the inclination of
                                              the earthen scarp BG
            ;
(fig. 13) the same as the natural
                     is
                                     slope (which     generally taken
                                                                                              is
at 45°)        obvious that the pressure
               ;        it   is
                                              ought to increase with
the height of the earthen
                            scarp, without limit.
                    •   " Course        of Military Instruction," vol.                  13. chap. xxv.
                                                                C    c 2
                                                                                                               This,

404                         0»tkfi.  fc$j£!Flpn#r
     This, however, is directly contrary to the result* of the -expe-*
ritnents above quoted, and to the experience of erii*y" practical
man, who has been guided by the intuitive su^estiohsof hi*
oAvn'feehngs in preference to the rules of mechanical                     *vrite*sV
                                                         '
                                                             .     >>;r-:rib l lUr.i. -
    20,   Bentincfc-street, May 25,  1818.
                      '
                                             '          ,; f ... o L i'i -v < t.'s ;-
 "
   '/   'c
           '11
             ' i .                 .  .. "     .    —          i< . V-        . . ><>-
LXfX.          Oh (he Seeds    of Plants.         By Mrs. Acnes Iebetson,
                                To MrrTUloffi.                   - -   >-
                                                                          •A*.—
sir,               Y object, it is well known, is to simplify my subject,
render the real knowledge of the form and nature of plant* easy y
to- furnish the means of comparing together the analysis of their
resemblance and their differences ; and by these means assign to
each part a name, that may recall not only an appellation, but
the idea of their properties and qualities, and what situation
each part should hold in their general character in the vegetable
world, when compared with the animal creation.
      To show the formation of a plant by taking plant* up prugres-
sively from the ground, and then dissecting them in their increase,
must appear (I should suppose) of all means the most exact and
conclusive; since one specimen becomes inevitably the correc
tion of the preceding ones. . .                  -            .«>-- *- it t ,H >T'"
      It is certainly the most exact method of understanding the for
mation of a plant, though it was never before known that a
vegetable could be so taken : but common sense shows, that if
the last part can be examined progressively and outwardly, the
first should be sought in the same manner, in its regular process
in the interior ; and if every part of a plant assimilates with
the animal creation in so exact a manner interiorly, is it likely,
it should differ in so essential a point as to form its progeny or
seed between the skins P Is there a single instance in nature of
such a formation, either animal, reptile, or insect tribe? the lat
ter of which so much resembles plants.                     In my last letter I
again brought         forward   that   curious     circumstance      of which each
dissection confirms the truth, and which forms a most beautiful
and simple delineation of the construction of vegetable nature ;
 I mean the fact " that the corculum of the seed is protruded in
the root." It has been said that I assert " that the seed is formed
there." I appeal to my various letters in this work and in Nichol
son's Journal, for the refutation of this charge ; proving there po
sitively, that I never advanced such a proposition. No two things
can be more different than the corculum of the seed and the'
 seed itself; the first being inserted within the second in the
                                                                                   way
                        •

                         On the Seed    of Plants.                  405
 way of a loo?e Lall, perfectly unfastened, but by a string, and al
 ways independent of the interior of the seed, — nay, in its first
 week's entrance easily to be shaken out ; as for instance, the
 heart of the walnut, nut, bean, &c. ami every 4>ther kind of ve
getable.      The corculum when fust composed iu the radicle is
 simply a diminutive ball of powder, which may be seen to insert
 itself into its allotted place in the seed, as soon as it gains the top
 of the plant : "but first it crosses the root adjoining the radicle,
 and runs up the alburnum vessels, which convey it by degrees up
 to the flower; it then consists of the lall, and a diminutive sprig
 within, which was inserted while leaving the radicle and. pass
 ing into the root. That there can be no doubt of the existence
 of these diminutive balls, nor the shoot within them, is certain;
since they were first discovered by Leuwenhoek, and afterward?
 that extreme clever philosopher Mr. Henry Baker; — nor did the
 latter know of the previous discovery.          1 also was in the same
 predicament ; from not possessing the works of either of these
gentlemen, 1 was ignorant that thev preceded me. But sure such
 testimonies in favour of the fact, and from such a quarters, do
not require my assurance of its truth, — and is it likely that three
dissectors should have been convinced of its exactness by con
tinual observation, if it was not just ?        I must also notice, that
these pictures of the heart of the seeds are taken much earlier
than any one has before drawn these specimens — when the cor
culum had just entered the empty bag of the seed, I know no
one besides who has dissected them so early. Why then is it
doubted, after such evidence ? Has any person proved by dissec
tion that it is a mistake ? Has any one dissected progressively,
to inquire into the truth of it? — Have they tried and followed the
various specimens for one year, taking the seed from the first for
mation to its completion ? No.          How then can they know these
facts to be false, when it is only by this means their truth can
be properly ascertained ? Another gentleman gave his testimony
of having seen the balls pass up the alburnum. Sir J. E. Smith
saw those balls in a specimen I sent him, and took them for
nutriment.       He was perfectly right in the idea ; but not the si
tuation he assigned to the nourishment, which is never found in
the alburnum ; but the balls being followed up to impregnation.,
could not be any other matter than a part of the seeds, or rather
                                    - l
                              '          ,
the seeds- themselves.
    To prove of what consequence it is to take plants progressively ,
and how impossible it is to comprehend them if not so takln>
 I shall show the progress of the heart of the seeds, from the mo
ment they are formed in the radicle till they enter the seeds in
the seed-vessel : and giving specimens sufficient just to murk
the progress of the whole series, and prove that those balls must
                                 C   c 3                              he

4(Xi                    Oh the Seed    of Plants.
be the heart    of seeds,    pig. 1, is the radicle: the tei initiation of
the thread-root fflO, is the powder which enters from the earth,
and forms itself into a ball ; and bb is the part of the. radicle
which joins to the larger root, in which the diminutive shoot is
inserted within the ball.         Fig. 2, is where the hearts or me
seeds cross the large root cc, and make their way to the albur
num vessels dd, running up each of these in the stem to attain
 the bud generally discovered at top.        Fig. 3, is where the hearts
 of the seeds run up. the short Jloiver~$lalksf md enter the flower-
buds at the bottom of the flower, which is the seed-vessel :— .the
 flowers arc then very young buds.         Fig. 4, is where the bags of
 the seeds are placed in regular order in the seed-vessel, and open
 their tops for the reception of the hearts of the seeds, and after
 wards of the atmospheric nutriment, which soon half fills the
 bags of the seeds at the top where the heart is ;             fff,    also
 fig. 4, shows the atmospheric hair. Fig. 5, is where the nutri
 ment of the root is received, the vessels being made for the pur
 pose of. throwing up the powder, which is at this time only to be
 traced from the root upwards, while all the mechanism of the
 hairs has disappeared, or changed their forms.                 Fig. 6, is
 where the seeds are impregnated : the cord e e having once be
 fore passed through the seed-vessel, has run up the pistil to
 fetch the powder of the stamen, which it there mixes with the
 sweet juices of the pistil ; and they together form that vivifying
 matter which enables the shoot in the heart of the seed to spread
 and form its primordial sprig : it also enables the whole seed-
 vessel to surround itself with the female shoot, which soon form
 the new stripes which run .up the wood of the young plant when
 in the earth (as 1 shall in future time show).
     I must still give another specimen, (fig. 7,) which serves most
 admirably to prove how true it is that the powder flows up the
 stem of all plants, to fill the seeds (see fig. 5); since, if the stem is
 cut at that time, it will be found with six or seven apertures open
 the whole way up the stem (see a a a) for that purpose ; that s,
 regular vessels that convey the powder up the pith, which being
 cut horizontally, show the open mouths of those vessels and the
 seed powder that runs tip them, fig. 7, aaa : — this lasts but a
 week or two at most, and then the vessels form themselves into
 other matter, equally serviceable,         In short, the whole of this
 process proves that the heart of the seed is formed by the matter
 which comes from the earth ; that before it leaves its radicle it
 acquires a diminutive shoot ; that when that shoot is acquired,
tire balls run across the root, up the various alburnum vessels ;
that they convey them up these vessels to the various buds, at
the bottom of which the empty seed-bags are ready to receive
them; that they run up the flower-stalks into these seed-bags,

                                           On the Seed     of Plants.                            407
And fasten    themselves at tlw top of the seed; and then alter
 nately take in first the liijuid matter of the atmosphere, then
the- powder of the root, and that thus the seed is fiHed 5 when
the flower then becomes perfect, the pistil shows its jmce in its
sparkling drop, ready to receive the powder of the stamen which
soon falls on              it,
                  and the seeds with their corculum become fructi
fied — Followed tip thus, how can the heart he any thing but
        :
what have named it? If one specimen failed,
        I                                               would prove the      it
whole false.      therefore -once more appeal to common sense, to
                           I
show that this method of dissecting vegetables              exactly Hke           is
that allowed to be so perfect in the egg, where              taken from       it   is
the moment of dropping from the hen, the observation continu
ing till the chicken       hatched,    is                 by
                                          alternate eggs taken as t-hev
advance in their progressive improvementt-"-thti3 showing the
perfect Formation of the bird in regular series^ - • shall perhaps
                                                     a                        I
be blamed for this repetition of description, and thus giving          a                         in
following course,     some   of  the  prints     have   before ventured
                                                                  I
to give singly: but have met with such contradiction, and been
                                   I
repaid         by
           such unbelief that though        ;      series of dissections
                                                                  it   is
                                                                       a
of nearly seventeen years standing, constantly corrected bv yearly
observation, and made perfect                            if by
                                          repeated reviews of the se
veral facts yet     ;   treated as
                                 it   is     was the hasty production
                                                             it
of few months, uncorrected
     a                                              by
                                      experience and unsupported                                  by
the observation of others*.          cannot help, therefore, from my
                                                 I
real love of Science, making a last effort to establish its truth,
though     do  1 at the edge of the grave
                        it                      and in situation when
                                                                  ;           a
I  can no longer have any other interest in           but what that re   it
gard bestows.        cannot  still
                               1   but   wish  the  truth may appear,
while the eyes (discoverers of the whole) may be able to correct
nny mistakes which may be noticed in thus reviewing the sub*
ject.
    It    is   must be false, because the solar microscope deceives.
               said   it
The solar microscope may show          diversity of lights, but these
                                                         a
discoveries have been vindicated                          by
                                       the lowest powers of optics.
It    in the common half-guinea microscope that the greatest part
     is
of this has been viewed and drawn, with now and then the use of
the compound.      When first disseeted plants, I      began     very         I             by
high powers     but soon;    corrected  thisIerror, and  commenced
    •I  have already noticed that iu the hearts of the seeds alone, as coming
from the roots, and forming the branches within,         can bring four of our
                                                                         I
first dissectors, who vindicate me in various parts of this series of disco
veries.    have already shown that Leuwenhoek and Mr. Baker saw the shoot
            I
in the heart of the seed before impregnation that another gentleman drew
                                                                 ;
the balls or hearts of the seeds when mounting in the alburnum vessel; and
that they observed with great astonishment, that the seeds were as perfect
in very young bud as in larger one, which seem to look like previous
    a                                      a                                            a
formation.                                     - .
                                                                     -
                                                 C   c
                                                     4                                            by

308                ,      On tiie Seed  of Plants.
by very low ones, and raised thw»byiil«grti&; lwowhich.ineiuw I
beeMtfe>* 'perfect judg(>J<rfMk«'tftit*fn>fnsh»    dnofk?fl*l(PK!ffi,*e^,;
nndas    ralway*6h^^ my^iitei^rAng»tn^ohg^ ,wpiicedi>
                                                                           ,
 (sii»ee'withdW thfet'rt>a«y parts m»ett toave^etnaia?^ perfedtiyamw
known,) but by* brewing the sabjeet thos. wkv ^Utemvrarged,..>and
then increasing it^-sizre by stow degrees^ I lokew drewsthaispBei*
inert as all the -various power* presented,; mid :thusr>*om>ared
them- together, cdtis*derteg-each part in its variety of -paints a«d
varyings; — and it is astonishing ©#*»hat use this method WWtt
mej in learning to comprehend the hairs m particular* since it
enabled me ofeen to-isee the etttraflee of >tl*e liquid into thcice*
tort, and topttrSUfrit-Mi its after-eoarseia the<veius of. the plant;
and this tfieaftfc alone ,proved to me how many tiroes the hairs
were i aleertHJj'fer^he purpose of their preparing, analysing* and
 cotrterth^ the? Various liquids of the atmosphere, as js beautifully
 seen 1ft the'tmSumber hahs; — for can the fact beapanwtheticoo-
(,tfuetion3?iWheftf tb* seeds receive in that plant the /j«ices>«f
the atmosphere, they do not (as in the wheat and -gowd)snet-ain
the samis formed hairs throughout tl» whole euiargennesit o^the
flower $ -h^' correct the juices, and prepare them for insertion
into the plant, drtough those hairs, by changing fheinfoertiJhnse
 different time* ((toe fig. 8, 9 ahd 10) : and this change! is- made
visible by !ah -alteration «f colour in the juice alsov Thus the first
matter they 'receive from the atmosphere, and wbiehfk,ws into
 the seeds through the hairsj is apparent water, by> means of .a
simple retort; as at fig. 8 ; but as soon as the seeds< aase- prepared
for receiving, %he coreulum, fig. 9, is dispensed to them; and
though the liquid enters the hairs like water, it changes twice,
 first to milky white and then to green ; and has one of the most
 complicated halts to bestow it on the plant ;-+-they then alter to
 the atmospheric nutriment, and the juice becomes green, and a
 then a deep yellow within the fig. 10. Why should the form and
shape of the hairs be thus altered, if they did not reanalyse the
juices and -newly concoct them for the seeds ? Why should the
 colours- alter as the jukes are p&essed fiom valve to valve, where
 compression1^ expletion often takes place in producing the, pro
per effect-, and rendering it fit for the seed ? If they require; not
other pfeparatioMSji why is the formation of each seed so different
 in this respect, fane demanding the same hair throughout the.
whole fbtmatiOn of the seed (as in the gourd and wheat), while
the cucumber 'requires it to be so often changed ? — The matter
 speaks"< foi> itself.  It is assuredly not possible to give- another
 interpretation to this phenomenon, which has indeed;<been fol
lowed by me from specimen to specrmen/till the whole appears
 so very simple and plain, that I am astonished a dissenting voice
can arise; — nor could it be so, but from the want of seeing in the
         .                                                    incredulous

                           On the Seed   of Plants.
  incredulous person. Wfasj»til*e UetrfjilMjftji^ token into tj;e seed
  frouv the atmosphere^ ther»4h^;h»Usfvtiftt^te;i^i^^jwV/w;»
  wl»ioh.is«w unwiualroaae          rdoifchegeJvHVfcdkftWay   -t^ittki £ru.&
  grows. of «ome «ft«u.n'BK» Inst figure? is^ #H*w«,jiii»$,itf4,g$t)e;
 ivlth-a,iiop^wrdciiiirtsil>ly proriueeyt aneffect, oa the ljguid fr«nd
  whem;fcheriyeHow juiwtnis received inloi.. the seed's they,         about
  b^^fujl^^mi^ sontetinves «pparetHtiy-4isteHded, j>ut soojti.fol*
 lowed by the powder ef-lhe.riHifc;
                                          Ao^^ft-i^^oth^^i^fttth^a'
  die away before thenMit |WO*es.v s.nn*motes «i t; tine            ;nuu-rn:
     1 11 myiast letter I showed in the vfaw, of th*: corsulH^nt;k/^,^ter,
 mounting the seedvitentere&theeeed -vessel and .^d- sinewed
 it in two very different genera of plants, the wbea$r^>drgfl;urd,
  I hwe since tried near forty different- sorts- — gveit}' .plant I could
 gain, and they all. filled their seeds oearly in jibe. s^n^fliainier.
  But iu trees (as I hive before shown) thqre„i* this-,preM^ous,ft!-
 teratioBt owing to the arresting -the seed; so long w,tbe. seed-
 vessel t~— when the coreulum run» from the albur^ni Tessek ti>t^
 surround the buds, and for a time become torpid, wlule thehuds
 change their piaee, arranging themselves by degrees; on tl;e.rticw
 shoot farmed for the . purpose.          The hearts tb/qn- follow them,
 and gather into one collection at the boUoui. of tbe neWtsboot;
 and preparing a: vessel for the purpose, run within it,-in tlm cu
 rious manner;! have before shown, droppvogtiirtflpeac^t^^tSQ
 many hearts as the seeds require. But in all other plants o^gCr
 c-ialty annuals and herbaceous plants, and those 1 «tn now show--
 ing, they proceed without stoppings to the seed-vessel and seeds-
 One of the most curious subjects I have discovered in plants is
'the entrance of the juices through the hairs of plants., .1 have
 repeatedly shown that that which was .taken for perspiration in
 plants,     is the reception of the atmospheric juices into the
 plants : indeed it is a disgrace to science that this mistake should
 subsist, while the most minute microscope will show the follv of
 calling that perspiration which is on a long pedestal, and which
 changes its forms with each plant, and presents a set of chemical
 glasses that when magnified, ean only be construed into retorts,
 receivers, pneumatu. itistrumenls,&:c. &cc. Some of thein resem
 ble ours ; some are so curious that they fill tjie mind with astonish
 ment, and show that if we properly attended to them without
 prejudice or the spirit of contradiction, we should gain a know
 ledge in areometry, no other sulject could so welt supply; for
  the manner in which these instruments manage the gases, and
 contrive to form a vacuum whenever it is necessary, between the
 astonishing valves of their various formed retorts, is most mar
 vellous. But I have seen them repeatedly, when much magnified,
 boil up as on fire, while a part has exploded without the smallest
 danger to the rest, — but that is not always the case. How can
                                                                       such

4\6                        On the Seed   of Plants.
 such instruments as I have now shown at 8, 9 and 10, be called
 perspiration ? and yet they are all of the same kind, and I never
 yet saw one without a stand.           If the purport was to throw out
 a juice from the vegetable, it is easily done : bnt great mechanism
 is required to draw a liquid within the plant, especially as the
 juices are also to be prepared by the affinity of the different
 matters, by means of chemical attraction and attraction of com
 position : nor do I the least doubt that, minute as these hairs
 are, electricity plays her part among them, and assists in these
 various labours of natural art.
     It is provoking to consider that this formation rather increases
 our difficulties in accounting for the means and laws by which
plants arc governed; as it is much more easy (difficult as we have
hitherto found it) to suppose the flow of a liquid up the stem of
 a tree, than to imagine a power by which a powder is thus con
 veyed.      We have capillary attraction, the force and pressure
 of air, &c. &c. but I know of no law in areology or in hydro
 statics that can carry a powder, especially an almost dry powder
 (as it appears) : and yet no person can dissect long, and not ad
 mit the validity of this process. That several different powders are
 conveyed up the trunk of an amazing high tree, by means of
vessels protruded for the time, and that apertures are to be seen
 up which the powders pass, if horizontal cuttings are made in
 the trunk, — is a truth I have ascertained beyond all contradiction ;
but that the time must be watched, as it lasts but a week or two
in the year.        There must then be a power, a law in nature we
are   not  yet  informed    of, or acquainted with, which will account
for these wonders.          But by following nature in her progressive
movements we shall easily reach the development of the whole,
provided we condescend to be led by nature, not to lead her :
if,  instead of following   by    exact dissections, we choose always to
go   back   to the   authors   that have existed previous to us, we shall
never advance,       but   always add to our mistakes and increase
our difficulties.      Sureit   is  the strangest thing, whenI     wish to
know how    a     treeis  made, and that  I      have perseverance to go
on in the study, that      I    should prefer going back to Malpighy,
&c. &c. rather than take that tree down, cut          it  to piece?, watch
in others like  it,    their daily growth, and follow their increase ;—
would not constant examination       in      four or five years teach me
more than Malpighy?         I     have the greatest opinion of our pre
decessors in botany, particularly in dissective botany: but    I     would
rather examine them after studying nature than before, and
compare nature and my own opinions together, afterwards.
                      I     am. sir,
                                    Your obliged servant,
                                                      Agnes Ibbet'son.
                                                                   Dc-

                     On a new Mode                of Artificial     Congelation.            411
                         Description!    of the Plate No.7A          [see   PI. IV.]
Fig.          1. ;Presents the end  of the radicle just where it is enlarged
                from the side root, a a are the first forming of the balls,
    •;.          which are certainly the hearts of the seeds; and bb the
                larger balls where they take in the little shoot. Leuwcn-
                hoek and Mr. H. Baker saw this shoot as well as I.
              2. The alhurnum vessels branching up from the root c C,
                 till they reach the buds passing through the alburnum
                vessel.                                 . .  .,.         ,
              2. The bud of the cucumber cut longitudinally, showing
                its interior, dd its female flowers, with ee its seed-vessel
                 and seeds, when the hearts of the seeds begin to fix
                themselves
                        '    on the seeds                ffj
                                                and run up the flower-stem
                                        • •                          -
                              (.
          .4. The seed-vessel cut horizontally, showing the peculiar
              hair belonging to the first fixing of the seeds, when they
'   '
           •   are taking in their hearts to the seeds, as at fi h.
           5. The cutting longitudinally when the seeds receive the
      .•      juices of the atmosphere from the peculiar hair i i.
       '
           p.. When the same hair is continued and the matter is re-
           .. ceived from the roots by the peculiar figure k k.
         . /. The horizontal cutting     of the stem of the cucumber,
              showing the apertures which admit the powder all the
              way up the root within the pith.
              .8, 10. The three hairs: the first begins in the very early
                    9,
              bud.
          11. The sort of excrescence that admits the powder, and
              throws     into the seed at
                              it                          /    1.
LXX.                On    a   new Mode        of      Artificial Congelation.           By John
      Leslie, F.R.S. E.                   Professor        of  Mathematics in the Univer
      sity      of   Edinburgh*         :
w    E have now to relate a discovery which will enable human
skill to command the refrigerating powers of nature         and, by                 ;
the help  of  an  adequate  machinery,   to create cold and produce
ice, on    large, scale, at all seasons, and in the hottest climates
                a
of the globe. But, to explain this interesting subject with greater
clearness and accuracy,      requisite to trace the successive ad
                                            it   is
vances which conducted to the result.     Where conclusion ap               a
pears simple, the careless observer    apt to suppose   easily at-
                                                            is                     it
   • From Supplement ro the fourth and fifth editions of the Encyclo
pedia Britaruuca, vol. Hi. part                  i.
                                                                                         tained   ;

 412          On a new Mode       of Artificial Congelation,
 tained; yet, though sound philosophy tends always to simplifi
 cation, the tare quality of simplicity is scarcely ever the flash of
 intuition, but .the slaw fruit of close and patient investigation.
    In .pursuing the; rese.awihes with his hygrometer, Professor
 Leslie was early induced to inquire into the condition of the
 higher atmosphere, and its relations to. humidity.          He thus de
 tected a feet of great importance in meteorology, and pointing
 at various ulterior views., j y ,
                                      ,
                                        a-i.
       J<0" "
                      Investigation of its Principles,
    As rarefaction enlarges the capacity of air for heat, so it Jike-
 wise augments the disposition to hold moisture ; at the same
 time, that the removal of the ordinary pressure facilitates the ex
 pansion of the liquid matter, and its conversion into a gaseous
 form.    Accordingly, if the hygrometer he suspended within a
 large receiver, from which a certain portion of air as quickly ^abs-
 tracted, it will sink with rapidity.        In summer the additional
 dryness thus produced amounts to about 50 hygrometric degrees,
 each time the air has its rarefaction doubled; so that, sup
 posing the operation of exhausting to be performed with expe
 dition, and the residuum reduced to a sixty-fourth part, the hy
grometer would mark a descent of 300°.           But this effect is only
 momentary; for the thin air very soon becomes charged with
 moisture, and, consequently, ceases to act on the wet ball of the
hygrometer.       The cold, however, excited on the surface of that
ball, by such intense evaporation, will have previously frozen the
                                                   "      , >. a..' : .
 coating.
    The increased power of aqueous solution which air acquires as
it grows thinner, being ascertained and carefully investigated,
the object was to combine the action of absorbent with the tran
sient dryness produced within a receiver by rarefaction.             The
sentient ball of the hygrometer being covered .with dry salt of
tartar, the instrument first indicated increasing dryness, and
afterwards, as the rarefaction proceeded, it changed1 its bourse,
and marked humidity. . The ^am« variation of effect nearly was
observed, when the hygrometerhad been wetted as usual with pure
water, and a broad saucer containing the, mild vegetable alkali
was placed on the plate of the air-pump.          It: was: thus proved,
that the   action  of  this imperfect absorbent is-soon jovea-powercd
by the tendency to yaporizatiorrin attenuated air, and that, be
yond a certain limit, it surrenders its latent moisture.; ."?<..%.
    Me.. Leslie resolved, therefore, *o try the effectjaf striphuric
acid, whose peculiar energy as an absorbent he bad, under other
circumstances, already ascertained.- But variolic incidents - pre
vented him, for a considerable time, from resuming his .philoso
phical inquiries.      At last he began those projected experimentsj-
                                                                     and

       . v , On    fifty Mode of Artificial Cancelation.          4\3
and whs almost immediately rewarded Hy the *lisclosure of a pro
perty, the application of which blazed on his fancy.           In the
month of June 1810, having introduced a surface of sulphuric
acid under the receiver of atf air-pump, he perceived with plea
sure that this substance only superadded its peculiar attraction
for moisture, to the ordinary effects resulting from the progress
of exhaustion ; and, what was still more important, that it con
tinued to "support, with undiminished energy, the dryness thus
created.     The attenuated air was not suffered, as before, to grow
charged with humidity; but each portion of that medium, as fast
as it became saturated by touching the wet ball of the hygrome
ter, transported its vapour to the acid, and was thencp sent back
denuded of the load, and fitted again to renew its attack with
fresh Vigour.    'By this perpetual circulation, therefbre^etween
the exhaling and the absorbing surface, the diffuse residuum of
air is maintained constantly at the same state of dryness.'       The
sentient ball "of the hygrometer, which had been cbvered'^ith
several folds of wetted tissue paper, was observed, at art early
stage of the operation, suddenly to lose its blue tint and assume
a dull white, while the coloured liquor sprung upwards in the
stem, where it continued, for the space of a minute, stationary,
and again slowly subsided.       The act of congelation had, there
fore, at this moment taken place, and the paper remained frozen
several minutes, till its congealed moisture was entirely dispersed.
Pursuing this decisive Intimation, the hygrometer was removed,
and a watch-glass filled with water substituted in its place. By
a few strokes of the pump, the whole was converted into a solid
cake of ice, which, being left in the rare medium, continued to
evaporate, and, after the interval of perhaps an hour, totally 'dis
appeared.     A small cup for holding the water was next adopted,
                                                            r-
and the whole apparatus gradually enlarged.              /<
      Efficiyit Power nearly the same at all Temperatures*            ;
   The powers, both of vaporisation       and of absorption, being
greatly augmented      in the higher temperatures, the same limit of
cold nearly is in all cases attained, by a certain measure of ex
haustion.     When the air has been rarefied 250 times, the utmost
that, under such circumstances, can perhaps be effected, the sur
face of evaporation is cooled down 1 20 degrees of Fahrenheit
in winter, and would probably sink near 200 in summer.           Nay,
a far less tenuity of the medium, when combined with the action
of sulphuric acid, is capable of producing and supporting a very
intense cold.     If the air be rarefied only 50 times, a depression
of temperature will be produced, amounting to 80 or even 100
degrees ot' Fahrenheit's scale.
                                                                 Mode

414             On       a new      Mode of Artificial Congelation.
                    •    .'         Mode of proceeding.
   We are thus enabled, in the hottest weather, to freeze a mrts*
of water, and to keep it frozen, till it gradually wastes away, by »
continued but invisible process of evaporation.        The only thing
required      is,
            that  the surface  of the acid  should approach tolerably
near to that  of the water,   and  should  have    greater extent  fora               ;
otherwise the moisture would exhale more copiously than                                    it
could be transferred and absorbed, and, consequently, the dry
ness of the rarefied medium would become reduced, and its eva
porating energy essentially impaired.            The acid should be poured
to the depth perhaps of half an inch in a broad flat dish, which
is   covered        byreceiver of
                         a               form nearly hemispherical; the
                                                  a
water exposed to congelation may be contained in shallow cup,                 a
about half the width of the dish, and having its rim supported by
a   narrow porcelain ring upheld above the surface of the acid by
three slender feet.              of consequence that the water should
                                   It   is
be insulated as much as possible, or should present only              humid       a
surface to the contact of the surrounding medium                 for the dry- ;
sides of the cup might receive, from communication                 with the
external air, such accessions of heat, as greatly to diminish, if
not to counteract the refrigerating effects of evaporation.             Thia
inconvenience, however,                   great measure obviated,
                                             is   in   a                 in           by
vesting the cup with an outer case at the interval of about half
an inch.        Ifboth the cup and its case consist of glass, the pro
cess of congelation       viewed most completely
                               is                          yet when they are
                                                                      j
formed of       abright metal, the effect appears on the whole more
striking. But the preferable mode, and that which prevents any
 waste of the powers of refrigeration,             to expose the water in a
                                                                 is
 pan   of porous   earthen-ware.         If common     water be used,    will         it
 evolve air bubbles very copiously as the exhaustion proceeds in.                      ;
 a few minutes, and long before the limit of rarefaction has been
 attained, the icy spicules will shoot beautifully through the liquid
 mass, and entwine        with it   reticulated contexture.
                                             a                   As the pro
 cess of congelation goes forward,              new discharge of air from
                                                            a
 the substance of the water takes place, and marks the regular
 advances of consolidation.          But after the water has all become
 solid  ice,  which,  unless      exceedit  the depth of an inch, may ge
 nerally   be  effected in  less  than   half an hour, the circle of evapo
 ration and subsequent absorption              still maintained.
                                                            is        minute      A
 film of ice, abstracting from the internal mass             redoubled share
                                                                          a
 of heat, passes,       invisible transitions, successively into the state
                              by
 of water and of steam, which, dissolving in the thin ambient air,
 is  conveyed to the acid, where            again assumes the liquid form,
                                                       it
 and, in    the act  of combination, likewise surrenders its heat.-
 „    .   .                                                                       Moderate

              On a new Mode of Artificial Congelation.                          4 IS
       Moderate Rarefaction sufficient               to   maintain   the Ice.
     In performing this experiment, the object is. generally to seek
at first to push the rarefaction as far as the circumstances will
admit. But the disposition of the water to fill the receiver with
vapour, being only in part subdued by the action of the sulphuric
acid, a limit is soon opposed to the progress of exhaustion, and the
included air can seldom be rarefied above a hundred times, or till
its elasticity can support no more than a column of mercury about
three-tenths of an inch in height.              A smaller rarefaction, per
haps    from   ten  times   to twenty    times,   will be found sufficient to
support congelation        after  it has once   taken  place.   The ice then
becomes rounded by degrees at the edges, and wastes away in
sensibly, its surface being incessantly corroded by the play of the
 ambient air, and the minute exhalations conveyed by an invisi
 ble process to the sulphuric acid, which, from its absorbing the
 vapour, is all the time maintained above the temperature of the
 apartment.       The ice, kept in this way, suffers a very slow conr
 sumption ; for a lump of         it, about     apound in weight and two
 inches thick,       is sometimes not entirely gone in the space of
 eight or ten days. During the whole progress of its wasting,
 the ice still commonly retains an uniform transparent consistence                 5
 but, in  a   more advanced stage,         it occasionally betrays      sort of
                                                                          a
 honey-combed appearance, owing              to  the  minute  cavities formed
 by globules of air, set loose in the act of freezing, yet entangled
  in the mass, and which are afterwards enlarged                   the erosion
                                                                     by
 .of the solvent medium.
      But almost every practical object            attained, through far
                                                    is                            in
  ferior powers of refrigeration.         Water      the most easily frozen,
                                                      is
  by leaving   it, perhaps    for   the space   of an  hour, to the slow ac
  tion of air that has been rarefied only in very moderate degree.
                                                          a
  This process meets with less impediment, and the ice formed
  bvit    appears likewise more compact, when the water has been
  aiready purged of the greater part of its combined air, either                   by
  distillation or     by long continued boiling. The water which has
  undergone      such   operation, should be introduced as quickly as
   possible  intoa    decanter, and filled up close to the stopper, else
   it will attract air most greedily, and return nearly to its former
   state in the course of few hours.
                              a
                ,          ^Elegant     .Mode   of  Freezing.
   The most elegant and instructive mode of effecting artificial
 congelation,      perforin the process under the transferrer of
                     is
 an air-pump.       thick but clear glass cup being selected, of
                          A
 about two or three inches in diameter, has its lips ground fiat,
 and     covered occasionally,          though      not absolutely shut, with a
                                                                          broad

  41-6          On   t new Mode   of Artificial Congelations
   broad circular lid of plate-glass, which is suspended horizontally
  from a rod passing through a collar of leather. This cup is nearly
  filled with fresh distilled water, ?ind supported by a slender me
  tallic ring, with glass feet, about an inch above the surface of a
  body of sulphuric acid, perhaps three quarters of an inch in thick
  ness, and occupying the bottom of a deep glass bason that has
  a diameter of nearly seven inches.        In this state, the receiver
  being adapted, and the lid pressed down to cover the mouth of
  the cup, the transferrer is screwed to the air-pump, and the rare
  faction, under those circumstances, pushed so far as to leave only
  about the hundred and fiftieth part of a residuum ; and the cock
  being turned to secure that exhaustion, the compound apparatus
  is then detached from the pump, and removed to »oine conve
  nient apartment.       As long as the cup is covered, the water will
  remain quite unaltered ; but, on drawing np the rod half an inch
  or more, to admit the play of the rare medium, a bundle of spi-
  eular ice will, after the lapse perhaps of five minutes, dart sud
  denlv through the whole of the liquid mass ; and the consolida
  tion will afterwards descend regularly, thickening the horizontal
  stratum by insensible gradations, and forming in its progress a
  beautiful- transparent cake.     On letting down the cover again,
  the process of evaporation being now checked or almost entirely
  stopped, the ice returns slowly into its former liquid condition.
  Jn this way, the same portion of water may, even at distant in
  tervals of time, be repeatedly congealed and thawed successively
 twenty or thirty times.       During the first operations of freezing,
 siame air is liberated ; but this extrication diminishes at each
 subsequent act, and the ice, free from the smallest specks, re
 sembles a piece of the purest crystal.
                         Progress  of Congelation.
      This artificial freezing of water in a cup of glass or metal, af
 fords the best opportunity of examining the progress of crystalli
 zation.    The appearance presented, however, is extremelv va
 rious.    When the frigorific action is most intense, the congela
 tion sweeps at once over the whole surface of the water, obscur
ing it like a cloud. But, in general, the process advances more
slowly; bundles of spiculse, from different points, sometimes from
the centre, though commonly from the sides of the- cup, stretch
ing out and spreading by degrees with a sort of feathered texture.
By this combined operation, the surface of the water soon be
comes an uniform sheet of ice.         Yet the effect is at'times singu
larly varied; the spicular shoots, advancing in different direction--',
come to inclose, near the middle of the cup, a rectilineal space,
which, by unequal though continued encroachment, is reduced
to a triangle ; and the mass below, .being partly frozen, and
                                                               therefore

                On a new Mode      of Artificial  Congelation.         417
    therefore expanded, the water is gradually squeezed up through
    the orifice, and forms by congelation a regular pyramid, rising
    by successive steps ; or, if the projecting force be greater, and
    the hole more contracted, it will dart off like a pillar.      The ra
   diating or feathered lines which at first mark the frozen surface,
    <ue only the edges of
                            very thin plates of iice, implanted at deter
   minate angles, but each parcel composed of parallel planes.
   '1'his internal formation appears very conspicuous in the con
   cealed mass which has been removed from a metallic cup, be
  fore it is entirely consolidated. — Sea water will freeze with al
  most equal ease ; hut it forms an incompact ice like congealed
  syrupy or what is commonly called water-ice.
      When. cups of, glass or metal are used, the cold excited at the
  ©pen surface of the liquid extends its influence gradually down
  wards.      But if the water be exposed in a porous vessel, the pro
  fess of evaporation, then taking effect on all sides, proceeds with
  a nearly regular consolidation towards the centre of the mass,
  thiekening rather faster at the bottom from its proximity to the
  action of the absorbent, and leaving sometimes a reticulated
 f'paee near the middle of the upper surface, through which the
  air, disengaged by the progress of congelation, makes its escape.
                  Singular Modification of the Process.
     When very feeble powers of refrigeration are employed, a most
 singular and beautiful appearance is, in course of time, slowly
 produced.       If a pan of poro ts earthen-ware, from four to six
 inches wide, be filled to the utmost with common water till it rise
 above the lips, and planted above a dish of ten or twelve inches
 diameter, containing a body of sulphuric acid, and then a broad
 round receiver placed over it ; on reducing the included air to
 some limit between the twentieth and the fifth part of its usual
 density, according to the coldness of the apartment, the liquid
 mass will, in the space of an hour or two, become entwined with
icy shoots, which gradually enlarge and acquire more solidity,
 but always leave the fabric loose and unfrozen below.           The icy
crust which covers the rim, now receiving continual accessions
from beneath, rises perpendicularly by insensible degrees.         From
each point on the rough surface of the vessel,         filaments  of ice,
like bundles of spun glass, are protruded, fed by the humidity
conveyed through its substance, and forming in their aggrega
tion a fine silvery surface, analogous to that of fibrous gypsum or
satin-spar.     At the same time, another similar growth, though
of less extent, takes place on the under side of the pan, so that
continuous icy threads might appear vertically to transpierce the
ware.      The whole of the bottom becomes likewise covered over
with elegant icv foliations.       Twenty' or thirty hours may be re-
 •
     Vol. 51. No. 2  12. June IS lb.             D d"             quired

41 8          On a new Mode     of Artificial Congelation.
quired to produce those singular effects ; but the upper body of
ice continues to rise for the space of several days, till it forms a
circular wall of near three inches in height, leaving an interior
grotto lined with fantastic groups of icicles.     In the meanwhile
the exfoliations have disappeared from the under side, and the
outer incrustation is reduced, by the absorbing process, to a nar
row ring. The icy wall now suffers a regular waste from exter
 nal erosion, and its fibrous structure becomes rounded and less
apparent.     Of its altitude, however, it loses but little for some
time; and even a deposition of congealed films along its coping
 or upper edge, seems to take place, at a certain stage of the
process.     This curious effect is owing to a circumstance, which,
 as it serves to explain some of the grand productions of nature,,
 particularly the Icebergs of the Arctic Circle, merits particular
 attention.    The circular margin of the ice, being nearer the ac
 tion of the sulphuric acid than its inner cavity, must suffer, by
 direct evaporation, a greater loss of heat ; and, consequently,
 each portion of thin air that rises from the low cavity, being
 chilled in passing over the colder ledge, must deposit a minute
 corresponding share of its moisture, which instantly attaches it
 self and incrusts the ring. Whatever inequalities existed at first
 in the surface of the ice, will hence continually increase.
       Artificial Congelation   best performed   on a large Scale.
    Artificial congelation is always most commodiously performed
 on a large scale. Since the extreme of rarefaction is not wanted,
 the air-pump employed in the process admits of being consider
 ably simplified, and rendered vastly more expeditious in its ope
 ration. Two or three minutes at most will be sufficient for pro
 curing the degree of exhaustion required, and the combined
 powers of evaporation and absorption will afterwards gradually
 produce their capital effect.     In general, plates of about a foot
 in diameter should be preferred, which can be connected at plea
 sure with the main body of the pump.              The dish holding the
 sulphuric   acid is nearly as wide   as  the   flat receiver : and a set
 of evaporating pans belongs to       't,of different sizes, from seven
 to three inches in diameter, which are severally to be used ac
 cording to circumstances-      The largest pan     is  employed in the
 cold season, and the smaller ones may be successively taken as
 the season becomes sultry.       On the whole,    it    isbetter not to
 overstrain the operation, and rather to divide the water under
 different receivers, if  unusual powers of refrigeration should be
 required.     As soon  as the air,   partly extracted from one re
                                     is
 ceiver, the communication      isimmediately stopped with the bar
 rel of the pump, aud the process of exhaustion           is repeated on
 another.     In this way, any number of receivers,           it evident,
                                                                   is
                                                                        may

               On a new Mode       of Artificial Congelation.         41&
  may be connected with the same machine.              If we suppose but
  six of these to be used, the labour of a quarter of an hour will
 set as many evaporating pans in full action, and may, therefore,
  in less than an hour afterwards produce nearly six pounds of
  solid ice.   The waste which the water sustains during this con
 version is extremelysmall, seldom indeed amounting to the fiftieth
 part of the whole.        Nor, till after multiplied repetitions, is the
 action of the sulphuric acid considerably enfeebled by its aqueous
 absorption       At first that diminution is hardly perceptible, not
 being the hundredth, part when the acid has acquired as much as
 the tenth of its weight of water.         But such influence gains ra
 pidly,   and rises with   accelerated  progression.    When the quan
 tity of moisture absorbed amounts to the fourth part by weight
 of the acid, the power of supporting cold is diminished by a
 twentieth ; and, after the weights of both these come to be
 equal, the refrigerating energy is reduced to less than the half.
 Sulphuric acid is hence capable of effecting the congelation of
 more than twenty times its weight of water, before it has im
 bibed near an equal bulk of that liquid, or has lost about the
 eighth part of its refrigerating power.        The acid should then be
 removed, and concentrated anew by slow distillation.
      Congelation   might    be connected   with the Steam-Engine.
     When the exhaling and absorbing surfaces are rightly disposed
 and apportioned, the moderate rarefaction, from twenty to forty
 times, which is adequate to the freezing of water, may be readily
 procured by the condensation of steam.             In all manufactures
 where the steam-engine is employed, ice may, therefore, at all
 times be formed in any quantity, and with very little additional
 expense.     It is only required to bring a narrow pipe from the
condensing vessel, and to direct it along a range of receivers,
under each of which the water and the acid are severally placed.
These receivers, with which the pipe communicates by distinct
apertures, may, for the sake of ceconomy, be constructed of
cast-iron, and adapted with hinges to the rim of a broad shal
low dish of the same metal, but lined with lead to hold the acid.
                         Congelation   of Mercury.
     The combined powers of rarefaction and absorption are capa
ble of generating much greater effects than the mere freezing of
water.     Such frigorific energy, however, is at all times sufficient
for effecting the congelation of mercury.          Accordingly, if mer
cury, contained in a hollow pear-shaped piece of ice, be sus
pended by cross threads near a broad surface of sulphuric acid
under a receiver; on urging the rarefaction, it will become frozen,
and may remain in that solid state for the space of several hours.
                                    D d2                             But

420          On a new Mode       of Artificial Congelation.
But this very striking experiment is easilv performed without any
foreign aid.      Having introduced mercury into the large bulb ot
a thei nio/neter, and attached the tube to the rod of a transferrer,
let this be placed over the wide dish containing sulphuric acid,
in the midst of which is planted a very small tumbler nearly
filled with water. After the included air has been rarefied about
fifty times, let the bulb be dipped repeatedly into the very cold
hut unfrozen water, and again drawn up about an inch ; in this
way, it will become incrusted with successive coats of ice, to
the thickness perhaps of the twentieth part of an inch. The
water being now removed, the pendent icicle cut away from the
bulb, and its surface smoothed by the touch of a warm finger,
the transferrer is again replaced, the bulb let down within half
an inch of the acid, and the exhaustion pushed to the utmost.
When the siphon-gauge has come to stand under the tenth of
an inch, the icy crust starts into divided fissures, and the mer
cury, having gradually descended in the tube till it reach its
point of congelation, or 39 degrees below zero, sinks bv"a sud
den contraction almost into the cavity of the bulb ; and the ap
paratus being then removed and the ball broken, the metal ap
pears a solid shining mass, that will bear the stroke of a hammer.
                      Still greater Cold created.
     But a still greater degree of cold may be created, by applying
the same process likewise to cool the atmosphere which encircles
the apparatus itself.        A glass matrass was blown nearly of a
hemispherical shape,     its bottom quite flat, and about three inches-
in diameter, and its neck about half an inch wide and cut square
over. The whole was covered with a coat of patent lint, which
takes up water very copiously, a portion of sulphuric aeid was
next introduced, forming a layer of perhaps a quarter of an inch
thick, and a spirit of wine thermometer, having its bulb also
cased with wetted lint, was then inserted within the matrass,
a brass ring attached to the tube securing it in the right posi
tion.    Things being thus arranged, the matrass or flat bottle,
with its thermometer, was placed on a slender stool with glass
feet, about an inch above the sulphuric acid in the broad bason,
 and the large receiver luted over it. The air was then partly
extracted, till the gauge came below one inch. In a few minutes
the lint was frozen entirely, and looked white.       After an intervaF
of a quarter of an hour, to allow time for the evaporation of that
icy coatto cool down the interior apparatus, the pump was again
urged, and the exhaustion pushed to about three-tenths of an-
 inch. In a short while, the inclosed thermometer sunk not
 fewer than 180 degrees, and remained stationary, till the ice had
wasted away.                                      .
                                                                      It

               On a new Made      of Artificial Congelation.        421
     It is obvious, therefore, that the refrigerating powers could be
 pushed still further by a judicious: combination of the apparatus.
  It would be easy to show, that the maximum effect is obtained,
 when the dimensions of the successive cases rise in a geometri
 cal progression.     The action, however, is not doubled for each
 additional case, but increased rather more than one-half.
  Simpler Mode of Congelation,         by dry pounded JJ'hinstone, or
                            parched Oatmeal.
     These plans are difficult in the execution; and though they en
 large our conceptions of the extent of the descending scale of
 heat, yet they furnish merely speculative results.          A very im
 portant practical improvement has been lately made in the pro
 cess of artificial congelation.    Sulphuric acid is certainly a cheap
 and most powerful agent of absorption ; but the danger in using
 such a corrosive liquid, especially by unskilful persons, formed
 always a serious obstacle to its general adoption.           Mr. Leslie
 had early noticed the remarkable absorbent quality of our mould
 ering whinstone or porphyritic trap; and in April 1817 he
 substituted that material, grossly pounded and dried before a
 kitchen fire, instead of sulphuric acid, and actually froze a body
 of water with treat facility. This earth will attract the fiftieth
part of its weight of moisture before its absorbent power is re
duced to the one-half, and is hence capable of freezing the sixth
part of its weight of water.         It mav be repeatedly dried, and
will, after each operation, act with the same energy as at first.
     But an absorbent still more convenient and powerful has since
occurred to Mr. Leslie; — it is merely par eked oatmeal.          With
a body of oatmeal of a foot in diameter, and rather more than
an inch deep, he froze a pound and a quarter of water, con
tained in a hemispherical porous cup.          The meal is easily dried
and restored again to its action.        In a hot climate, the exposure
to the sun alone might prove sufficient.          By the help of this
simple material, therefore,     ice will be easily and safely produced
in any climate, and even at sea.
    Other substances could, no doubt, be employed as absorbents.
But, except the muriate of lime, or what is called the oil of salt
rjesiccated, none hold out any prospect of success.         Dried com
mon salt will barely effect congelation ; and stucco, or the sfcftr
phate of lime, deprived of its water of crystallization, which
might seem to promise a powerful absorption, has scarcely any
efficacy whatever.
                                    D d3                     LXXI.   On

                            [   422    ]
LXXI.    On  the  Height of the Aurora Borealis from the Earth.
                   By James Hoy, Esq. F.L.S.
                          To  Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, — Upon        reading in your useful Magazine for February
last, the Rev. Dr. Maskelyne's       Plan for observing Fire-ball
Meteors," republished with Dr. Clarke's Additional Directions,
one cannot help regretting that these directions have been so
seldom put in practice. The reason, however, is obvious; — these
meteors appear so suddenly, move so rapidly, and disappear
again so quickly, that thev are gone before one can pay such
attention to them as to determine any thing almost, except the
direction of their motion.     The aurora borealis is another me
teor, of which observations may be more easily made : but as
its rays or streams of light change their form and place, for the
most part, very quickly too, it is seldom that observers, at a di
stance from one another, can make a simultaneous observation
upon one and the same point of the same ray, when the phe
nomenon gets the name of merry dancers. Sometimes, however,
it puts on the appearance of a luminous arch, nearly permanent
in the same place, or of such slow motion, that a difference of
five or even of ten minutes in the times of observing the alti
tude of the top of the arch, or what stars it covers and makes
a near approach unto, &c. made by persons at a distance from
each other, would not much affect the result, in determining the
distance of the arch from the earth.
    Two luminous arches of this kind have !>een observed here
during the course of a twelvemonth; — the first on March 5,
 1817. The exact time of its first appearance was not observed,
but at 8h P.M. it was very brilliant, and of nearly an equal
breadth throughout, which breadth filled the space between the
stars Castor and Pollux, the edges of it scarcely extending be
yond them. Tracing it westward, its northern edge touchedy^We-
baran, and thence continued in a direct line to the horizon about
20° to the south of west. Its eastern end was as much to the
north of east. It narrowed away to points at both ends.
    At 8h 32ia its south edge passed about one degree above the
stars Regulus and Procyon; and to the westward its breadth
filled the space between Bella trix and the foremost star ( 8 )
of Orion's Belt. The zenith distance therefore of the highest
part of the arch was 45° SO' to the southward. Its light had
then become much fainter, and in five minutes afterwards it dis
appeared altogether; a considerable time before the moon rose.
    This same arch was mentioned in the Edinburgh newspapers
to have been observed at Glasgow : there at 8h 30m, it is said to
                                                              have

                 On the Necessity   of Animal Decay.             423
have shone directly over the Pointers, and also over the Pleiades ;
the zenith distance of the top of the arch behoved therefore to
be 5° or 6U (suppose 5° 30') to the northward: — let this be added
to 45° 30', the zenith distance here, the sum is 51°. If from this
sum we subtract 1° 47', the difference of latitude between Glas
gow 55° 51', and Gordon Castle 57° 38', the remainder 49" 13'
is the angle subtended by the distance of Gordon Castle from
Glasgow; — this distance by Arrowsmith's Map is about 128
miles.
    From these data, calculating by plane trigonometry, the highest
part of the arch appears to have been distant from Gordon Cas
tle 1681 miles; and from Glasgow 118f miles, its least distance
from the earth; consequently not quite 118 miles.
    Another very luminous arch of this kind appeared here on the
5th of February last, at Sh 20™ P.M. When it was first observed,
its breadth was about one degree ; both ends of it reached nearly
 to the horizon, a little to the N. of E. and to the S. of W. Its
upper edge passed about 5° to the south of the star Capella,
 touching the most southerly of the Two Kids. To the westward
 the arch was parallel to the two brightest stars in Aries, and
 at the distance of its own breadth, or one degree below them.
 The zenith distance of the top of the arch was consequently about
 14° towards the' south.      At half past eight o'clock, the middle
 part of the arch and Capella were obscured by clouds; the
 western part had become faint, and a little further separate from
 the stars in Aries; the eastern half was still bright, and had
moved considerably northward.         At 8h 50m it was all gone.
    If any of the numerous readers of The Philosophical Magazine
 shall have happened to see either of these two phenomena, and
 to have made similar observations of them, it would be desirable
if they would send them to you to be published, that they might
 either confirm or correct the foregoing result ; and afford means
 for determining whether these arches of the aurora borealis are
 generally at the same distance from the earth ; or whether there
 are not considerable differences in their heights at different
 times.    I am, &c.
    Gordon Castle, May 12, 1818.                       James Hoy.
            LXXII.    On the Necessity    of Animal Decay.
                            To   Mr. Tilloch.
 Sir, — Among the reasons usually given for the necessary de
 cay and dissolution of animals and other organized bodies, is
 there any one that will bear the test of aecurate examination ?
                                   D  d 4                          If

424             On the Necessity        of Animal Decay.
  If the animal system were so contrived that every part might be
  repaired, why should old age and rigidity supervene ? The idea
  that the sensibility to impressions becomes blunted and jaded by
 frequent repetitions, is entirely drawn from false analogies. 'Tis
  true, that the ear may become jaded with hearing music, and
 the eye with seeing colours ; but this is in consequence of the
  alteration which takes place in the state or set of the muscular
 fibres and nerves belonging to those organs, upon being exercised.
  It is similar to the limbs becoming weary after long-continued
 walking or riding. Give the muscles time to resf, and if they
 have received no permanent injury, no loss but what may be re^
 paired, — if their fibres can recover their former set and elonga
 tion, the same vividness and freshness of sensation will recur as
 before. The pleasures arising from exercise fade as fatigue comesi
 on ; but upon interposing        a proper interval, and becoming
 thoroughly refreshed,' the same delight in it is felt as before:
 nor is it ever found that the exquisiteness and intensity of plea
 surable sensations arising from hunting, shooting, music, wine,
 &c., at all diminish upon repetition, so long as the body retains
 its full vigour ; thatis,   it    not found that mere repetition has
                                  is
 any effect in deadening the sensations.
     The illustration from musical strings giving way as they are
 played upon, pi'oves nothing. The set of the particles of matter
 in the string alters upon continued tension and vibration          and
                                                                    ;
 the old state cannot be brought back.         If   be said that in like
                                                     it
 manner the set of the muscular fibres, &c. alters and cannot be
 restored,I    agree to the position-i— that   is,
                                                 I allow that thorough
repair does not take place in the animal system.          But ask the
                                                               1
cause :I     ask whetherit   would shock our reasoning faculties to
learn that in some other world there are organized beings, not
subject to decay — in whom nutrition and absorption, &c. restore
and replace every thing that          lost or disturbed
                                       is                  ? If would
                                                               it
not, — we readily acquiesce in the idea,
      if                                         it   incumbent on us,
                                                      is
if  we would be truly scientific, to endeavour to point out those
 peculiarities in our system, that preclude the possibility of eter
 nal verdure in the individual.
,    One of these peculiarities we shall find,   I think, in the nature
 and offices   of our vascular system —  in the circumstance that the
 carriers  of   matter for repair do not carry matter to repair
 themselves. Without pretending to understand those still dis
puted' points concerning the manner of deposition of the coagu-
lable Ivmph, &c. &c.   I    think  I may venture to affirm that our
anatomists do not consider the blood in any artery as being the
direct and immediate renovator and repairer of the coats of that
artery; every artery and every lymphatic, &c. down to the must
minute, being considered as having their subsidiary artery at
                                                                 tached

                             On Chemical Philosophy.                                    423
tachcd to them, whose office it is lo carry them repairs.         Now,
unless we suppose the series of branching arteries absolutely in-
finite, it must stop somewhere ; there must be a set of fine car
riers, that have no carriers to support and repair them.
    The friction, &c, in these fine carrying vessels may be so small
as not materially to injure them in fifty years ; or in one hun
dred years; or in one thousand years; but without repair they
cannot last frr ever.        When the time comes that they are no.
longer serviceable, the next set above them cease to be fed and
repaired When the second set can hold out no longer, the next
or third set cease; and so on.         That            is,
                                                  gradual decay, be-
                                                             a
     j
ginning      om the finest and minutest vessels,          the necessary
                                                                     is
 consequence        the repairers in our vascular system not repair
                      of
 ing themselves.
  It   is not necessary for me here to enlarge upon the corre
spondence of the phenomena of old age with the natural results
 of this principle.       leave that to abler hands
                             I                          contented with
                                                                 ;
 pointing out, however inadequately and obscurely,           real cause,  a
 hitherto unnoticed       believe, of the fatal necessity of animal de
                             I
cay.    I  am, sir,
                    '
                            With great respect yours,
  May 19,1818.                        .                                            Z.   A.
LXXIIJ.          On Chemical Philosophy.              By   Mr. Matthew Allan,
                                          Lecturer.
                                 [Continued from p. 3£2.]
                                          Essay V.
From      the foregoing observations the question naturally again
                    "
presents itself — What are the properties of this power bv
which       itderanged in its distribution, or by which
                 is                                             suffers        it
or is  capable   of  this  derangement   in  its distribution, and   by
which again this deranged balance            restored ?"
                                                      is       will be        It
recollected that,      defending the propriety of the generic term,
                            in
Attractive Agencies, which was proposed, and under which
were classed Electricity, Caloric, and Light,        there considered
                                                                 I
them as mere phenomena arising from the active operations
of the power       different states of existence, more or less com*
                       in
Inncd   with  other   substances; and yet characterized them as
powers still highly attenuated, notwithstanding the idea then
thrown out, that the diversity of their appearance arose from
holding other substances more or less in solution; and that con
sequently (as has been already noticed)        was more or less pure,
                                                           it
more or less attenuated or condensed, and more or less rapid in
                                                                     its

426                        On Chemical Philosophy.
  its movements, had power to pass through substances with more
  or less facility, and was more or less active or energetic in its
  actions.
      If then we considered attractive agencies, or these unconfi-
  nable substances as they are called in some systems, or these. di
  versified appearances produced in this way during the actions of
  this power, as still highly attenuated in their nature, — how much
, more so must the pure and uncombined           form of this power it
           —
  self be ! In fact, I conceive we can form no adequate conception
  of the extreme subtiity of this power in its separate and unniixed
  state; in its pure state it permeates every substance. That it
  possesses this extreme tenuity, subtiity* or rarity, will be readily
  granted, without pressing any further arguments in its defence,
  or at all bringing forward the host of facts that prove              or       it,
  without      this
              in     place entering into a comparative estimate of
  each — of galvanism, electricity, caloric, or light, and of those di
  stinctive characters which have hitherto placed them at such a
  remote distance from each other, and formed them into- separate
  and distinct branches of science.        then its extreme tenuity be
                                           If
  granted, we have one property determined          and another will be
                                                         ;
  still more readily allowed without any arguments to support it,
  — that possesses varied degrees of attraction for different sub
             it
  stances. That these degrees should differ         different substances,
                                                         in
  will be afterwards stated and considered and we shall also show
                                                     ;
   that it   the grand solvent.
             is                    In short, shall endeavour to prove
                                                I
   how this highly attenuated fluid,        virtue of some of its more
                                            by
   evident qualities, must produce certain effects:         That its ex
   treme tenuity, its solvent powers, and varied attractive relation
   to substances, must, in proportion to its quantity and the
   time taken to act, and to the concentrated nature of these ac
  tions, and the solubility of the substances on which         acts, tend
                                                                      it
  more or less to change their state of existence, or carry them in
   one way and draw them       inanother   :or, in other words, from its
  solvent or attractive powers,       has the disposition to enter into
                                     it
   and adhere to substances, and from its tenuity, and its permea
  ting and irresistible force, to restore every derangement in its due
  distribution     and hence its movements to the point
                   ;                                                which  by
  and to which its solvent or attractive powers are demanded and
  directed: and from this point where          itaccumulated the radia
                                                    is
  tion of the excess takes place; two opposite movements are pro-
    *   Itmay be conceived that there are too many epithets used         but the
                                                                           :
 fact is, that    Inow considerit  the safer side to err upon since in laying
                                                                  ;
 these ideas before    aSociety, now some time ago, in      more condensed and
                                                              a
 abstract form, those who spoke upon the subject appeared to me not to
 hare understood one sentence throughout         ; as for instance, by the word
 " rarity '' tlicy understood that meant the scarcity of attraction.
                                I
.   .                                                                          duced;

                                  On Chemical Philosophy.                                 427
duced ; or one substance is dissolved in it and another precipi
tated from     or drawn in this way and carried
                      it,                         another. Hence       in
also   it evident from these properties, that by motion, friction,
                is
and alterations of arrangement, either     stream will be induced,
                                                          a
or    some disturbance in its due diffusion               :    every stream           induced,
motion or change must accumulate     on one point and abstract
                                                     it
so much from another; all disturbance, all motion, all change,
&c. may be so denned (if any definition should regard merely,
effects),        from that which gives motion to the first germ of vege
tation, to that which shakes Etna or convulses the atmosphere
round the globe.      That such mechanical actions should produce
these effects,       conceive
                            I   capable of demonstration.
                                           is                 The
wind blows in certain direction, and the billows partake of the
                            a
same course.      Machinery collects and produces   current of air         a
in the direction of their movements.
   From these properties of this power, then, we perceive that                              it
will both      chemical and mechanical means be put in motion;
                     by
and     this current
       if               demanded in one way rather than another,
                                 is
or     these motions are made in any given and determinate di
      if
rection, — and all motion must tend to some point — we find also            ;
a current proceeding in        certain direction
                                      a              and hence on these
                                                                  :
principles  we   have   the action  of the electric  machine.  Where wc
contrive to intercept this fluid so put in motion, we there find                            it
accumulated or in excess; and          in this state we can remove the
                                                if
cause which intercepts, or assist its motion                          by
                                                        some conducting
body, we find       move from this point; and thus we perceive how
                            it
by mechanical contrivances, its concentration upon and radia
tion from substances, the point which             in excess
                                                          is   carried by       is
this excess, and the other which             deficient
                                                     is    drawn toward*   is
it; and hence we have two apparent currents or movements in two
opposite directions, bodies and the particles of bodies moved in
one way and drawn in another — two different poles, negative
and positive, imparting in one direction and drawing            another;         in
if  ithe rubbing body attracts less than the body rubbed, this
body      positive, and the other negative; and the contrary when
           is
the circumstances are reversed.         Hence                 "
                                                    negative and positive
are mere relative slates        existence
                                           " —  that positive particles or
                                      of
 points which are in excess are carried and draw negative points
 or particles towards them, or particles which have less than their
 natural share; and hence, as has already often been repeated,
 particles unite and separate in the same order under the same
 circumstances      this order
                            :      shall under Chemical Affinity show)
                                          (I
 is  the mean between the dissimilarity of chemical and the simi
 larity of the physical qualities       the greater the dissimilarity of
                                                :
 the chemical,            evident, greater must be the action — the
                            it   is
 greater must be the negative and positive state of the particles;

   42S                  On Chemical Philosophy.
   and consequently the moving and uniting power must be greater.
   The similarity in the physical qualities, in the gravity  and solu
  bility of the particles, will keep them in contact in       a  proper
  position for the action arising from the chemical qualities.
      It is on these principles that I propose to explain in full detail
  chemical affinities, &c. ; and if this explanation can be disproved,
  I request it may be shown me. Thus this power carries in one
  direction and draws in another; and this depends on the quali
  ties of the particles; so that positive and negative, attraction and
  repulsion," are merely relative st atcs of existence," relatively to
  each other in excess or defective, and of course the direction of
  the motion as well as chemical combinations depend on. these
  relative states ; and this not merely as it regards particles but
  stupendous masses of matter, the centripetal and centrifugal
  forces depending on the same principles.
      Thus I infer, from the solvent properties, from the tenuity, and
  from the effects this power produces, that all movements and
  changes are the result of this first sublime command or fiat of
  the Creator :
      Let one power be diffused throughout the universe,
 and let every kind am) state and form «f material ex
 istence have its own appropriate and relative shark.                   ,
      This  is the  universal law of nature,         which  is equally
 applicable to solar systems as it is to the particles of matter.
 Whenever this distribution or " appropriate and relative share
                                                                      "
 is disturbed or accumulated on one point and abstracted from
 another, this power is at the same instant exerted, — this power
 of nature, this wonderful agent of creation, instantly obeys this
 grand law; the one point as readily parts with its excess as the
 other receives its deficiency; and this perpetual disturbance pro
 duced by its own operations, and this constant exertion to main
 tain a proper distribution, keeps up all the movements and
 changes of the universe.
     Is it not obvious this must be the case? that this action and
reaction, that this disturbance and effort to restore the equili
brium must take place ? That if it gives to and preserves matter
in its various states and stages and forms of existence, then every
change in these forms and states and stages of existence must
disturb its due and relative diffusion and distribution, — must be
imparted in one way and received in another,— abstracted from
this point and demanded by that, by which its circulation and
movements and actions in the universe continue their ceaseless
and unmeasurable round ?
    I say, Is it not obvious that this must be the ease, if in this
subtle, solvent and attractive power, substances are more or less
soluble,— have capacity or power to retain or contain it in greater
                                                                    or

                      O72 Chemical Vhilosophj.                   42S
Cr less quantity ; and to conduct or receive and impart it with
more or less facility, and are surrounded by other substances of
a similar or different nature; — that then these differences in the
circumstances and in the kinds of matter must by every altera
tion in these circumstances, or in the position of the substances,
or in the quantity of this pow er, be deranged in a greater or less
degree in its " due and relative diffusion," and of course call this
grand law of nature into action, to restore " this due and re
lative share ?" and hence it is imparted and received from one to
another, in greater or less quantity; with more or less intensity,
and in a certain and determinate direction.
    its quantity and intensity will depend on the nature and ex
tent ot the change which variations in the quantity of this power,
in the arrangement of the substances and in the circumstances,
produce on different species of matter; for it is given out or de
manded (and of course received) in proportion to the extent of
 the change produced.
    The imperfect and erroneous views on the doctrine of heat*
 appear to me to have arisen from overlooking the fact, — that
 this power when demanded flows in from all points to supply
 this demand, (This explains the operation of freezing mixtures,
 explosion, &c.) with as much facility and rapidity as it flows out
 when in excess, or when separatee! from substances it held in
 solution, and whatever receives or demands it on some point in
 sufficient quantities produces heat or flame.      The intensity of
 this quantity again depends on its being given out or received
 on some point of concentration, or in a more or less diffused
 manner, or in a greater or less degree of purity or separate and
 unmixed state, which degree of purity or separate and unmixed
 form is in proportion as substances are more or less soluble in it,
 and the time it has to effect their dissolution ; and of course in
proportion to the quantity it holds in solution, it is rendered mote
 or less attenuated or condensed : and hence we find it passing
 through substances with more or less facility, or with a greater
or less degree of rapidity, and in proportion to this resistance of
 its passage through them, has more or less time to produce ef
 fects upon them : and besides, this detention giving it more or
 less time to produce these effects, in some instances they tend
 to direct and fix its action, from the disposition these substances
 held in solution have to combine with others. At other times,
 from the same cause, but with different substances, it becomes
 more or less energetic and effectual in its actions, in proportion
 as it is more or less free or unoccupied to act ; so that though
 the energies and properties of this power appear so various, they
 are in reality always the same.
    Its apparent energies, however, are widely different, owing to
                                                                these

430                         On Chemical Philosophy.
these circumstances we have enumerated, on Its being more or
less occupied or free to act ; as water already saturated with one
salt in solution, is less able to dissolve a salt of another kind :
in fact, these observations are equally true of this power in all
cases. For instance, a man has power to walk, whether he move
or not; but if he carries weight, he can neither walk at the same
rate, nor for the same time, nor to the same distance : the power
in the abstract is the same, but part of it is occupied in support
 of this burthen.     We express all this in common conversation,
 when we say,    " of what use are strength or talents unless they
 are exerted ? and that they are best shown by undivided exer
 tion."    This is true in physiology. — Let the nervous energy be
 occupied too much in one way, and the functions of some other,
 if not of every other, part are either diminished or impaired.
    Thus its apparent energies and intensity are different, not
 merely from its being imparted and received in greater or less
 quantity, and with a greater or less degree of rapidity, and of
 purity or separated form ; but also as it is in a more or less con
 centrated or diffused manner. All these and many other circum
 stances attending its action are so infinitely varied in the degree
 and complexity of their combination, and depend on such an
infinite number of causes and circumstances, and all these in
 themselves so delicate and interwoven with each other, — that it
is impossible, and if it were possible would be less profitable, I
 think, for us to trace them through all their diversity of form
and appearance, than the task we have assigned to ourselves,
 though we intend to support these general principles by descend
ing to the minute detail of facts, which facts in diversity of form
 and appearance are infinite; and hence one of the in some
measure appropriate and descriptive names applied to            in the
                                                                   it,
mythology     of  the  ancients,  was   Proteus.    Their  mythology
 too, let me here observe, originated       either unnecessarily mul
                                              in
 tiplying the causes of things, or in that of improperly applying
names, descriptive of partial effects and peculiarities.
 I    say, all these and many other circumstances, though they
have not hitherto been noticed, not only agree with the facts
and phenomena of nature, but point out in the most beautiful
manner the causes which vary the effects and appearances of one
grand agent        increation which point out why
                                 ;                      assumes these
                                                        it
different forms and produces these different effects — why che
                                                             ;
mical attraction and the attraction of gravitation are different             ;
that the one  is  the particular, and the other the general effects
of the same power — that the one
                        ;                the local and concentrated,
                                         is
and the other diffused and aggregate effects of its operation —          ;
why in its concentrated actions the heat           sometimes without
                                                   is
light why they generally appear together
      ;                                            ; why     itelectri
                                                                  is

                        On Cfiemlcal Philosophy.                         431
city in one instance and grJvanism in another ; and what con
stitutes the apparent difference between them ; — why, for in
stance, galvanism exists in a lower state of intensity than elec
tricity in producing shocks ; why it is less rapid in its move
ments, &c. ; — why again its power of producing chemical effects is
to much greater than that of electricity*; why again the colorific
rays of the prism produce chemical effects, while the calorific
scarcely produce any ; why they are more refrangible than the
heat-making rays ? — colour and light depending (as will, I
trust, be evident when we tome to the particular consideration
of light) on the partial solution of substances in this power, and
 that light is the phoenomencn attending the ignition and solution,
or separation and condensation, of matter. So that heat and
light may be contrasted with each other, in the same way as we
 have hinted above galvanism and electricity may be contrasted.
 Hence, as in galvanism, the colorific or light-making rays are
 those which, in consequence of holding something in solution,
 are in proportion to this, and the unequal thickness or density
 of substances, as drops of water, cut glass, knots of glass, a glass
 prism, &c. divided in their passage through them, meeting with
 a greater or less degree of resistance, according             to these va
 riations of thickness and their own variations of tenuity ; and
 besides this, their chemical relations to each other, or the mutual
 affinities they exert on each other.           It is thus these dfferences
 of refrangibility, reflection, polarization, &c. are produced, and
 not by differences in the size of the particles.
     It will from the same considerations also appear very evident,
 why I conceive that the heating and melting effects which the
  disengagement of caloric from one body and its transference to
  another, or that of mixing bodies of different degrees of tempe
 rature together, have not correctly ascertained or measured the
  relative quantities of caloric, or of the quantity they contain or
  retain in any state. That, consequently, the tables of capacity
  are in some instances erroneous ; that the heating and melting
  effects depend not merely on its quantity, but also on the time
  it has to produce the effect, whether it is retained, or rapidly
  escapes in its irresistible, attenuated, and unconfinable form.
      Thus having stated or anticipated in general terms the
  more particular explanation of the various effects and pheno
  mena which are produced by one power, it will be necessary that
     * See the article Galvanism, in the Edinburgh Encyclopaedia, where some
  of the above questions are stated, as questions which require to be an
  swered   before  we can fully understand the nature of either electricity
  or galvanism. These questions will,      I think, be satisfactorily answered
  in the next Essay.
                                                                          I be

  432                  On Chemical    Philosophy.
  I be still more particular ; for it is not enough to state in ge
 neral terms that changes and phenomena differ not in kind but
 in degree ; not in the power producing them, but in the nature
 and circumstances of its actions.      It is not enough (until such
 ideas become familarized) merely to say that, in consequence
 of the solvent properties which this power has for substances;
 varying in each species of matter, this variety and these cir
 cumstances must modify its actions, and of course occasion
 effects and phenomena as infinitely varied as these circumstances
 and substances are themselves. We must he still more minute;
 for, not duly considering these modifying causes, there have been
 introduced a number of powers and agencies in creation, to
 which very opposite and dissimilar properties have been assigned,
 in order either to account for the differences in the phamomena,
 or as descriptive of some peculiar effects and appearances them
 selves, which, though they may have been useful in exciting con
 troversy, stimulating inquiry, and accumulating an immense mass
 of facts and experiments, have not yet taught us the general
 principles of science or knowledge, or simplified our views of
 nature, — the grand aim of philosophy, an aim at once noble,
 elevating and sublime.      So far indeed from this having been the
 case, —  so far from the mode hitherto adopted having led us to
 " this consummation so devoutly to be wished" — it seems tome
 to labour mightily for the purposi; of preventing such a glorious
 end.    Yet I am convinced, all the phenomena and effects, and
even particular anomalies and difficulties which exist in science,
 according to any other view with which 1 am acquainted, are
not only at once explained on the principles 1 have stated; but
that without them objections and difficulties present themselves
every where around me which I cannot remove ; so much so,
that I know not what more is wanting to add to my conviction,
that this theory is copied from the grand book of nature. That 1
wish this the case I am certain : on all subjects the possession ot
truth has ever been my object; — let us assist each other in such
a pursuit ; let us be regardless of the credit of the discovery, while
we are anxious for the possession of truth.        We must see but
one object of pursuit, if we wish light to occupy the regions of
intellect, and direct their efforts. We must study nature, and
not the fluctuating fashion of opinion, if we expect to arrive at
truth. We must not be swayed by the voice of praise or of
blame.      We must not be deterred by the passions and prejudices
of men. We must sacrifice what labour and habit have endeared
and entwined round the heart.          We must be able to feel, to
think, and to stand alone; then, and not till then, shall the
reign of truth commence, ami banish error and vice from the
world.
                                                         LXXIV. On

                              [   433   ]
LXXIV.     Experiments made in France upon the Use of di
   stilled Sea- Water for domestic Purposes, and its Effects
   upon the Constitution when taken as a Beverage*.
In   consequence of the great want of good fresh water in many
of the maritime parts of France, the Government, some time
 since, ordered some experiments to be made upon an extensive
 scale, in order to ascertain how far sea-water, when distilled,
 could be used with success.       Little or no use had hitherto been
 made of water so prepared, except in long voyages, and chiefly
 then only as a matter of necessity.        There are above two hun
 dred leagues of sea-coast in France, where, to the breadth of many
 miles, the inhabitants are compelled to make use of bad and im
 pure water, which, in many cases, is injurious to the health of
themselves and their animals.       In similar cases it was the custom
 of the ancients to construct cisterns; but these are not only expen
 sive in themselves, but their utility depends upon the quantity of
 rain that falls, while upon the shores of the most barren places
 nature has supplied a variety of vegetable matter, which, when
 dried, would not only serve as fuel for the purposes of distillation,
but from the ashes of which might be obtained a saline sub
stance, sufficient to repay the expense *f collecting, drying, and
 burning. Thus the fuel for the distillation of the sea-water
would in reality cost nothing, while its preparation would em
 ploy many individuals, particularly women and children. Before,
however, erecting any apparatus for this purpose, it was neces
 sary to ascertain both the utility and salubrity of the water thus
 prepared.
    It is well known that Bougainville, Phipps, Homelin, &c. had
 employed this water with much success; but they, like most of
the chemists of the last age, did not endeavour to imitate the
process of nature in all its simplicity, but mixed various sub
stances with the sea-water, in order to take away or lessen the
 effect of the empyreuina arising from the distillation, and which
was so unpleasant to the smell and taste.         And it is this which
in general renders sailors so averse to       it,  and excites    apre
judice very unfavourable to tha salubrity of distilled sea-water.
One of the great objects to be ascertained was, whether this dis
agreeable smell and taste was peculiar to sea-water, or arose
 from the act of distillation.
    In the month of July last year, the king ordered some ex
 periments to be made upon a large scale at the three ports of
 Brest, Rochefort, and Toulon.         The instructions given were as
follows:  —  " That a   sufficient quantity of sea-water should be
      * From the Annates de Chime tt de Physique for Jan. 1818.
Vol. 51. No. 242.   June 1818.                  Ee                distilled

434            Experiments upon distilled Sea-Water.
distilled   to prepare, for the space of a month, bread and other
food," for a certain number of criminals who were employed on
the works of those ports, and also to supply them with drink,
keeping from them during that period every other liquid.           Ten
or twelve of these persons at each port voluntarily came forward
and offered themselves for the experiment.
    The persons employed by Government first distilled a suffi
cient quantity of sea-water, without the admixture of any other
substance ; this produce dissolved soap, dressed vegetables, pro
duced the same appearances with the aerometer as that di
 stilled from spring water.        There was no difference between-
the    one  and the other.    But  the distilled sea-water had always
that empvreumatic smell and taste of which we have before
spoken ; and it was so strong, that the Commission at Toulon
called it Odeur de marine, and that of Rochefort, Odeur de
marecage.       But this is not peculiar to sea-water, for the result
of a distillation of fresh water has always the same taste and
 smell.
     Neither of these liquids immediately loses this by being filtered
through charcoal ; but by being exposed for some time to the
air, the distilled sea-water loses this unpleasant quality, and then
it does not differ from fresh water derived from the purest source,
and both have equally stood every chemical test to which they
have been exposed.         The chemical properties of this water
having thus been determined, it remains to give an account of
the effects upon the individuals who underwent the experiment.
These are the principal results:
     Brest. — During the first days those who drank the water
complained of a weight upon the stomach.            This indisposition,
which was the only one they experienced, soon decreased upon
taking exercise, and totally went off by an additional ounce of
biscuit added to their common ration.            One of them on the
twenty-ninth day had a few symptoms, but which he himself
 attributed to an indigestion, from some bacon he had eaten.
 Eight individuals drank twenty-five pints a-day, rather more than
three pints each.       [N.B. The French pint contains very near
fifty-seven cubic inches English measure, and is the regulation
 size for the claret or Bordeaux bottle ; but in general the bot
 tles are rather smaller.      The French pint, therefore, is equal
 to rather more than l!)-20ths of an English quart, wine mea
sure.]
     Toulon. — The     results obtained at the Arsenal of this town
 were not less decisive or satisfactory. The six persons who made
 the experiment acquired a greater degree of freshness in their
 appearance, and were much fatter.            Their daily consumption
 of distilled water was nine pounds (poids de marc) for drink, and
                                                                eleven

                                On    the   Dry-Rot.                           435
eleven pounds for cooking.                  This      is nearly the same   relative
quantity as those at Brest.
    Rochefort. — The experiments here have not been made with
the same regularity; because the fifteen persons fixed upon had
all agreed among themselves to say that they were very ill. The
two principal ones complained of violent colics and diarrhoeas;
but the plot was discovered, and upon being put upon the sick
list (a la diete) they were laughed at by their companions.      No
one of them was really indisposed ; on the contrary-, many
thought they experienced some good effect in regard to some
infirmities under which they had long laboured.
    The above are not, however, the only experiments which have
been made upon this beverage.       Several persons wishing to as
certain its effects by individual experience, have voluntarily con
fined themselves to its use ; and the members of the Commission
of Inquiry are almost in the daily practice of taking it. The
captain of the Duclat has taken it every day at his meals for
twenty days, and has experienced not the smallest inconvenience
from its use.     MM. Vasse and Chatelain, apothecaries to the
marine at Brest, have occasionally kept the water in their mouths
for four hours by constantly renewing                      it,
                                                and have not found
either the sharp taste, or other caustic qualities, which have been
 said to be peculiar to       and here
                                it
                                 :         may be proper to state,
                                                      it
that the mouths of all the individuals who had taken the water
 for
   a    length of time were examined, without the detection of
 any thing in them either of      swollen or inflammatory appear
                                       a
ance.
     Such are the reports of commissioners employed to investi
gate the effects of distilled sea-water    who, although separated
                                                      ;
ata    great distance from each other, and having no communica
tion, all agree in the inference, that      may be employed with
                                                      it
out any injury to the health, both as     beverage and in cookery,
                                                      a
for the space of at least     month
                                 a     and the fair presumption is,
                                                 ;
that  it  may be so employed for    much longer time
                                            a            and that in
                                                                   ;
consequence       must be considered as
                  it                        very happy resource in
                                                       a
 long voyages, especially in voyages of discovery.
       LXXV.           On the   Dry-Rot.             By Mr. Gavin Inglis.
                                 To    Mr. Tilloeh.
           -j-,                                     April 29, 1818.
Sir, —   JCiVERY   lover of  his country must  learn  with pecuhar
anxiety and regret the alarming ravages committed        the dry-rotby
in that hitherto invulnerable bulwark of our happy nation " the
woodea walls of Old England."       The state of the Eden sloop of
                                     E   e   2                   war,

  436                         On the  Dry-Hot.
   war, the Topaze frigate, &c. as mentioned in the Philosophical
   Magazine for last month, cannot be viewed with indifference ;
   and the sum of 5000/. paid by Government to Dr. Lukin for his
    ineffectual labours in endeavouring to stop the progress of this
    most destructive malady, is an incontrovertible proof of the an
   xious attention of those in power to this indispensable depart
    ment of our national defence.       The statement alluded to in a
    matter of such importance to the country, I should suppose alone
   sufficient to rouse the efforts of every scientific individual in the
   kingdom to stay the effects of a baneful canker, that may one
    day leave Government deficient in means of chastizing an insolent
   foe, and which must damp the spirit of enterprise, and ruin the
   prosperity and political influence of our envied isle.
       The plan I have to propose for consideration for the cure of
   the dry-rot in those ships already infected, the prevention of its
   effects in those that are unsuspected, and the preparation of the
   timber for those building, or to be built, is not the effusion of
   idle speculation, but the result of much deliberate thought and
   observation, and very simple in its application.
       In the first place allow me to premise, that all timber de
   stined for ship-building, particularly for the Navy, where strength
   and durability are so essentially necessary, ought never to be
   cut till after the fall of the leaf. At this stage, Nature has done
   her work for the season ; the efforts of vegetation are gone to
   rest, and all the juices of the plant fully ripened and completely
   lignated. Then, and only then, should all navy timber be cutdo wn.
«  But so soon as the roots begin to absorb the new sap, cease felling
   till next fall. By the time the buds begin to swell, the new and
   unliguated sap has reached the most remote twig, and the trunk
  and branches of the tree are surcharged with fresh juice, and everv
   pore replete with vegetable life.     Timber cut in this state, or in
  leaf, or in flower, must be found perfectly full of new blood, and
  in the very strength of vegetation ; consequently completely loaded
  with the germs of future corruption.        This is the fundamental
  basis of the dry-rot.      The vegetative principle does not expire
  with the stroke of the axe, nor the rag of the saw, but will, un
  corrected, still exist, and in time produce in every pore innume
  rable fungi, and render even the hardest portion of the plank
  food for worms.       In examining masses of oak dug from the al
  luvial strata of the country, where it has lain for ages unknown,
  many of them are found fresh and sound as the day in which
  they had been torn from their respective roots. 'But wherever
  this has been found the case, the timber is uniformly black as
  ebony and obdurately hard.          I was led from curiosity to exa
  mine several of these old trunks; and searching minutely for the
  cause of this preservation in the effect, and to satisfy myself
                                                                whether

                             On the  Drij-Rot.                    437
 whether the oak had attained this colour merely from age, or
owed its preservation to the cause that produced the black co
lour, I chemically examined different specimens, and found in
that investigation a far greater proportion of iron than could
possibly be supposed to exist in the natural state of the tree.
To this iron f attribute the incorruptibility and high state of
preservation in which this antediluvian timber is found.         This
extraneous iron must have been supplied from the ore of the soil,
or chalybeate waters.      In this state of solution the iron would
penetrate the substance of the wood, unite with the astringent
principle, and give it not only the black colour, but communi
cate such a density of texture as almost to resist the sharpest in
strument.
     I have no wish to trespass  with multitudinous remarks, nor to
fill   pages with speculative theory.     Allow me to express it as
rny opinion, that the most effectual preventive of the dry-rot
would be to cut all navy timber at the season before stated, and
treat it as after mentioned.     But should this period of cutting
be conceived incompatible with that important branch of na
tional industry the leather trade, the same means will season
the new timber, and render it proof against the dry-rot, that
will cure it in the old, viz. by an application of iron in a state
of solution.     This can be obtained at comparatively little or no
expense from a solution of green copperas, and will be found a
mast effectual remedy, either as cure or preventive of that most
destructive canker.
     New timber, previous to its being marshallated, should be
cut up into all the various forms which the ship-carpenter may
require, and allowed a time to dry. Then soak every chip to be
used in the navy in a well prepared solution, till it has acquired
the colour of new ink.      This would completely counteract every
vegetative principle, and communicate that incorruptible dura
bility and firmness of texture, so essentially requisite in navy tim
ber, by the chemical combinations already described ; with this
addition, that the sulphur of the solution, penetrating the sub
stance of the plank, would defend the vessel against the ravages
of insects.
    These are the grounds, outlines, and principles, of a plan, that,
if properly conducted, will, in my opinion, for ever banish all rot
and canker from the British navy.
                                                         G,  Ingljs.
                                                        LXXVI. On

                              [   438    ]
LXXVI.       On the Electric Properties of Metals, and the abso
   lute Positive and Negative Electric Powers of various Sub
   stances.    By Mr. J. Tatum.
                           To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, — Should         you think the account of the following expe
riments calculated to remove the erroneous but widely dissemi
nated opinion of the Tzora-electric properties of metals; and also,
of the absolute positive and negative electric powers residing in
peculiar substances, they are very much at your service.
    To prove that metals possess all the electric properties with
which vitreous and resinous bodies are endowed, nothing but
friction is necessary, when their positive and negative properties
will be elicited, and to as great an extent as is produced by the
above bodies.
   Exp. 1. Let a plate of zinc (of about two inches diameter)
provided with an insulating handle rising from its centre, be
quickly drawn over a piece of silk, and on presenting it to an
electrometer, it will be found to produce strong signs of positive
electricity.
   Exp. 2. But if a plate of silver of the same size be subject to
friction on silk, (or, what is better, on fur, for then I have had it
produce a spark which could be both h«ird and seen,) it will
produce signs of negative electricity.
   From these experiments, we see that both positive and nega
tive electricity are produced from metallic bodies, and by the
same means with which they are produced from vitreous and re
sinous substances.
   That positive and negative electricity is not peculiar to any
particular body, but depends on the greater or less attraction
which the rubber possesses for the electric fluid, will, I think, be
evident from the following experiments.
    Exp. 3. If in the place of silk, on which the plate of zinc was
rubbed, we substitute fur, the plate of zinc will now give signs
of negative electricity.
    Exp. 4. And if we draw white silk over black silk, we shall
find the white betray signs of positive electricity, and the black
negative electricity.
    Exp. 5. But if the same white silk be drawn over fur, it will
now give signs of negative electricity.
    Exp. 6. If yellow silk be drawn over the white silk, the yellow
will be negatively electrified, and the white positively electrified.
    Exp. 7- But if the yedow be drawn over the black, the yellow
will now become positively electrified.
                                                                 From

                    On extracting Vinegar from Wood.                  439
      From the above experiments, we see that the same body may
ue made to produce either positive or negative electricity at
pleasure ; and that metallic bodies, like vitreous and resinous
ones, will by similar treatment, like them, produce similar states
of electricity.
      From which I think it is but fair to conclude, that the classing
of     bodies into electrics and non-eiectrics, as well as into positive
and negative electrics, is founded in error, and at variance with
experiments.
      P.S. —The silk which I used was wrapped several times round
a thin board about one foot three inches long, and five inches
wide, with a handle similar to a battledore.
                                    I am, sir, yours, &c.
Porset-rreet, June 14, 1818.                                 J. Tatum.
 LXXVII.         Process practised in the Establishment of Syoise sur
       Seine to extract Vinegar or Acetic Acid from Wood,.             By
'
      M.    P. L. DUPUYTREN      *.
 At       one end of a large building calculated for the purpose,
  are four furnaces, adapted to receive large retorts, the lower parts
  of which are made in cast iron, and the rest in strong iron plates :
  at a small distance from the bottom of these retorts is the open
  ing of a copper pipe of three inches diameter, which rises through
  the metal of the retort, and widens like a tunnel at the upper
  end ; a copper cylinder eight or nine inches wide, and eighteen
  or twenty long, is fixed to. this tunnel, passing out of the build
  ing, is bent downwards, and is plunged into a large tub full of
  water,' which is constantly renewed : from this it discharges
  itself into a condenser, to which are adapted on one side a small
  cock to carrv off liquids, and on the other a cylinder of about the
  same bore as the one mentioned above, and which rises verti
   cally, then turns down and enters into the building, where it is
   again bent, and opens at the hearth of the furnace.
       This apparatus being arranged, the retorts are filled with
   pieces of wood which have been cut a year, and which must be
   chosen straight and long, and about as large as the wrist         these
  pieces are arranged in the retort with order.            When the retort
   is full, it is covered with its lid, which is fastened on by means of
   screws; it is then luted carefully with clay, and by means of a
   crane two men raise it up and place it in its furnace : over this
   is put a covering of masonry of considerable weight ; the cy
   linder is fitted to the retort, and the fire is lighted,
                        * From the Journal   de Pharmaeia.
                                       E e 4                           The

4-10                On extracting Vinegar             from Wood.
    The water which is in the wood soon dissipates, and the
carbonization begins.          Then there is disengaged a good deal of
carbonic acid ; acetic acid combined with water ; carbonated
hydrogen ; and an oily matter similar to tar, with perhaps a
 small portion of carbonic acid gas.
    From part of the retort in which the decomposition is made,
 all these matters are forced to pass through the entire mass of
wood to get to the opening of the pipe before mentioned, which
is purposely placed at the inferior extremity; by this pipe they
enter into the copper cylinder which conveys them to the con
denser; there almost all that is water, the acetic acid and oily
matter become condensed, and run off through the little cock ;
while all the carbonic acid, the carbonated hydrogen gas, car
bonic acid gas, which also carry .with them a small quantity of
the other products, rise up by the other cylinder, and go into
the fire, where they serve as fuel.
    When this operation has continued five hours, these inflam
mable vapours are directed, by means of a cock, under the fire of
another retort, just lighted ; the heat of the first furnace, and
that which escapes from the wood during its decomposition,
being sufficient to complete the carbonization of all which is
contained in        it,without the aid of the combustion of the gas.
It   is  not necessary even to wait tiil the evaporation of these va
pours has ceased, before the tube           removed from the ash-pit of
                                               is
the first furnace, because the charcoal would be too weak.
    As soon as the neighbouring retort begins to give out its
gaseous products, and can do without further assistance, the
pipe      isremoved from the ash-pit, and the remaining gas which
comes out      is  ignited, in order to prevent the disagreeable smell
arising    from  it. The flame thus produced          as large as the pipe,
                                                                is
rises many feet above the pipe, and lasts about half an hour.
The moment the retort              removed,
                                    is              replaced
                                                      it   is     another,   by
and the same process       is  observed as with the former.
    Caution however       is required in this process; for the moment
the retort     is    taken out of the furnace, the copper cylinder
is  filled with inflammable gas          :      joined and luted imme
                                             it, if   is
diately     to that   which succeeds       the gas wilj mix with the air
                                                 it
contained in it, and the very smallest spark that could possibly
penetrate the fissures of the retort would occasion an explosion;
for which reason the apparatus             never to be luted till the very
                                              is
instant of the appearance of the empyreumatic vapour.
    The retorts are from about seventy-two to               hundred cubica
feet    in capacity.     They  contain   one and     half  to
                                                            a two loads of
wood, which, when         it    well chosen and of good quality, will
                               is                                    a
yield twenty-eight per       cent,   of charcoal and yield two hundred
                                                                                  and

                   On extracting Vinegar from Wood.                     441
and forty to three hundred litres         of pyroligneous acid, containing
one-twelfth of tar.
     The charcoal retains the form of the wood; it is intermixed
only with a small quantity of dust which proceeds from the bark;
it possesses all the qualities of good charcoal, but its combustion
is more rapid and more brilliant, and less is required for raising
liquors to boiling heat.         If exposed in contact with the air, it
gains    ten  per  cent,  in weight.
     The most satisfactory results are obtained from hard woods;
but white woods are rejected : it takes five or six hours to char
the wood, and seven hours to cool the charcoal.
     When the retort is taken out, the pyroligneous acid is a red
dish, semi-transparent liquid, and of a strong empyreumatic acid
taste and smell ; every hundred parts will saturate as much sub-
carbonate of alkali as seven and a half to nine and a half of sul.
phuric acid will concentrate.
     The liquid flows from the condenser in a continual stream, of
the size of a goose quill, and is conducted into a large wooden cask
placed in a cellar, where, in cooling, it deposits the greater part
of its tar ; hence it passes into another cask, where it remains
in store.              /
     It is preferable in this state to vinegar for all kinds of dyeing
and printing on linen ; it possesses an oil which is an excellent
mordant for linen and cotton, and prints with a more brilliant,
durable, and fine colour.          It likewise serves to give a rose-colour
to woods, feathers, and straw, &c.
     In order to separate the acid from the empyreumatic oil, which
colours and changes its nature, it is run into a large iron boiler,
where as much subcarbonate of lime is added as it can de
compose when cold.             When arrived at this point, a certain
quantity     of  the  tar  which   floats on the surface is taken off with
a skimmer, and by means           of   a pump the liquor is raised up in a
 cauldron, where it is then boiled.           The saturation is then con
 tinued with quick-lime, and decomposes the acetate of alkali
 which remains in dissolution ; and the sulphate of lime which
 precipitates, carries with it a fresh quantity of tar.
     The deposit being accomplished, the liquor is passed into,
 another cauldron, and there it is concentrated by a slight boiling
 till a thin skin arises; then it is put into wooden tubs, where in
 cooling it becomes solid.
     The produce thus obtained is extremely impure and black, in
 consequence of its retaining some portion of oily matter.             This
 foreign substance resists repeated crystallization, and cannot be
 taken away except by melting.            These impure crystals are there
 fore put     into   a   cast-iron   cauldron,   where they undergo the
                                                                    aqueoiu

4'42            Oil extracting Vinegar from Wood.
aqueous fusion ; all the water that they contain is evaporated ;
and when they are dry, the fire is increased till all the matter is
in a burning fusion.        It is then run into appropriate squares,
in which it becomes solid.
     In this state it is black like coal, but it easily dissolves in warm
water; and this solution filtered and stirred with care gives cry
stals of acetate of alkali, which retain scarcely any of the em-
pyreuma.        It is then melted in a certain large quantity of water,,
 and is decomposed by means of sulphuric acid of commerce ; it
 then gives out sulphate of alkali crystallized, and acetic acid,
which only remains to be distilled to be obtained in perfect pu
 rity. The process may be carried on in large stone pitchers,
 called tourilles.      While the burning fusion is going on, only a
 small quantity of acetate of alkali is decomposed, which depends
probably on the presence of the oily matter.
     This acetic acid, thus rectified, shows eleven degrees on the
hydrometer of Baume".           It is to be preferred to distilled vinegar,
 as the latter is never so concentrated,         and always retains some
 portion of vegetable matter which injures the beauty of the
 fabrics ; besides which, for all preparations to be done with
 the acetic acid of wood, -it does not require to be purified.
      In order to concentrate this acid to a proper state for crystal
  lization, it is sufficient to combine it with acetate of lime, and
  to decompose this salt slightly calcined, by concentrated sul
 phuric acid. At the instant of contact the reaction is extremely
 rapid, and the acetic acid is disengaged, giving up to the sul
 phate of lime all the superfluous water.
       The waters from the first and second crystallization of
 the acetate of alkali are no longer susceptible of giving fresh
  crystals by evaporation.         As that, no doubt, depends on the
 too great quantity of oily matter which is in
                                                   it,
                                                   it    is   probable that
 by calcining them alone, or with      a     mixture of charcoal powder,
 or perhaps   by    making them boil with charcoal, they might again
 acquire    the  properties of crystallization.
      Being evaporated to dryness, they are mixed with tar, and then
 serve as fuel to heat the cauldrons. But as the cinders from them
  are not quite deprived of the acetate of alkali, they are passed
 through  a    reverberating furnace, washed in lye, and      by  the second
  crystallization   the  finest  subcarbonate   of  alkali
                                                        is   obtained.
                                                         *XXVIH.        On

                                        [        443       ]
LXXVIII.          On a new and expeditions                               Method         of naming at
    sight    the Roots          of complete Cubes under Ten Figures.                             By
    John Evans Jun. A.M.
Sir, —       In                 of your valuable Miscellany, I re
                  a former volume
collect having met with                           in which is given
                                       some communications,
a method of naming at sight the root of any complete cube num
ber under seven figures.     The principle was briefly this : — The
root will evidently not exceed two figures ; —of which the first, or
digit of tens, will be the root of the greatest cube contained in
the 4th, 5th, and 6th figures of the given number, counting from
the right hand : — and the latter, or terminating figure of the
root, will be found by considering that if the cube terminate in
 1, 4, 5, 6, or 9, the root will terminate in the same figure; if
in 2, 3, 7, or 8, the termination of the root will be 8, 7, 3, or 2,
the respective deficiencies from 10.
   Now, sir, it has occurred to me, that by uniting another prin
ciple with the method just alluded to, we may name at sight, if
required, the root of any cube number not exceeding nine figures.
This is effected by the following rules :
    1. It is obvious that the required root will never exceed three
figures : — the first of which will be the root of the greatest cube
contained in the 7th, Sth, and 9 th figures counting from the
right.
    2. The terminating figure of the root may be found as before
from the termination of the given cube.
    3. To obtain the middle figure of the root, divide the given
cube by 1 1, and according as the remainder                                       is,
                   1,2,                        or 10,
                                                                     4, 9,
                   0, 0,
                                     9, 3,
                                                             2, 8,
                                                     S, 6,
                                1,   5, 4,   3, 5,
                                               or 10 6, 7,
          take             1,                                                       ;
which being subtracted from the sum of the first and last figures
 (found as above) borrowing 11,         necessary, will give the mid
                                                      if
dle figure of the root.
    Take as an example the complete cube 504358336.
     1. The greatest cube in 504, the 7th, 8th, and 9th figures,
is  343, or (7)    therefore the first figure of the root
                   5
                     :                                                                       is   7.
     2. Since the cube ends         the termination of the root
                                            in   6,                 6.                                 is
    3. Dividing the given   cube      11, the        by
                                              remainder       to which                  is   9,
4   corresponds in the series given above. Then the two former
 figures    and
             7    added together give 13, from which
                   6                                         being de                    4
 ducted, leaves    for the middle figure of the root.
                     9                                      Hence the
root required   796.is
  Again, let the proposed cube be 6028568.
      The root of the greatest cube in
     2. 1.
                                                                      6      is   1.
      The termination will be 10 — = 2.                      3
                                                                                                   3. The

444          Method of naming Roots                  of   Cubes under Ten Figures.
    3. The remainder, after dividing by 11, is 7, whose correr
sponding number 6 being subtracted from 2 + 1 + 11, or 14,
 leaves 8 for the middle figure of the root, which is therefore 182.
    The principles on which are founded the rules for obtaining
 the first and last figures of the root, are perhaps sufficiently
 evident.     The rule, however, for the middle figure, on which
 alone  I  rest my claim for originality in the present instance, de
pends upon the following obvious property.         If a given number
divided by 1 1 leave a certain remainder r, and the cube of r
be divided by 11, the new remainder r' left after this second di
vision will be the same as what would remain, if the cube of
the original number were divided by 11; and further, if r be
0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10, it will be found upon trial
that      /
          will be 0, 1, 8, 5, 9, 4, 7, 2, 6, 3, or 10: or inversely,
     V
if be 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10, r will be 0, 1, 7, 9,
5, 3, 8, 6, 2, 4, or 10. Consequently since           is obtained by/
dividing the proposed cube by 1 1, r may be found by the series ;
1. e. the remainder     that should result from the division of the
root by 1 1.     But it is well known that if the remainder arising
from casting the elevens out of the even digits of any given num
ber, be subtracted from the remainder arising from casting the
elevens out of the odd digits, the resulting remainder is what
would remain, if the given number were divided by 1 1 .         Hence
if r be subtracted from the sum of the first and last figures al
ready found, borrowing 1 1 , if necessary, it is obvious that the
difference will be the middle figure of the root.                     ,
     If,
       sir, the method     have just described, which
                                       I                   to the be.«t is,
of mv knowledge, entirely new as respects its extension to cubes
above six figures, and which certainly far surpasses the common
method in conciseness and facility of application, be deemed by
you worthy of        place in your Magazine, your insertion of
                          a                                                          it
will oblige yours, &c.
  Islington, June 16, 1818.                                        JoHN EVANS Jun.
     P. S. — Before   conclude this communication, allow me just
                          I
to hint, that in the rule have suggested, the method of casting
                                           I
out elevens may be sometimes conveniently substituted for the
division       by
              11.
  It  may  likewise  not be improper to remark that the series
           7,                         6,
                               10, may be easily and firmly fixed
                                                4,
                              by 8,
0,   1,    9,       5,   3,                2,
in the memory,        observing that    we omit the   if the sum of     0,
any two terms equally distant from the extreme?         always          is         1
                                                                                   1 ;
thus     1 10 =
             +       +    7&c.= 11: also that the first five consist
                                       4
of all the odd numbers, the last five of all the even numbers un
der   1
      1
      :   and lastly, that the differences of the series are in the
following regular order,        —4, —2,
                                            6,
                                            2,—    —4,      6.5,   2,         2,
                                                                        LXXIX, His-

                                  [  445    ]
 L.XXIX.        History of Dr. Brewster's       Kaleidoscope,  with Re
      marks on its supposed      Resemblance to other Combinations    of
      plain Mirrors.
  In our      last Number we laid before our readers a few observa
  tions on this instrument, the result of which was, that the ka
  leidoscope is in truth a new invention, unknown to those from
  whom some have affected to consider Dr. Brewster as flaying
  borrowed it.       As the instrument excites universal attention, a
  brief sketch of the history of the invention, for which we are
  indebted to a friend at Edinburgh, cannot but prove acceptable
  to our readers.
       In the year 1814, when Dr. Brewster was engaged in experi
  ments on the polarization of light by successive reflections be
  tween plates of glass, which were published in the Philosophical
   Transactions for 1815, and honoured by the Royal Society of
  London with the Copley Medal, the reflectors were in some
   cases inclined to each other, and he had occasion to remark the
  circular arrangement of the images of a candle round a centre,
   or the multiplication of the sectors formed by the extremities of
   the glass plates.      In repeating, at a subsequent period, the ex
   periments of M. Biot on the action of fluids upon light, Dr. B.
  placed the fluids in a trough formed by two plates of glass ce
   mented together at an angle.        The eye being necessarily placed
   at one end, some     of  the cement  which had been pressed through
   between the plates appeared to be arranged into a regular fi
   gure.      The symmetry of this figure being very remarkable,
   Dr. B. set himself to investigate the cause of the phenomenon,
   and in doing this he discovered the leading principles of the
'
  kaleidoscope.       He found that, in order to produce perfec tly
   beautiful and symmetrical forms, three conditions were neces
   sary.
        1 . That the reflectors should fee placed at an angle, which was
   an even or an odd aliquot part of a circle, when the object was
   regular ; or the even aliquot part of a circle when the object was
   irregular.
       2. That out of an infinite number of positions for the object
   both within and without the reflectors, there was only one posi
   tion where perfect symmetry could be obtained, namelv, by
   placing the object in contact with the ends of the reflectors.
       3. That out of an infinite number of positions of the eve,
   there was only one where the symmetry was perfect, namely, "a*
   near as possible to the angular point, so that the circular field
    could be distinctly seen ; and that this point was the only one
   out of an infinite number at which the uniformity of the light
   of the circular field was a maximum.                    .
    ,   . .                                                         Upon

446               History of the Kaleidoscope.
   Upon these principles Dr. B. constructed an instrument, in
Which he fixed permanently across the ends of reflectors, pieces
of coloured glass, and other irregular objects, and he showed the
instrument in this state to some members of the Royal Society
of Edinburgh, who were much struck with the beauty of its ef
fects.   In this case, however, the forms were nearly permanent,
and a slight variation was produced by varying the position of
the instrument, with respect to the light. The great step, how
ever, towards the completion of the instrument remained yet to
be made, and it was not till some time afterwards that the idea
 occurred to Dr. B. of giving motion to objects, such as pieces of
 coloured glass, &c. which were either fixed or placed loosely in
 a cell at the end of the instrument.  When this idea was carried
 into execution, the kaleidoscope, in its simple form, was com
pleted.
   In this state, however, the kaleidoscope could not be consi
dered as a general philosophical instrument of universal appli
cation ; for it was incapable of producing beautiful forms unless
the object was nearly in perfect contact with the end of the re
flectors.
   The next, and by far the most important step of the invention
was therefore to remove this limitation by employing          a draw-
tube and lens, by means of which beautiful forms could be created
from objects of all sizes, and at all distances from the observer.
In this way the power of the kaleidoscope was indefinitely ex
tended, and every object in nature could be introduced into the
picture, in the same manner as if these objects had been re
duced in size, and actually placed at the end of the reflectors.
   When the instrument was brought to this state of perfection,
Dr. Brewster was urged by his friends to secure the exclusive
property of it by a patent, and he accordingly took out a patent
for " a New Optical Instrument for creating and exhibiting beau
tiful forms."    In the specification of his patent he describes the
kaleidoscope in two different forms.      The first consists of two
reflecting planes, put together according to the principles alreacfV
described, and placed in a tube, with an eye-hole in the parti
cular position which gives symmetry and a maximum uniformity
of light, and with objects, such as coloured glass, placed in the
position of symmetry, and put in motion either by a rotatory
movement, or by their own gravity, or by both combined.          The
second form of the instrument, described in the specification,     is,
when the tube containing the reflectors     is   placed in a second
tube,  at the end  of which is  a  convex lens which  introduces into
the picture objects   of  all magnitudes,   and at every distance, as
has been already described.
   After the patent was signed, and the instruments in a state of
                                                       forwardness,

                         History   of the   Kaleidoscope.                            447
    forwardness, the gentleman who was employed to manufacture
    them under the patent, 'carried a kaleidoscope to show to the
    principal London opticians, for the purpose of taking orders from
    them.      These gentlemen naturally made one for their own use,
    and for the amusement of their friends ; and the character of
    the instrument being thus made public, the tinmen and gla
    ziers began to manufacture the detached parts of             it,
                                                                 in order to
    evade the patent     ;   while others manufactured and sold the in
    strument complete, without being aware that the exclusive pro
    perty of it    had been secured  by   apatent.
         In this way the invasion of the patent right became general
    among that class of individuals against whom the law             seldomis
    enforced but in its terrors.        Some workmen of        higher class
                                                                 a
    were encouraged to piracy by this universal opposition to the
    patent; but none of the respectable London opticians would yield
    to the clamours of their customers, to encroach upon the rights
    of an inventor, to whom they were at least indebted for              new    a
    and  a   lucrative article of trade.
         In order to justify these piratical proceedings,       became ne
                                                                 it
    cessary to search out some combinations of plain mirrors, which
    might be supposed to have some resemblance to Dr. Brewster's
    instrument; and      it  would have been strange indeed,           someif
     theorem or experiment had not been discovered, which could
    have been used to impose upon the great crowd, who are entirely
    ignorant of the principles and construction of optical instruments.
     There never was     a  popular invention, which the labours of en
    vious individuals did not attempt to trace to some remote period;
     and in the present ease, so many persons had hazarded their
    fortunes and their characters, that         became necessary to lay
                                               it
     hold of something which could be construed into an anticipa
     tion of the kaleidoscope.
          The first supposed anticipation of the kaleidoscope was found
     in Prop. xiii. and xiv. of Professor Wood's Optics, where that
     learned author gives a mathematical investigation of the num-
i    ber and arrangement of the images formed               by
                                                            two reflectors,
     either inclined or parallel to each other.      This theorem assigns
     no position either to the eye or to the object, and does not even,
     include the principle of inversion, which       isabsolutely necessary
     to the production of symmetrical forms. The theorem                true,   is
     whatever be the position of the object or of the eye.          In order
     to put this matter to rest, Dr. Brewster wrote          aletter to Pro
      fessor Wood, requesting him to say        if he had any idea of the
      effects of the kaleidoscope when he wrote those propositions;
      To this letter Dr. B. received the following handsome and satis
      factory answer :
                                                                       "   St. John's,

   448                  History of I fie Kaleidoscope.
                                                " St. John's, May 19, 1818.
      " Sir,—-The propositions I have given relating to the number
   of images formed by plane reflectors inclined to each other, con
   tain merely the mathematical calculation of their number and
   arrangement.       The effects produced by the kaleidoscope were
  never in my contemplation.        My attention has for Some years
   been turned to other subjects, and I regret that I have not time
  to read your Optical Treatise, which 1 am sure would give me
  great pleasure.     I am, sir,
                          " Your obedient humble servant,
                                                              « J. Wood."
      The next supposed anticipation         of the kaleidoscope was an
  instrument proposed by Mr. Bradley in 1717.              This instrument
  consists  of   two   large pieces    of  silvered looking-glass, Jive
  inches wide and four inches high, jointed together with hinges,
  and opening like a book.        These plates being set upon a geo
  metrical drawing, and the eye being placed in front of the mir
  rors, the lines of the drawing were seen multiplied by repeated
 reflections.     This instrument .was described long before by Kir-
 cher, and    did  not receive a single improvement from the hands
 of Bradley.      It has been often made by the opticians, and was
 principally used for multiplying the human face, when placed
 between the mirrors ; but no person ever thought of applying it
 to any purpose of utility, or of using it as an instrument of ra
 tional amusement, by the creation of beautiful forms.                From
 the very construction of the instrument, indeed, it is quite in
 capable of producing any of the singular effects exhibited by the
 kaleidoscope.      It gives, indeed, a series of reflected images ar
 ranged round a centre ; but so does a pair of looking-glasses
 placed angularly in an apartment, and so do the pieces of mirror
 glass with which jewellers multiply the wares exhibited at their
 windows.      It might therefore be as gravely maintained that any
 of these combinations of mirrors was a kaleidoscope, as that
 Bradley's pair of plates was an anticipation of that instrument.
As the similarity between the two has been maintained by igno
rant and interested individuals, we shall be at some pains to ex
plain to the reader the differences between these two instru
ments ; and we shall do this, first, upon the supposition that the
two instruments are applied to geometric lines upon paper.
    1. In Bradley's instrument,            1. In the kaleidoscope,      the
the length is less than the             length of the plates must be
breadth of the plates.                  four, or five, or six times their
                                     '
                                        breadth.
    2. Bradley's instrument can-           2. The kaleidoscope cannot
pot be used with a tube.                be used without a tube.
                                                                      3. In

                      History of  the Kaleidoscope.                     419
     3. In Bradley's instrument,          3. In the kaleidoscope, the
from tiie erroneous position of        eye is placed so that the uni
the     eye,  there is a great in      formity of light is a maximum,
equality of light in the sectors,      and the last sectors are distinctly
and the last sectors are scarcely      visible.
 visible.
     4.1nBradIey'sinstrument,the          A. In' the kaleidoscope, all
figure consists of elliptical, and     the sectors are equal, and com
consequently unequal sectors.          pose a perfect circle, and the
                                       picture is perfectly symmetrical.
     5. In Bradley's instrument,          5. In the kaleidoscope, the
the unequal sectors do not unite,      equal sectors all unite into a
but are all separated from one         complete and perfectly symme
 another by a space equal to the trical figure.
thickness of the mirror glass.
     6. In Bradley's instrument,         6. In the kaleidoscope, the
 the images reflected from the secondary reflections are en
first surface interfere with those tirely removed, and therefore
 reflected from the second, and no confusion takes place.
 produce a confusion and over
 lapping of images entirely in
 consistent with symmetrv.
     7. In Bradley's instrument,          7. In the kaleidoscope, the
 the defects in the junction of eye is placed so that these de
 the plates are all rendered visi      fects of junction are invisible.
 ble by the erroneous position of
  the eye.
     The reader will observe, that in this comparison the two in
 struments are supposed to be applied to geometric lines upon
 paper, and that this was the only purpose to which Bradley ever
 thought of applying his mirrors ; yet the kaleidoscope is in every
 respect a superior instrument, even for that inferior purpose, and
  gives true symmetrical forms, which the other instrument is in
  capable of doing.
      In the comparison which has now been made, we have de
 graded the kaleidoscope, by contrasting its effects with those
  which Bradley's instrument is capable of producing, for these
  effects are not worth the looking at.       When we attempt to em
  ploy Bradley's    instrument  to   produce the effects which have
  been   so  much admired in the kaleidoscope, namely, to produce
  beautiful forms from transparent or opaque coloured objects con-,
  mined in a cell, and at the end of the reflectors, it fails so en
  tirely, that no person has succeeded in the attempt.             It is in
  deed quite impossible to produce by it the beautiful and sym
  metrical forms which the kaleidoscope displays.           Had this been
  possible, Dr. Brewster's patent might         have   been  invaded with
      Vol. 51. No.L' i'i. Jane 1818.               F f            impunity

 ^50                     History of the Kaleidoscope.
 impunity by every person who chose to manufacture Bradley's
  instrument; but this was never tried*, and for the best of all
  reasons, because nobody would have purchased it.
      We trust that no person, who wishes to judge of this subject
  with candour, will form an opinion without having actually seen
  and used the instrument proposed by Bradley.                Let any person
  take Bradley's plates, and, having set them at an angle of 30°
  or 22i°, place them upon a cell containing fragments of coloureu
  glass, he will infallibly find that he cannot produce a picture of
  any symmetry or beauty.           The disunion of the sectors, the dark
  ness of the last reflections, and the enormous deviation from
  symmetry, towards the centre of the figure, will convince him,
  if he required conviction, that the instrument is entirely useless
  as a kaleidoscope.        To those, however, who are are not capable,
  either for want of knowledge, or want of time, to make such a
  comparison, we may present the opinion of three of the most
  eminent natural philosophers of the present day, viz. the cele
  brated Mr. Watt, Professor Playfair, and Professor Pictet.
      " It has been said here," says Mr. Watt, " that you took the
  idea of the kaleidoscope from an old book on gardening.                  My
  friend the Rev. Mr. Corrie has procured me a sight of the book.
  It is Bradley's Improvements of Planting and Gardening. Lon
  don 1731, part 2d, chap. 1st.          It consists of two pieces of look
  ing-glass of equal bigness, of the figure of a long square, five
  inches long and four inches high, hinged together, upon one of
  the narrow sides, so as to open and shut like the leaves of a
  book, which, being set upon their edges upon a drawing, will
  show it multiplied by repeated reflections.            This instrument I
  have seen in my father's possession seventy years ago, and fre
  quently since, but what has become of it I know not.                  In my
  opinion, the application of the principle is very different from
 that of your kaleidoscope."
      The following is Professor Playfair's opinion :
                                               "Edinburgh, May 11, 1818.
      " I have examined the kaleidoscope invented by Dr. Brewster,
 and compared it with the description of an instrument which it
 has been said to resemble, constructed by Bradley in 1717.                   I
 have also compared its effect with an experiment to which it
 may be thought to have some analogy, described by Mr. Wood
 in his Optics, Prop. 13 and 14.
     * In illustration of this argument, we may state the following fact : Mr.
 Carpenter of Birmingham, being anxious to evade Dr. Brewster's patent,
 at a time when the manufacture of the patent kaleidoscope was in the hands
of another person, attempted to construct instruments in imitation of Brad
ley's. After exercising his ingenuity for some time, he abandoned the at
tempt as impracticable, and set off for Scotland for the purpose of offering
his services in manufacturing the patent instrument.
                                                                    "  From

                       History of the Kaleidoscope.                       451
     " From     both these   contrivances, and from every optical in
 strument with which I       am acquainted, the kaleidoscope appears
 to  differ essentially both in its effect and in the principles of its
 construction.
     " As to the effect, the thing    produced by the kaleidoscope is
 a series of figures presented with the most perfect symmetry, so
 as always to compose a whole, in which nothing is wanting and
 nothing redundant.        It matters not what the object be to which
 the instrument is directed: if it only be in its proper place, the
 effect just described is sure to take place, and with an endless
 variety.     In this respect, the kaleidoscope appears to be quite
singular among optical instruments.             Neither the instrument of
 Bradley,    nor  the experiment or theorem in Wood's book, have
 any resemblance to this ; they go no further than the multipli
 cation of the figure.
    " Next, as to the principle of construction, Dr. Brewster's,
 instrument requires a particular position of t he eye of the ob
server, and of the object looked at, in order to its effect*                If
either of these is wanting, the symmetry vanishes, and the figures
are irregular and disunited.         In the other two cases, no parti
 cular position, either for the eye or the object, is required.
    " For these reasons, Dr. Brewster's invention seems to me
 quite unlike the other two. Indeed, as far as I know, it is quite
singular among optical instruments ; and it will be matter of
sincere regret, if any imaginary or vague analogy between it
and other optical instruments, should be the means of depriving
the Doctor of any part of the reward to which his skill, inge
nuity, and perseverance, entitle him so well.
                                                  " John Playfair,
                                       "   Professor of Natural Philosophy in
                                            the University of Edinburgh.
    u P. S. — Granting that there were        a resemblance between the
kaleidoscope and Bradley's instrument, in any of the particu
lars mentioned above, the introduction of coloured and move
able objects, at the end of the reflectors, is quite peculiar to Dr.
 Brewster's instrument.        Besides this, a circumstance highly de
serving   of  attention,  is  the use of two lenses and a draw tube,
so that the action of the kaleidoscope is extended to objects of
all sizes, and at all distances from the observer, and united, by
that means, to the advantages of the telescope.                      J. P."
    Professor Pictet's opinion is stated in the following letter :
    " Sir, — Among your friends, I have not been one of the least
 painfully affected by the shameful invasion of your rights as an
 inventor, which I have been a witness of lately in London.              Not
 only none of the allegations of the invaders of your patent,
grounded on a pretended similarity between your          '     kaleidoscope
                                    F  f 2                               and

452                     History   of the   Kaleidoscope.
and Bradley's instrument, or such as Wood's or Harris's theories
might have suggested, appear to me to have any real foundation ;
but I can affirm, that neither in any of the French, German, or
Italian authors, who, to my knowledge, have treated of optics,
nor in Professor Charles's justly celebrated and most complete
collection of optical instruments at Paris, have I read or seen
any thing resembling your'ingenious apparatus, which, from its
numberless applications, and the pleasure it affords, and will
continue to afford, to millions of beholders of its matchless ef
fects, may be ranked among the most happy inventions science
ever presented to the lovers of rational enjoyment.
                                                        "M. A. Pictet,
                                                 "   Professor of Nat. Phil, in the
"   To Dr. Brewster."                                     Academy of Geneva.
    The propositions in Harris's Opticks relate, like Professor
Wood's, merely to the multiplication and circular arrangesnent
of the apertures or sectors formed by the inclined mirrors, and
to the progress of a ray of light reflected between two inclined or
parallel mirrors ; and no allusion whatever is made, in the pro
positions themselves, to any instrument.        In the proposition re
specting the multiplication of the sectors, the eye of the observer
is never once mentioned, and the proposition is true if the eye
has art infinite number of positions; whereas, in the kaleidoscope,
the eye can only have one position.         In the other proposition,
(Prop. XVI        respecting the progress of the rays, the eye snd
                 f.)
the object are actually stated to be placed between the lefec tors              ;
and even    if the eye had been placed without the reflectors, as in
the kaleidoscope, the position assigned            at  it,
                                                        great distance
                                                              a
from the angular point,       is  demonstration that
                                   a                    Harris was en
tirely ignorant        of
                      the positions     symmetry either for the object
                                       Of
or the eye, and could not have combined two reflectors so as to
form kaleidoscope for producing beautiful or symmetrical forms.
       a
The only practical part of Harris's propositions           the 5th and
                                                                  is
6th scholia to Prop. XVII.         In the 5th scholium he proposes               a
sort of catoptric box or cistula, known long before his time, com
posed of four mirrors, arranged in          most unscientific manner,
                                             a
and containing opa-que objects between the speculums. " What
ever they are," says he, when speaking of the objects, "the
upright figures between the speculums should be slender, and not
too many in number, otherwise they will too much vbstruct the
                                                                                  1
reflected rays from coining to the eye." This shows, in a most
decisive manner, that Harris knew nothing of the kaleidoscope,
and that he has not even improved the common catoptric cistula,
which had been known long before.           The principle of inversion,
and the positions of symmetry, were entirely unknown to hiin.
 In the (jth scholium, he speaks of. rooms lined with looking-
                                                                glasses,

                     History       of the   Kaleidoscope.               453
glasses, and of luminous amphitheatres, which, as the Editor of
 the Literary Journal observes, have been described and figured
 by aii the old writers on optics*.
    The persons who have pretended to compare Dr. Brewster'-;
kaleidoscope with the combinations of plain mirrors described by
preceding authors, have not only been utterly unacquainted with
the principles of optics, but have not been at the trouble either
of understanding che principles on which the patent kaleidoscope
is constructed, or of examining the construction of the instrument
itself.   Because it contains two plain mirrors, they infer that it
must be the same as every other instrument that contains two
 plain mirrors ; and hence the same persons would, by a similar
process of reasoning, have concluded that a telescope is a micro
scope, or that a pair of spectacles with a double lens is the same
as a telescope or a microscope, because all these instruments
contain two lenses. An astronomical telescope differs from a com
 pound microscope onlv in having the lenses placed at different
distances.    The progress of the rays is exactly the same in both
these instiuments, and the effect in both is produced by the en
largement of the angle subtended by the object.           Yet surely
there is no person so senseless as to deny that he who first com
bined two lenses in such a manner as to discover the mountains
of the moon, the satellites of Jupiter and Saturn, and all the
wonders of the system of the universe, was the author of an ori
ginal invention. He who produces effects which were never pro
duced before, even by means which have been long known, is
unquestionablv an original inventor ; and upon this principle
alone can the telescope be considered as an invention different
from the microscope.      In the case of the kaleidoscope, the ori -
ginalitv of the invention is far more striking.     Every person ad
mits that effects are produced by Dr. Brewster's instrument, of
which no conception could have been previously formed.
   All those who saw      it it,
 -
                           acknowledged that they had never seen
any thing   resembling    before     and those very persons who had
                                     ;
been possessors   of Bradley's instrument, who had read Harris's
Opticks, and who had used other combinations of plain mirrors,
never supposed for    a moment, that the pleasure which they de
rived from the kaleidoscope had any relation to the effects de
 scribed bv these authors.
    No proof of the originality of the kaleidoscope could be stronger
   * The reader is requested to examine carefully the propositions in Har
ris's Opticks, which he will find reprinted in the Literary Journal, No. 10.
He will then be convinced, that Harris placed both the eye and the object
between the minors, an arrangement which was known 100 years bef'o>^
his time.
                                      F  f  3                          than

.454               History of the Kaleidoscope.
than the sensation which it created in London and Paris. In the
memory of man, no invention, and no work, whether addressed
 to the imagination or to the understanding, ever produced such
 an effect. A universal mania for the instrument seized all classes,
 from the lowest to the highest, from the most ignorant to the
 most learned ; and every person not only felt, but expressed the
 feeling, that a new pleasure had been added to their existence.
     If such an instrument had ever been known before, a similar
 sensation must have been excited, and it would not have been
 left to the ingenuity of the half learned and the half honest to
 search for the skeleton of the invention among the rubbish of the
  16th and 17th centuries.
     The individuals who have been most eager in this search, did
 not, perhaps, calculate the degree of mischief which they have
done to those who have been led, upon their authority, to en
 croach upou the rights of others, and thus subject themselves to
very serious consequences.        The delay which has taken place in
 commencing legal proceedings, has not arisen from any doubt
 of the complete originality of the kaleidoscope, and of the defen-
 sibility of the patent. As soon as the patentee has made himself
acquainted with the circumstance of the individuals who have
 invaded his patent, with the channels through which they have
exported their instruments, and with the amount of the damage
whieh they have done, he will seek for that redress which the
law never fails to afford in cases of notorious and unprovoked
piracy.     We are well assured, that it never was the intention
or the wish of Dr. Brewster to interfere with the operations of
those poor individuals who have gained a livelihood from the
manufacture of kaleidoscopes.         We know that it will always be
a source of no inconsiderable gratification to him," that he has
given employment to thousands of persons, whom the pressure
of the times had driven into indigence; and even if a decision
in favour of his patent were given, he would never think of en
forcing it,   excepting against that class of opulent pirates, who
have been actuated    by   no other motive but the exorbitant love
of gain, in wantonly encroaching upon the property of another.
    The patent kaleidoscopes are now made in London, under
Dr. Brewster's sanction,         Messrs. P. and G. Dollond, W. and
                                by
S. Jones, Mr. R. B. Bate, Messrs, Thomas Harris and Son,
Mr. Bancks, Mr. Berge, Mr. Thomas Jones, Mr. Blunt, Mr.
Schmalcalder,      Messrs. Watkins and Hill, and Mr. Smith.       An
account of the different forms in which these ingenious opticians
have fitted up the kaleidoscope, and of the new contrivances      by
which they have given      it  additional value, will be given in Dr.
Brewster's    Treatise on  the  Kaleidoscope, now in the press. The
                                                             public

       "  Whelher Music is necessary to           the  Orator,  &c."      455
public will   see, from the examination of these instruments, how
much they have been imposed upon by spurious imitations, sold
at the most exorbitant prices, and made by individuals entirely
ignorant, not only of the principles and construction of the in
strument, but of the method of using it.
LXXX.       On the Question u Whether Music is necessary to the
    Orator, — to what Extent, and how most readily attainable?"
    By Henry Upington, Esq.
                          [Continued from p. 327.]
                                          Blair's Hill, Cork, June 10, 1818.
Sir, — A he        paper  which    I now   send you for insertion, has for
its object the continuation of my letter of 12th Aprii, which ap
peared in your Magazine for May.
    The investigation of the ordinary language of the London
gentleman habituated from infancy to the higher circles, was the
only topic of that letter ; and extended no further than the re
futation of an ill-founded,          though in some degree prevalent
theory    which   originated,   at   least in these countries, with the
author of an eccentric prosody called Rationalis, " that speech
was necessarily carried on by no other medium than that of
         " It remains therefore that I
slides.                                       pursue my inquiry with re
gard to the musical character of our language, as delivered by
that portion of the politer circles acknowledged as our standard.
    To avoid circuitous expression, I shall in future designate that
gentleman who has consented to become the subject of my ex
periments, by the appellation of The Speaker; while to that
friendly assistant whose discriminating ear has been already re
ported, I shall assign the appellation of Associate. This being
mentioned, I follow up my analysis.
              Examination     of The Speaker           continued.
                             OF   INTERVALS*.
    Observation 3.      Although the        easy    and even    commanding
   * The reader will probably imagine that the mensuration of speaking
intervals must need the assistance of an instrument.       The contrary is the
truth : the musician whose ear is naturally good, and accustomed to this
novel exercise, will find no difficulty in catching and retaining for a few
moments (as persons unskilled in music will catch a song) any half a dozen
or more consecutive sounds to which his attention ha3 been exclusively di
rected. These sounds are afterwards analysed and noted accord, ngly ; the
signs -f or — , and in some cases an additional memorandum being an
nexed when the ordinary lines are insufficient for the notation of the mi
nuter intervals. What further remains ? This process being frequently re
peated, the relative proportions within each individual essay are set down
in order, and the frequency of occurrence is ascertained at leisure.
                                      F f 4                          compass

436         "  Whether Musk          is necessary to the      Crulor,
compass of this gentleman was found by experiment to exceed
an octave ; yet during the same sentiment, as well as could be
judged, he scarcely ever surpassed the boundary of the fifth,
from extreme to extreme; and very rarely, at any one time, ex
 pressed a more distant interval than the fourth.
     He frequently repeated the preceding note (occasionally even
 three or four times) ; and, all cases considered, perhaps the one
 half or nearly the one half of his variations consisted of perfect
 and imperfect semitones.               The tone usually styled a second
 was the next : then followed the minor 3d ; and lastly, the
fourth.
     The minor 3d, singular as it may appear in theory, which con
 fines it to the serious, was now and then distinguishable even in
 the cheerful though bordering on the joyous; while on the con
 trary, the major 3d, which evidently characterizes the joyous, was
 very rarely perceptible — the interval which may be said to re
 present it being too flat*. The fourth (which was nearly as
 frequent as this imperfect major 3d, although much less fre
 quent than the minor 3d) was almost exclusively confined to the
 bold and majestic ; and the fifth was hardly ever struck at all.
     No governing key-note, to which as in music the various in
 tervals are referrible, could in ».ny one instance be discovered ; —
 what is popularly styled the change of key appearing no more
 than an alteration of pitch, and a certain undefinable series ap
  pertaining to that sentiment which produced the alteration.
 Neither was there any particularly predominating note, in which
 the mass of his syllables could be said to have been expressed -f\
     To return to the extremes, or general boundary of the me
 lody. Whenever, in the progress              J  of a period, he surpassed the
'fifth,   it was  generally    occasioned      by some such word as tolerable,
 usefulness, objectionable, &c.         —  whose stress being seated too re
 mote from the final syllable, produced an apparent difficulty of
 sustentation, which precipitated his voice much lower than good
                              (shall I call it tragic?) disposition of the Speaker
     * Whether the serious
  may have caused this seemingly inappropriate intonation, I shall not ven
  ture to decide. The sprightly joyous comedian who excels in his profession,
  has tile major 3d at his command.
     f Individual short clauses, abstractedly taken, did very often exhibit a pre
  dominating note — which note may not improperly be called the common
  ton? of those clauses ; a term familiar to the ancients.
     Take In instance of this common tone exemplified in C natural viz.
     \ The terminating syllable of his periods occasionally reached an addi
  tional semitone, and consequently extended his boundary to a minor 6th.
                                                                              taste

        to what  Extent, and how most readily atlainalle           ?"    457
taste could have authorized.           The same may be said of words
whose emphatic syllable was seated even on the penultimate it
self, as many, direction, relation, &c.; that is, when those words
were encumbered bv the succeeding particles of a, to a, of the,
to the, — such particles constituting in such cases, as it were an
additional number of syllables, whose tendency (to use the scho
lastic epithet) was decidedly enclitical.-
     I shall terminate this series of observations by exhibiting to
 the reader a collective statement of 4 13 syllables or notes, which
 (exclusive of the commencing syllable of every separate essav)
 were struckby the Speaker, at different times and during the
 expression of various sentiments, from the commencement to the
 conclusion of this examination.
                           Table*    of Occurrence.
                Repetitions     178     Sometimes imperfect.
                Semitones       113     Frequently imperfect.
                Tones      . .   691    t> .v.        f  .
                                                 perfect.
                Minor 3ds        28|Rather
                Major 3ds         13    Almost all too flat.
                FSh?s::_J}Rath-p^ct-
                                413 syllables.
      Remarks.     The reader will no doubt recollect, that in the
  r ourse of the preceding inquiry, the intervals employed in the
  ordinary sentiments alone, presented themselves for examination.
  As to the stronger sentiments, or more properly the passions, I
  have had no opportunity to analyse them ; yet from casual ob
  servations in common life, I am thoroughly persuaded that there
  are not only certain intervals more appropriate than others for
  the expression of those passions — but also certain qualities of
  the voice, as round, harsh, &c. peculiar to every individual
  emotion.
      The judicious application then of those intervals and these
  qualities may, as far as intonation is concerned, be styled ex
  pression; the former, as dependent on the knowledge of sound?,
  and appropriate cultivation of the ear and speaking organs, br
  ing the lot of few, — the latter, as more immediately connected
      * It may be necessary to elucidate this table by an example which, agree
  ably to the adopted mode of computation, contains three repetitions, two
  semitones, one tone ; viz.
                                                                          with

    458       "  Whether     Music is necessary     to ike Orator,—
   with the mind, being comparatively the lot of all.              Nature, so
   termed, can by no means command the intervals ; neither can
   she at all times command the qualities : the frequently deep,
   yet sufficiently varied and expressive intonations of the enraged
   Spaniard, like those of the ancient Roman the gravity of whose
   speaking habits, or rather of whose accentuation he apparently
  inherits [some consider these habits oriental] are terrific as
  thunder when compared with the insignificant monotonous squeak
  of the American savage*.
      Reverting to that part of my observation which represented
  the apparently contracted scale of the Speaker, whose melody
  was almost confined to the limits of the fifth, called by the
   Greeks the diapente, — is there not in this case a curious coin
  cidence between the polite usages of the modern and the ancient?
  That well-known passage of Dionysius of Halicarnassus,                    so
  twisted and perverted by modern theorists, is a memorable testi
  mony of this interesting fact. The literal translation, from Up
  ton's edition, sect. xi. is this :
      "The melody of discourse [JiaAsxrou]," says Dionysius, "is
  measured by very nearly [«5j syyurraf] that interval called the
  diapente [or fifth] neither strained to sharpness beyond three
  tones and a semitone, [which is the extent of that interval,] nor
 relaxed to gravity [after the ascent is accomplished] beyond that
 space."
      But after all, is not every desirable tone (for speech) con
 tained within the diapente ?           Does it not comprise our second,
 thirds, and fifth, with all the intermediate semitones? And for
 majesty, what interval can surpass the fourth ?              I shall give an
 example.
      What a noble anapest, and how indicative of war ! depicting
 most strikingly to pur imagination the steady determined onset
     * Rousseau in   his. Musical Dictionary, article Accent, speaking of the
 habitual difference among Europeans themselves in expressing the various
passions, says : " L'Allemand hausse egalement et fortement la voix dans
lacolere; il cr'.e toujours sur le meme ton: l'ltalien, que mille mouvemens
divers agitent rapidement et successivement dans le meme cas, modifie sa
voix de mille maniere3.       Le meme fond de passion regne dans son ame;
mais quelle variete d'expressions dans ses Accens !"
    f  These words, though in my opinion material to the sense, by acknow
ledging the impossibility of measuring our extremes with accuracy, have
been omitted by Mr. Mitford, in his otherwise faithful translation. See "Har
mony in Language."        As to the general meaning of melodizing within the
diapente, [or betwten C and G, these extremes being included,] it is suf
ficiently obvious.
                                                                           of

        to what Extent, and how most readily attainable?"                   459
of   a compact      battalion ; and so decided        too in its character,
that change its time or measure as we please, it is almost impos
sible to disguise it ; for although we should degrade it to very
nearly the level of a dance, as thus,
we shall, nevertheless, recognise the military high directing our
movements in the field.
     Evident as it may seem to the intelligent reader, that within
the diapente every desirable speaking tone is to be found ; yet I
am greatly apprehensive, that a considerable portion of our rant
 ing orators will inveigh against every species of restriction, which,
 without understanding the term, they will call the " shackling of
nature."        Assuredly, I can have no objection to allow the pas
 sions a decent sway : anger, for instance, the most irregular of
 all, may express the majority of its tones on the higher keys*,
 and be as little systematic as it pleases : but I am certainly of
 opinion, that a judicious speaker will represent that passion +
 rather by vehemence and limited intonation, than by the mon
 strous transition of barbarian octaves. The extremes, it is true,
 may now and then be carried to the extent of this interval ; but
 the reaching of those extremes, in the same member, or rather
 clause of a sentence, even by the interposition of other intervals,
 should never be attempted.
      In music itself, to speak no longer of oratory, — of what supe
 rior melody is the diapente susceptible, proceeding at the same
 time by the smallest of our gradations ! Almost all the profes
 sional musicians with whom I have conversed, have expressed
 their astonishment at the analysis of our incomparable national
 air " God save the King," which, for the gratification of the
 amateur, I shall repeat.
     * The eleventh book of Quinti'.ian's Institutes of the Orator (chapter
                                                                              iii.)
  contains a very sensible remark upon this topic.      " In familiar discourse,"
 says the judicious Roman,
                               " the voice holds a certain medium between the
 tones that are flat and sharp. In vehement passions it rises, in more tran
 quil it falls ; but higher or lower proportionately to the degree of either."
     + This representation may be called well-regulated anger ; such as the
  omitor who preserves intelligibility and decorum is authorized to exhibit. I
  speak not of that overwhelming passion called rage, which in actual life so
  frequently brutalizes the herd of mankind.     Neither do I speak of our the
  atre;— the enraged actor may certainly proceed somewhat further than the
                                                     "
  angry orator ; and yet even the actor, in the very whirlwind of his passion,"
  must employ the octave with caution, this interval being certainly too wide,
  both for modulation and for command.
                                                                       Analysis

   4fiO     "  Whether Music    is necessary to the    Orator, &c."
                    Analysis  of"  God   save the   King."
       This noble composition,    as originally designed, viz. indepen
    dently of the embellishment or grace which was afterwards in
    troduced into the penultimate bar, will be found on inspection
    to surpass the diapente by a single semitone — no more !             It
    contains, in its present form, 42 notes ; and proceeds in the fol
    lowing manner by repetitious and gradations.
             Repetitious                               8
             Semitones     ..                         12
             Tones                                    18
             Minor 3d                                  1
             Major 3d                                  1
             Fifth                                     1
                                                     41
            Add the commencing note        . .  . .    1
                                                     42 notes, as stated.
       Were it necessary to produce an additional subject for analysis,
    1 would prefer for the purpose, above all others, that model of
   chaste composition " Hope, thou Nurse" in the opera of" Love
   in a Village," which song, when ably executed, never fails to
    delight. Of this, however, it will be sufficient to remark, that its
   widest interval is a lone (with the exception of one minor 3d),
   and that its extremes are limited to a minor 7th.
       I shall proceed no further in defence of the diapente, which,
   if my judgement be not inaccurate, the well-formed orator will
   never covet, in any one clause of a sentence to surpass ; but with
   regard to the very great imperfection of our notes, or rather
   the notes of the Speaker, is this defensible, either on the ground
  of chasteness or expression ? Is it not rather probable, that it
   arose partly from imitation or habit inconsiderately called nature,
   and partly from the non-cultivation of his ear ? And may we not
   thus account for the numerous undefinable intervals, which, in
•
   speech, are every instant discoverable throughout society ?
       Such then having become the general usage of our country,
  would it not appear that the cultivation of music in the ordinary
  .way, can by no means remunerate the orator for his inevitable
  loss of time and trouble ? Still, must not the exercise of the
  speaking voice under an experienced master, who, in addition
  to every other requisite, shall possess an exquisite ear, be highly
  beneficial ? A person so qualified to teach, especially if a scien
  tific musical composer, would avail himself of all the advantages
  of his art, without violation of decorum.         He would design the
  most suitable intervals for well-selected passages ; regulate, as

                       Notices respecting New Boohs.                         461
far     as language will admit, the most appropriate species of time
For every individual sentiment ; execute those passages for his
 own improvement, and impart their genius to the intended ora
 tor. But where is such a master to be found ? View him in
 perfection — a Chatham and a Handel are his portrait.
                                [To be continued  *.]
                  LXXXI.      Notices respecting New Books.
  On     the  Safety-lamp for Coal Miners ; with some Researcltes on
               Flame. By Sir Humphry Davy. Svo. p.p. 145.
 rri
   1 he      design of the present work is to exhibit in a connected
  form,    an  account of all the researches that Sir Humphry Davy has
  made       " on the subject of explosions from inflammable air, and
  the modes in which they may be prevented, as well as the col-'
  lateral investigations to which they have given rise, with the
   hope of presenting a permanent record on this important sub
  ject to the practical miner, and of enabling the friends of hu
   manity to estimate and apply these resources of science, by which
  a great and permanently existing evil may be subdued."
       The contents of the body of this work have of course been
   already before the public in different shapes, and any recapitula
   tion of them is particularly unnecessary to our readers, to whom
   the greater part have been progressively communicated through
   the medium of the Philosophical Magazine as soon as they ap
   peared.
       The following brief Appendix is new.
       '* Since the Researches
                                     upon Flame contained in the forego
   ing pages have been published, M. Gay-Lussac has put into my
   hands a paper written some years ago by M. de Humboldt and
   himself, which contains some very interesting results, that may
   be adduced as confirmatii ns of ray principles, on the causes of
   combustion and explosion.
        " MM. Gay-Lussac and de Humboldt have shown that when
   oxygen and hydrogen are mixed in proportions in which they
   cannot be fired by the electrical spark, they may be still made
                  appeared in this Magazine for April, a letter signed
                                                                          " U>ius,''
       [* There          "
   referring me to his     Pocket Companion" for an illustration of the first prin
    ciples of music.   I have not seen this " Companion;" but from Umis's own
   description of the work, I fear that it will not realise his expectation,   Rii,
   ueau and Tartini are by far the most able advocates of our present har
    mony : and Rousseau must be acknowledged its still more able opponent.
    See his " Musical Dictionary" itsclfi (article " Harmony,") not the partinl
    and misleading r.vtracls, which have been gitcn us from time to time in
    modern publications.]
                                                                                 to

   462                 Notices respecting New Books.
 to combine in the proportions which can form water, by artifi
  cially raising their temperature.
     " MM. Gay-Lussac and de Humboldt suppose^ that the ac
  tion of electricity in producing combination is owing to the heat
  it produces by the compression of the elastic medium through
  which it passes.      This idea is very ingenious ; but the pheno
  mena of decomposition by electricity, show that there is some
  relation between the primary attractive powers of the chemical
  elements and their electrical energies.
     " When the common electrical or Voltaic electrical spark is
  taken in rare air, the light is considerably diminished.      I made
  some experiments to ascertain whether the heat was likewise
  diminished, and I found that this was certainly the case.        Yet
  in a receiver that contained air sixty times rarer than that of the
  atmosphere, a piece of wire of platinum, placed in the centre
  of the luminous arc, produced by the great Voltaic apparatus of
  the Royal Institution, became white hot ; and that this was not
  owing to the electrical conducting powers of the platinum, was
  proved by repeating the experiment with a filament of glass,
  which instantly fused in the same position;
     "  It is evident from this, that electrical light and heat may
  appear in atmospheres in which the flame of combustible bodies
 could not exist, and the fact is interesting from its possible ap
  plication in explaining the phenomena of the aurora borealis
 and australis."
 Journal of     the Academy      of Natural  Sciences at Philadelphia.
                        Part I. Vol. I. Svo. pp. 218.
     The Academy of whose earliest Transactions we are here pre
 sented with an account, has only been recently instituted.          It
 consisted at first of a voluntary association for the encourage-'
 ment and cultivation of the sciences, but on the 24 th March
 1817 was incorporated by an act of the legislature of Pennsyl
 vania.     In the list of its members and donators we observe some
 of the most eminent scientific names of North America; and
 it will be sufficient to mention the heads of the papers which
 have been selected for publication out of the mass already sub
 mitted to its consideration, to show that the portion of diligence,
research, and ability embodied in its support, is such as to war
rant us in entertaining the strongest hopes of its future usefulness.
The following are the contents of this first part.
     " Description of six new Species of the Genus Firola, ob
served by Messrs. Le Sueur and Peron in the Mediterranean Sea,
in the months of March and April, 1809.            By C. A. Le Sueur.
— Account of a North American Quadruped3 supposed to belong
                                                                    to

                  Notices respecting Neiv Books.                463
to    the Genus Ovis.    By G. Ord. — Description of seven Species
of   American Fresh-water and Land Shells, not noticed in the
Systems. By Thomas Say. — Descriptions of several new Species
of North American Insects. By Thomas Say. — Observations on
the Genus Erio&onum, and the Natural Order Polygoneje of
Jussieu.     By Thomas Nuttall — Notice of the late Dr. Water-
         —
house. Characters of a new Genus, and Descriptions of three
new Species upon which it is formed; discovered in the Atlantic
 Ocean in the months of March and April, 1816; lat. 22" 9'.
 By C. A. Le Sueur. — Description of three new Species of the
 Genus Raja.       By C. A. Le Sueur. — Some Account of the In
sect known by the name of Hessian Fly, and of a parasitic Insect
 that feeds on it. By Thomas Say. — On a new Genus of the
 Crustacea, and the Species in which it is established. Bv
 Thomas Say. — An Account of an American Species of the Genus
 Tantalus or Ims — By George Ord. — An Account of the Cru
 stacea of the United States. By Thomas Say. — A short De
 scription of five (supposed) new Species of the Genus MuRiENA,
 discovered by Mr. Le Sueur in the year 1S1R.         By C. A. Le
 Sueur. — Description of two new Species of the Genus Gadus.
 By the same. — Description of a new Species of the Genus Cy-
 rRiNUs. By the same. — An Account of an American Species of
 Tortoise, not noticed in the Systems. By the same. — A new
 Genus of Fishes, of the Order Aldominales, proposed under the
 name Catostomus, and the characters of this Genus, with those
 of its Species, indicated.    By the same. — An Account of two
 new Genera of Plants ; and of a Species of Till/ea, and another
 of Limosella, recently discovered on the hanks of the Delaware,
 in the vicinity of Philadelphia.   By Thomas Nuttall. — Descrip
 tions of new Species of Land and Fresh-water Shells of the
 United States.      By Thomas Say. — Descriptions of four new
 Species, and two Varieties, of the Genus Hydrargira. By C. A.
 Le Sueur. — Observations on the Geology of the West India
 Islands, from Barbadoes to Santa Cruz, inclusive.     By William
 Maclure. — Observations on several Species of the Genus Actinia ;
 illustrated by figures.    Bv C. A. Le Sueur. — Description of
 Coi.linsia, a new Genus of Plants. By Thomas Nuttall."
     The manner in which these papers have been given to the
 world, is particularly deserving of praise.  More desirous of do
 ing extensive good than of giving splendid embellishment to
 their own merits, the Academy have not only published their
 Transactions in a very cheap form, but in progressive numbers,
 each consisting of two, three, or more sheetSi according as there
 may be quantity of matter ready for publication at the time.
                                                               Just

464 Cornwall Geological and Caledonian      Horticultural Societies.
    Just published, A Refutation of the Fallacies and Misrepre
sentations contained in a pamphlet entitled
                                                " An Exposition of
the New System of Musical Education, published by a Com
mittee of Professors in London."      By J. B. Logier, Inventor of
the System.
    Just published, a second Edition of Dr. John MacCulloch's
Remarks on the Art of making Wine ; with Suggestions for the
Application of its Principles to the Improvement of Domestic
 Wines.
           LXXXII.      Proceedings of Learned   Societies.
            ROYAL GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF CORNWALL.
 On Tuesday June 1 6th a deputation of Noblemen and Gentlemen
 of the countv of Cornwall waited on Dr. Paris at his house in Do
 ver-street, with a magnificent present of plate for his acceptance.
 The inscription, which is engraved on a massy silver waiter, re
 cords the services for which it was given.      " To John Ayrton
 Paris, M.D. F.L.S. Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians
 of London, this plate is inscribed by the Noblemen, Representa
 tives in Parliament, and Gentlemen of the county of Cornwall,
 in testimony of their grateful sense of his services, in originating
 the plan, and promoting the institution of the Royal Geological
 Society of the county, which has rendered their home the school
 of science, and their native riches increasing sources of pro
  sperity."
               CALEDONIAN     HORTICULTURAL    SOCIETY.
     At the last meeting of the Caledonian Horticultural Society,
  an additional  report was read from Messrs. Hay, Macdonald.
  and Neill, who, at the desire of the Society, paid a horticultural
  visit to some parts of the continent.     The report stated, that
 grafts of nearly. fifty new pears, and about forty new apples, of
 the most approved kinds, raised by M. Van Mons at Brussels,
  had been received last spring ; that they had been grafted on
  suitable stocks, in the nurseries of Messrs. Dickson and Com
  pany, and Dicksons Brothers, aud with perfect success.        It also
  mentioned that a collection of cones of some of the new specie*
  of pinetree, originally brought from the heights of South Ame
  rica by the celebrated traveller Humboldt, and raised a good
  many years by M. Parmentier, Mayor of Enghien, had been re
  ceived from the Mayor, and were now under trial.
                                                      LXXXIII. /;/

                            [        465   ]
      LXXXIII.    Intelligence and Miscellaneous          Articles.
                 STEAM ENGINES IN CORNWALL.
From     Messrs. Leans' Report for May ISIS, it appears that
during that month, the following was the work performed by
the engines reported with each bushel of coals.
                           Pounds of water lifted     Load per square
                      \foot high  with each bushel.    inch in cylinder.
23 common engines averaged             23, SOS, 329        various.    -
Woolf's at Wheal Vor       . .         29,032,182          17-2 lib.
Ditto      Wh. Abraham ..              31,520,346          16-8
Ditto       ditto  ..      ..          29,702,703           5-68
Dalcouth engine    ..        ..        38,233,193          11-2
Wheal Abraham     ditto         ..     33,714,S42          10 9
United Mines engine             ..     33,967,127          13-6
Treskirby ditto   ..            ..     40,615,253          10-8
                  EXPLOSION IN A COAL MINE.
   We regret to record the following fatal accident in the coal
pit, at the Newton Green, Ayr : — About seven o'clock in the
morning of Thursday, 18th June, Mr. Miller, the manager of
the coal works belonging to Messrs. Taylors, in the prosecution
of his duty, went into the pit ; and he and the oversman of the
pit, after providing themselves    each with a safety-lamp, pro
 ceeded to examine a part of the mine wrought some time ago,
 in order to open a door by which to increase the circulation of
the air, and they were followed at a little distance by six of the
ordinary colliers.    When they had proceeded a considerable
way, the lamps indicated the presence of hydrogen; but, having
confidence in their efficacy, they proceeded until both lamps be
came red hot, and then the gas exploded, scorching and tossing
them about. The oversman, although severely burnt, escaped
with his life ; but the manager was found dead, from all appear
ance suffocated by the choke damp which succeeded the explo
sion. The colliers escaped with little or no injury, and the
oversman got out immediately; but the body of the manager was
not found till an hour or two afterwards. Mr. Miller was a
young man of exemplary conduct and promising abilities, and
his loss is much deplored.
   We cannot doubt that particular inquiries will be made into
all the circumstances of this explosion.     In the mea*n time let
it serve as a caution to miners to be prudent and vigilant, and
to act with great circumspection when visiting old workings.
This, on the face of it, appears to be one of those cases in which
the lamp with a double covering of wire-gauze ought to have
   Vol.51  . No. 242. June 1818.                      G
                                                      g       been

466     Iron in Caithness.     — Antimony. — New Minerals.
been employed       : and we would       suggest that on every occasion
 of danger, or of exploration,         a quite   new lamp should be em
ployed    ; for   there is always   a possibility of some particle of coal
 adhering    to  lamps   that  have   been  in use, which of course will
 be ignited when the lamp becomes red hot, and may .communi
 cate explosion.       The lamp ought not, any more than gunpow
der, to be exposed to avoidable danger.
                             IRON IN CAITHNESS.
     There are strong appearances of iron upon the coast, about
 the  Ord of Caithness, and in many places between the Ord and
 Wick, and to the northward of Wick.              The coast of Caithness is
 remarkable for pretty high rocky cliffs, in which great numbers
 of veins or perpendicular mineral fissures appear, many of which
 contain iron ore.        Some of these have been observed near the
 old ruinous castle of Girnigo, and the Castle of Arkergil.          These
 veins appear to be bold and roomy, and to contain plenty of
 good iron ore, from the abundance of a bright red iron earth
 found in the surface of them.          There is great abundance of bog
 ore over all the low country of Caithness.             In many places it
 almost covers the whole face           of the ground to a considerable
 depth.      It is easily known and distinguished by the friable con
 stitution of its misshapen masses, by its external blackish and
  rusty colour, and by its internal blackish gray colour and granu
 lated porous texture.        It is always found loose on the surface of
 the ground in the same manner as float ore, without any con
 nexion with the vein or stratum.
                DISCOVERY OF ANTIMONY IN BANFFSHIRE.
     A promising appearance of antimony ore has been lately dis
  covered on the estate of Lord Fife. This ore, we understand,
  has been examined by Professor Jameson, who finds that it is
  the radiated gray antimony, and contains 70 parts antimony and
  SO of sulphur.        We trust this very promising discovery will be
 vigorously pursued.
                             TWO NEW MINERALS.
     We understand that Dr. MacCulloch (the geologist) has dis
  covered two new minerals in Scotland, an account bf which will
 be given in his work on the Hebrides.              We have obtained the
 following    sketches    of their prominent characters.        *
     The first is easily recognised by its resemblance to indurated
 steatite or noble serpentine, and by its green colour, on a fresh
 fracture, shortly turning to black, when it can scarcely be di
  stinguished by, the eye from jet or drycoal : it is also infusible be
  fore the blowpipe.       Dr. M. has given it the name of chloropha-.

Caducium.   — Earthquake. — Russian       Voyage     of Discovery,     467.
eite, from its most obvious property.    It occupies amygdaloidal
cavities in the trap rocks.
   The second i3 a white powder, of a harsh feel, but incapable
of scratching glass, and nearly as fusible as that substance, pro
ducing a transparent colourless bead ; characters sufficient to
distinguish it from any mineral hitherto described.      It occupies!
similar cavities in trap, and he has given to        it,
                                                   from its leading
character, the name of conite.
    This notice may be of use to mineralogists,      directing their
                                                       by
attention to these substances, so as to enable thern to collect
additional specimens for examination, and thus to extend our
knowledge of their characters.
                CADUCIUM.     — ANOTHER NEW MINERAL.
   M. Gay Lussac communicated, in  the last sitting of the French
Academy   of Sciences,   note
                          a   upon   new metal, which has re
                                        a
ceived the name of caducium, discovered         by
                                            Professor Stromeyer,
of Gottingen. The caducium      white as tin, very ductile, com
                                  is
bines easily with other metals, fuses and volatizes in less time
than zinc.      It  found in abundance in the mines of this last
                     is
metal.    Its specific weight    8-65.
                                 is     This discover)-, M. Gay
Lussac expects, will be of great consequence to the arts, on ac
count of the properties which the new metal oossesses     and of ;
those which      can communicate to metals
                it                           with  which      ca it   is
pable of amalgamating.
                           EARTHQUAKE.
    On the 9th inst. about twenty minutes part two o'clock, P.M.
 there was  a   smart shock of an earthquake, in the neighbourhood
 of Hayfield, on Loch Awe Side, Scotland.             A   gentleman who
 was writing in his parlour first heard     a  report  like  that of artil
 lery,  and  afterwards   a  noise like that   of  rocks   tumbling down
 from the neighbouring mountain of Cruachan.               Having run out
 to see what was the matter, he was not sensible of the earth
 quake which succeeded      ; but his son and daughter, who were
 in another room, were nearly tossed over, and the servants, at
  their dinner  in the kitchen, were astonished to see the plates on
 the table dance before them.        The shock was felt     by  several fa
 milies in  a  range  of two  or three  miles,   but  no   injury was sus
 tained   by it.
                   RUSSIAN VOYAGE OF DISCOVERY.
    On the 17th of June the Russian brig Rusick, under the com
 mand of Lieut. Kotzebue, reached Portsmouth, last from the Cape
 of Good Hope, having been out two years and eleven months on
 a voyage of discovery.     The crew had continued remarkably
 healthy, but she was  obliged to put into Portsmouth for  supply.
                                                                 a
                                      G
                                      g   2                                of

 468              Medical Blank Lahels. — Patents.
 of provisons and water.     During his voyage, which at first was
 directed to the North, Lieut. Kotzebue reached a very high lati
 tude, but we are not yet able to state it with accuracy.    He fell
 in with a most singular iceberg, of great magnitude, which not
  onlv had a portion of its surface covered with earth and mould,
  and bearing trees and vegetable productions, but a portion of its
  water line covered with a shore formed by the deposit of earthy
 matter washed down from the higher parts of the earth-covered
 iceberg.     On this shore a landing was made, and considerable
  quantities of remains of the mammoth were found in such a state
  of putrefaction as to produce a most insupportable stench. The
  Rusick brought away a number of the tusks and other parts of
 these immense animals, which had probably been preserved in a
  frozen state for many ages, till the mass of ice which inclosed
 them, put in motion by some unknown cause, reached a more
  temperate latitude.              ->
           MEDICAL BLANK LABELS MADE BY MACHINERY.
     A gentleman     has invented a perfectly novel apparatus for
 making the     labels used by apothecaries and chemists in a neat
 ornamental manner by machinery.        These labels are known by
 a small raised or embossed line surrounding them, and taking a
 fanciful turn at the broader extremity; also by the accurate and
 uniform angle in which they are folded, and by the peculiarly
 good quality of the paper. On being opened they will be found
 tapering — not straight, like those made by the apothecaries,
 being cut one out of the other, which effects a great saving of
 paper.     The two sizes are well apportioned for the services re
 quired, and upon the whole, they are considerably cheaper than
 persons requiring the article, however small the quantity, can
 make them for themselves.       To the medical man, therefore, of
 extensive practice these labels must be very useful ; for in a bu
 siness where every leisure moment may be turned to profit, any
 one must be glad to relieve himself from an occupation so trifling,
 and at best so unsatisfactory, as that of making his own labels,
 when he can get them cheaper and better without any trouble
 at all.
              LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
    To John Dyson, of Watford, in the county of Hertford, for
certain apparatus for the culture and tillage of land. — 26th May.
—2 months.
    To Charles Greenway, of Manchester, for his improvement in
the operation of opening raw cotton or cotton-wool, previous to
the carding and spinning the same, and by which improvements
such operation will be fabricated, — 26th May. — 2 months.
                                                                 To

                           Patents. — Astronomy.                      469
    To George Michael, of St. Austell, in the county of Cornwall,
for certain improvements in the method of opening and shutting
windows or sashes, and also in the application of machinery to
the opening and shutting window-shutters, and in other cases
where the aforesaid improvements may be applied. — 26th May.
— 2 months.
   To Henry Taylor, of Kington, Surrey, for certain improvements
on machines or apparatus for catching and destroying of rats and
other vermin. — 26th Mav. — 4 months.
    To Thomas Homfray, of the Hyde, in the parish of Kinfare,
Staffordshire, for his new kind of bobbin or bobbins, used in
spinning and other manufactories. — 2Sth May. — 2 months.
   To William Lester, of the Commercial road, Middlesex, for
his new method of increasing and projecting light, produced by
lamps or other means. — 2d June. — 6 months.
   To George Atkinson, of Leeds, for a combination of mate
rials to produce an article resembling bombazeen.— 10th June.
— 4 months.
   To William Eaton, of Wiln Mills, in the county of Derby, for
improvements in certain parts of the machinery employed in
the roving and spinning of cotton and wool. — 18th June. — 6
months.
    To Robert Winch, of Shoe-lane, in the parish of St. Andrew
Holborn, London, and Richard Holden, of Stafford-street, St.
Marylebone, Middlesex, for machinery to communicate motion
and power to varions other machinery, which requires recipro
cating or alternating motion. — 18th June. — 4 months.
             ASTRONOMICAL PHENOMENA,           JULY 1818.
  D. H. M.                            D. H. M.
  1. '. .     (t   in apogee         16.     .  5      in perigee
  6.17.35.     d    ij Si            16.14.30    8     t   $
10.0.41.       £   yti;j             19 23^34     (I   £  Vf
 10.14.58.     ([   9  tie           21.18.56    (I    29   K
 11.23.24.     €    A tlR            23. 1.16   ©enters        St
 12 23.30.     d     1 =5=           25.22.13   S    8
 13.19.12.     5 & Tn.               28.   .     (I    in apogee
 16. 7.10.      (L tp   t            31. 0.20    (L    v  n
    Permit  me to remind your astronomical readers, that the ring
 of Saturn   is at this time nearly invisible, owing to our being al
 most in a line with its plain.      On the 1st, its smaller apparent
 axis is to its greater as 12 to 1000, and on the 25th it will ap
 pear a little more opened, the two axes being as 19 to 1000.
                                                         AsTRONOMICUS.
                                    G g 3                         Meleoro-

470                           Meteorology.
Meteorological Journal kept at Wallhamstow,              Essex, from
                     May     15 to June 15, ISIS.
[Usually between the Hours of Seven and Nine A.M. and the Thermometer
            (a second time) between Twelve and Two P.M.]
Date. Therm. Barom. Wind.
May
 15    52   29-50    SE— NW— SE. — Cirrostralus,            and clear;
       63               fine day; clear moon-light.
 16    57   29-50    W— NW.— Clear and cirrostralus; fine day ;
       67               cirrostralus at night.
 17    51   29-61    N — W. — Rain; a dark day, and small rain;
       56               showers ; cloudy night.
 18    49   29-90    N.— Sun and wind ; clear and cirrus; night
       67               fine ; clear and cumuli.
 19    47   30-01    N. — Wind and cirroslratus ; gray day; some
       56               sun after 2 P.M.; cloudy night.
 20    50   30-01     NV-NE.— Sun and wind; very fine day; clear
       61               night. Full moon.
 21    50   30-10     NE. — Cirrostralus; very fine dav; perfectly
       57               clear at 9 P.M.
 22    51   30-2Q    NE— E.— Clear and cirrostralus; very fine
       5S               day; star-light, and windy.
 23    50   30-30    E. — Cirrostralus and wind ; clouds and sun ;
       59               red clear sunset ; clear star-light.
 24    54   30-30     E. — Wind and cirrostralus ; very fine dav;
       62               very windy; clear red sunset; cloudy and
                        calm.
 25    54   30-30    E. — Cirrostralus and calm ; very fine day;
       63               sun and wind ; beautiful sunset, and clear
                        night.
 2fi   52   30-30    NB. — Fine sun and wind; very fine day. —
       67               Moon last quarter.
 27    52   30-30     NE. — Cirrostralus and wind; fine day; sun
       63                and cumuli; clear night.
 2S    49   3030      N.— Sun      and wind; very fine day; cloudy
       68               night.
 29    50   30-09     N. — Cold and windy; very fine day; clear
       60                and cirrostralus at night.
 30    49   30-10     N — E — SE. — Sun, cirroslratus, and wind.;
       59                sun and clouds ; clear night.
 £1    55    30-00    S — NW — W. — Clear sunshine; very fine day ;
       73                 drops of rain at 7 P.M.; clear and cirro-
                          stratus at night.
                                                                 June

                               Meteorology.                               471
Pate. Therm. Barom. Wind.
June
   1         29-90    W — NW. — Fine sun and wind J fine hot day;
                        red sunset    ;  clear and cirrostratus.
  2     62   29-99    W — SW. — Gray morn            ; fine hot day; star-
        76              light.
  3    62    30-05    W — NW — W — S. — Hot sunny morn                  ;  fine
        76             ,day;    sun     and    wind;   clear night.       New
                        moon.
  4     59   30-20    S — SE — E. — Sun and cirrostratus          ;  fine hot
        79'2            day; star-light (clear).
  5     60   30-30    E — SE. — Clear and some wind             ; at 9 A.M.
        77              a stratus    came     on ; clear  afterwards ; clear
                        night.
   6    59   30-40    NE. — Sun      and   wind; fine day; cumuli.
        74
   7    60   30-30    N — NE.— Sun, wind, and cumuli; fine dav;
        70              clear and moon- and star-light.
   8    64   30-25    NE. — Sun, and wind; very fine day; clear
        73               night.
   9    65   30-30    Sun and wind;         fine hot day; clear night.
        72
 10     65   50-30    E. — Hot     sun ; sun and wind ; very hot day -,
        72               clear calm night.
 11     66    30-20   E. — Clear. sun ; very hot day; windy, (Ther
         82              mometer 102 in the sun) ; clear night. —
                         Moon first quarter.
 12     62    30-10   N. — Sunshine and calm; clear and cumuli.
         S6               (Thermometer         102 in the sun); clear and
                         cirrostratus; moon in a corona.
 13      63   29-95   NW — SW — W. — Clear sky; sun and cwmuli;
        86               before 5 P.M. a slight shower, and thunder;
                         clear night.
 14      66   29-99   W— NW— N. — Cirrostratus; after 9 A.M. a
         71              great shower; fine day; night — wind, clear,
                          and  cirrostratus.
  15     60   30-05    SE.-r—Sun and cirrostratus; wind; fine day;
         75               deep orange sunset; moon in a small corona;
                          clear and cirrostratus.
     In two fields some grass was begun to be cut on Friday the
 ,1th' of June, finished cutting the next day, and all carted before
 7|    P.M.  on Monday the 8th: — quite dry and good hay.
     Peas were first gathered the 7th of June.
                                                                    METEORO-

472                                     Meteorology.
                   METEOROLOGICAL        JOURNAL KEPT AT          BOSTON,
                                      LINCOLNSHIRE.
      [The time of observation, unless otherwise stated, is at             1      P.M.]
                   Age o:
 1818               the   Thermo     Baro     State of the Weather and Modification
                   Moon     meter.   meter.              0 f the Clouds.
                   DAYS.
May    13           10      56-      29-64 Cloudy — rain P.M.
       16           11      55-5     29-66 Ditto— rain A.M.
       17           12      55-      29-93 Fine
       18           13      62-      3005 Ditto                    2
       19           14      52-      30-15    Ditto
      SO full               57-      30-23    Ditto                1
      SI            16      53-      30-33    Ditto                .5
      S3            17      54'      30-40    Ditto                CO
      S3            18      59-      30-43    Ditto                01
      S4            19      60-5     30-47    Very fine            .3
      Si           20       61-      30-47    Cloudy               S
      26           21       57-5     30-47    Very fine
      S7           22       57-      30-47    Ditto                .s
      S8           23       $T       30-34    Cloudy               ra
      S9 24                 56-      30-26    Fine                  any
                                                                          June.
      30 25                 5Q-      30-22    Ditto                t
      31           26       66-      30-16    Very fine   >       '2-S
June                                          Ditto
      l            27
                   28
                            74-
                            71-
                                     30-10
                                     30-15    Ditto
                                                                   [2
                                                                 w
       6 5 4 3 2
                   new      79'5     30-22    Ditto
                    3       76-5     30-33    Ditto        3
                            77-      30-46    Ditto       _o      o
                    4 3 2
                            71'      30-49    Ditto        (4      .
       7                    70-5     30-41    Ditto           3
                                     30-46    Ditto        O
                            69-5
      e 8
                    5
                                                           4-3    c
                    6       71-5     30-43    Ditto       -s      o
      10            7       77-      30-36    Ditto              •a
      n             8       80-      30-27    Ditto               s
      IS            9       83'5     30-16    Ditto
      13           10       85-5     30-      Ditto
      14           11       66-5     30-11    Cloudy — shower at A.M.
                                                                  4
      15           12       74-5     30-10    Ditto — rain at 3P.M. — thunder.
                                                                               METE0R0

                                            Meteorology.                                                                              473
                                    METEOROLOGICAL                                  TABLE,
                         Br Mr. Cary, of the Strand,
                                              For June, 1818.
               h : ft 1
              1Tliermonieter.
                1,    _                     :               —                   I
                                                                                     si,-™ •
                                                                                     <?.Si ^
                                                                                             of Dry
                                                                                    Degrees
                                                                   Height of
Days of
                                                                                                      Hygrometer,
                                            11 o'Clock,
                                                                                                                           Weather.
              o'Clock,
                                                                   the Barom.
                         Morning.   Noon.                 Night.
Month.
                                                                                     ness by Leslie
                                                                    Inches.
              8
May     27    55                    66      54                     30-23                 64                         Fair
        28    54                    66      48                       -10                 42                         Fair
   •
        29    50                    59      47                        -09                40                         Fair
        30    50                    60      49                        '02                43                         Fair
        31    56                    70      59                     29-88                 54                         Fair
 June    1    60                    74      58                        -90                 59                        Fair
        2     60                    76      62                        -92                 64                        Fair
        3     62                    79      62                     30.01                  86                        Fair
        4     60                    77      61                       -09                  98                        Fair
         5    60                    75      61                        -25                 76                        Fair
        e     61                    75       57                      "24                  57                        Fair
        7     59                    75      62                       -15                  76                        Fair
              66                    72      60                        -22                 70                        Fair
        9 8   66                    74       61                       -19                 74                        Fair
        10    65                    75       65                       -18              78                           Fair
        11    68                    78       63                       -02             102                           Fair
        12    66                    81       69                     29'92              82                           Fair
        13    69                    86       68                       -82             112                           Fair
        14    66                    76       66                       -95              62                           Cloudy
        15    66                    76       64                       -90              60                           Fair
        16    67                    74       63                       -85                  57                       Fair
        17    66                    76       64                       -62                  72                       Showery
        18    66                    70       60                       -69                  54                       Cloudy
        19    60                    64       57                       -67                 50                        Showery
        20    57                    64       55                       -66                 46                        Showery
        21    56                    68       60                       -82                 40                        Cloudy
        22    60                    67       55                       -70                 47                        Showery
        23    60                    68       53                       >80                 56                        Fair
        24    57                    69       60                       -92                 61                        Fair
        25    60                    74       66                       -98                 65                        Fair
        26    66                    76       67                    30.02                  59                        Cloudy
                                                                                                                      .
              N.B. The Barometer's height
                                                                              is    taken at one o'clock.

                                         [      474      ]
                           INDEX to VOL. LI.
-A CET1C Add from Pyrolignous, 439                  Clarke (Dr.) on metcoroliies,              lOS
Acton ou Meteorolites and Electrioty,               Clarke (Dr. H.) Decease of,                394
                                           109      Climate.     On change of,                 145
Adams's Lectures on Ophthalmia, 232                 Coal.    New extracts from,                S91
Aeronautics applied to Meteorology, 9               Coal gas. To purify,                       313
Alkulirs. Dr. Murray on,                     62     Coal-mine.      Explosion in,              465
Allan on Chem. Philos. 117, 339,425                 Colours for enamel painting,               263
Analysis of sea-water and brines,                   Comets. LofFc on, 2U3 ; a new one, 234
                                 10,91,291          Congelation.      Leslie's process,        41 1
Ar.imal decay. On,                         423      Conile, a new mineral,                     467
Animal flower of St. Lucia,                 1       Copal varnish. On use of, as arvehicle
Animal magnetism. State of,                S53         for colours,                            289
Animal, naturally not timid,               144      Cornwall Royal Geological Society
Antimony in Banffshire,                    466                                                  464
Antiquities, Egyptian,               143,  241      Cube numbers to name at sight,              443
Ardvison's discovery of lithion,           314      Davy (Dr.) on temperature of ocean and
Arsenic.     On test tor .                  1 49       atmosphere, 27 ; on Adam's Peak,
Astronomy, 73, 146, 156, 187, 235,         S96,         58 ; on remedies for serpent bites,
                                            469                                                 122
Atlantic Ocean.       Saltness of,          291     Divy (Sir H.) on the safety-lamp for
Atmosphere.       On temperature of,          27        coal-miners,                            461
 Atomic theory. Higgms on,             81,161        Deaf, dumb and blind case,                 129
Aurora Borralis.       On,             47, 422       Deiinxal quotients. Goodwyn on,            137
 Balloons applied to meteorology,               9    Diagonal braces.      Seppings on,           57
 Bavj}\hire.     Antimony in,               466
                                                     Deferential   thermometer.    Leslie's,    243
 Barometrical observations,                  199     Distillation. New apparatus for,           352
 Bclzmi'i antiquarian researches,           241      Distilled sea-water, quite healthy, 433
 Benwcll on life annuities,                     6    Dobereiner On sugar and strontian, 1-58
 Beixelius' discovery of selenium,          314      Dmglas on military bridges,                SOS
             f
 Blind, dea and dumb case,                   129     Drawing-b«ard.       Improved,              114
 Blood.    Home on,                            57    Dry-rot. Shillibeer on, 25 ; ravages of,
 Bwks, new, 49, 133, 217, 308, 381,461                  233; M'William on, 386 ; Inglison,
 Bradlry's reflecting instrument,           377                                                  435
 Brevister.    Kaleidoscope of,      S7G, 445        Dupin on aurora borealis,                     47
 Bridges,    On military,                   308      Dupuytren on vinegar from wood, 439
 Brine'. On analysis of,                 10,91       Dyeing.     New colours for,          153,?91
 Srun on exped. to the North Pole, 279               Earthquakes,                   193, 2.r5,4o7
 Barney on geography,                          53    Earthquake on Loch Awcside,                 467
  Caducium, a new mineral,                  467    - Electricity,     Acton on, 11)9; new facts
 Caithness.     Iron in,                     40C        in,                                      43S
 Caledonian Horticultural Soricty, 464               Enamel coloi.rs. To prepare,                263
                                                   -
  Ca'michaet's description of Tristan da             Evans on cube numbers,                      443
    Cunha                                    143     Expeditions, northern,        149, 259, 27?,
  Cory's Meteorologiial Tables,        SO, 160,          294, 330; Russian,                 151,467
                          240, 320,k
                                      400, 473       Farey on Smith's geolog. claims,            173
  Celestial phenomena,                198,235        Fermentatu n, a test for sugar,             14S
  Chemical Amusements. Accum's, 310                  Fb -tree.    Anatomy of,                    25S
  OhtMUai Philosophy.        Allan ou,        117    Fires,    On means to extinguish,           287
                                      339, 4V5                          On,
                                                              f
                                                      Flax- sleeping.                               3
  Chlorophatite,    a new mineral,           466      Fluat i lime found in Scotland,            231
  Chlorine. Ure on, .iP; Or. Murray on,               Forster (T ) on aeronautics applied to
    60i Sir H. Davy on, 139; Ridulfi                     meteorology,           ,                    9
    on,                                       366     Freezing.     On artificial,                41 1

                                         INDEX.                                         475
French fnUUuU,                             312   Murray (Dr.) on analyses of sea-water,
Galuan.sm.        Acton on,                109      10, 91 ; on muriatic acid, 60 ; on al
Gas for Light.      To purify,             313      kalies,                                 62
Gey-Lussac on nltac* of Atlantic, 29 1           Music. Whether necessary to . he ora
Geography,                             58, 384      tor, 38, 181, 321, 455; on first prin
Geology,                               58, 20C      ciples of,                            306
G'ess.       On stainii;g and gilding, 263       Natural Hut'iry. Facts concerning,       144
Hat-slormt,                                IS?   Natural Knaiciedgef Society of,          145
H'rrulantum.        On destruction of, 233 ;     Nautical Atm nar defended, 146; an
     MSS. of,                        i33, 248       swer to, 1S7 ; errors in,             39S
Hig4im on atomic theory, 81, 161 t on            Nautical instrument. A new,              151
     shower of meteorolites,               355   New Boi ks, 49, 133, 217, 308, 381, 4GI
 Home on blood,                              57  N;-rlh Pole. Expedition to, 149,229,
flo-tiiutural Society, Caledonian,         464                                 279, 294, 330
llnthmtit.       On,                       231   North-west passage.       On,              58
//rmf on test for arsenic,                 149   Nubia.      Discovei irs in,             21 1
Hydraulic architecture. Wiebeking on,            Ocean. On temperature of,                  27
                                           387   Ophthalmia caset.       Lectures on,    232
HygrmrVer.         Self-registering,       243   Oppert on animal magnetism,             353
 Jbbetton on seeds of plants,              404   Oxalic acid. Wurzer on,                  1-17
 Infkmuntfi Trigonometrical Survey of            Oxisulphuretted muriatic acid. On, 366
     Tuscany,                               384  Painting.      Copal varnish preferable Co
 litglis on flax-steeping, 3; on alkaline            oil in,                              289
     ice, 20 1; on geolog hist, of Loch          Patents,        71, 154,234, 315, 394, 463
     Lomond, 327; on dry-rot,               435  Phenomena, terrestrial, 196; celestial, 198
 Inundation,,                         192, 236   Philadelphia.      Journal of Academy of
 Iron in Caithness,                         466      Natural Sciences at,                 462
 Kaletdjsiope.      On the,           376, 445   Phoc*, amphibious. On,                   1 34
  /. it; v u!i amphibious   phorx,          134  Plumbago.       New mine of,             153
 Learned Societies, 57, 139, 22 1, 3 1 1,        Polar ice. On influence of,              1 99
                                      390, 464   Pompeii.       On destruction of,        233
  Leslie on congelation,                    41 1 Porla's reflecting instrument,           380
  L\fe annuities. Benwell on,                  6 Potash decomposed,                       110
  Limiean Siciely,                          143  Potatoe tops. Dye from,                  153
  Ltthiim, a new alkali,                    314  Pyramid. On the large,                   143
  L tiuvasa toolers,                         153 Rain. Extraordinary fall of,             236
  LoJi Lomi.nd. On geolog. hist, of, 327         Revetements.      On pressure against, 401
  Locusts.     Facts concerning,            391  RidoIJi on muriatic acid,                SCtS
  L 'fft on mcteorolites, 1:2; and on co         Royal Academy lectures,             140, 221
      mets,                                 203  Riynl Soiicly, Edin.                 58, 143
  MacAviy (Miss). Singular case of, 44,          Royal Socit ty, London,        57, 139,311,
                                        49, 123                                           390
  Mai Cuiloch'i discovery of fluat of lime       Royal Geolog. Society of Cornwall, 464
      and zircon in Scotland, 232; ofchlo-       Russian voyage of discovery,             467
      rophaeite and conite,                 466  Safety-lamp.       Controversy on, 63,4Gl
  M'H'ilham on anatomy of fir tree, 256          Soilness of the Atlantic,                291
  Matkelyne on riieieorolites,               130 Sea-water. Analysis of, 10, 91 ; density
  Maxwell on shower of meteorolites,S52              of, 27 ; on distilled,               433
  M'dical blank labels made by ma                Seal, sea.     On,                        134
      chinery,                              468   Seeds of plants.    On,                  404
  Memntr..       Colossal head of,          241  Selenium.       A new metal found in sul
  Mercury. Freezing of,                     419      phur,                                 314
  Mcrick's Chemical Analyses,                381 Seppmgs on ship-building,                   57
  Meteoroiilts.     On, 109,131; shower of,       Serpent bites.     On remedies for,      1'3
                                            355   Shillibeer on dry rot,                     25
  Meteorological Report for 1 8 1 7,         189  Stckler's attvnpt to unrol the Hercu-
  Meteorology, 9,73,156, 237,317,397,470             laneum MSS.                           248
  M'-ore on extinguishing of fires,          287  Silver, a test for arsenic,              149
  Muriatic acid. Dr. Urc on, 53 ; Dr.             Smith on MacAvoy's case,                 I IS
       Murray on, 60; Sir H. Davy' on,            Smith. On geolog. principles of, 36;
       139; Ridolfi on,                      36C     on claims of,                          173

 476                                Index.
Smithson on vegetable colours,          S3  Tritton's apparatus for distillation, S15
Societies, learned, 57, 189, 221,311,390,   Turreh's drawing-board and T square,
                                       464                                        414
Steam-engines in Cornwall, 63, 147,         UpingUm on music,           38, 181 , 31' 1
                        228,314,391,465    Ure on chlorine,                         58
Sugar, to detect by yeast,             148 Farley (C.) on copal varnish as a ve
Tatum on electricity,                  4S8     hicle for colours,                 289
Terrestrial phenomena,                 196 Famish, Copal, a vehicle for colours,
Thames. On navigation of,              888                                        289
Thebes.    Discoveries in,            S41  Vulgar fractions. Goodwyn on,           137
Thenard on chemical analyses,         38 1 Water-spouts.     On,       103,236,313
Thermometer employed as a hygrome          Werner.     On geolog. principles of, 36
   ter,                               243  ffheel carriages improved,             1 52
Timber.    On strength of,        214,276  Whirlwinds. On,                        JOS
Tredgold on geolog. principles, 36 ; on    Wieleking's hydraulic architecture,    387
   strength    of timber, 214, 276; on     Wynn on enamel colours,                263
   pressure against revetements,      401  YlaambuL      Temple of,               24 1
Trigonometrical survey of Tuscany,    384  Young's survey of Yorkshire coast,     206
Tristan da Cunha.      Island of,      128 Zircon found in Sutherland,            232
                      END OF THE FIFTY-FIRST VOLUME.

S.Tcrrttr.fc -







AX 005 5bb 030
               I


