The philosophical magazine.
London, England : Taylor & Francis, 1798-c1977.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/uva.x002266036
                              Public Domain, Google-digitized
                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                              We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                              meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                              free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                              in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                              heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                              of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                              copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                              of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                              need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                              address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                              produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                              on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                              the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                              or used commercially. The images are provided for
                              educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.





PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                          AND JOURNAL:
                                      COMPREHENDING
          THE VARIOUS BRANCHES OF SCIENCE,
                  THE LIBERAL AND FINE ARTS,
                                    GEOLOGY,
                              AGRICULTURE,
               MANUFACTURES, AND COMMERCE.
                  BY ALEXANDER TILLOCH,
       MJLI.A.     M.G.S. M.R.A.S. Munich, F.S.A. Edin. and          Perth, Sec.
   u Nec   aranearum   sane textus  ideo melior quia ex se fila gign
ex  alienis libaraus ut apes."   Just. Lirs.  Monti. Fol'U. lib. i.
                                       VOL. LIV.
 For     JULY, AUGUST, SEPTEMBER,                       OCTOBER, NOVEMBER,
                                 and  DECEMBER,          1819.
                                       L 0   ND    O  N:
        PRINTED BY RICHARD AND ARTHUR TAYLOR, SHOE LANE:
 And     sold by   Cadell and      Davies ; Longman, Hurst, Rees, Orme, and
         Brown;      Highlet;      Sherwood and Co.; Harding ; Under
               wood; Simpkin and Marshall, London: Constable
                   and Co. Edinburgh : Brash and Reid; Duncan;
                        and Penman, Glasgow: and Gilbert and
                                       Hodges, Dublin.

  t
227558

                      CONTENTS
         OF THE FIFTY-FOURTH VOLUME.
ON the Question " Whether       Music is necessary to the Orator, —
    to what Extent, and how most readily attainable?" . .              1
Report    by the Select Committee     of the House of Commons,       on
    Mr. Telford's Plan for        building   a   Hanging Iron Bridge
   across the Menai Strait.             . .     ..       . .    ..11
On the Nature and Laws of Friction : being a Continuation            of
   the Paper on the same Subject, given in our last Volume.          19
Account    of the Climate, Natural Products, Arts, and Manu
  factures of the Kingdom of Ashantee and some of the Terri
   tories adjacent                     . .      . .      . .   . .  26
On finding    the Longitude by  Lunar Observations.             . . 34
On Aerolites.         ..     ..         ..       , .     . .    . . 39
Observations on the Study    of Mineralogy.              ..    . .  43
On an old Method of marking Dates on Manuscript Books.              46
Experiments    for  a new Theory    of Vision.          ..     ..   48
Observations on the Means     J
                              of VpreservingB Provisions and Goods.
                                                              58, 141
On   Dr. Cartwright's     Pedo-motive       Machine                 59
Observations on the Measurement       of an Arc of the Meridian.    60
On Cohesion.          ..    .,         . .      . .     . .    . .  81
Observations on the Relation   of the Law of Definite Proportions
  in Chemical Combination,      to the Constitution of the Acids,
  Alkalis, and Earths                                         90, 182
On the Lunar Atmosphere.             ..       ..      . .    ,,101
  Vol.54. No. 260. Dec. 1819.                  a                    On

                               CONTENTS.
On the Compensation Mercurial Pendulum of Mr. Gavin Lowe,
                                                                                  102
Remarks on Madeira, Climate            of the Tropics, Trade Winds, Rio
     Janeiro, the.PolarIce,&c.               . .         ..          ..    107,194
Experiments on the Gas from Coal, chiefly with a view to it*
    practical application.         ..         ..         . .         . .   117,164
Free Remarks       on the Geological    Work      of Mr. Greenough.               127
On      the Effect  of  Vapour on Flame.             . .         . .        ..    140
Occultation      of a fixed Star   by Jupiter.       ..                     . .   143
On     Mr. Troughton's Expedient for              correcting Errors arising
    from    the  Excentricity of    the Point round which the Indexes
     revolve in Reflecting Circles.       ..         . .          ..        ..161
First Report of the Commissioners appointed                  to consider the Sub
    jects   of Weights and Measures.                 . .         ..         ..    172
 Observations on certain free Remarks by Mr.                    Farey published
     in the Philosophical Magazine for August.                    ..        ..    205
A      new Theory of Galvanism, supported by some Experiments
     and Observations made by means of the Calorimotor, a new
      Galvanic Instrument; also, a new Mode of decomposing Pot
     ash extemporaneously.                . .         . .         . .        . .  206
On Friction in Machinery         .        . .        . .          ..         ..   215
On poisonous Tea- Leaves.                 . .         ..          ..              218-
On the Geology of Loch Leven in Scotland.                         .  .       . .  220
Remarks on Mr. MeiKLe's Paper on                  finding the Longitude             by
      Lunar Observations.       . .        ..          ..         ..         ..241
An Essay        on Dreaming, including Conjectures               on the proximate
      Cause   of Sleep                                                     25 2, 324
Principles of finding       the Longitude.            . .         . .        ..   265
Researches on some important Points              of the    Theory      of Heat. 267
 On Irregularities observed in the Direction of the Compass Needles
      vf'H.M. SS. Isabella and Alexander, in their late Voyage
 '.
      of Discovery, and caused by the Attraction of the Iron con
      tained in the Ships.      . .        . .         . .         . .        . . 276
 On     the Anomaly in the Variation of the Magnetic Needle as ob
      served on Ship-boatd.                ..          . .         . ,        . . 282

                               CONTENTS.
Further Remarks        on the Mode of taking Lunar Observaiions.2§C)
Illustrations and Corrections of two Papers on the Nature and
    Laws of Friction, with a Refutation of the Objections rf Mr.
    Meikle.             . .     . .      . .      ..         . .    . .      293
Some Observations on the Formation             of Mists in particular Si
    tuations.          . ,      . .      . .      . .        ..     . .      296
Further Evidence         to prove the Existence of the Kraken in the
    Ocean, and tending to show that this huge Creature is a Species
    of Sepia or Squid.          ..       . .      . .       ..      .. 301
 On    the solid Excrement     of   the Boa Constrictor.            . .      303
 Some further Remarks on Swallows.                 . .       . .    . .      32  1
On Hypotheses proposed for explaining the Origin of Meteoric
     Stones ; with Remarks on Mr. Murray's Letter on A'irolites
    inserted in Phil. Mag. for last July. ..                 ..      . .     336
 Reply to     Mr. Edward Riddle's             Remarks on       Mr. Meikxe's
     Paper   "  On  finding   the   Longitude   by   Lunar Observations."
                                                                             343
A      Description of a new Military Bridge, that may be made of
    short Pieces of Timber, and easily put together in any Situa
    tion. The same Method is applicable to other Uses.                       347
 Memoir      on a new and certain      Method of ascertaining     the     Figure
     of the Earth    by means   of   Occupations
                                                    of the fixed Stars. 350,
                                                                             406
 Dissertation on Water Snakes, Sea Snakes, and Sea Serpents.
                                                                             361
 Defence of English Periodical           Mathematical IVorks, in Reply
     to Mr. Meikle.              . .      . .                 . .     .  .    367
 On    the Figure of   the  Earth.        ..        ..        . .     ..371
 Account of some remarkable Facts observed in the Deoxidation
     of Metals, particularly Silver and Copper. ..                            376
  Singular Anecdote of the Spider, with Observations                      on   the
      Utility of Ants in destroying venomous Insects.                 ..      378
  Continuation of the Reply to Mr. Riddle's Remarks on Mr.
     Meikle's Paper " On the Lunar Observations."                      ..     401
  Report from      the Select Committee appointed to consider the Va
      lidity of  the Doctrine of Conlflgion in the Plague.            . .     417

                          CONTENTS.
Memoir of   the late James  Watt, Esq. F.R.S...             . .  440
On the Effects of anointing the Stems and Branches of Fruit
   Trees with Oil, and on the means of destroying Insects. 453
Notices respecting New Books.        62, 144, 221', 306, 379, 456
Proceedings  of Learned   Societies.  ..   66, 146, 3 1 2, 381, 460
Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles. 69, 147, 229, 313, 388,
                                                                 462
List of Patents                           78, 238, 318, 39S, 470
Meteorological Tables,     79—80, 159—160, 239—240, 3 1 9—
                                       320, 399—400, 472—473
                                                                THE

                                  THE
      PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                    AND JOURNAL.
 I.   On the Question  "Whether Music is necessary to theOrator,        —
     to what Extent, and how most readily attainable?"                  By
     Henry Upjngton, Esq.
                    [Concluded from vol. liii. p. 253.]
                             To  Mr.   Tilloch.
            .                             Blair's Hill, Cork, Mayl5, 1819.
 Sir, — Although I          have not, in any one instance, from the'
 commencement of these papers, specifically mentioned as the sub
ject of investigation — whether music, abstractedly considered,
 was necessary to man in a state of nature ; or whether the cul
 tivation of music, to a certain extent, agreeably to that system
 uniformly practised in modern Europe, was necessary to the im
 provement of a modern orator ; — yet the whole scope of my in
 quiry has abundantly manifested this latter as my intended topic.
    Allured, during the prosecution of my design, by a variety of
 interesting objects, I have been insensibly conducted over a much
 more extensive field than the generality of my readers may po-
 sibly have desired. Not only modern but ancient melody has, in
 some degree, been examined.          A new method of calculating the
 comparative concordance       of our  musical numbers has been sug
gested.     The genius of our polite delivery has been ascertained
by a series of experiments ; — and the oratorical utility of intro
ducing the slide, of acquiring the minor third and fourth, and of
speaking within the limits of the Diapente, has been frequently
represented. Our complicated harmony, too, has been explored;
 and however gratifying it may prove to the modern ear, I have
particularly guarded the Orator against it*, as tending not only
to vitiate his taste by the arrangement of its intervals, but also
to create an habitual disrelish for the simpler beauties of nature,
and consequently for the appropriate cultivation of the melody of
language, upon which his influence over all classes of mankind must
                      * See
                             Appendix, on Harmony.
Vol. 54. No. 255.    July   1819.                 A   2                 so

 4          *  Whether    Musk     is necessary to the Orator, —
 so essentially depend.        Even the simpler species of our modern
 melody, until considerably and judiciously limited both in time
and interval, was proved by experiment to have been injurious to
the Orator : neither was music, indeed, under every essayed re
gulation, found materially advantageous, until all previous orato
rical associations were utterly effaced ; for the accomplishment
of which, accent, quantity, and certain exercises connected with
the execution of these, were efficaciously adopted.
    It is now time that we return to the Speaker, whom we left in
our last paper systematically pursuing the improvement of his
ear and enunciative organs, by a series of muscular and musical
lessons arranged for the occasion, and attainable by the simplest
process.      A comprehensive exercise of time and forte, embracing
all the simpler feet of antiquity, concluded the whole ; and no
thing further remained than the final application of his attain
ments, in the graceful and expressive delivery of those languages
best calculated for this salutary purpose.
   All the passages then, which I have hitherto noticed — namely,
that of Virgil's first Eclogue, of the .ffineid, of the Iliad, and of
Ovid's Metamorphoses — those of the Epithalamium by Theo
critus, and that of the first Philippic of Demosthenes, with the
addition of Ilgurrov y.\v down to (3rXr/cu yevsVSou, were restudied
and at length modulated with satisfactory chasteness and variety.
At this period, the Speaker was, in a musical sense, so mate
rially improved; and could retrace, with so much accuracy, his
intervals — that my Associate was readily enabled to note down
the Exordium of the Iliad, which, almost exactly as it was spoken,
has been laid before the public in The Philosophical Magazine
 of February.        The only subsequent recitations in which the
 Speaker was exercised, were
The first stanza and part of the
   secortd of Sappho's well-known
   fragment [as      if a period]      . . *«iWa(     ftoi down to      i^gitv.
 The same, in Latin, by Catullus           life mi       . .    dulce ridentem.
 Lord's Prayer                             Ilareq  ^/x»v      . .  to the end.
 Exordium of Demosthenes
    on the Peaee          . ..     . .     OP ft p\v   . . Ilgotifievti vrui$rivriToii.
 Exordium of Demosthenes                                              '
    6n the Cfbwn          . .      ..      IIgS>TOV p.h . . Edivrcti xgfreur&eu.
 Peroration on the Crown            ..     Mrj hyr a>iravre; Seb; to the end.*
   Afld of all these, the last-mentioned peroration was infinitely the
 most difficult ; — so difficult indeed, when spoken in quantity, that
 I very much doubt whether any modern organ, without previous
   *  "  Patris dictum sapiens
                               "
                                 was likewise executed.        The result fully    au
 thorized the observation of Cicero.                                                    >
                                                                        discipline,

         to what Extent, and how most readily attainable          ?"     5
 discipline, can sustain the enormous burthen. Even the necessary
 breath for the just execution of this passage is almost incredible:
 and therefore 1 shall not lvesitate to pronounce, that, by him who
 shall deliver it as he ought, the longest and most cumbrous sen
 tence ever constructed by an English writer, shall be commanded
 with nearly as much facility as any ordinary composition.
     Readings,or rather recitations in our native language succeeded
 those ancient passages.       Milton's Paradise Lost, Johnson's Ras-
 selas, and Bolingbroke's Spirit of Patriotism and Patriot King,
 were the chosen works ; — and from these, several appropriate pa
 ragraphs were selected and studied.          Nor was it without some
 trouble and perseverance that such masterly productions were,
 even now, delivered with becoming grace and dignity : he who
 would excel as an orator must enter into the true spirit of the
 subject which he means to read or to recite ; and conceal from
 the most prying observer every appearance of those arts to which
 he has been indebted for pre-eminence.           Every thing must seem
 natural and easy.
     Apparently there is no individual topic which, with regard to
 the delivery of our language, requires more attention than that
 of the adjective when it precedes its substantive.           Here some
 governing principle appeared essential to the Speaker,— ^th^ de
gradation of either word to the rank of an Enclitic, — although it
 may very well suit the genius of a Goth, — being almost in all cases
subversive of expression.        His own (the Speaker's) good sense
 suggested   the following rule, — and practice soon familiarized the
application   ; — That, on the first reading of a passage, the adjec
 tive be altogether omitted ; and the consequence of the substan
 tive with reference to the intent of the passage, be thus separately
 and independently examined, and delivered accordingly: This
being accomplished, that the adjective be then introduced with
 that specks* of emphasis most indicative of its quality; the sub
stantive retaining in the mean while, as far as possible, its ori
ginally destined character.        A most useful hint to the teachers
of elocution! by scarcely any one of whom have I ever heard a
conjoint adjective and substantive delivered with expression.
That unlucky sentence " Will you ride to town to day f" nar
rows all their conceptions : Nor, until this same and such like
sentences be more scientifically understood, can we ever hope to
emerge from that gulf of barbarism into which we have been
plunged by our grammarians.
     I proceed with my subject. —The Speaker having at length at
tained the mastery of the sublime, towards which his whole course
    * See Magazine of April, for the true definition of Emphasis.  To this
may he added, that faulty composition will sometimes embarrass the most
intelligent and expressive reader.                                   «
                                    A3                                  of

6            " Whether     Music is necessary        to the   Orator, —
of discipline was evidently directed ; the notation of his intervals
became, in some cases, a literary desideratum.                       The Apostles'
 Creed, in which he certainly excelled, particularly attracted our
attention, as furnishing us with two examples : the one, of an
ascending climax, in decreasing forte or diminuendo; and the
other, of an ascending finish.
     The concluding portion of this Creed is sufficient for our pur
pose.       It was clerically spoken, thus :
    f For the method of executing this and the subsequent passages, let the
                    reader consult the antecedent Magazines.]
           I  be-lieve in   the Ho-ly Ghost,     the   ho-ly   ca-tho-lic church,
       the  com - am - nion     of saints,   the   for - give - ness  of sins, the
       Te-sur-rec-tion     of the bo-dy,   and the       life e-ver-last-ing.
    The reader will necessarily observe, that neither in the fore
going passage, nor in the passages which follow, have the rules
of the Diapente been transgressed, except in one single instance
of a semitone.         Every individual clause throughout the whole is
confined within the limits of that interval [the Diapente] ; and
notwithstanding the several parts of the previous climax, the mo
dulation has been so governed, that the extent of the Diapason
or Octave has not been reached, even from extreme to extreme.
     A  few words may be here offered with respect to the forte and
piano of the       above passage : but of this task the musician will
readily feel the difficulty, and must therefore make every allow
ance for the inadequate description.
"   I believe in the holy Ghost
                                      '
                                            (Moderately loud).                v
"    the holy catholic church
                                    "
                                             (Somewhat louder and swelling).
"    the communion of saints
                                    "
                                             (Soft).
u the forgiveness of sins "                 (Very soft).
"    the resurrection of the body
                                      '
                                            (Louder than any preceding clause,
                                                and swelling).
 c<
     and the life everlasting
                                  "         (Forte and swell somewhat dimi
                                                 nished, especially at the close).
     Dryden's memorable five fallens (in Alexander's Feast), on the
merits of which every petty critic thinks himself competent to
decide ; but which, until now, either on or off the stage, it had
never been my lot or the lot of my Associate to hear even to
                                                                               lerably

        to what Extent, and how most readily attainable ?"                      7
lerably recited — next claimed our attention.                  The theoretical
notion of Lord Kaimes, that each of these words should fall pro
gressively through the scale : the wild and indefinite jargon of
Mr. Walker, whose rising and falling inflexions surpass all human
understanding : but, above all, the imperfect declaration of the
author of a practical work of some merit called " Sheridan and
Henderson's Poems," that the expression of these words must be
varied as well as we can; — excited the curiosity of the Speaker,
who, after deliberation, divided and stopped the passage thus :
               "   By too severe a fate, fallen ;
                   Fallen, fallen, fallen :
                   Fallen from his high estate,
                   And welt'ring in his blood."
    He then delivered it in the following manner, within the boun
dary of the Diatessaron or Fourth :
           m
           By  too   sc-vere   a   fate,    fallen;  fallen, fallen, fallen:
Eh
   Fallen from his high e-     state,   and wel-t'ring    in his blood.
    An example of the circumflex succeeded by a genuine acute
must particularly interest the scholar, for whose gratification I
shall note down the last Jine of Dryden's Version of the Exordium
of the iEneid, as recited by the Speaker. This is likewise con
fined to the Diatessaron :
                   it:
             And    the  Ions;           ries   of nia-jes-tic   Rome.
    Handel, the great master of our recitative, once more presents
himself to our view. That highly extolled passage of his " Atha-
lia," of which I have so constantly spoken, and which I have also
promised in its original form, — shall he here exhibited to the
reader, accompanied by an incontestable proof that music, com
posed for the specific purpose by a superior genius, must contri
bute to the advancement of our elocution.
    This passage, having been intentionally reserved as our final
subject for experitnent,was not hitherto rehearsed by the Speaker.
In the presence of my Associate and another intelligent amateur,
it was now delivered to him for recital ; was repeatedly executed
by him, for our observation ; and underwent the minutest scru
tiny. The music, as composed by Handel, was then taken up,
                                      A   4                                played

8         "  Whether Music is necessary              to the Orator, —
played on the piano-forte, and sung by my Associate. The
Speaker followed, for half a dozen times, the example ; and
having possessed himself, in a suitable degree, of the spirit of the
piece, he returned to the recital — and manifestly executed the pas
sage in a style much superior to that of his original performance.
  Passage,     from" Athalia,"         as composed by        Handel; exactly
             copied from Dr. Burney's History of Music.
        But   as   the young bar-ba-rian   I   ca - ress'd, he plung'd a dag-ger
          *                             8
                                                     EE
         deep    with-in my   breast :           No ef-fort could   the blow   fe-
       pel ; — . 1 shriek'd, —  I      faint .  ed,- •and-        fell,
                                                      b 1          a
    Neither the preceding harmony, nor the relative duration of
 the notes was attempted by the Speaker, — the former being al
 together out of the question, and the latter as inappropriate, in
 many instances, for oratory, as art could have devised. The in
 tervals, therefore, were the object of the experiment ; and to
these only must be attributed that satisfactory result which I have
just represented.                                                        /
    How far the genius of the original has been carried into lan
 guage will appear from the subjoined copy of the recitation, as
 noted down by my Associate.                The situation of " dagger" with
 respect to
               "   plunged," as expressed by Handel, indicates thea
 trical rant— not the chaste delivery of an orator ; but whether the
finish, as executed by the Speaker, is or is not superior to that
 of the original if applied to speech, the musical world may de
 cide.    It virtually contains but two ultimately falling syllables,
 in consequence of the pause or rest by which the antepenultimate
 word ** and " is succeeded.
                                                                           Inter-

          to    what Extent, and how most readily attainable?"                                           9
       Intervals of"Athalia"                          as recited by the            Speaker.
                                                    5— F-FrSft
                                                           3U                    ac — E
          iint    as     the young bar-ba-rian            I   ca-ress'd,   — he    plunged     a   dag-ger
      deep     with-in      my    breast :       Is'o ef-fort could        the    blow    re   - pel ; — ?
        I shriek'd, — I          faillt-ed — and — I fell.
   I have now brought my labours to         a conclusion ; sustained,
throughout   the  progress  of my inquiry, by the well-grounded ex
pectation that   a  subject  of this nature, from its intimate con
nexion with the very structure as well as the delivery of speech,
must influence the literature of my country.         May, then, the
learned guardians of our seminaries employ those faculties with
which they are so eminently gifted, for the improvement of our
native tongue : and may they never cease to remember — that,
although we have excelled our late gigantic adversary both in
arms and in arts — his language is yet triumphant.              In all
political negotiations it continues to supersede our own.
                                                                           Henry Upington.
                         Appendix on Harmony
        (to  which   I  have  referred in the preceding paper).
   In my former papers on this subject, I have principally ad
dressed myself to the philosopher and mathematician : In this
place, then, I shall observe to the musician, that, unless I have
taken a very imperfect survey of the question, our present har
monica! edifice is founded upon so many contradictory proposi
tions, that, view it in what manner we please — whether philoso
phically, mathematically, logically, or even naturally .as we term
it,—   it   altogether indefensible. Some half
             is                                       dozen of the most     a
prominent     of these   propositions,  with their deductions,  will serve
as an example      of  the whole.
   Prop. 1st. That                 16, &c. even to infinity, are equal to
                                    2,
                                    4,       8,
one or, in other words, that octaves are equal to unisons
      ;                                                                                            :
   And therefore — that, since Nature accompanies every indivi
dual sound        the upper octave of its fifth, and the upper double
                       by
octave of its major third         the immediate third and fifth of the
                                             ;
original sound may be substituted in their stead.
   And — that, although in our fundamental base experiments
                                                               (agreeably

10           "    Whether Music is necessary              to the   Orator.
 (agreeably to Rousseau's table, article " System,") every given
note and its major third, as C, E = 15, 12, produce, when struck
in conjunction, a third sound = 30 called the lower octave of
that given note C ; we nevertheless decide that that lower octave
or thirty is the original note or fifteen itself ; — and are conse
quently enabled, by this wonderfully rational metamorphose, to
prove the infallibility of our base.
    Prop. 2d. That 2, 4, 8, 16, &c. are not equal to one : for                      if,
in the two first bars of " God save the King," for example, the
                             Li                     ______
original notes           SE?E         zl   ~ "EE- ~ zE
                                           jf~."\
                                                          z   were    represented   by
   Ob       ¦
 n '*
                             t
A                                          we could not      recognise    the tune at
ill
ITt     6
all. Wherefore the substitution of octave for unison    inadmis            is
sible ; and must,    admitted, expose us to the fate of our har
                             if
monic founder Rameau, who, on advancing the singular proposi
tion that one   equal to two, was laughed at
                        is                        all the world.     by
"  Tout    monde s'est moqu^ de lui," says Rousseau, " and the
            le
Academy openly disapproved."
   Prop. 3d. That of four strings called our common chord = 15,
12, 10, 7|     the upper string or 7? being absorbed     the lower        by
string 15,       is ;
              equal to nothing, and may be retrenched.
   And therefore — that harmonic proportion does actually exist
within this common chord, as indicated by its three first strings,
independently of its fourth.    So says Tartini.
   Prop. 4th. That of the foregoing strings =15, 12, 10, 1\                         ;
the upper string or 7\     not absorbed
                                      is                 by
                                           the lower string 15,
   And therefore, not being equal to nothing, cannot be re
trenched.   On the contrary,    imparts so decidedly novel
                                               it             cha               a
racter to the whole that, without ;    we should have only an in
                                                    it
conclusive group incapable of effectuating any sort       finish.         of
   Prop. 5th. That strong and weak, called Forte and Piano, are
equal.
   And therefore— whether in the case of       single string accom
                                                             a
panied     its 12th and 17th [upper octave of its 5th, and double
            by
octave of its 3d]   or in the case of that third sound caWedJiin-
                             ;
damenlal base, engendered                      by
                                 two coexisting sounds although           :
Nature produces all such accompanying or engendered sounds in
comparative piano, and more generally in pianissimo — yet that
these sounds must be brought forward in forte.
   Prop. 6th. That strong and weak, called Forte and Piano, are
not equal.
   And therefore must not be confounded       otherwise we should
                                            " God save the King,"
                                                          ;
have much worse than no music at all.
                                                                                     if

   Plan  for  building an Iron Bridge     across the Menai Strait.   11
                                            FF PP
if  executed thus          9—
                                                   I even   ^ Rameau
                      ^        ^~~~f[Z~£,~^
and Tartini themselves, would instantly upset their reputation.
    Prop. 7th. That the audible notes or satellites, viz. the up
per 12th aud 17th major, attendant upon every existing note or
sound, are Nature's own harmonics, or concords.
    Wherefore the 12th and 17th of every original note employed
may be introduced       into our music — as exemplified by our larger
organs.
    Prop. 8th. That the satellites or 12ths and 17ths major of every
original note, though called Nature's own harmonics,           are not
concords,      and cannot be introduced;      as may be exemplified by
violins and a violoncello.
    And therefore — if in any piece whatsoever, the said 12ths and
 17ths were uniformly set down, and the piece arranged for these
instruments so as to represent the compound stops of an organ,
— each violin, as well as the violoncello, playing with equal loud
 ness — and duplicates of no one note being permitted for the pur
pose of increasing \he noise of that note, — we should scare the
 Hottentots.
    Here end these few propositions, which, although seemingly
contradictory, our well informed musicians will, no doubt, recon
cile to our understanding.        But how happens it that any piece of
 music horrific on the violin and violoncello should be tolerated on
 the organ ?      The answer is easy.      A little salutary noise can
 always be obtained upon the organ, through a variety of roaring
 pipes called stops, to
                            " soften and conceal" our discordant con
 cords.    [Soften and conceal are the very argumentative terms of
 our Encyclopedia Britannica, article " Harmony."] And in
 deed, if in the above case of our simple violins and violoncello, a
 sufficient number of drums, trumpets, bugles, and French-horns
 be introduced — not delicately to soften and conceal, but vocife
 rously to roar down those feebler instruments, — we shall imme
 diately and miraculously convert an otherwise intolerable jargon
 into the most exquisite and scientific harmony ! ! !
 II.   Report   ly  the Select Committee    of the House of Commons,
     on Mr.     Telford's Plan for         building   a  Hanging   Iron
     Bridge   across  the Menai Strait   *.
 Your      Committee have proceeded to inquire into the subject of
 the papers referred to them by the House, containing Mr. Tel-
    * From the Third Report from the Select Committee on the Road from
 London to Holyhead, &c. 29th April 1819.
                                                                  ford's

 12                   Report  of a Plan for building
 ford's plan for building a hanging iron bridge across the Menai
 Strait, and the evidence taken last year by the Holyhead Road
 Commissioners.
   With the view of being able to lay before the House all that could
 be advanced to prove the practicability of this plan, your Com
mittee examined Mr. Telford concerning each specific part of it,
 and they then examined Mr. Rennie, to ascertain how far he
 concurred in the calculations and opinions of Mr. Telford : they
 also examined Mr. Donkin, whose attention has been for a con
 siderable time applied to this principle of bfidge-building, and
who ranks very high as a civil and practical engineer, and is
 Chairman of the Committee of Mechanics of the Society of Arts
 and Manufactures.
    In order to bring the whole subject before the House in the
most distinct manner, it appears to be adviseable to treat of it
under the following heads : — 1. The Abutments. — 2. The Iron
Work. — 3. The Strength of the Bridge. — 4. What probable Un
 dulation or Side Vibration. — 5. What Contraction or Expansion.
— 6. The Means of Repairing the Bridge.
    1. The Abutments. — The abutments will consist of the whole
of the masonry work which is expressed on the plan ; each of
the two principal piers will be 60 by 42 A feet at high-water mark,
having a foundation of rock.      These piers when connected with
the whole of the remainder of the masonry will form a mass con
structed with blocks of hard limestone, of much greater power
than is requisite for supporting a bridge of this kind. Mr. Rennie
being asked this question, "Can there be any difficulty in making
the piers capable of bearing the bridge ?" answered, " None in
the world ;" and explained to your Committee, that it was equally
practicable to make a pier to sustaiu a weight drawing inward,
as this bridge will draw, as to sustain a weight pressing outward,
in the way an arched bridge presses: from thence he argued, that
the lateral tension of the proposed bridge would not occasion any
difficulty.   He mentioned that the. lateral pressure of the side
arches of the Southwark bridge was about 3,700 tons, and that
this was infinitely greater than the strain of Mr. Telford's bridge.
    Upon the summit of each of the two main piers will be erected
a frame of cast metal, of a pyramidical form, for the purpose of
raising the cables, from which the bridge is to be suspended.
As the cables will be carried from the tops of the pyramids, so
as to form nearly similar angles on each side of them, the pres
sure will be almost perpendicular;    and Mr. Telford says, " It is
quite impossible the weight of the bridge can crush them, in con
sequence of the well ascertained fact, that it requires a weight
of from four to five tons to crush a cube of a quarter of an inch
of good cast metal."
                                                              2. The

         a Hanging Iron Bridge across the      Menai Strait.              13
     2. The Iron Work.   — Mr. Telford    proposes to have four lines
of  suspension in the breadth of the bridge, by which means his
cables will be disposed in such a manner, as to divide it into two
carriage-ways of twelve feet each, and one footway in the centre
of four feet. Along each line he will have four cables, making
in the. whole sixteen ; these cables will pass over rollers fixed on
the summits of the pyramids, and be fastened at their extremities
to an iron frame, lying horizontally over the tops of the small
arches, and under a mass of masonry, as described by the dotted
lines on the plan. >(Plate.)
    From these cables the roadway will be suspended by vertical
iron rods, connected at their lower extremities with wrought iron
bars, both transversely and longitudinally, thus forming a frame
on which timber will be laid for the roadway.
    Mr. Telford intends to make a temporary wire bridge from
one abutment to the other, in order to carry over the cables, and
arrange the several parts of the bridge.
   3. The Strength of the Bridge. — Mr. Telford informed vour
Committee, that for many years past he has bestowed great pains
and considerable expense on making experiments for the pur
pose1 of ascertaining the strength of malleable iron : he says, in
his evidence, that he has not made less than 300 experiments
upon iron, from one-twentieth of an inch to two inches in dia
meter, and from 30 feet in length to 900 feet ; that he has made
them vertically, horizontally, and with a variety of different de
grees of curvature; that he has combined iron into the shape in
which he has proposed to make the bridge, in a model of 50 feet
in length, and tried experiments upon it. That the greatest part
of his experiments were made from absolute weight, by tearing
iron to pieces by mere weight, and that all his calculations were
founded upon the true and actual strength of iron, as proved by
the weight it would sustain before it would stretch or break
asunder.    In respect of the larger pieces of iron, which could
not conveniently be torn asunder by weight only, Mr. Telford
made several experiments upon the strength of        it,   by
                                                            means of
an hydraulic press of Mr. Brunton's, made on Mr. Bramah's
principle; and   by this it appeared, that    itrequired   aweight of
from 26 to 30 tons to tear    a  square  inch  bar asunder    similar
                                                               :
experiments    have been  tried  with  other  machines,  which  gave
very nearly the same result.     Mr. Rennie and Mr. Donkin, in
their evidence, entirely agree with Mr. Telford's statement of the
absolute strength of malleable iron.       Mr. Rennie reeommends,
that this bridge should be constructed, so as to be four times be
yond the strength requisite to carry its own weight    ;  that      is,
                                                                   to
make   itsomething stronger     thanit   is proposed  to be made          by
Mr. Telford; but Mr. Telford says, there will be no difficulty in
                                                                   giving

14                 Report   of a Plan for building
giving it such an additional degree of strength, for by increasing
the quantity of iron, you may gain any additional power.           >
    Mr. Telford submitted the whole of his experiments to the
examination of Mr. Barlow, who is the Mathematical Master at
Woolwich Academy, and who has published the greater part of
them in his work on timber and iron.      Mr. Barlow states, that
the theoretical calculations which he has made, correspond with
those which are deduced from practical experiments.
    It appears by Mr. Telford's evidence, that the weight his ca
bles will support before they will break is 2,016 tons, exclusive
of their own weight : the weight of the bridge, exclusive of the
cables, is 342 tons; therefore, the bridge will bear 1,674 tons
beyond its own weight.
    Mr. Donkin, on being asked whether it appeared to him that
the different calculations of strength made by Mr. Telford were
accurate ? replied, " Mr. Telford seems to have taken his pri
mary data from the fact of a bar of iron, one inch square, be
ginning to stretch at half its absolute power; in all the experi
ments that I have witnessed of straining iron, I think none of
the bars began to stretch permanently under nearly two-thirds of
it ; it appears to me, therefore, that Mr. Telford's data are per
fectly safe."
   4. Undulation and Side Vibration. — Mr. Telford says, there is
not much reason to expect undulation from any weight being laid
on any particular part of the bridge, in consequence of so great
a weight as 489 tons (the weight of the whole bridge) hanging
between the points of suspension; but to guard against         it,
                                                              he
proposes to make the four sides of the roadways of framed iron
work, to be firmly bound together for seven feet in height, and
to have similar work for five feet in depth below the cables so ;
that when they meet towards the middle of the bridge, they will
constitute a frame-work of twelve feet deep on each of the road
ways, which will also form    complete protection to passengers.
                               a
In respect to side vibration, Mr. Telford says, the proportion
which the breadth of the bridge bears to the length of        it,
                                                             will
                                ;'
keep   itquite steady.   .•»••'
   Mr. Rennie says, " This bridge being to be covered with tim
                       :
ber, it makes  a  single plank of 522 feet long and 30 feet wide;
and  I  conceive that the shock can scarcely be any thing side
ways." And on his being asked        by
                                      the Holyhead Road Commis
sioners, " What effect do you apprehend the wind would have
                                                   w                 is,
upon   abridge of this construction ?" answered,     My opinion
that from the strength of the iron and the weight of the bridge
taken together, there would be no injury in that way."
   5. Contraction and Expansion. — On these heads Mr. Telford
and Mr. Rennie calculate, there may be      arise or fall to the ex
                                                                 tent

          a Hanging Iron Bridge across the Menai Strait.           15
 tent of four or five inches ; but both agree, that the changes
 arising from the temperature will not derange the bridge.
    6. Repairs. — It appears from the evidence, that the cables,
 suspending rods, and roadways, will be so constructed and united
 together, that each part may be taken out and repaired sepa
 rately.
    Your Committee      feel great satisfaction in having it in their
 power to say, that Mr. Telford has completely convinced them
 of the practicability of his plan. The numerous instances which
 he has already given to the public of his talents as a civil en
 gineer, fully prove that the House may place great confidence in
 his opinion.     But when his opinion is supported by Mr. Rennie
 and other engineers, the case of the practicability of this under
 taking appears to be as completely made out as it is in the na
 ture of things to allow of its being established.
    When it is remembered, that the first estimate prepared for
 Lord Colchester (when Chief Secretary for Ireland) for building
 a cast iron arched bridge across the Menai amounted to 268,500/.
 your Committee are of opinion, that the public stand greatly in
 debted to the industry and talents of Mr. Telford, for having
 contrived a plan on so secure a principle, for executing this work
 for the sum of 70,000/.
   April  29th, 1819.          .
    The following particulars    are copied from the Appendix  to the
 foregoing Report.
    Mr. Telford in answer to a question by the Committee gave
 in the following statement in writing :
    " In order to avoid interrupting the navigation, it is evident
 that a horizontal roadway is most advisable ; and to obtain this,
a bridge, upon the principle of suspension, seems unavoidable ;
it is therefore adopted at the height of 100 feet above the high
water of spring tides. The distance between the points of sus
pension is 560 feet, and the versed sine is 37 feet or about l-15th
of the chord line. The breadth of the bridge will be about 30
feet, having two carriage-ways of 12 feet each, and a footpath of
four feet between them.       This affords four points of suspension
in the breadth of the bridge.         The whole roadways are to be
suspended from the main cables by means of perpendicular rods,
and are therefore to be considered as mere weight.        The iron
work of the cables and timber of the roadways are to be con
structed so that they may be taken out and replaced separately.
    "  By calculation I find that the weight to be suspended is
342 tons : by numerous experiments which I have made to ascer
tain the strength of malleable iron, it appears, that with a chord
line of 560 feet, and a versed sine of 37 (or a curvatureof 1- 15th),
a bar of good iron, ope inch square, will, besides its own weight,
                                                                carry

 16                 Report  of  a  Plan for building
carry 10^ tons, and about one half of that weight before it be
gins to stretch.    For the Menai bridge, I have taken a section
of 192 square inches, which at 5| tons to each square inch, will
support 1,008 tons, being a surplus of 666 tons above the real
weight of the bridge, and there would be required a further weight
of 1,008 tons to break down the bridge: this I conceive is ma
king ample provision against any probable trial to which such
 a bridge can be exposed.         From the elevation it will be seen,
that  the  cables  attain their curvature by passing over cast-iron
frames, part of which are of a pyramidal form, and the other
parts are connected with the top of the masonry; from thence it
will be seen, by dotted lines, that these cables pass down the
 masonry to another cast-iron frame, laid horizontally along the
 top of the arches, and connected with their springers by means
of perpendicular rods, thereby embracing the whole mass of ma
sonry and spandrels, making in all about 12,000 tons at each
 end of the bridge, and this exclusive of the great pyramids.      As
the weight of the bridge between the two points of suspension,
 including the cables, is 489 tons, there is not much reason to
expect undulation from any weight which will be laid on any par
 ticular part ; but to guard against any effect of that sort, I pro
pose making the four sides of the roadways of framed iron-work
firmly bound together for seven feet in height, and similar work
for five feet in depth below the cables, which when they meet
towards the middle of the bridge will constitute a frame-work of
 twelve feet deep.
    " With a bridge 30 feet in breadth, and 532 feet in length,
there is not much to be apprehended from side vibration ; but
in order to provide against this operation, I have in the plan
placed two horizontal cables, crossing the bridge diagonally : each
laying hold of the middle of its length, and passing round a cast
iron projecting frame, at the opposite sides of the great pyramids,
is from thence carried to the masonry of the abutments ; thus
creating a diagonal stay upon 70 feet in breadth.
    " When it is considered that from four to five tons are re
 quired to crush a cube of one quarter of an inch of good cast-
 iron, there can be no doubt of the sufficiency of the cast-iron
frames over which the cables will pass.
    "These cables are continued to the cast-iron frames which con
nect the masonry of the abutments.         The weight of the bridge
 is 489 tons, upon which if 300 tons additional are placed, they
make 789 tons.       The pull of this weight at the abutments, upon
a curvature of one-fifteenth, is found by my experiments over a
pulley, with a perpendicular weight, equal to about two and a
half times the weight on the other side, or 1,972 tons. To
counteract this, the cables are, as has already been observed,
                                                            continued

            a   Hanging Iron Bridge across the Menai Strait.     17
continued at nearly the     same angles as those of the bridge, td
the cast-iron frame, which embraces about 12,000 tons of ma
sonry, and to which much more if necessary might be con
nected.
  "   With regard to any change by contraction or expansion, it
is known from experiments, that with a difference of tempera
ture of 90 degrees of Fahrenheit, the difference of length of iron
would only be -nrJv-o-o* or about five inches upon 700 feet ; and
as the iron-work would most likely be put up at a mean tempe
rature, the contraction would be two and a half inches, and the
expansion an equal quantity, which would not derange the bridge;
but if the main suspending cables were covered with some sub
stance, which was an imperfect conductor of heat, and which is
intended, the above variation of 90 degrees of temperature could
not take place.
  "   I have thus, for the satisfaction of the Committee, stated
the principal circumstances relative to this plan, and which have
induced me to recommend it. The numerous and tedious details
which are connected with such a work, I presume the Committee
do not expect me to go into here ; and as the having a suitable
and substantial bridge is the sole object in view, I shall mo6t
thankfully receive any useful improvements that may be suggested
by others.                          (Signed)   Thomas Telford.
   " Dated London, 23d April i819."
    Mr. Rennie, on being asked if he had seen any instances of
bridges upon this construction of a large size ? answered, No, I
have not ; the only thing of that kind I have seen is a model that
was made by Captain Brown, who is an iron cable manufacturer
at Mill Wall, Isle of Dogs, of a bridge nearly of this construction,
of 120 feet span, and over which I was drawn in a. carriage, and
found myself perfectly safe and easy.
   Where was that bridge erected ? — At Captain Brown's manu
factory, Mill Wall, Isle of Dogs, on the land, merely as an ex
periment ; and I suppose it is standing yet, where I believe it
may be seen at this day; I came out of the carriage, and made
the coachman drive several times over         it,
                                             that  might see how
                                                    I            it
acted   .
   There was no vibration — Very little vibration.
                               ?
   Can you calculate the weight that would be distributed on such
a bridge as this of Mr. Telford's, supposing      was filled as full
                                                    it
as might be with     drove of oxen — cannot answer that ques
                       a              ?   I
tion off hand.
   [7b Mr. Telford.] — Can you answer that question?
                                                             — The
weight,  as far as  can
                      I  calculate, of covering  with
                                                    itoxen   will be
about three hundred tons,      depends on the weight of the cattle
                                it                                ;
   Vol. 54. No. 255. July 1S19.                     B            but

18   Plan for building an Iron Bridge across the Menai Strait.
but in the usual way of driving cattle, there is never that quan
tity together, that is, supposing the whole hridge covered from
end to end, and no void space left, which is a very unusual thing.
In driving cattle, nobody ever thinks of driving 200 head all in
a heap.
    [To Mr. -RennieJ]
                           — What power of resistance beyond the pro
bable weight that could be put upon such a bridge, by cattle or
otherwise, should you conceive to be necessary to bear up a bridge
of this description ? — I should not think it secure unless it was
capable of carrying at least four times its own weight ; for in
stance, suppose the carrying itself was 300 tons, I should make
it capable of carrying four times that weight at least, in addition
to its own, that         1500 tons but this proportion would not hold
                             is,'             ;
ifit  was     alight bridge.       If you will allow me to state with re
spect to lateral pressure, or rather lateral tension,          should think   I
there    isno difficulty in that respect         for in the bridge
                                                       ;                  have         I
constructed over the Thames, at Queen-street, the lateral pres
sure of the side arches             about 3700 tons, which
                                         is                         infinitely    is
greater   than   any thing    that   would  ever  be  wanted  here.
   That being an arched bridge, how does the comparison hold                                     ?
—The pressure of an arched bridge                 outward, the draft of the
                                                       is
other    isinward, and        conceive
                                    I        equally practicable to make a
                                                  it
pier to sustain the weight inward as outward               and in the expe
                                                                    ;
riments   I  have made,         have found that the force necessary to
                                     I
crush the materials against which the iron acts,            between twenty
                                                                         is
and thirty times the lateral pressure.               made   Iset of experia
ments to ascertain the fact as to the particular kind of stone used
in the abutments and piers.
   Did you ever see the chain bridge over the Tees — never                        ?    I
saw it. When the Bell Rock light-house was building, which                                       is
about ten miles out at sea,          smith's forge and other matters were
                                             a
erected on        different part of the rock to which the light-house
was  ; and,       in a
                  order to have         communication for the heavy ma
                                              a
terials from the forge to the light-house, we had one of those
bridges, which answered very well.
   What length was            — Fiftv or sixty feet
                                    it
                                     ?                     do not know ex
                                                                I
                                                                ;
actly,  but       was
                  it    full that,     know.  I    would
                                                       I observe, that this
bridge being to be covered with either planks or wood,                  makes          it
a single plank 522 feet long and 30 feet wide, from which                 con           I
ceive that the shake can scarcely be anything sideways.
   Do you entertain any doubts with respect to the practicability
of constructing such bridge as that which
                                    a                     proposed  is     Mr.              by
Telford, according to the plan which he has just stated to the
Committee — have no doubt of the practicability of construct
                  ?      I
ing such      bridge
              a           and;     presume that Mr. Telford has taken
                                         I
                                                                           care

                On the Nature and Laws        of Friction.           19
care to have all the parts sufficiently strong, and so well con
nected together, as to be able to sustain the weight he has cal
culated it to bear ; but I have not made any calculations of the
actual strength of the bridge which Mr. Telford proposes, though
 I am satisfied that a bridge of that construction may be made
sufficiently strong for the purpose.
    Can there be any difficulty in making the piers capable of
bearing the bridge ? — None in the world.
    Does not the whole depend merely upon a matter of calcula
tion ? — Certainly, and the judgement of the person who puts it
 together.                      -
    You have made no calculation as to the weight and bearing of
the bridge ? — I never have, because I never saw the plan until it
was just now produced before me.
     [To Mr. Telford.]
                         — What greater power of resistance than
the actual weight of the bridge itself have you provided for in
your calculation ? — Rather more than four times the power.
The whole of the bridge is 489 tons, and the power of suspen
sion I calculate equal to 2016 tons.
    What is the sectional area of your cables ? — I have given the
relative power to the weight ; it is more than four times.
    State the sections of your cables ? —The section of the cable
(taking it as a single cable) is 192 square inches.
     [To Mr. Rennie.~]
                        — Will a bridge, constructed upon these
data, be sufficient to bear a power of resistance four times greater
than its own weight? — I should think it would ; but if it was
my own case, I should make it a little more, that is to say, I
should make it four times beyond the strength requisite to carry
its own weight.
    [To Mr. Telford.']
                         — Would there be any difficulty in giving
this bridge that additional strength ?— None at all ; only the
additional expense of that quantity of iron ; you may have any
quantity of iron which will give the proportional power.        .  . .
III.    On the Nature and Laws of Friction : being a Continua
                                                                         '
    tion of the Paper on the same Subject, given in our last Vb-
    lume*.     By Mr. Thomas Tredgold.
                 On  the Friction of Rolling    Bodies.      ,
One      of the most simple, and at the same time one of the most
important applications of the rolling motion, is that of wheel-
                          * See vol. Hii. p. 8.
                                  B  2                     carriages   :

20            On the Nature and Laws        of Friction.
carriages :^and to the nature of the resistance which such car
riages would experience on an uniform plane, I propose to con
fine my inquiry.     The effect of small eminences and asperities,
and other circumstances of an accidental nature, has often been
considered ; but that kind of resistance which is constant has not,
that I am aware of, been attempted on any sound principles.
    Accidental obstructions may be rendered less frequent, or in a
great measure removed, by improving the art of road-making; but
there is a resistance which wheel-earriages experience, that is
independent of these obstructions, and which will be only more
uniform in its action the better roacis are made.         It is from the
investigation of this kind of resistance only, that maxims for the
construction of wheel-carriages can be drawn ; consequently, the
importance of any attempt to investigate it must be evident,what-
ever may be the result.
    When a physical problem is of a complicated nature, it is
sometimes necessary, and at other times convenient, to simplify
the operation.    This may be done in two ways. The one consists
in neglecting certain physical circumstances, of which we have
numerous examples in works on Mechanics : thus, in the inves
tigation of the mechanical powers the effect of friction is neg
lected ; yet it is impossible that a mechanical power can act
without friction : — and various other instances might be noticed.
The other way consists in neglecting certain quantities that are
very small when compared with the principal quantities in the
equations. This is perhaps the most certain of the two methods ;
because it is easier to form some notion of the extent of the error
introduced by it than by the preceding one ; though both have
sometimes led to very erroneous conclusions.         But it is so great
an advantage to express the laws of resistance in simple terms,
that even a distant approximation to truth is fully compensated
by it.
   A. — When   a rolling body, such  as the wheel  of a carriage, moves
upon an uniform horizontal plane,        the resistance which opposes
its motion is of two kinds.
    For a wheel is retarded by the rubbing of the parts at the axis,
 which is properly called friction ; and it is also retarded at the cir
 cumference by that partof the plane immediatelvbefore the wheel;
 as that part must be depressed to the same level as that on which
 the wheel had previously borne, otherwise the wheel must be sup
 posed to move over the plane without making an impression pro
 portional to its weight and time of action, which would be ab
 surd.
                                                                      Of

               On the Nature and      Laws of Friction.             21
Of that Part of the     Resistance  of a Wheel-carriage that arises
                     from Friction at the Axis.
   B. — If  a wheel, of which the radius of the axis is CA (fig. A)
and the radius of the wheel C B, be put in motion over a hori
zontal plane D E, and the wheel slides ; then, the friction at the
axis multiplied into the radius of the axis, is greater than the fric
tion at the circumference of the wheel multiplied into its radius.
   For the weight of the load acts in a vertical direction ; and when
the wheel is devoid of friction both at the axis and circumference,
a very small force in the horizontal direction C F would, cause it
to roll forward.    Again ; suppose there to be friction at the axis
only, then the horizontal force would cause the wheel to slide in
the same manner as if the wheel and axis were one body; be
cause in that case friction at the circumference would be neces
sary to destroy the effect of the friction at the axis, and to cause
the wheel to move round it. Now consider C as the centre of
motion; then the friction at the circumference acts with a lever
age equal to the radius of the wheel, that at the axis with a lever
age equal to the radius of the axis.        Let R be the radius of the
wheel, and F the friction at the circumference, r the radius of
the axis, and    f
lever, we have Rx F
                   the friction of the axis.
                          =
                                                By the property of the
                             r x f'm the case of equilibrium.     And
when   RxF    is less than r x   j\ the difference places the wheel in
the same state as when there is a friction equal to that difference
at the axis only, consequently the wheel would slide.
   Cor. — Hence it appears that in practical cases a wheel will al
ways roll, as the conditions necessary to produce a sliding motion
are scarcely within the limits of possibility. For if the rubbing sur
faces at the circumference had only the friction of polished glass,
while those at the axis had the friction of wood, the wheel would
roll when the radius of the wheel exceeded three times the radius
of the axis.
                                  B 3                        C— The

 22             On the Nature and     Laws of Friction.
    C— The effect of the friction     at the axis in retarding the      mo-
                                              rxixW
tion of the wheel will be expressed by        ~~         : where W   is  the
                                                R  x it
weight of the load, v the velocity, and n the ratio of the friction
to the pressure corresponding to some given velocity.
    Let a denote that part of the moving power which is employed
in overcoming the friction at the axis.        The friction at the axis
acts with the leverage r in retarding the motion, and the part a
of the power acts with the leverage R : that is, in the case of
equilibrium, Rxa=r x friction at the axis.              And because the
motion of wheel-carriages is sensibly uniform, the friction is as
— *; or friction = " - — . where n is a constant to be determined
by experiment.        Hence we have
                  .r.
                  K x   a =
                             nxrxW
                                       or a =   -
                                                n x rx W
                                                           .
                                I)                It X D
    The effect of the resistance at the axis is directly as the radius
of the axis, and inversely as the radius of the wheel : therefore,
when the resistance at the axis only is considered, it is an advan
tage to make the radius of the wheel as large, and the radius of the
axis as small as possible.     Also, the greater the velocity the less
the friction.
Of that   Part  of the Resistance of a Wheel- Carriage which arises
      from   the  Action of the Circumference upon the Road.
    It may be assumed that the external rim of the wheel is very
hard in respect to the road it moves upon, and that the load
will, in all cases, cause it to sink in the road.
    D. — When a wheel rests upon a horizontal plane, the depth of
the impression will be nearly expressed by        /ix'ji   where  W   is the
weight of the wheel and load ;      I the breadth of the wheel ; y the
 ordinate of which the corresponding absciss is equal to the depth
 of the impression ; and q a constant quantity to be determined
for each particular road by experiment.
    For the ultimate depth of impression is directly as the force,
 and inversely as the area the force acts upon ; but the area is as
y xb, and the force is as W : therefore denoting the depth of
                                 W              W x a
 the impression bv x ; x :         -, or x =         p.    Otherwise, the
 quantity of matter displaced is proportional to the force which
 displaces it.   The area of the segment d c B, (fig. A.) multiplied
 into the breadth of the wheel, will express the quantity of matter
 displaced : and as the depth of the impression is always very

                  On the Nature and          Laws of Friction.              23
be sensibly proportional        to   yxx*.           Hence y x xx  b is as W,
           w
or x:         , as before.
    E. — When     a wheel moves forward upon a horizontal plane with
any     velocity v, the depth of the impression will be expressed by
  \Y  x q
y  x.A x v1'
     The depth of the impression          is as the force, and as the square
of    the time the force acts    ;   but the time is inversely as the velo-
citv of the wheel      :  therefore   x:   —
                                             -f    ; which combined with the
effect of the area gives       x— —            ''
                                       y x b x v'1
     As the resistance which the part of the road immediately before
the wheel offers to the motion, arises from the pressure against
every point of the arc Be; the sum of these pressures may be
•considered as collected in one point of the arc, which point may
be called the centre of resistance.
     F. — The centre of resistance will be nearly at the horizontal
distance \y from the perpendicular C B.
     For the resistance at any point is proportional to the depth of
the impression at that point; and, assuming that the arc B c
does not sensibly differ from a straight line, it may be considered
proportional to the distance from c, and consequently to be col
lected at the horizontal distance \y from BC.
     G. — At any instant of the motion of a wheel upon a horizontal
plane, the load W is to that part of the power which overcomes
the resistance at the circumference, as the radius is to the tan
gent of the arc Be; e being the centre of resistance.
     The lines C b, b e and Ce, (fig. A.) are respectively parallel to
the directions of the. weight, power, and resistance ; and therefore
constitute a triangle of which the sides are proportional to these
forces.      But Cli : b e : : radius : tan. Be; therefore
            R : tan. B e : : W : p ; where p is that part of the power
which is employed in destroying the resistance.
     In general, the value of.a; will be very small compared with the
other quantities : therefore to render the expressions less com
plicated, the relation between x and y may be expressed by
y1 = 2Rx, and the tangent of the arc Be may be supposed to be
equal to     \y.
     Substituting for    x in the equation x =                 (Prop. E.),and
                                                       -^y~r,>
making tan. Be= \y in the equation —-— -— , (Prop. F.), we
              *  See Emerson's Fluxions, p. 260, Ex. 17 : 2d edition,
               f Phil. Mag. vol. liii. p. 6. Prop. (S.J
                                    B   4                                 have

24                   On the Nature and                        Laws of Friction.
                          w! x g\
have p        =               —— ;   :      r       — the power that             would overcome
                    15874     Rix bi     x ul
the resistance at the circumference.
     .    ,                   nxrxW,                     W'x^          —-
     And, a+p =               —
                                                1                            = the force or power
                                                    1-5874 K»x 4*      «ti
that would keep the wheel in motion.
   The value of the constant n may be derived from experiments
on the friction of the axis ; and when the value of n is previously-
determined, the value of q might be obtained from experiments
on wheel-carriages.     But as q will differ according to the nature
of the road, its precise value is not of much importance ; and
particularly where a rigid analysis of the subject has not been at
tempted. All I have endeavoured to do, is to show an useful ap
proximation to the laws of resistance according to the radius,
the breadth, and the velocity of the wheel, the radius of the axis,
and the weight of the load.
     Comparing         the resistance at the axis,                               —>         (Prop.   C),
with the resistance at the circumference                                 —           Tie,   (Prop. G.),
                                                                             "J*"'
it   appears that these                   resistances will be                 equal when        ^— -   =
            Now,     we consider
                          if           to be equal "25, which will be
t""^B".
nearly the true value of the friction in wheel-carriages, then tan.
Be=-5r. In general the depth of the impression will be greater
than corresponds with this value of the tang, of Be; and when
ever     it greater, the resistance at the circumference will exceed
              is
the resistance at the axis. It would be desirable that some obser
vations should be made on this subject, as then we could better
compare the effects to be gained                                  by
                                            any variations in the con
                                           •
struction of wheels.                                     .1
                                                    !•
      must be remembered, that in estimating the resistance at
     It
the circumference, the surface of the road has been supposed to
be an uniform horizontal plane         but granting the road to be ho
                                                         ;
rizontal,     will in practical cases be irregular, or covered with
               it
small asperities.     Now, the effect of these asperities will bear
some proportion to the number of them that the wheel              raised                       is
over in      given time,
              a            which  will  depend   on the  breadth of  the
wheel; consequently       broad wheel will increase instead of lessen
                                     a
the friction, unless the road be perfectly smooth.
   From the preceding investigation the following conclusions are
drawn     :but     may be necessary to remind the reader that they
                     it
apply   to  such  roads only.as are nearly horizontal.
      The resistance at the axis
     I.                                  directly as the weight of the
                                                             is
load.    That         is,
                      the load be doubled, the resistance at the axis
                            if
will be doubled and so on.;

                     On    the      Nature and Laivs           of Friction.                              25
   II. The resistance at the circumference of the wheel is directly
as the cube root of the fourth power of the weight of the load.
^^X'"8}'.                                  2>   3>       ">        5>        6>        h         S.&C,
*J53E£f.}'.
Whence it    appears, that     weight
                                          **..<*••».
                                          a     of
                                                               8S5> '°-9> 13-".
                                           eight tons will produce six
teen times as much resistance at the circumference as a weight
of one ton ; and consequently, that there is a material advan
tage in carrying small loads, and increasing the number of car
riages, instead of placing an immense load upon a single pair of
wheels.
    III. The resistance at the axis increases directly as the radius
of the axis ; or in other words, the resistance of an axis four inches
diameter will be twice the resistance of one two inches diameter;
and so on. Therefore, the smaller the axis can be made the bet
ter, so that it be of sufficient strength.
    IV. • When the .direction of the moving power is parallel to the
plane or road, the resistance at the axis is inversely as the radius
of the wheel. That             is,
                         by doubling the radius of the wheel the re
sistance at the axis would be reduced one-half, and so on.
    V. Also, when the direction of the moving power             parallel                    is
to the road, the resistance at the circumference of the wheel                                            is
 inversely as the cube root of the square of the radius of the wheel.
 That     is,
           representing    series of radii
                                      a        the numbers    by
                                      1,2,      3
                                                ,        4,    5,       6
                                                                        ,         7,    8,      &c;
 the corresponding             -1         i     i    i        i         i        i      l
                                                                     c-
   resistances will be        fls' Jm>I>
                               j" 'j          ?sT»   Tli'
                                                        3-.$«'
                                                                                        T'
 From which         itappears that the resistance decreases very rapidly
                     it
 as the height of the wheel increases.           But in wheel-carriages
 drawn      by
             horses the height of the wheels        limited. In    is  car                           a
 riage moved         by
                    steam, the height of the wheels might be much
 increased     anil
                ;       appears to me to be perfectly possible to con
                          it
 struct such a machine that, would move on the common roads.
     VI. The resistance at the.axis      inversely as the velocity. That
                                                    is
    is,
      awheel moving with          velocity of three miles an hour will
                                           a
  have double the friction at the axis that        wheel moving at the
                                                                   a
  rate of six miles an hour will have.
     VII. The resistance at the circumference of wheel              as the  a                   is
  cube root of the square of its velocity. Hence,        the velocities be  if
                                2X 3, 4,           6,-7        &c;
  expressed by the series             1,                       5,            j         8,
  the resistance at              ~\
                                                                            —
                                                                                            '
                                      1,^,    ~, ~,
                                                                            i     l
•
    the circumference            V                             &c.
    will be   . .   .     J
                          .
   Consequently, the resistance both at the axis and circumference
. decreases as the velocity iacreases.     Common observation has sa-
                                                              .      tisfied

26          Account           of the Climate, Natural Products, Arts                                      and
tisfied almost every one of the truth of this conclusion : yet there
is one point connected with it which does not appear to be so
well understood ; and which        — that the same carriage will
                                                            is,                                                 al
ways do least injury to the roads when       moves with a consider            it
able degree of velocity.     For    has been shown that the depth
                                                            it
of the impression     inversely as tjie square of the velocity (Prop.
                                  is
E).   Consequently,   the velocities being represented      the num                                  by
bers       ..      ..                                1,2,3,4,5,6,
                                                     &c.                                         ;
the corresponding     de-~) .                       „   _i        _i    j_     j_      _i
   pression will be
But the injury done to the road must be as the depth to which
the wheel sinks into        therefore the advantage gained in this
                                       it   ;
                 If by
respect     increasing the velocity    evident.                    is
   VIII.     the road were perfectly level, and of an uniform ma
terial  ;the resistance at the circumference of the wheel would be
inversely as the cube root of its breadth, while the resistance at
the axis would not be altered. That      respresenting the breadths     is,
                                       1,2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
                                  1,1111111a
by                       ..                                                                      8,   &c;
the correspond- -\
                         ..J           — —
         .
  ing resistances [                —            .,                —
                                                                                                 a' &c.
                                    '1,                       -                                  —
            ,                  I>         1-265
                                                        ',
                                                     1-44
                                                                   ,
                                                              1-59' 1-91
                                                                              5,       ,    ',
                                                                                   1-8S* 1-91
                                                                                                 ,
 will be
Hence, on such     plane to increase the breadth eight times would
                              a
reduce the friction one-half.   But this will not apply to common
wheel- carriages, because the roads are not uniform      and    does                             ;         it
not appear that any advantage can be gained           increasing the                        by
breadth of the wheel beyond        certain quantity, which depends
                                                            a
on the size of the stones employed for making the road.
    Such are the conclusions to which a theoretical view of the
subject has led.    It easy to extend the same reasoning to in
                                       is
clined roads, and to cases where the line of traction    not parallel                            is
to the road — the resulting equations of course become more
                         ;
complicated, but thev- are not less important.
     July   1,   1819.                                                              Thomas       Tredgold.
IV. Account of the Climate, Natural Products, Arts,                                                       and Ma
     nufactures              ofthe Kingdom                   of   Ashantee and some                   of   the Ter
     ritories adjacent.                   By T. Edward Bowdjch, Esq.*
—.                             Climate.
AJuring     the first two months of our residence (May and June)                                                 it
rained about one-third of the time; throughout July and August
it rained nearly half, and abrupt tornadoes were frequent in the
evening just after sunset, ushered in by       strong wind from the                a
south-west.     The heaviest rains were from the latter end of Sep
tember to the beginning of November          they fell even in more           ;
   * Abstracted from Account of Mission from Cape Coast Castle to Ashantee
in 1817.                                                       impetuous

               Manufactures      of the Kingdom of Ashantee.                   27
   impetuous torrents than are witnessed on the coast.                 The in
   fluence of the Harmattan was described as very powerful.                  Ge
   nerally speaking, from the elevation of Ashantee (unfortunately
   we had no barometer),       it was much cooler in Coomassie than at
   Cape   Coast   ; indeed,  from   four to six in the morning there was
  a severity of cold unknown on the coast.
                              Natural Products.
      The markets of Coomassie           (the capital   of Ashantee)        were
  held daily from about eight o'clock in the morning until sunset.
  Amongst the articles for sale were beef (to us about eight-pence
  per pound),     and mutton cut in small pieces for soup ; wild hog,
  deer, monkey's flesh; fowls, and pelts        of skins ; yams, plantains,
  corn, sugar-cane, rice, encruma (a mucilaginous vegetable richer
  than asparagus, which it resembles), peppers, vegetable butter,
  oranges, papaws, pine-apples (not equal to those on the coast),
  bananas; large snails smoke-dried and stuck in rows on small
 sticks in the form of herring bone ; eggs for fetish, pitto, rum,
 palm-wine, &c. &c.
      A fruit called boosie* is in great request. It is constantly
 chewed by the Ashantees on a journey ; it is said to prevent hun
 ger, and strengthen the stomach and. bowels ; has a slight bitter
 aromatic astringent taste, and causes an increase of the saliva
 while chewed.        The boosie must be the gooroo-nut which Mr.
 Lucas describes as one of the articles of trade between Fezzan,
 Kassina, Bornoo, and the states south of the Niger.               He writes:
 " Gooroo-nuts which are brought from the Negro states on the
south of the Niger, and which are principally valued for the plea
sant bitter that they communicate to any liquor in which they are
 infused :" — And again ; "A species of nut which is much valued
in the kingdoms to the north of the Niger, and which is called
gooroo."       It grows on a large and broad-leafed tree that bears a
pod of about eighteen inches in length, in which are inclosed a
number of nuts that varies from seven to nine.              Their colour is
a yellowish greeu ; their size is that of a chesnut, which they also
resemble in being covered by a husk of a similar thickness ; and
their taste, which is described as a pleasant bitter, is so grateful to
those who are accustomed to its use, and so important as a cor
rective to the unpalatable or unwholesome waters of Fezzan and
of the other kingdoms that border on the vast Zahara, as to be
deemed of importance to the happiness of life.                They are pur
chased at the rate of 12s. for 100 pods.
     Sal-ammonia is found abundantly in Dagwumba. In the Ashan
tee market, a lump the size of a duck's egg was sold for 2s. ;
they grind it to mix with their snuff (of which they take large
    * Sterculia acuminata, Palis.de Beauvais, Flore cCOuware,  i. p. 41. tab.24.
                                                                  quantities),

2S     Account     of the Climate, Natural    Products,   Arts and
quantities), as it gives it a pungency agreeable to them.          They
also dissolve it in the water they give to their cattle, and some
times drink it themselves for pains in the bowels.         The Tamool
practitioners    in  the  East  Indies  suppose  it to be  a  useful re
medy    in certain  female  obstructions  and morbid   uterine  enlarge
ments.
   Mr. Lucas writes : " No commercial value appears to be an
nexed to the fleeces which the numerous flocks of the Negro
kingdoms afford ; for the cotton manufacture which the Shereef
says is established among the tribes to the south of the Niger,
seems to be the only species of weaving that is known among
them." In Dagwumba, however, they manufacture a coarse kind
of blanket from sheep's wool.
   There is a white grease which has long been called Ashantee
grease by the natives on the coast, who supposed it to be pro
duced in that country.         Thev use it daily to anoint their skins,
which otherwise become coarse and unhealthy.             The Ashantees
purchase    it from   the interior, and  make a great profit by it ; it is
a vegetable butter decocted from a tree called timk'eea ; it- is
doubtless the shea butter of Mr. Park.
   The Ashantees procure most of their ivory from Kong, where
they give eight ackies (or 40i.) in barter for a very large tooth.
   The cattle we saw in Ashantee were as large as the English,
unlike those on the coast, which resemble the Jersey. The sheep
are hairy in Ashantee, but woolly in Dagwumba, an open country
where they manufacture a close blanket.            The horses in Dag
wumba are generally small ; some were described to be fifteen
hands high, but these were never parted with ; and the Ashantees
did not desire ,them, for I never saw but one who rode fearlessly.
The horses I saw were like half-bred galloways ; their legs lathy,
with a wiry hair about the fetlock only requiring to be pulled.
Their heads were large; dun and mouse colours were said to be
common ; they were never shod, and their hoofs consequently in
the eye of the European, though not in the native, dispropor
tionate ; they were fed on Guinea grass, occasionally mixed with
salt, and sal-ammonia was frequently dissolved in the water.
The saddles were Moorish, of red leather and cumbersome ; the
bridles of twisted black leather thongs, and brass links with a
whip at the end ; the bit severe, with a large ring hanging from
the middle and slipped over the under jaw instead of a curb
chain : the stirrups were like large blow pans and hung very short.
Some of the Moors rode on bullocks with a ring through the
nose-.
   The extent and order of the Ashantee plantations surprised us ;
yet I do not think they were adequate to the population ; in a
military government they were not likely to be so. They are
                                                                  chiefly

              Manufactures      of the Kingdom of Ashantee.                29
chiefly  of corn, yams, ground-nuts, terraboys and encruma ; the
yams    and  ground-nuts are planted with much regularity in tri
angular beds, with small drains around each and carefully cleared
from weeds.      They use no implement but the hoe. They have
two crops of corn a year, plant their yams at Christmas, and dig
them early in September.      TheTatter plantations had much the
appearance of a hop-garden well fenced in and regularly planted
in lines, with a broad walk around, and a hut at each wicker gate
where a slave and his family resided to protect the plantation.
    AH the fruits mentioned as sold in the market grew in spon
taneous abundance, as did the sugar-cane ; the oranges were of
a large size and exquisite flavour.       I believe this fruit has hi
therto been considered as indigenous to India only.         We saw no
cocoa-hut trees, nor was that fruit in the market.          Mr. Park's
route was through a very different country.      In the marshy ground
a large species of fern is very abundant ; there are four varieties
of k r in shady places that have been cultivated, various tribes of
urtica; and the leontodon grows abundant to the north of Coomas-
sie. The miraculous berrv which gives acids the flavour of sweets,
making limes taste like honey, is common*.              The castor oil
 (Ricinus communis) rises to a large tree';    I have  only seen it as a
bush about three feet high on the coast ; and the wild fig is abun-
dafit^ though neither of them is used by the natives.          The cot
ton plant is very plentiful, but little cultivated.    The only use to
 which they apply the silk cotton is to the stuffing of cushions
 or pillows f. Mr. Park observed the tobacco-plant which grows
 luxuriantly in Inta and Dagwumba, and is called poak.              The
 visitors from those countries recognised it in a botanical work.
 Thev first dry the leaves in the sun ; then, having nibbed them
 well between their hands, mix them with water into oval masses.
 The Ashantees, however, never use this tobacco when Portuguese
 tobacco can be got from the coast even at the most extravagant
 rate.    They will sometimes give two ounces of gold for the roll
 of Portuguese tobacco. The Dutch governor-general has been
 known to receive eighty ounces of gold from the Ashantees for
                                                    >'.
                                      • .
  tobacco alone.        . '.                        «
     Lions are numerous on the northern frontiers of Inta; elephants
  are remarkably numerous in Kong, and they are also found in
     The curious fruit to which have given the name of oxyglycus,         find,
  *                                                                    I
                                 I
 was known to De Marchais, who describes      as   little red fruit, which be
                                                   it     a
ing chewed gives a sweet taste to the most sour and bitter things. — Dalzel's
                       .   ;•        ..            •..        .'.
Dahomey.                                  •
f     Cotton of the cotton tree (or silk cotton) Bombax pentandrinm, Linn.
This cotton    not used for thread, but
              is                           made into pillows and beds.
                                              is                           Itis
also, from its catching fire so easily, commonly put into tinder-boxes and
employed in the preparation of fire-works.— -Ainslie's Materia Medica        of
Hindostan.
                        '
                       '•
                             .
                                '
                                                                    '•..••
          j                                                         Ashantee,

30   Account       of the Climate, Natural Products, Arts             and
Ashantee, with wild hogs, hyenas, cows, sheep, goats, deer, an
telopes; dogs approximating to the Danish; cats extremely sharp-
visaged and long-necked; Gennet cats, pangolins, alligators.
The rhinoceros is found in Boroom, and the hippopotamus in
the Odirree river.
   The Ashantees say that an animal called sissak or sissiree will
attack every other however superior in size.         The Fantees, who
had never seen       had imbibed a tremendous idea of
                    it,                                          from the
                                                                 it
stories in their own country.       doubt its being so formidable to
                                     I
all other animals, for the skin        saw was not more than three
                                          I
feet long and the legs short       resembled that of
                                     it                    boar, but the
                                                          is a
                                 ;
natives said  it was between a pig and       goat.
                                                a    It    extraordinary
that the gnoo (antelope gnu) which          found behind the Cape of
                                               is
 Good Hope    isknown     Inta
                          in         by
                                   the same name. Where the beds
were not an-accumulation of cushions, the skin of the gnoo was
nailed to a  large wooden frame, raised on legs about           foot from
                                                                 a
the ground, and stretched as we would sacking.            It
                                                           was     revered
                                                                      a
custom that no virgin of either sex should sleep on this kind of
bed.    Another animal called olrum was described                by
                                                               the inha
bitants of the eastern frontier as having one very long horn on
one side of the head, and a short one on the other               ;   much
                                                                     it   is
larger than the gnoo.     We  met   with    spotted
                                               a     animal   of   the cat
kind, very common, and allied to the leopard or panther                but     ;
whether referable to either of those species, or to be considered
as distinct, we could not determine, owing to the very vague and
unsatisfactory character       which naturalists have attempted to
                                by
distinguish them,  —  the kind   and numbers of the rows of spots                  ;
which we have observed in individuals of the same decided species
to present almost an infinity of variation.
    The vulture, which      venerated
                           is                the natives for the same
                                                by
reason that the Egyptians venerated the Fulturus percoplerus,                      is
the Vulturui monachus figured           Le Vaillant. Green pigeons
                                          by
are found, and crows with        white ring round their necks, pro
                                 a
bably the Corvus scapulurh figured          Le Vaillant.
                                               by            There were
several small birds of beautiful plumage which sung melodiously;
two in particular, the one like      blackbird, and the other of the
                                      a
same colour as the English thrush, but larger.         Also a variety of
parrots beautifully spangled     with  different  colours.    M. Cuvier
was misinformed when he wrote {Regne Animal, tome                  p. 108)
                                                                     i.
"  Macaque est     nom generique des singes a
                   le                                 cote de Guinee."
                                                     la
The name    is unknown there as well as in the interior.         Dokoo             is
the generic name. The Simia Diana, which has the mast beau
tiful skin of any monkey,      found in Ashantee as well as in War
                                is
saw.    All the natives agree that they do not know of any mon
keys which dare to attack men but the akoneson, which they de
scribe as small and always seen in troops.                     , -
                                                                    Snakes

             Manufactures    of the Kingdom of          Ashantee.             31
   Snakes green and of all colours ; scorpions, lizards, &c. were
found as on the coast, with a curious variety of beetles and the
most beautiful butterflies. A few specimens preserved in spirits
have been sent to the British Museum.
                       Arts and Manufactures.
    The Ashantee loom      is precisely on the same principle as the
English  ; it is worked      by strings held between the toes ; the
web is never more than four inches broad.               A small loom com
plete   is   among    the  articles  presented    to  the  British Museum.
They     use  a  spindle  and   not   a distaff for  spinning, holding it in
one hand, and twisting the thread (which has a weight at the end)
with the finger and thumb of the other.               The fineness, variety,
brilliancy and size of their cloths is astonishing; a specimen
which is in the British Museum will be admired for the two first
qualities, and for having the same appearance on both sides.
The richest red taffetas imported from Imlia are unravelled, and
wove into the cloths of their own manufacture.                 They are also
sometimes in the custom of unravelling a few of the fancy silks
(India), but these are generally bought for wear, though they pre
fer those from Fezzan for that purpose, because the colours are
more showy.         The richest silks I saw were worn by the Moors,
who had bought them at Yahndi and Houssa.                    Reckoning nine
inches to a span, there are eight spans in a fathom, which is the
Ashantee measure ; but the fathom of Inta and Dagwumba con
tains only six spans.         Even if the Ashantee traders give only
twenty shillings a fathom in barter of boosie, salt, rum, iron, &c.
it is considerably cheaper than ours (silks), considering that they
get 100 per cent. on it at Coomassie.            Mr. Lucas mentions " silk
wrought and unwrought" among the articles exported from Fez
zan to Kassina. Apokoo and several others related to me that
Sai Cudjo bought a piece of silk at Yahndi so very fine, that al
though it could be compressed between two hands, it was never
theless larger than any cloth I had seen the present king wear,
and his appeared monstrous.               Apokoo added that six slaves
were paid for    it,  which would have produced 160/. at the water
side.
•   A   description of British cotton cloth (which goes here             by
                                                                          the
name of sarstracunda)       is   in considerable request.     It    is
                                                                    a highly
glazed article, of bright red stripes with          a   bar of white, and      is
bought solely     for the  red  stripe (as there
                                               is    no  red dye nearer than
Marrowa), which the Ashantees weave into their own cloths,
throwing away the white. The red dye of Marrowa, which                  very
                                                                         is
good,   is   obtained from  a    tree called moosaratee.
    The white cloths which are principally manufactured in Inta
and Dagwumba they' paint for mourning, with mixture of blood
                                                          a
 .:(...:                                                                 and

32          Account     of the Climate, Natural Products, Arts            and
and a red dye wood.         The patterns are various and not inele
gant, and painted with so much regularity with a fowl's feather
that they have all the appearance of a coarse print at a distance.
I have seen a man paint as fast as I could write. There is a very
fair specimen in the British Museum, the price of painting which
was one ackie.
   They have two dye woods, a red and a yellow, specimens of
which I brought down. They make a green by mixing the latter
with their blue dye, in which they excel ; it is made from a plant
called acassie, certainly not the indigo which grows plentifully
on the coast.      The acassie rises to the height of about two feet,
and, according to the natives, bears a red flower ; but the leaf is
not small, fleshy or soft, nor is it pale or silvery coloured under
neath ; it is a thin acuminate leaf about five inches long and
three broad, of a dark green. The shrub has opposite leaves, no
stipules, and has a certain degree of resemblance to Marsdenia
suaveolens (the indigo of Sumatra); but as the leaves are toothed
in the acassie, it probably does not belong even to the same na
tural order. I regret to add, that our best specimens of this plant
perished in the disasters of our march, and no drawing was made
of    it,
       as    bore no flower in that season
              it                               ;    grows abundantly in
                                                   it
the woods, and produces          fast
                                  a,  and beautiful    colour without re
quiring mordant. They gather a, quantity of the leaves, bruise
              a
them in a wooden mortar, and spread them out on                mat to dry
                                                                 a                   :
this mass       kept for use
                  is           a proportion of
                                 ;                 it   put into
                                                        is           pot of
                                                                          a
water, and remains six days previous to immersing the thread,
which      left in six days, drying
             is                         once every day in the sun
                                        it                                    ; it   is
then    adeep lasting blue colour. When        light blue
                                               a               wished for,
                                                                 is
the thread       only allowed to remain in the pot three days.
                   is
   They excel in pottery, as the pipes in the Museum wilt show                       ;
they are rested on the ground when smoked          ; the clay    very fine,
                                                                     is
polished (after    baking)       by
                                friction, and  the   grooves   of the pat
terns filled up with chalk.     They   have also  a black   pottery which
admits of       high polish.
                  a
   The people of Dagwumba surpass theAshantees in goldsmiths'
work, though the latter may be esteemed proficients in the art.
The small articles for the Museum — a gold stool, sanko bell, jaw
bone and drum — are not such neat specimens as could wish; the
                                                         I
man who made them having too much costly work on hand for
the king, to pay our trifles his wonted attention           unfortunately
                                                             ;
too he was committed to prison before they were quite finished                       ;
however, they will give an idea.         Iweighed out nineteen ackies
and    ahalf of gold-dust for making these articles          ;one-third of
an ackie was lost in melting, and five was the charge of the
goldsmith. Bees'-wax for making the model of the article wanted
is,
   spread out on       smooth block of wood
                         a                         by
                                                    the side of    fire, on
                                                                          a
                                                                              which

               Manufactures            of the Kingdom of Ashantee.                            33
 which stands a pot of water; a flat stick is dipped into this, with
 which the wax is made of a proper softness ; it takes about a
 quarter of an hour to make enough for a ring. When the model
 is finished, it is inclosed in a composition of wet clay and char
 coal (which being closely pressed around it forms a mould), dried
 in the sun, and having a small cup of the same materials at
 tached to  it,  (to contain the gold for fusion,) communicating with
 the model
               by
               a     small perforation.          When the whole model                        is
                                                                                             fi
 nished, and the gold carefully inclosed in the cup,                    put in a
                                                                           it   is
 charcoal fire with the cup undermost.                  When the gold        sup        is
 posed to be fused, the cup             isturned uppermost, that       may run  it
 into the place of the melted wax when cool the clay
                                               ;                         broken,is
 and if   the article   isnot perfect        goes through
                                              it             the  whole  process
 again.     To give the gold its proper colour, they put layer of                   a
 finely-ground red ochre (which they call juchuma) all over                                   it,
 and immerge       it in boiling water mixed with the same substance
 and a little salt  ;    after     has boiled half an hour,
                                  it                                  taken out
                                                                          it   is
 and thoroughly cleansed from any clay that may adhere to it.
 Their bellows are imitations of ours; but the sheep skin they use
 being tied to the wood with leather thongs, the wind escapes
 through the crevices; therefore when much gold                  on the fire thev
                                                                     is
 are obliged to use two or three pair at the same time. Their anvils
are generally      a   large stone, or           piece of iron placed on the
                                                   a
ground.      Their   stoves    are  built   of sursh  (about three or four feet
 high)   ina  circular    form,    and  are   open  about  one-fifth of the cir
cumference;        a hole    is made through the closed part, level with
 the ground, for the nozzle of the bellows. Their weights are very
neat brass casts of almost every animal, fruit, or vegetable, known
in the country. The king's scales, blow-pan, boxes and weights,
and even the tongs which hold the cinder to light his pipe, were
neatly made of the purest gold that could be manufactured.
    Their blacksmiths' work              is performed with the same sort of
forge as the above but they have no idea of making iron from
                         ;
ore, as their interior neighbours do. Their swords are generally
perforated in patterns like fish trowels             frequently they make two
                                                       ;
blades springing parallel from one handle which evince very fine
workmanship.           The needles and castanets will only give some
idea of their progress.          The iron-stone          of a dark-red colour,
                                                            is
spotted with gray and intermixed with what has all the appear
ance of lava   ;   they cut bullets out of          for the army when lead
                                                       it                                     is
scarce.   I   have brought some arrows of native iron.               They have
no idea of making a lock like the people of Houssa and Mar-
rowa.
   They tan or dress leather in Ashantee, but they do this and dye
itin a very superior manner in Honssa and Dagwumba — see the                    ;
sandals and cushion in the British Museum, the former varied
   Vol. 54. No. 255. July 1819.                                and
                                                                 C

34         On finding the Longitude by      Lunar Observations.
  and apparently stitched : doubting that there could be such
  stitching, I undid a part, and discovered that they perforated the
  surface, and then stuck in the fine shreds of leather. The curious
  will observe that the patterns of the stool cushion are all pro
  duced by paring the surface. They make their soldiers' belts and
  pouches put of elephant or pig skin ornamented with red shells.
     Of their carpenters' work the stool is a fair specimen, being
  carved out of a solid piece of a wood called zesso, white, soft, and
  bearing a high polish ; it is first soaked in water. They sell such
  a stool for about three shillings ; in Accra or Fantee it would
  fetch twenty.     The umbrella is even more curious ; the bird is
  cut almost equal to turning, and the whole is so supple that it
  may be turned inside out. This (only a child's umbrella) is a mo
  del of the large canopies I have described in the procession ; I
  gave a piece of cloth value twenty shillings for it.      The sanko or
  guitar is also neatly made, and the chfcsteness and Etruscan cha-
'
  racter of the carving is very surprising.     The surface of the wood
  is first charred in the fire, and then carved deep enough to dis
  close the original white in the stripes or lines of the patterns.
     Numbers of workmen are employed in breaking, rounding and
  boring the snail shells, as big as a turkey's egg generally, and
  sometimes as large as a conch.       They are first broken into nu
  merous pieces ; then chipped round, the size of a sleeve-button,
  and afterwards bored with a bow and iron style fixed in' a piece
  of wood. Lastly, they are strung and extended in rows on a log
  of wood, and rubbed with a soft and hlueish gray stone and wa
  ter, until they become perfectly round.
     Their pine-apple thread is very strong, and is made from the
  fineness of a hair to the thickness of whip-cord ; it bleaches to a
  beautiful whiteness, and would answer for sewing any strong ma
                                                         liable to be cut
                                                  it,
  terials; but when muslin is stitched with       it    is
  from the harshness.     The women frequently join their cloths and
  ornament their handkerchiefs with     a   ziffzag pattern worked with
  unravelled silks of different colours.     The fetish case       speci
                                                                  is
                                                                  a
  men of their needle-work in the manner of chain stitch.
 ~*
      V,   On finding the Longitude    by   Lunar Observations.         By
                             To   Mr.Tilhch.
                                                   London, June 15, 1819.
           T hk. problem of finding the longitude            by
                                                       the lunar ob
 servations has long and justly been regarded as an interesting sub
 ject. 'To accomplish this desirable end, various methods of re
 ducing the lunar distances have been proposed with different
 degrees of success.  But while methods very different agree in
                              '•"•.'."^"•W.
                                                                  :   bringing

                                                                                         '
                   On finding the Longitude by Lunar Observations.                           3S
    '
        bringing out the same result, it may also     be remarked, that many
     methods apparently different are ^essentially the' same ; :the seem
     ing difference arising only from the endless variety of forms under
     which the quantities may be analytically expressed. Hence rriflny
 uh*velfarKtfeid;themselves the inventors of new methods, who a*
     little, if in any degree, entitled to the name.
         The pretensions to accuracy are likewise of very different de-
     grees some of these being also of the
               :                                       i
     of the greatest efforts to attain exactness are frequently produc
     tive of greater errors than those they were intended to remove.
    Thus, where perfection is aimed at, an allowance is made on the
    sun and moon's altitudes for the effect of refraction in diminishing
    their vertical semidiameters, without considering that the centre
    is seldom the apparent place of the angular point of the spherical
    triangle ; — sometimes also an allowance is made for the contrac
    tion of that semidiameter which is to' be applied to the distance.
    This, as we shall afterwards see, is likewise an elaborate way of
    creating new enofs.
      '
        nBait at any rate, hovvever great may be the distortion of the
   •disk by refraction, this; does not in the least affect the true alti
    tude of the centre, when the other corrections are properly ap
    plied for,        if
                       to the observed attitude of the limb, we first apply
    the refraction, &c. we get the true altitude of the limb ; and if
   -to this, the horizontal semidiameter be afterwards applied, it
   .gives the true altitude of the centre absolutely free from such an
    error. This, though hinted at by different authors, seems to be
    little, if at all, adopted in prsctice          for;'• books of navigation
                                                             in
    it    Is'customary first    to  apply the semidiameter to the observed
  :?ltrtud* 'of «he?Kmb, as that would accurately give the apparent
                                 if
    altitude of the centre, and then iwith this altitude to take out the
     cdrrectiows.           >.•
                                                                   '
:                           '.                                         ,   ",   '
         Some sort of respect,    it  istrue, may in .this* way be paid to the
    centre of the hrmiimry; but        it    only* a needless source of error,
                                            is
    which might be avoided without any additional labour.                  would    It
>   hence appear; 'that; the sun and moonV'^true -altitudes" \yhen
   »about 7° ar*j in addition t» other. iteccuracies,-subjected to an un-
 - necessary etror. of 18" by the msual eacelesa way of'working. But,
    as-we shall .afterwards, see, this          only half the extent to;which
                                                 is.
    the    error  may go    with   the apparent altitude,     ,lt:is   vain that
                                                                            in
.   we expect accuracy, even fnom' the best observers.and instruments,
    ifouch needless errors are persevered in. -..
         Although the common way of first applying the semidiameter
    does flot>accurately give the apparent altitude of the. centre yet                   ;
;-
    in:some ,eases        gives that of a point which
                           it                                 very near to shat
                                                                  is
    point    'of the vertical   diameter  through which     the  continiiatiou pf
    the arc representing the apparent distance would pass,, especially
                                                                            when

    36         On ^finding the Longitude by Lunar Observations.
     when sensibly affected by the distortion of the disk.       Now the
     position of this point is evidently of more importance than that
     of the centre itseif 5 because the centre is not necessarily the ap
     parent place of the angular point of the triangle.
        Suppose the vertical semidiameter of the moon to be shortened
    by the small space AB. Then if
    we take the distance of the moon's
    limb at E, from an object which
    lies in the direction E F, this arc
    E F will be perpendicular to the
    limb at E, and if produced, will ', nei
    cut the vertical diameter at some
    point D, which is below the cen
    tre C, by a space nearly equal
    A B. For the upper part of the
    disk will not sensibly differ from              i'
    a circle whose radius is equal the
    semidiameter parallel to the horizon, unless the altitude be very
    small.      If,  therefore, we have observed the altitude of the upper
    limb,   the   place of     D(not the centre)         found
                                                         is       by
                                                                  subtracting the
    augmented semidiameter.             But when the distance has been taken
    from   a  part of the . disk ©n       different side of the diameter which
                                          a
    is parallel    to  the  horizon   from    the limb whose altitude has been
    observed,     then   this method    fails   ;for in the present case, had the
    altitude of the      lower  limb   been observed, and the semidiameter
    added,     \t: would have given the altitude of           a point    as much
                                                                            G
    above the centre as         itought to be below. When this takes place,
    recourse must be had to               table answering to the space DG.
                                          a
     From    this    it    evident;
                          is        'that- when the apparent altitude of an
     angular point of the spherical triangle              about 7°,
                                                         is           may some
                                                                       it
     times, in the common way Of working, be erroneous by 36";
     and even iivthe method hitherto used for remedying this evil, the
     error will rafelv -be less' than 18" at the altitude of 7°.              But
     both are much more considerable when the altitude                 smaller.
                                                                        is
        The method referred to, for correcting the altitudes for the
     distortion of the disk,         by table answering to the diminution of
                                          a
,    the vertical semidiameter,           thus productive of an evil little in
                                          is
     ferior to, the one        was intended to remove; for although
                               it                                               by   it
    so that    ^hat      gameH iri! getting the true altitude of the centre
                          is
    is   just Jps£ iu,,departing, frpm 4he;,pouit; fr.qm wfhieh the distance
    should be taken and; to which, as we havealready seen, the com
    mon way of Working often makes      raoch nearer approach.
                                                    a
      With regard to the line      which  1)   E,
                                          some learned authors' have
                                                                been

           On finding the Longitude by Lunar Observations.                    37
been pleased to consider as shortened by refraction, the mistake
has no doubt arisen from the old established habit of always esti
mating the apparent distance from the centre.                But if we sup
pose the disk to be elliptical*, then it may be shown, that if from
any point of either axis of an ellipsis but the centre, a straight
line be drawn perpendicular to the curve, — this line, sometimes
called the normal, is greater or less than half the other axis, ac
cording as the point was taken in the conjugate or transverse axis.
DE        is,
          therefore, always greater than the greatest semidiameter;
so that      it  obviously much safer just to account
                    is                                        it   equal the
augmented semidiameter than less.
 I    do not mean to insinuate that             have put this subject be
                                                      I
yond   the  possibility    of  improvement,     or   that there may not be
defects in the    above   way   of  considering  it.     My object   merely
                                                                    is
to make       nearer approach to accuracy with as little additional
                a
labour as possible.       The method which would therefore recom
                                                      I
mend when the distance and altitude have both been measured
from parts of the limb which are either both above or both below
the centre —       first, to find the true altitude of the limb, to which
                         is,
the true or horizontal semidiameter being afterwards applied gives
the true altitude of the centre.         Next to the observed altitude of
the limb apply the " agumented semidiameter," which will give
the place of           and then with these compute the true distance
                         D ;
as usual.    But when the distance and altitude have been observed
from different sides of the diameter parallel to the horizon,            will
                                                                         it
be necessary that the correction contained              in several books  for
the contraction of the whole vertical diameter be subtracted from
the semidiameter which             to be applied to the apparent altitude
                                       is
of the limb in order to get the place of D.               '
      may be proper to anticipate an objection which might be
     It
brought against this method — that when the angle at the sun or
moon      is right angle, the centre
                a                            the angular point of the tri
                                                 is
angle; and the above rule would then make the altitude erro
neous      by
           half the contraction.        This cannot be denied but
                                                                :         it    is
no less obvious, that        small alteration on the altitude at a right
                                   a
angle will have no sensible effect on the distance, which                the
                                                                         is
main thing    to  be  attended   to.        If
                                         greater accuracy were required,
a careful determination of the figure of the disk would probably
point out the construction of table answering more correctly to
                                            a
D G, and which might be applicable to different angles formed
at the luminaries.         table could likewise be formed which would
                               A
give the  excess   of  DE   above the semidiameter for different angles
     * The figure of the sun or moon when near the horizon will more nearly
consist of two semi-ellipses having the transverse axis common to both but;
the semi-conjugate axis of the upper half greater than that of the lower. It
is easy to see, that the above theorem applies on this supposition also.
                                            C   3                             and

38r 5   On , finding the Longitude by Lunar Observations.
and altitudes!     But- this is a degree of nicety too. laborious for
                         '
common practice*:::,                  ••:.!•• .  . ,. . ..
    It will probably bealleged that much has been said about a small
cqrrefltifln,— that of removing the effects of the contraction of the
sun;an'd moon's disk.       But if this degree of accuracy may be at
tained with little or no additional labour, I think it ought not
tabe neglected ; and the more especially as there are . probably                    i
abundance of remaining inaccuracies not so easily dislodged from
the, lunar distances.      Besides, I do not consider an error of seven
or- eight minutes .of longitude un worthy of avoiding, when it can
be done so easily; and a much greater error may sometimes be
produced by neglecting the quantity under consideration,            To
ward |he equator, where the errors depending on the figure of the,
earth vanish, this one may .still have its. maximum effect on the
lunar- distance. :,:! ....                                                i .
    Among other vague things so abundant in books of navigation, .
it is -customary to say^ — that ff the limb of the Hadley's quadrant
contains only -45° or the eighth part of the circle; but that by
reason of the double reflexion the angle is doubled."                 It would,
indeed, be difficult to give a more insignificant description of this
instrument ; for it is easy to show, that the doubling (or rather i
halving) is completely effected, by the fi.rst reflexion : the second
serving no other purpose than that of giving the rays a mote con
venient direction* . It might perhaps have at least some meaning,
to say-—" that the limb contains only 45°, for by reason of the
reflexion of the index-mirror, the instrument only gives half the
observed angle."          But' our authors on navigation are generally
so. well trained to follow in the old-beaten track, that they run >
little risk of wandering into any improvement.                   . ..
    It is a common popular          doctrine,  that parallax-operates only
in a vertical direction. But if this         -were   true, it would make the
moon appear of an oval figure, which,, as is easily shown, cannot"
be tbp casej for it is obvious, that            the moon be spherical she
                                               it'
 must? jappear  circular,   let   the  observer   go where he will, except
 so- far .as depends   on  the   intervening   medium.       The difference of      >
 the parallaxes    for  any  two    diametrically opposite limbs, consti
 tutes what   is called the augmentation of the diameter.
    Another thing which claims strong reprobation,              is, the method .
 of finding the latitude hy table of
                                  a             "  difference of altitude of
 polestar   and pole/'      This   method      always
                                              is        erroneous, unless the       :
 latitude be   near  to  0;  or,   when   the  polestar  i&in. the meridian—-
a   case where the aid      of  such   a helpless  table  is not wanted.        .  ..
     In this method    it   isliberally supposed,     that the  altitude   of  the
 polestar when six hours distant from the meridian
                                                                is the same as
 that of the pole. This, however,        is  no where true but at the equa-         .
 torj   and the reason      is  obvious: for in any other case when the
                                          ,   ;                               star

                                 On   Air oliles.                                          3sr
star is six hours from the meridian, its zenith distance, which is
less than DfP, being the hypothenuse of a right-angled spherical
triangle, is therefore greater than the zenith distance of the pole,
which is only a side of that triangle.
    But another grand fault is — that it makes no provision for the
rapid change of polar distance to which this star is subject. Had
it no other fault, this alone would render such a table vague
enough in the course of a very few years. In some very respect
able and scientific works a table of this sort is given, in which
the polar distance of the polestar (involved in the whole table) is
erroneous by 4''6 at the time of publication ; and as the error
increases nearly one minute in three years, it is not difficult to
perceive what confidence ought to be put in such tables.
   AH the errors and delusions I have noticsd are more or less in
debted to the original system of copying the same things over
and over, again, without ever inquiring whether they have a good
foundation, or indeed anv foundation at all. Such is the con
tented and unsuspecting disposition of modern authors, that they
can safely take each other's word for things which in less en
lightened times would have required a demonstration. Suspicion,
the very bane of society, becomes an exalted virtue when applied
to science.           I am, sir,
             .          . .  Your most obedient servant,
                                          -    ;   .-,   ,       Henry Meikle.
                               VI.   On Aerolites.
                                To Mr.Tiihck.                            .>       ..   .
                  ,                                        London, June 17> 1819.
Sir, —       X   he very curious question of             aerolites has lately been
 introduced into your pages        MM. Capel Lofft and Acton; and
                                     by
 though  I seldom indulge in -speculative opinions on scientific sub
jects, being more desirous of confining myself to        simple detail   a
 of experiments and facts, am induced to digress
                                 I                          little from       a
 that line in the present instance.
    You may remember that in one of my former papers adverted                 I
 to a meteoric stone which fell at Pulrose in the Isle of Man. The
 evidence which     collected seemed to attest the fact, and place
                       I                                                                    it
 hevond  a  doubt; and yet its physical characters of extreme levity
 and scoriaceous texture, seemed to impose      doubt upon its iden-.
                                                             a
 tity  with  those stony    masses which  have at different times                          vi
 sited the  earth; and   this comparison, coupled with an examina
 tion of those aerolites which      had the opportunity of seeing in
                                      I
 many museums on the continent, did not tend to unhinge that
doubt.   *       •'
                      '
                      >                                          >   .
   In this uncertainty of mind            I   turned over the leaves of the
                                      C   4                                            Journal

                                      On Aerolites.
Journal     de Physique, and found in volume lx. a description of
 some spongy stones which fell near Roa, not far from Burgos in
 Spain, in 1438. The analogy is very striking, and I do not know
 any other instance upon record which describes meteorolites un
 der a similar character.       It may he considered as corroborating
 that which I have detailed, and confirming its claim to a similar
 origin : — " Mais ce qui causoit le plus d'etonnement, c'etoit
 leur excessive l<!gerete', puisque les plus grandes ne pesoient pas
 une demi-livre. Elles e-toient si tendres, qu'elles ressembloient plus
 a do l'ecume de mer condensee qu'a toute autre chose. On pou-
 voit s'en frapper le dedans des mains sans crainte d'y causer ni
 contusion ni douleur ni la moiudre apparence, &c."          Now this is
 precisely the case with that in question.        .  .
     I confess that I react with some degree of astonishment Mr.
 Brande's opinion on the origin of meteoric stones (Journal of
 Science and the Arts, No. 10, page 294), because 1 believed that
 their supposed lunar origin had been generally abandoned, and
 that the opinion which confined them to our atmosphere had
ceased to be problematical.         Mr. Brande observes, after stating
 the questions of their being " earthy matter fused by lightning?"
or " the offspring of a terrestrial volcano?" and adverting to
the inexplicable projectile force that would here be wanted, that
"  this is merely explaining what is puzzling by assuming what
is impossible,"      and that, in this conjecture, the advocates of
such an opinion "have assumed one impossibility to account
for what they conceive to be another." The Professor then con
tinues : " The notion that these bodies come from the moon,
though it has been laughed at as lunacy,                is,
                                                       when impartially
considered, neither absurd nor impossible. — It-is quite true,"
says he,
          "   that the quiet way in which they visit us          against
                                                                  is
such an origin    ;   itseems, however, that any power w]hich would
move  a   body 6000 feet in a second, that is, about three times
the velocity of a cannon-ball, would throw            from the sphere of
                                                        it
the moon   s    attraction into that of our earth. The cause of this
projective force may be        volcano; and
                                  a            thus impelled, the body
                                                  if
would reach us in about two days and enter our atmosphere with
                                            ,
a velocity of about 25,000 feet in a second." With every respect
for Professor Brande's opinion, and highly as may value  I             it,   it
is  impossible for me to receive the present in any other than a
very doubtful form. — Mr. B. denies to any volcano on the ter
restrial surface projectile power of extent sufficient to propel vol
                  a
canic dust to the required elevation; and yet unhesitatingly gives
to lunar volcanoes one not merely of enormous, but of almost in
conceivable impetus.         Now, to say nothing of the
                                                            " quiet way
                           "
m which; they visit us, the very existence of lunar volcanoes, to
state the least   of   it,   is   exceedingly   questionable.   Sir W. Her-
                                                                       schel

                             On Jltroiites.                       41
 schel thought he saw the gleam of a volcano on the lunar sphere;
 and this being of the imagination has been received as currency,
 and made the ppdestal of the hypothesis which regards these
 " children of the air" as of lunar formation. —Now here, methinks,
 two difficulties are introduced ; namely, That the lunar mass is
 composed of very different materials from any we find on our own
 planet, — and a necessity of admitting the existence of volcanoes
 in the moon gifted with powers of projection of the most extra
 ordinary description.     Now, could the bright speck which our
 eminent astronomer witnessed, proceed from no other source than
 a lunar volcano ? — The celestial exhibitions which from time to
 time greet the eye, should tend to mingle humility in our estimate
 of the phenomena of the stars. Besides, many eminent astro
 nomers have denied the assertion of Sir W. Herschel, and among
them we find the name of M. Arago. The existence of a lunar
atmosphere seems necessary for this position ; and the occultations
of the stars clearly prove that such an atmosphere does not exist,
or at least that it does not possess a sensible density.  Moreover,
on this supposition meteorolites ought to be confined to a given
range ; whereas, so far from being limited to any parallel of lati
tude, they are not bounded by any prescribed lines.         It seems
less difficult to say what they are not, than what they really are:
but I think a proper consideration of the phenoniena which
announce their presence and their fall, might in some measure
Serve us a clue to guide us out of the difficulty.;: Their precipi
tation from the atmosphere, though once deemed fabulous, is no
longer doubted, and the identity of their elements and peculiar
aggregations pronounces their common origin, and that they
are not terrestrial bodies. A black cloud, the splendours of the
thunder-storm, the apparition of light succeeded by treruendous
explosions, are the heralds of their fall; and when        occurs at
night, aluminous phenomenon proclaims their passage through
the regions of the atmosphere.        Mr. Brande thinks that " their
ignition may be accounted for either by supposing the heat ge
nerated by their motion in our atmosphere sufficient to ignite
them ; or, by considering them as combustibles ignited by the
mere contact of air."     It is very true, we may assume any thing ;
arid the rapidity of their progress, on the supposition that they
 are launched from the surface of the moon and enter our atmo
 sphere with the velocity of " about 25,000 feet in a second,"
 might, by the extraordinarv friction that would obtain, be suffi
 cient to ignite them ; — but to be inflamed by the mere contact
 of cool air in passing through that rarefied medium, where even
 aqueous vapour may lose its elasticity and become solid matter,
 we must suppose that the meteoric stones are entirely composed
 of some such body as potassium; — now they ,are well known ag-
htiijf                                                    gregations

 42                              On Aerolites.
 gregations of iron, nickel and chromium, with silica, alumina and
 magnesia; and occasionally sulphur, lime and carbon, more rarely
containing traces -of cobalt. As for the possibility of the creation
of iron, &c. from simpler forms of matter, which Mr. Brande
 also presumes* though supposititiously, I need only again repeat
 that we are at liberty to suppose what we will. In presuming my
opinion in opposition to that of Professor Brande I shall not be so
extravagant, but deduce what I may consider fair data from the
history of meteorolites, aaid the circumstances which announce
 and accompany their fall.
      I think it evident that these meteoric bodies are not wander
ing masses circulating round our globe, nor chips from any planet
moving, within the compass of the solar system.               But I will not
say either that they are -the gifts of our atmosphere, or extra-
 atmospheric, and formed on the surface of its outer shelly ,.
      It is surely more reasonable to suppose that they spring from
the thunder-storm, than that the storm is the result of their ac
                                                          '
tion.,,                                                     .     ,,     . . . j,l
      They do not penetrate far into the earth ; sometimes are sim
ply scattered on its surface. Now, if the elevation at which they
were formed was very considerable ; on the. -well-known laws of
 gravitation, they should sink deep into the soil.
      Though the peculiar proportional associations are not"disco-
verable in any terrestrial mineral, still the substances themselves
are not rare in the earth.                     r
                                                                .      .
                                                                           >>
                         '
    , As   to the agency which carried them to such lofty elevations,
 1 .cannot find it either in volcanic      forces or the whirlwind from
the desert ; nor do I discover in volcanic products materials for
their construction.
      Hydrogen variously combined is continually escaping from all
parts of the surface of the. globe ; sometimes it carries on its wing
iron or carbon or sulphur or other materials; and who shall decide
that nickel in intimate chemical combination with iron, or si-                    .
lica with, oxide of iron,, &c. may not be transported in such a ve
hicle ? And the combined hydrogen might in virtue of its great
levity, and expanding as it ascended, finally brave the outer circle
of the atmosphere and settle upon its waves.—We have no right
to limit its solvent powers, and it is still questionable whether it
has ever yet appeared to the chemist in a simple form. We know
it ' dissolves iron, zinc, arsenic, tellurium, selenium, potassium,
boron, carbon, sulphur, and phosphorus ; and we have no autho
rity to restrict its powers to even these. As for oxygen*, &c— for
any thing I know they may have very exalted solvent powers.
      We have then only to suppose two immense aerial volumes
     * Professor Giabert of Tvfrin told me he had found invariably, that oxy
gen obtained from peroxide of mercury, when respired, produced salivation.
   . .  ,:                                                            loaded

               Observations on the Study      of Mineralogy.              43
 loaded with such: materials as these, and floating either in or on
 the atmosphere : they would be differently electrified ; for oxygen
 with its contained materials, and hydrogen with its accompani
 ments; would certainly be so:
     The effect of two such masses coming into collision, would be
 exhibition of light and communication of heat. — The two elec
 tricities rushing into contact would produce explosion ; the gases
would.be ignited*; the stony materials undergo fusion, — and
in that moment the formed, aerolite would take its flight to the
earth.                            .
     As to the change in the proportional       constituents, the powers
of electricity -will account for this.      Has not Sir H. Davy proved
 that the usual powers of nature may be controlled by its action ?
 By giving foreign electric properties to alkalies and acids, has he
           >.-,.
not changed their relations, and destroyed their natural attrac
 tions'?
                                               • - • •.
                                                         •! -
     The metals concerned in this extraordinary fabric are suscep
tible of receiving magnetic phenomena.            Electricity permanently
identified with iron or nickel may impart to them this property,
vested-' ;in only a privileged few-.      A fine steel bar electrified be
comes magnetic, and the action of lightning has reversed the
polarity of the mariner's compass. i ..
    Dr: Clarke has found that meteoric stones become magnetic
afteii'fusicTT'by the oxyhydrogen blow-pipe, which may proceed
from a volatilization of the sulphur ; for it is known that the pre
 sence ofeither arsenic or sulphur weakens or destroys this suscep
 tibility. • I have the honour to be, sir,
                    Your very humble and most obedient servant,
                                                              J. Murray.
VHV Observations on the Study of Mineralogy.                    By Robert
                             Bakewell, Esq.\
IVJiNSftAtofiY       is a branch of natural history; and he who would
obtain' a just and comprehensive view of the subject, must not
conftne his attention to minerals as they are arranged in cabinets,
but contemplate them as they occur in their native repositories;
he should endeavour to trace the connexion between different
species of minerals, and the changes which they undergo by pro
cesses of natural chemistry — changes which cannot at present
be imitated in our laboratories.         Persons who live principally in
    * The oxidation of the thin shell pf the aerolite is in harmony with this
view^    Aqueous vapour would be formed by the ignition of the gases, and
impart that appearance which it has received from some such means.
    f  Extracted from the Preface to Mr. Bakevvell's Introduction to Minera
                                ,,, ...                j . ..; ., ,.- .
logy just, published. ,       t

44             Observations on the Study      of Mineralogy.
large cities, and only view minerals in cabinets, are led to enter
tain the idea, that in the mineral kingdom, nature is in a state of
profound repose, and that all the different minerals at present
existing, are coeval with the globe itself.          It is true, that when
 minerals are taken from the mine and placed in cabinets, they
 appear to undergo no further change, and to be imperishable ; but
in their native repositories, changes are constantly though slowly
taking place ; they increase in size, advance to maturity, and
afterwards decay more or less rapidly, though the life of a mi
neral, if we may use the expression, extends far beyond the du
ration of life in animals or vegetables.
    It is worthy of particular attention, that certain species of mi
 nerals, very dissimilar in their composition, are almost always as
 sociated together.        Now, to use the words of the late Bishop of
 Landaff, " Though it may be too much to infer, that one of these
 substances arises from the natural decomposition of the other,
juxtaposition in the bowels of the earth being no certain proof of
their being derived from each other ; yet the mind cannot help
conjecturing, that a more improved state of mineralogy will show
some connexion in their origin." — Chemical Essays, vol. iv.
   When the same species of mineral from different parts of the
world always contains a certain substance that appears to the su
perficial observer to be foreign to it ; the common origin of both
 substances may be inferred with still greater probability.            Thus
galena (the common ore of lead) almost invariably contains a por
tion of silver. This is the case with the common lead-ore in every
part of England, though not a particle of silver-ore has been dis
covered there, except in Cornwall and Devonshire.                Such facts
particularly deserve the attention of the philosophical mineralo
gist, and I have been careful to notice them, in order to excite
a spirit of inquiry.       Can we say in the above instance, that the
lead was forming into silver, but was arrested in its progress ; or
is the change now taking place ? I do not deem it unphiloso-
phical to believe, that the vivifying influence of creative energy
descends to the deepest recesses of the earth, acting according
to laws as regular as those which govern the motion of the planets
in the heavens.
        " Mens agitat molem, et magna se corpore miscet."  — ViRa.
                        "  One pervading soul
           Fills the great  mass, and mingles with the whole."
    The combined effects of magnetism, electricity, crystalline po
larity, and chemical affinity, are probably united with other causes
at present unknown, producing all the various changes in the
mineral kingdom, including volcanic phenomena.                 But in what
ever manner these changes are effected, they are undoubtedly
                                                                      going

            Observations on the Study    of Mineralogy.                45
going on; and he who views the naineral kingdom as an inert mass
 of heterogeneous elements, and confines his attention exclusively
to cabinet collections, in order to obtain a knowledge of nature,
is " seeking the living among the dead."
    Unfortunately the objects of mineralogical research are placed
at a considerable distance from the residence of men of science,
who are therefore seldom able to observe them in their native re
positories, and working miners are little qualified to describe the
phenomena presented to their notice.
    It was said by one of the ancients, that the world would be
well governed whenever kings were philosophers, or philosophers
became kings.      We may say with greater truth, that niinerHlogy
will become a perfect science, whenever working miners are en
lightened mineralogists,     or enlightened mineralogists become
working miners : but as these events are beyond the sphere of
probable occurrences, neither the politician nor the naturalist
need stop to anticipate the result of their accomplishment.
    The attention of mineralogists has been too much devoted to
the discovery of new species that possess no importance in nature,
and can be of no use in the arts ; or they have been engaged in
the useless labour of inventing new names, and classing as new
species every variety they meet with, attaching the names of di
stinguished characters, to minerals which have neither use nor
beauty to recommend them to our notice.         Can Werner or Haiiy
derive honour from having their names affixed to such minerals ?
What shovdd we think of the taste or good sense of the naturalist
who affixed the names of Linneus, Lamarck, or Cuvier, -to any
newty-diseovered variety of gnat, flea, or bug ? But a similar ab-
snrdny is frequently committed by mineralogists.        This frivolous
practice   of changing  and  multiplying names   probably Originated
with mineral dealers on the continent, who were thus enabled to
multiply their specimens, and to obtain a high price for substances
which possessed .no recommendation whatever, but their sup
                         • '                       '       • "
posed rarity.                                        yui .    v'f*
'.  As some apology for the attention which has been devoted to
substances of little use or importance on account of theiv scarcity,
it may be right to remark, that in the present state of the science,
mineralogists are l.ike.the searchers for diamonds. in tbemines of
India, who are obliged to pass every stone between the eye and the
light, lest they should inadvertently throw away »;dianiond. That
I  may part in good temper with those who attach more import
ance than''
          I     Ao to the discovery of new mineral species merely
oil account of their rarity,'I   shall beg leave1 'to conclude with     a
few ooservations connected with the subject that     I     have some-
tfrries delivered in my lectures, when treating oft crystalline and
magnetic polarity       We ought to be extremely cautious in de-
 S^S                                                                 »ying

>"46     On an old Method        of marking Dales    on MS.  Books.
  nying the value of any discoveries in nature or in science, because
  their application to useful purposes may not he immediately ob
  vious.     How greatly would the heroes and statesmen of-antiquity
  have despised the labours of that man who devoted hfa •life- to
  investigate the properties of the magnet ! Little could they anti
  cipate that this humble mineral was destined to change the very
  form and condition of human society in every quarter of the globe.
  Let us bear in mind, that the magnet was known nearly two thou
  sand years before it was applied to any purpose of practical uti
 lity. • During that time the ocean was a fearful and tfackless
  abyss, and voyages were confined to short excursions along the
  shore.     The wanderings of Ulysses, which took ten years to ac
  complish, did not exceed in extent and difficulty the voyage from
  Dublin to London. When magnetic polarity was applied tojhe
 .aid of navigation, mankind seemed to have acquired a new sense ;
  guided bv this mysterious power, Vasco de Gama and Columbus
  led the way to the eastern and the western world, and a fresh
  impulse was given to the human mind, which had been slum
  bering for centuries.        There is not a country inhabited ' bv man
  where the influence      of   this discovery has not been felt; it has
  been the parent of our naval and commercial greatness, and has
  obtained for us the commanding rank we hold among the nations
  of Europe.       The history of the magnet should teach us not to
   despise any discovery in science because its utility cannot be im-
. mediately perceived.        Some discoveries are unproductive, until
  the progress of science in a future age directs their application to
  purposes of eminent utility.         Such discoveries may be compared
  to the acorn, which may remain for a time buried in an arid soil,
  until, stimulated by the genial rains of heaven, it strikes its roots
  into the earth, and springs forth to day—humble indeed in its
  first appearance, and slow in its progress to maturity ; but destined
  at length to became a mighty oak, stretching its arms amid' the
  skies ; the ornament, the strength, and the glory of the forest.
              June 21, 1819.
   13, Tavistock-street, Bedford-square.
    VIII.    On an old Method        of marking Dales on Manuscript
                      Books.     By Gavin Inglis, Esy.
                                To Mr. TUiock.
  Dear Sir, — Somk            time ago a collector of rare and curious
  volumes brought me an old manuscript Prayer Book, beautifully
  written on vellum* and partially illuminated, and requested 1 would
  do him the favour to look it over and see if I could trace any
  thing like a date, or mark by which its age might be ascertained,
                                                                    which

                  On an old Method                 of marking Dates                               on       MS.        Books.         47
     which he said constituted its chief worth, and. would stamp it
     with a greater or less value in proportion to its antiquity. ' -He
     had shown it to different clergymen, who severally examined its
     contents, without being able to affix any period, or observing any
     mark, or character, by which they could trace the date of its ori
     gin, although the year was very pointedly dated at the close of
     the calendar, but in a manner somewhat characteristic of the age
     of the church to which it belonged, when every thing was con
     cealed under some mystic syiijboj, or almost unintelligible hiero-
     glyphical hyperbole.
        As the date of this little volume escaped the scrutinizing obser
     vation of these learned gentlemen, the same mode of dating may
     have been adopted in other writings of the same period, and
     perhaps of much greater importance, and which may also have
     escaped the researcher's notice, when its identity might have
     been of some consequence. Perhaps the deciphering of this may
     give a key, and lead to others of more interesting import.'      On
     this ground, may I trouble you to give it g a few minutes' consi
     deration, and if you judge it at all likely to be useful or amusing,
     have the goodness to give it a corner in your next number of the
  Philosophical Magazine ?
     The calendar was written in the regular style, the manuscript
  of which had been finished on the first day of the second month,
  one thousand four hundred and fifty-six, veiled under the follow-
• ing
      mystical dotting, made at the close of the last month in the
                                                                  '
     calendar.                                           '«
                                                                                                               "
                                   >'               •         •       •         •           >i ** . w ..
                                                              .V
                                                                          '
                                         »••-'•                                 .'.         .'.
                                                                                                  '".[.     '/'
      To render     the more obscure, there was neither point nor
                              it
    comma, to divide the numbers, which would have made    some                                                          it
    what plainer, thus:                             .
                                              .•i '>-'                        ••at-'f>'->   it ';r*!-          •>..      ,.'   .•'
           The single dot              the two horizontal dots mark
                                        is   the first day            ,
    two, for the second mouth. The. three dropping or perpendicular
    dots, in imitation of the old   are only   numerical one.
                                                        i       -T^ie                  a
    quatre/oMr, the cinq five, and the six    heiagjaid horizontally                  by
    denotes the currency of its numbers, and          to be counted                                    is
    •.-
          I-/     i.   e.   six.    Had the six dots                      been         placed thus
                                                                                                                        • *•
                                                                                                                                they
          '»''«   •
    would have only counted two: had the date been fifty-three, the
                                                                                                               .,
.
    three must have stood
           >/     .
                                                  thus
                                                              ...•cor
                                                              i;'>"                   thus             .   .          four     would
                                                                                                                                have

48              Experiments for  a new    Theory   of Vision.
have been a repetition of the quatre, &c. Hence the date of the
book must be 1st of the 2d month 1456 Ann. Dom.
                                  Yours truly,
Strathendry, June 21, 1819.                             Gavin INGLIS.
  IX.    Experiments   for  a new Theory     of Vision.    By Joseph
                             Reade, M.D.
                            To  Mr. Tilloch.
                          KuWkttx     iSsiv. JCen.
Sir, — Perhaps          do subject in natural philosophy has more en
gaged the attention of the learned, or claimed more interest, than
that concerning the proper seat of vision. For two hundred years
the retiilal theory has been maintained, and its difficulties, if not
absurdities, softened down by the learned ingenuity of mathema
ticians and metaphysicians. Well aware that to overturn a theory
so universally adopted, and stamped with the seal of antiquity,
requires a number of well regulated experiments and legitimate
deductions, I now commit my endeavours to the candour of the
 intelligent   reader.
    Exp.    1st. — Having often remarked, when examining the eyes
of   patients, that surrounding objects, such as a lighted candle,
&c. were painted on the transparent, cornea in a beautiful and
 minute manner, as on the face of a convex speculum, it oc
 curred to me that the mind might receive impressions or ideas
 from those erect images; and I was the more desjrous of bringing
 this interesting suggestion to the test of experiment, in conse
 quence of the many difficulties attached to the present system of
 vision.     I now pasted two narrow strips of black cloth in the
 shape of the letter T, and about three inches in length, on one
 of the upper panes of a. large and well-lighted window.           I then
 requested a gentleman with a large pupil. and good sight to seat
 himself about four Or five feet from the latter, and to fix his eyes
 steadily on it. Looking into his pupil I perceived the letter T to
 be minutely yet distinctly painted by reflexion.          I then took a
 plano-convex lens in my right hand, such as school-boys use for
 burning-glasses, and held it close to the pupil. On again looking
 at the corneal image of the letter T, I perceived it enlarged or
 magnified in all its dimensions, and the spectator said, he also
 perceived it much larger than with the naked eye. On removing
 the lens a little further from his eye, I perceived the letter on the
 pupil not only magnified, but surrounded with colours; and now
 the spectator saw the letter large, confused, and surrounded with
 colours.     So far the phenomena of vision answered exactly to

               Experiments on a new Theory      of Vision.            49
 the changes of this corneal image.         I next removed the lens
somewhat further from the eye, and on looking into it perceived
the letter T to be inverted, and the spectator likewise saw it in
verted.     He now took the lens in his own hand, and placing it
at different distances before his eye, I was enabled by means of
 the corneal image to tell him what he saw.           Having again re
 quested the spectator to fix his eyes on the letter, 1 placed a con
 cavo-concave lens before the pupil, and the letter was immedi
 ately diminished; he said he now saw it very small.        Here I shall
beg leave to remark that these experiments strike at the very first
 principles as laid down for optical instruments.       For we find by
 these two simple and conclusive experiments, that a convex lens,
instead of converging the rays as first maintained by Maurolycus
in his treatise De Lumine el Umbra, actually and bond Jide di
verges and magnifies the images in all its dimensions ; and on the
.other hand, that a concave glass converges or diminishes the
 image.     The object of this paper being merely to draw the at
 tention of the scientific to my opinions on optics, and particularly
on vision, I shall not at present enter more fully into the theory
 of spectacles, object-glasses, &c.
     Exp. 2d. — Having placed a plano-convex         lens at such a di
 stance before the spectator's eye,     as to form an inverted image
 of the letter T on his pupil, I placed    a concavo-concave lens be
 hind,  so as to represent an opera-glass or Galilean telescope. The
 inverted corneal image immediately became erect, and the spec
 tator said he also saw it erect.
     Exp. 3d. — The above experiments were made at about four
 feet from the window. I now requested the spectator to remove
ihis chair to within a foot of the object ; and on placing a convex
 lens immediately before the eye, the corneal image was conside
rably magnified : on- slowly removing the lens more to the letter,
 and further from the eye, the black corneal image began to be
 surrounded with colours ; but did not become inverted, nor did the
 spectator perceive anv change of position ; when close to the ob
ject the corneal image appeared better defined and more distinct.
 J next placed a prism before his eye, and desired him to look
 through the lower refracting angle.      As he was unaccustomed to
 the application of   this instrument, he could  not regulate it so as to
 perceive the coloured image of the letter T. I therefore turned
 the prism until I perceived it on the pupil, and then told him ex
actly what he saw, making a mirror of his eye. Let us now in
 quire what changes the intervention' of a plano-convex or a con
 cave glass would make on the letter T brought to a focus on the
 retina by means of the crystalline and other humours.           Having
 removed the fat and coats from the back part of an ox's eye, as
 performed by Kepler and Scheiner, and thus laid bare the retina,
  . jVol. 54. No. 255. July 1819.               D               I placed

 50            Experiments   on a new Theory    of Vision.
  I placed a lighted candle in front. An inverted image was seen
 as  if floating on the retina. I now placed a plano-convex lens
 between the candle and the cornea, at such a distance as to form
 an inverted image on the pupil.        The retinal image remained
 inverted.     On  now placing concavo-concave lens at a little di
                                a
 stance before the convex one, the corneal and inverted image
 became erect, while the retinal inverted image was not in the
 least changed as to position. Here is a direct experimental proof,
 that even if an inverted image were painted on the retina, that
 inverted image, not undergoing any change of position by the in
 tervention of the glasses, could not be the image conveyed to the
 mind. To suppose for one moment, that an inverted image on
 the retina could produce both the idea of inversion and erection,
 would be adding another inconsistency to Kepler's catalogue.
  In this experiment the changes of the corneal image were ac
 companied by simultaneous changes in the mind ; therefore that,
 and that alone, must have produced the sensation.         On placing
 a glass globe about two inches diameter filled with water oppo
 site the letter T on the window, and then interposing a convex
 lens, the posterior inverted image was obliterated,the rays of black
 light not being sufficiently strong. The same thing took place
.with a concave lens.     Dr. Priestley, who wrote a number of me
 taphysical works, gravely informs his readers,
                                                    " that the want of
 an inverted image might produce the sensation of an erect one."
With great respect for the Doctor's opinions, we might just as
readily believe that the want of a man's dinner would get him a
supper     !
    There is no inverted image ever painted on the retina.
    Having removed the fat and coats from the back part of an
 ox's eye, and thus bared the retina, in imitation of Kepler's and
Scheiner's experiments, I placed a lighted candle on a table in
front; and on looking through the retina, my eye being placed
beyond the principal focus of the sphere (or rather two segments
of one), I certainly did perceive   a beautiful and inverted image  of
the candle as if floating on the retina.       So far the experiment
seemed to accord with the retinal theory of vision ; for, if the rays
were refracted and converged, as represented by optical writers,
by means of the cornea, aqueous humour, crystalline lens, and vi
treous humour, they should cross nearly in the centre of the eye,
and finally paint an inverted image on the retina.       However, on
approaching my eye nearer to the retina, I perceived the inverted
image to become large, confused ; and when my eye was very close,
it opened into two curved and inverted images, which receded
laterally, and at a yet nearer approach formed into a circle,
through the centre of which I perceived a very distinct and erect
image of the candle, evidently coming from the anterior surface of
                                                                   the

               Experiments on a new Theory       of Vision.           5 1
  the eye, and perfectly distinct from the inverted one, considerably
  magnified in passing through the humour.           Kepler, in placing
  his eve beyond the focus of the ox's eye, which is nothing more
  than a simple sphere, saw an inverted image formed by the junc
  tion of the two images painted on his own cornea, which he mis
  took for one on the retina, as a person looking into a concave
  mirror thinks he sees an inverted image in the glass. Here I think
  it necessary to give a rough sketch of the passage of the rays
  through the eye, particularly as my opinions are diametrically
   opposite to those of all optical writers.
     A glass globe filled with water, and about two inches diameter,
  may serve those unacquainted with morbid dissections : ab are two
   rays of light coming from the upper and lower parts of the can
   dle, impinge on the transparent cornea at c, and paint an erect
  image.      This image again transmits rays, diverging as they pass
  through    the  sphere to g, where the spectator sees a magnified
   and erect image.      The image at the cornea c also sends rays,
  forming inverted images in consequence of the rays crossing; —
  these images take the curvature of the glass globe, and, uniting into
   one inverted image, form what has been denominated the princi
  pal refracted focus at   f.   Now it is evident that Kepler, to have
   made his experiments correctly, should have placed his eye at g,
  and not at    f;  indeed, his eye should almost touch the retina ;
  and then, as I have already said, he would have seen an erect
  magnified image of the candle, and not an inverted one surrounded
  by what optical writers denominate a circle of aberration.        It is
  really surprising   how  any person could  for a moment   believe that
'
  this circle of aberration could produce vision, according to the
  present theory of vision. Long-sightedness       they say is produced
  by the image being formed beyond the retina. Short-sightedness,
  by an image formed before the retina in the vitreous humour, —
  both physical impossibilities ! The rays of light are supposed to
  be converged in the body of the eye.        I would beg leave to put
  the following question : Would the crystalline lens, when em
  bedded in the vitreous humour,act in the same manner as it would
  in air ? Certainly not, as the following easy experiment may
  show.     Take a large basin of water, holding a powerful glass lens
  in such a position over the water as to form an inverted image
                                    D  2                               op.

  52             Experiments on a new Theory              of Vision.
  on the side of the basin and under the water ; then immerge the
  entire lens, and at no distance whatsoever can a focus be ever
 formed. The circular shadow with its black circumference is
  perceived, but nothing else.             Now surely the refractive power
  of glass, in proportion to that of water, is much greater than that
 of the crystalline lens in proportion to that of the vitreous hu
 mour. Mr. Harris in his Optics, p. 95, says: " It is very diffi
 cult, I think, to determine accurately the measure of these refrac
 tion ; but, from such experiments as could be made, it has been
 found that the refractive powers of the aqueous and vitreous hu
 mours are each of them much the same with that of common
 water, and that of the crystalline lens is a little greater : that is,
 the proportion between the sines of incidence and refraction out
-of air into the cornea or aqueous humour, is as 4 to 3 : out of
 the aqueous humour into the crystalline, as 13 to 12, and out of
 the crystalline humour into the vitreous, as 12 to 13." From ana
 logy we are authorized to conclude, that the crystalline lens can
 never form an inverted image on the retina, and that the lens is
 placed in the centre of the eye to magnify or diverge the rays,
 and not to converge and invert the object.                  Moreover, that the
 crystalline lens does not produce inverted images on the retina,
 is shown by what takes place when removed by the operation of
depression or extraction. For, if the lens were so essentially neces
 sary to vision, its removal must cause blindness. In answer to this
 objection it has been stated, that after the operation the patient
 is obliged to use convex glasses or spectacles to supply the place
 of the lens.        From many years practice in those complaints, I
 am   enabled     to say that this is by no means the case.               In young
 patients,   the   use of convex    glasses, although     at first  of assistance,  is
 ultimately unnecessary, if not injurious,            as the  eye gains strength,
 and is enabled to see all objects at a limited distance fully as well
 as those labouring under short-sightedness.                  Some time since I
 removed     a  congenital     cataract    from   the  right   eye of Mary Skil-
 lington aged      19. After    the  operation    she  never   wore a glass, and
 can, now see to thread          a needle   ; she  also   sees   perfectly well at
 different distances to the extent of 200 feet and upwards.                      Miss
 Jenkins of Bantry writes and reads perfectly well, attending to
 the business of her shop, without the use of spectacles.                        This
 lady   came   to   Cork   to  consult   a  London     quack,   who    professed   to
 cure   all diseases    of . the   eye  that   were   curable:     luckily   she  did
 not come under that denomination.                 Indeed, after the operation
 in young subjects, I never recommend the use of a convex glass.
  In those , patients wanting the crystalline lens, the rays cannot
 come to a focus on the retina. Yet had Kepler and Scheiner re
 moved the lens from the ox's eye, as I have repeatedly done, before
 theexperiment, they would have found that itmadenot the slightest
                                                    i                      difference

             Experiments on a new Theory       of Vision.          53
difference in the inverted image, which they conceived to float on
the retina; neither could the crystalline jump backwards and
forwards to accommodate the eye to the objeet at different di
stances.    Indeed I cannot conceive the cause of this jumping of
the lens. If the distance of the object be ascertained, and con
sequently the object seen before the lens with its thousands and
tens of thousands of muscles begins to jump, what occasion is
there for that movement ? But if the jump take place before the
object is seen, how can the extent of the jump be ascertained?
Look before you leap, is a common but a necessary piece of ad
vice.    The fact is, that the eye principally judges of different di
stances, by comparing the visible size of the corneal image with
the educated sense of the tangible object, intervening objects,
strength of colouring, &e. In viewing a painting, the objects are
all equidistant on the canvass ; yet we conceive them to be at
relative distances. The following easy experiment may also show
that the rays diverge in passing through a sphere or convex glass.
Take a cylindrical tumbler, fill it with clear water, holding it in
the left hand opposite a window. Then hold a black slate pencil,
or any other slender body, about three inches in length, behind
this glass vessel. When close, one magnified image is seen; but oh
gently withdrawing the pencil to a greater distance, this image
becomes more magnified ; and at a certain distance, two images
fully as well defined are seen at each side of the tumbler. On con
tinuing to withdraw the pencil, these two everted images are seen
to glide with a considerable degree of curvature towards the po
sterior surface of the tumbler, and at last coalescing into one
image, obliterate the anterior one, or that formed at the anterior
surface.    This corroborates the inferences drawn from the former
experiment.      When the object is near the posterior surface of
the tumbler, the- eye receives the rays considerably magnified or
diverged ; but when the object is at some distance from the po
sterior surface, the eye receives the rays from the united lateral
images. From this experiment, there can be no doubt whatsoever
that the eye receives rays from two distinct and separate images,
and also that the mind receives impressions from a glass globe,
or convex lens,- in nearly a similar manner.
    Should a doubt yet remain, the following experiment may be
made.     Place a red wafer under one of the planes of a triangu
lar glass prism, resting on a sheet of white paper on the table,
we immediately see two everted images of the wafer formed in
each lateral   plane, as thus represented   : fyfyf     The wafer a
                                                 a
sends rays or images to b and c. As the prism has plane sides,
the two images can never come to a focus at any distauce from
the eye ; but if we round off the angle, they' immediately unite,
                                 D3                                and

54           Experiments on     a new   Theory   of Vision.
and form an oblong       image of the wafer, as thus represented:
         •   From    these experiments, and many others hereafter   to
 be related in the 2d volume of the Experimental Outlines, not a
 doubt remained on my mind, that reflected erect and not inverted
 images gave mental impressions of a visible world. Surely, if any
 thing can increase our admiration of the power and wisdom of a
 supreme Being, it is the conviction that a beautiful and ever-
 varying landscape is painted in miniature on the transparent cor
nea.     When we consider that the black choroid shines through
the retina, we must admit that it is very unfit to be the reflecting
mirror of the mind.       To bring this to the test of experiment, I
turned out the aqueous, vitreous and crystalline humours of an
ox's eye. On bringing the inverted image of the black letter T,
pasted on the window, by means of a convex lens, to float on the
retina, I found that in some places it was perfectly invisible, in
other places confused, indistinct in all.      Indeed the retina, were
it  free from  this  and many   other objections, and also free from
the large blood-vessels and nerves running over its surface, being       ,
of a gray colour, like pounded glass or animal jelly, would be very
unfit, and could never form an image of a gray object perfectly
similar to itself : neither could objects the colour of the choroid
coat ever be seen. We might as well think of writing with black
ink on a sheet of black paper, as attempt the formation of dark
images on a dark ground.         On the other hand, how admirably
fitted both for reflexion and transmission is the cornea ! both suf
ficiently transparent and sufficiently opaque: no coloured sub
stance could answer the purpose.         It has hitherto been the re
ceived opinion, that the two optic axes, concurring at the object,
make an angle according to the size of which the object appears
large or small ; — but this opinion, whose inconsistency has already
been pointed out by Bishop Berkeley, must yield to the more ra
tional theory that the mind takes the apparent magnitude and
distance from the size of the corneal image, and not from lines          ;
and angles beyond the nervous influence, or from invisible rays ;
all rays being invisible which are transparent until intercepted
and reflected.      " In vain (says Berkeley) shall all the mathema-     .
ticians in the world tell me that I perceive certain lines and an
gles which introduce into my mind the various ideas of distance,
so long as I myself am conscious of no such thing."         Indeed we
might as well believe in ghosts and hobgoblins, as to believe that
we would see an object, or the image of an object, beyond the
nerves, that   is,  beyond the transparent cornea.       Here lies the
Rubicon, the utmost limit, beyond which the mind can never tra
vel. Surrounding objects are brought to the eye,       by means of the
solar rays  of light hence the nerves convey them to the senso-
                     ;
                                                                rium.

              Experiments    on a new    Theory  of Vision.          55
rium. Indeed, the idea that the mind or sense could travel beyond
the cornea, ride on the whirlwind, and, like a fairy Mab, measure
invisible angles of an invisible and distant image, is so very in
consistent, that we cannot but express surprise at its adoption.
    If a man were gravely to say that he could touch the moon, he
would be looked on as mad : but an astronomer says, that on
looking through a telescope he can measure the invisible image
of that body nearer to the eye than the moon, and beyond the
influence of the nerves, and the astronomer gets credit for the
assertion.     As the knowledge of distance almost entirely arises
from experience founded on the analogy between the sense of sight
and touch, the former at a very early period of existence is in
adequate to regulate our perceptions.        When an infant begins to
notice,   natural   education   commences,   external objects are the
letters, the nerves the instructors of the mind : the insufficiency
of sight is evident by the anxious desire to feel and to examine
every new play-thing ; the image of the rattle is delineated on
the cornea, and the child, believing it to touch the eye, grasps at
it although far removed. On the same principle, I have heard
a child cry bitterly for the moon to play with. In a few months
the sense of touch has partly educated the eye in judging distance
by the apparent magnitude of the corneal image.             A man born
blind and suddenly restored to sight would suppose every object
 to touch his eye.
    All that is accomplished by telescopes and microscopes (ac
cording to the retinal theory) is first to make an image of a di
stant object by mean3 of a lens, and then to give the eye some
assistance for viewing that image as near as possible, so that the
angle which it shall subtend at the eye may be very large com
pared with the angle which the object itself would subtend in the
same situation: — this is done by means of an eye-glass, which
so refracts the pencils of rays, as that they may afterwards be
brought to their several foci by the natural humours of the eye.
Now it is evident from the foregoing experiments that this theory
is fallacious, and that a telescope, as shall hereafter be more fully
shown, does nothing more than diverge the rays, or magnify the*
image on the cornea.        In the Galilean telescope the convex: ten*.-'
magnifies the erect image which it forms on the concave eye^
glass, the useof which, by regulating the sphere of concavity, is to
obviate the colours produced by the sphere of convexity: hence
an achromatic and magnified corneal image is formed.
    I shall here notice a difficulty which Dr. Barrow and all other
opticians have failed to clear up, particularly noticed by the Bi
shop of Cloyne :
                      " Let an object be placed beyond the focus of
a convex lens, and if the eye be close to the lens it will appear-
                                 D 4                      ,   confused,

56            Experiments on a new Theory            of Vision.
 confused, bin very near to its true place.        If the eye be a little
 withdrawn the confusion will increase, and the object will seem
 to come nearer ; and when the eye is very near the focus, the con
 fusion will be exceedingly great, and the object will seem to be
 close to the eye.    But in this experiment the eye receives no rays
 but those that are converging, and the point from which they issue
 is so far from being nearer to the object, that it is beyond        it,
                                                                       not
 withstanding which the object conceived to be much nearer than
                                        is
it     though no very distinct idea can be formed of its precise di-
        is,
 stance."     Here Dr. Barrow supposed that when his eye was close
 to the lens  it  received none but converging rays, whereas they
 were diverging, and as he withdrew his eye, the more the erect
 image was magnified    ;  when magnified beyond the standard of
 distinct vision,  itbecame confused but when the eye was beyond
                                             ;
 the focus, the anterior or erect image was lost to the eye, and the
 two lateral and inverted images united into one, forming an
 image nearer the eye, as      floating on the posterior surface of the
                              if
 lens.   Dr. Barrow, like     atrue philosopher, acknowledges him™
 self unable to account for this appearance, finishing his lecture
 with this observation  :
                           " Vobis itaque nodum hunc, utinam fe-
 liciore conatu, resplvendum committo." Whether these experi
 ments tend to untying the knot, leave the reader to determine,
                                             I
 and shall not enter on Berkeley's or Barrow's theories of apparent
 distance in-this paper.                               -   ,
     We npw come to the rectification of inverted images on the
 retina. This according to Scheiner and Kepler                 the business
                                                               is
of the mind, which, when perceives an impression on the lower
                               it
 part of the retina, considers      as made by rays proceeding from:
                                    it
 the higher parts of the object tracing the rays back to the pupil,
 where they cross one another.          But this hypothesis, says Dr.
 Priestley, will hardly be deemed satisfactory; and           way of clear™
                                                               by
ing up the difficulty he proceeds This " upper and lower are only
                                        :
relative terms; and as all objects are painted upon the retina in a
similar manner, all the upper parts in one direction, and all the
lower parts   in another,it   is   by
                                  custom only, founded on. experience
and the association of ideas, that we learn to distinguish them from
one another, so as to direct our eyes or point our hands upwards or
downwards as we have occasion.         If this be the true solution (con
tinues the learned Doctor),       will follow, that
                                  it                  if the images of ob
jects had always been painted in different manner — that is, erect
                                         a
as the objects themselves are— we should have acted as we do now,
without being sensible of the difference,        different association of
                                                 a
ideasonly having taken place." Now all this laboured explanation
comes to nothing more or less than that we are taught               by
                                                                     expe
rience. However, we never find the infant or the brute (both in-
(-.;;   :                                                           capable

              Experiments     on a new   Theory   of Vision.            57
 capable of these refined associations) mistaking the top for the
 bottom, or the right for the left.       When the world was turned
 upside down by philosophers, they should have attributed the cir
 cumstance to blind instinct, and not to reason : indeed, reason has
 nothing whatsoever to do with the business.           In the summer of
  1812 I performed the operation for cataract on a very intelligent
 boy, named Edward Casay, aged ten years. He was born with such
 opaque cataracts (according to his mother's account) as merely
 to enable him to distinguish light from darkness, or the shadow
 of an interposed hand, but was incapable of distinguishing the
 outlines of any object or the most brilliant colours.         After the
 operation,  and  before  he could acquire   any ideas  from association,
 having inquired the manner in which he saw ; he answered that
 he saw objects as he felt them, supposing them to be very near
 the eyes. Although Cheselden was an advocate for the retina
 being the seat of vision, he does not make any particular observa
 tions on this difficulty ; but says that the young gentleman whom
 he couched with congenital cataracts " knew not the shape of
 any object, nor any thing from another, however different in shape
 or magnitude ; but upon being told what things were, whose form
he before knew from feeling, he would carefully observe that he
might know them again." When shown his father's picture, and
told what it was, he acknowledged a likeness, but did not mis
 take the head for the feet. Indeed, were there no other difficulty
in the retinal theory of vision, the inversion of objects, or turning
 the world upside down, and making confusion right and left,
 would be sufficient to invalidate the entire.       The next difficulty
in this catalogue of difficulties is the power of seeing objects di
stinctly at different distances.    It is allowed on all hands, that to
see an object at different distances, either the retina or crystalline
lens must approach, so as to shorten what is called the optic axis.
So that the crystalline, according to the retinal theory, must be
a great and incessant jumper.       To calculate the number of jumps
or little leaps the lens of a general officer would take at a review,
might puzzle the most able algebraist ; vulgar arithmetic would
be inadequate to the solution ; and then an able philosopher has
given thousands and tens of thousands of muscles (or wings if
you please to call them so) to this little busy fluttering thing. In
deed, the justly celebrated Dr. Young might as well have given
muscles to an onion, the lamelle of which and those of the
crystalline are very similar.     On examining the different theories
on  this subject, we find them all to differ, and perfectly inadequate
to the effect.    Kepler two centuries ago supposed that the con
tracting of the ciliary processes draws the sides of the eye towards
the crystalline; by which means the eye is lengthened, and the re
                                                                      tina

58      On the Means       of preserving Provisions and Goods.
tina pushed to a greater distance from the pupil when we are view
ing near objects.        Dr. Thomas Young differs from Kepler; Des
cartes from both ; Haller from all : with a crowd of others whose
opinions I think it unnecessary to mention.
                      I remain, sir, your
                                      "
                                             obedient servant,
   Cork, April  1, 1819.                         Joseph Reade, M.D.
  X.   Observations on the Means         of preserving Provisions and
                 Goods.     By Joseph     MacSweeny, M.D.
                              To Mr.   Tilloch.
The     plan for preserving provisions, which I intend to suggest
in this paper, promises to be useful on account of the facility with
which it may be put in practice.           If proposed before, it has not
excited attention, while more complicated and more expensive
processes have been attended to.           I hope that this paper will be
the means of drawing attention to a matter of such consequence
to the public, particularly when it is in the power of every house
keeper to put the plan into execution.           I had determined a con
siderable time ago to commence experiments to try to preserve
meat by keeping it in water (previously boiled) covered with a
layer of oil to protect it from the agency of the atmosphere.
After reading the interesting experiments of Dr. Marshal Hall, I
resolved to add bright pieces of iron or iron-filings to the water,
for the purpose of depriving it of the oxygen not expelled by
boiling. It is now more than seven weeks since I put some fresh
meat with iron in water, boiled and covered with a thick layer of
oil. The meat has exactly the same appearance now that it had
the first, day.    It may be necessary to add that I kept the glass-
vessel containing it in a dark place.          Vegetable substances may
be preserved in the same way.           Delicate substances of this kind
when kept in a dark place appear only to suffer from the solvent
power of the water*.        In the same way cutlery may be kept un
tarnished, when the precaution is taken of adding some iron-filings
or bright pieces of iron to the water some time beforehand.
After twenty-six days, I removed a piece of iron from a solution of
common salt covered with oil, and found it not tarnished in any
degree.     Goods of every kind may be preserved from decay on
the same principle.         Lest any, such as linen or cotton goods,
might suffer from the iron, it should be put in small timber boxes
and let down through the oil into the water, so that it could abs
tract the oxygen without coming in contact with the goods.
   * The solvent
                   power of the water may be diminished by adding sugar
and gum.
                                                                    When

              On   Dr. Cartwright's      Pedo-motive   Machine.           59
      When it is necessary to remove meat for use, it can be taken
  out of the vessel without allowing it to come in contact with the
  oil. By pouring in water, the oil will ascend and will flow over
  the edge of the vessel containing the meat into one placed under
  neath to receive it ; thus the meat can be easily removed, and
  the oil will not be wasted.       Fresh water can be preserved in like
  manner in situations where it is scarce, by covering its surface
  with oil, and by putting bright pieces of iron in it.
     London,  July 6, 1819.
 XI.    On   Dr. Cartwright's Pedo-motive Machine.                 By Mr.
                              Henry Meikle.
                               To  Mr.    Tilloch.
                                                      London, July 5, 1819.
           D R. Cartwright,         in giving an account of his inven
 tion, in your last Number, says "that it seems nothing less
 than a miracle, that the idea did not occur to the common knife-
 grinder centuries ago." If I do not mistake the thing altogether,
 Hardie's walking- crane is nothing else than the same principle
 brought to great perfection; and jf I rightly remember, there is
 in the Encyclopcedia Britannica a description with an engraving
 of a carriage moved with ratchet-wheels and treddles, which I
 conceive to be precisely on the same principle as that proposed by
 the Doctor at the bottom of page 425. However, as the account
 which Dr. C. gives of his invention is very concise, he himself
can best explain his meaning if I have misconstrued it.
                          I am, sir,
                                 Your most obedient servant,
                                                        Henry Meikle.
     *¥* In laying: the above observations of our correspondent
Mr. Meikle before our readers, we beg to offer one remark. The
idea of working        a wheel-carriage       by means of ratchet-wheels
moved by       treddles   is not  new  ;   but  we have no recollection of
having before seen any proposal for applying the whole muscular
strength of a man's body, by means of straps over his shoulders,
to the working of the treddles.           This is what we consider as the
principal novelty in Dr. Cartwright's suggestion, and that which             .
alone gives it value as an improvement.               If the strap or any
fixed point of resistance for the man's shoulders, while his feet
are, employed to communicate his power, has been before in use,
the Doctor's improvement is not new. — Edit.
                                                                  XII. 01-

                                [  60   ]
XII.    Olservations on Ike Measurement of an Arc       of the Meri-
                 dian. By T. Firminger, LL.D.*
 A HE measured meridional arcs, in different degrees of latitude,
have not been found to give a ratio of the earth's axis at all con
sistent either with the theory of a homogeneous ellipsoid of re
volution, or with themselves, as deduced by trials of measured arcs
in different latitudes : for while some give a ratio nearly the same
as Newton has assigned it from theory, others, on the contrary,
make the polar axis the longest, or the earth flattened at the
equator.      Many causes have been assigned as the probable rea
son of the discrepancy in the results.     Colonel Mudge and Cap
tain Kater have attributed the want of agreement to the effect of
local attraction : but they differ in toto as to the effect of its in
fluence ; or rather, as to the situation of the attracting mass.
Colonel Mudge believes the principal effect to take place at Clif
ton, and Captain Kater at Dunnose. Others again have doubted
whether the amplitude of the celestial arc has been correctly ob
tained ; and have supposed, either that the zenith sector with
which Colonel Mudge made his observations, might not have been
exactly placed in the plane of the meridian, or that some error
has been committed in the use of it. Mr. Fisher, in a paper just
published in the Quarterly Journal of Science and the Arts, en
deavours to account for and to rectify these discrepancies, by a
supposition "that measured arcs of the meridian are not legiti
mate measures of the radii of curvature" at the middle point of
curvature of those arcs.     Mr. Fisher seems to have been led into
this idea from the consideration of the position of a plumb-line
upon a sphere having the same rotation as the earth urged by a
centrifugal force : and having calculated the deflections from the
centre, at each degree of latitude, he found that the difference, in
the deflections, upon the whole arc measured by Colonel Mudge,
amounted to exactly that quantity which would reduce the arc to
agree with an excentricity of 229 to 230 ; from which he con
 cluded that measured arcs are not legitimate measures of the radii
of curvature, and " that so long as these measured arcs are con
sidered arcs of circles, this correction for deflection will obtain.
Mr. Fisher was no doubt led into this mistake from finding that
his differences rectified the arcs in those instances in which he
applied them ; and too hastily adopted his conclusion, without
taking time to examine and consider the problem : for although
the arc of a circle and ellipse of the same number of degrees,
and of the same radius of curvature, will differ in length ; yet
 this difference is too small (as Dr. Hutton observes, in the account
of the formula alluded to by Mr. Fisher,) to sensibly affect the
result.    There is a circumstance however which has not, that I
                   * Communicated by the Author.
                                                                know

         On the Measurement      of an Arc of the Meridian.        '61
know of,   been noticed by any mathematician, and which will ope
rate, if it amounts to any quantity, as a correction to the ob
served meridional arc. In an ellipse no two points have the same
radius of curvature in the same quadrant : taking, therefore, any
part of a meridional line upon the earth's surface (as for instance
from Dunnose to Clifton), and conceiving this as an arc of an el
lipse, the radii of curvature, at each extremity of the arc, will not
have the same centre; and, therefore, the difference of the zenith
distances of any star, taken at the two extremities, will not be a
correct measure of the elliptic arc, or rather of an arc of a circle
of curvature, which the formula requires.
    Let ABD be a semi-ellipse, PQ an arc; let PT, QS be two
                            S
                                 /
                                T
 lines drawn perpendicular at P and Q, and let TP be a radius
 of curvature at P, and let TQn be drawn: m and o are the
 zenith points at P and Q, supposing PQ to be an arc of the me
 ridian upon the earth's surface; but mn is the measure of PQ,
 which the problem requires; and therefore an arc in the heavens,
 measured by zenith distances, is not a correct measure of a cor
 responding arc of curvature on the earth's surface.        In-the arc
 measured by   Colonel  Mudge's    sector  between Dunnose    and Clif
 ton, the angle nQo, I believe,      will be about eight seconds   of a
 degree. If therefore all the stations of Colonel Mudge      should  be
 verified by independent observations, it will not show      the result
 deduced by him to be correct, as the meridional difference of ze
 nith distances of any two places upon the earth's surface, is ac
 curately the difference of latitude of those places.    If the angle
 nQo should, upon accurate computation,          amount   to 8" upon
 the whole arc measured between Dunnose and Clifton, the arc
 between Dunnose and Arbury Hill will require a correction of
 about 3-"5, leaving the results deduced by Colonel Mudge as in
 conclusive as before, as to the elliptical figure of the meridian.
 Would it not, therefore, be useful to determine the latitude of

62                   Notices respecting New Books.
the several stations lying near the direction of the meridian with
a good repeating circle, or other astronomical instrument of great
accuracy, upon circumpolar stars above and below the pole ? as
such observations would remove all doubt upon the measure of
the celestial arcs, and might be soon made by any zealous and
active observer.*
                XIII.    Notices respecting New Booh,.
     Transactions   of the Geological    Society, Vol. V. Part     I. 4to.
rp                                 pp.300.
  A he following     are the contents   of the present addition to the
valuable Transactions of this Society:
     I. On the Island of Salsette. By Stephen Babington, Esq. —
 II. Remarks on the Hills of Badaeson, Szigliget, &c. in Hun
gary.     By Richard Bright, M.D. — III. Some Observations on a
 Series of Specimens presented to the Geological Society by the
 Hon. H. Grey Bennet.           By Arthur Aikin, Esq. — IV. Remarks
on the Chalk Cliffs in the Neighbourhood of Dover and on the
Blue Marie covering the Green Sand near Folkstone, with an
Appendix containing some Account of the Chalk Cliffs, &c.
on the Coast of France opposite to Dover.             By William Phillips,
 Esq. — V. Remarks on the Fossils collected by Mr. William
 Phillips near Dover and Folkstone. By James Parkinson, Esq.
— VI. Notes accompanying a Set of Specimens from the Hima-
 lay Mountains.      By James Fraser, Esq. of Calcutta. — VII. Ob
 servations on the Valleys and Watercourses of Shropshire and
 of Parts of the adjacent Counties.             By Arthur Aikin, Esq. —
 VIII. On the Form of the Integrant Molecule of Carbonate of
 Lime.      By Dr. Brewster. — IX. Description of some new Fos
 sil Encrini and Pentacrini lately discovered in the Neighbourhood
 of Bristol. By George Cumberland, Esq. — X. On the Limestone
 Beds on the River Avon near Bristol ; with a Description of the
  Magnesian Beds that repose on their Basset Edges.              By George
 Cumberland, Esq. — XI. On the Strata of the Northern Division
 of Cambridgeshire.         By Francis Lunn, Esq. — XII. Memoir on
  the Geological Relations of the East of Ireland.              By Thomas
  Weaver, Esq. — XIII. On the Modifications of the Primitive Cry
  stal of the Sulphate of Barytes.        By William Phillips, Esq.
     * If there should be found at the station at Arbury Hill an error in the
  measure of the celestial arc amounting to 3 or 4 seconds of a degree, which
  from the smallness of the quantity may have crept into the account, and also
  if the angle nQo upon the whole arc is found by accurate computation to
  amount to about 8", the whole will agree with an elliptical meridian of
  229-230 very nearly, and also agree with deductions derived from measure
  ments upon other parts of the earth.
                                                                      A Cri-

               Greenougk's   First Principles of Geology.          63
A   Critical Examination of the first Principles of Geology, in
    a Series of Essays. By G. B. Greenough, President of the
    Geological Society, F.R.S. F.L.S. 8vo. pp. 336.
   The essays in this volume, which are eight in number, treat
of Stratification — of the Figure of the Earth — of the Inequalities
which existed on the Surface of the Earth previously to the Diluvian
Action, and on the Causes of these Inequalities — of Formations
—of the Order of Succession in Rocks — of the Properties of Rocks
as connected with their respective Ages — of the History of Strata
as deduced from their Fossil Contents — and, of Mineral Veins.
    Transactions    of the Royal Geological Society of Cornwall.
                    Illustrated by Plates. Vol. I.
   The Royal Geological Society of Cornwall was instituted on the
J 1th of February, 1814. The present, which is the first volume
of its Transactions, contains the following articles:
   I. On a recent Formation of Sandstone occurring in various
Parts of the Northern Coast of Cornwall. By John Ayrton Paris,
M.D. — II. An Account of some Granite Veins atPorth Just, near
Cape Cornwall. By John Davy, M.D. — III. Notes on the Coast
West of Penzance, and on the Structure of the Scilly Islands. By
Ashhurst Majendie, Esq. — IV. A Sketch of the Geology of the
Lizard District. By Ashhurst Majendie, Esq. — V. Hints on the
Geology of Cornwall.      By Sir Humphry Davy, LL.D. — VI. Ob
servations on a remarkable Change which Metallic Tin undergoes
under peculiar Circumstances, and on its partial Conversion into
a Muriate of Tin.     By the Rev. William Gregor. — VII. Obser
vations on the Process for making the different Preparations of
Arsenic, which are practised in Saxony, and on those for prepar
ing Smalts or Cobalt, as pursued in Bohemia. By John Henry
Vivian, Esq. — VIII. A Sketch of the Plan of the Mining Aca
demies of Freyberg and Schemnitz. By John Henry Vivian, Esq.
— IX. On the Accidents which occur in the Mines of Cornwall, in
consequence of the premature Explosion of Gunpowder in blast
ing Rocks, and on the Methods to be adopted for preventing         it,
by the Introduction of Safety Bar, and an Instrument termed
                             a
the Shifting Cartridge. By John Ayrton Paris, M.D. — X. On
Elvan Courses.      By Joseph Carne, Esq. — XI. Notes on the
Limestone Rocks in the Parish ofVeryan.       By S.   Trist, Esq.
                                                      J.
With an Appendix        the Rev. John Rogers. — XII. On the Dis
                       by
covery of Silver in the Mines of Cornwall. By Joseph Carne, Esq.
— XIII. On Submarine Mines. By John Hawkins, Esq. —XIV.
On some remarkable Phenomena attending the Lodes of Polgooth
Tin Mine. By John Hawkins, Esq. — XV. Remarks on the Salt
Mines of Wielitska in Poland, and of Salzburg in Germany. By
John Henry Vivian, Esq. — XVI. Observations on the Geological
                                                            Structure

64                   Notices respecting   New Books.
Structure of Cornwall, with a View to trace its Connexion with,
and Influence upon, its Agricultural CEconqmy, and to establish a
rational System of Improvement by the scientific Application of
Mineral Manure.        By John Ayrton Paris, M.D. — XVII. On a
Process  of Refining Tin. By John Hawkins, Esq. — XVIII. On
the Introduction of the Steam-Engine to the Peruvian Mines.
By Henry Boase, Esq. — XIX. Miscellaneous Notices of Facts
connected with the Mineralogical, Geological, and (Economical
History of the County of Cornwall. Extracted from the Minute
Book of the Society, viz. 1. On Kupf'er-Nickel.            By the Rev.
William Gregor.    —  2.  On Cavern
                               a        in Dolcoath Mine. By John
Rule, Esq. —3. On Stalactites. By A. Majendie, Esq. — 4. Gre-
gorite (Menacchanite) discovered at Lanarth.           By John Ayrton
Paris, M.D. — 5. On the Formation of a Substance resembling
 Gneiss, taken from a Steam Boiler at Huel Alfred.            By J. A.
Paris, M.D.  —  6. A new    Substance accompanying     "Welsh  Culm."
By J. A. Paris. 7. On Stones and Clays annually exported from
                —
Cornwall, for the Purposes of Architecture, Manufactures, and
the Arts.    By J. A. Paris — S. Observations on Gold found in
the Tin Stream Works of Cornwall.          By Sir Christopher Haw
kins, Bart. — 9. Vegetable Remains in the Basin at Portleven.
By the Rev.- John Rogers. — 10. Contributions towards a Know
ledge of the Geological History of Wood Tin.               By Ashhurst
Majendie, Esq. — 1 1 . Notice, relative to the Formation of Swim
ming Stone.      By Joseph Came, Esq. — 12. Notice, on Elvan
Courses.     By Joseph Came, Esq. — Queries proposed to Cap
tains of Mines, and other Persons connected with the practical
Part of Mining. By John Hawkins, Esq. — Queries respecting
Lodes.     By John Hawkins, Esq. — Account of Tin raised in
Cornwall in the Years ending with Michaelmas Coinage 1815,
 1816, and 1817. — Account of the Produce of all the Copper
Mines in Cornwall, in Ore, Copper, and Money, for the Years
ending 30th June 1 S 15, 1816, and 1817. — Quantity of Copper
produced in Great Britain and Ireland in the Years ending i.Oth
June 1815, 1816, and 1817.
 Conversatiojis on Natural Philosophy, in which the Elements of
   that Science are explained and adapted to the. Comprehension
   of young Pupils.      Illustrated with Plates.    By the Author of
   " Conversations on Chemistrv, and Conversations on Political
   CEconomy." 1819. l2mo. pp. 434.
   The title of this little volume explains its object so fully as to
render it unnecessary for us to say any thing on this point.        We
will only add, that the work is well adapted to the comprehension
of those for whose benefit it is intended.      The plates, which are
twenty-three in number, are by Lowry       —  a sufficient passport for
their accuracy.                                                General

                        Aldini on Galvanism.
  General   Views on the application of Galvanism to Medical
    Purposes, principally in Cases of suspended Animation.         By
    John Aldini, Honorary Member of the Royal Humane So
    ciety, Honorary Professor of the Imperial University of Wilna,
     &c. 8vo, pp. 96.
    This is an ingenious little work, written by Professor Aldini
 during his late visit to this country,   It is inscribed to the Royal
 Humane Society, of which the author is one of the very few ho
 norary members.       He remarks truly in the dedication, that " in>
 a commercial and maritime country like Great Britain, in which
 so many persons     from their occupations at sea, on canals and
 rivers, and in mines, are exposed to drowning, suffocation, and
 other accidents ; and it must be added, however painful the re
 mark, where so many unhappy creatures labouring under a tem
 porary privation of reason, form the horrible resolve of self-de
 struction — the subject of this work is of the utmost importance in
a public view." With the intent of rendering the application of
galvanism to the purposes of medicine generally, and to the cases
of suspended animation in particular, more simple, Prof. A. has
added to his observations on the nature of galvanism an account
of some experiments which appear to us conclusively to demon
strate the power of galvanism over the organs of respiration.
 Observations    on the Medical Powers of Mineral Waters ; con
    taining an Account of the following most celebrated, viz. Mal
    vern — Matlock — Bristol Hotwell — Buxton — Seltzer — Spa —
    Pyrmont — Bath — Tunbridge — Hastings — Cheltenham —
    Scarborough— Vichev— Carlsbad— Hartfell — Brighton — Sand-
    rocks — Seidlitz or Seydschutz — Epsom — Leamington — Sea
    — Harrogate — Moffatt — Aix-la-Chapelle or Aken — Bareges,
    &c. &c. and pointing out the Waters most beneficial in the
    Cure of different Diseases ; with Remarks on the Cold Bath —
    SeaBathing — Shower Bath — Tepid Bath — Warm Bath — Hot
    Bath — Vapour Bath — Nitro-Muriatic Acid Bath — and on sul
    phureous Baths.     By Patrick Mackenzie, M.D.
A   Report of the Practice of Midwifery at the Westminster Ge
    neral Dispensary during 1818 ; including new Classifications
    of Labours, Abortions, Female Complaints, and the Diseases of
    Children ; with Computations on the Mortality among Lying-in
    Women, and Children ; and the Probabilities of Abortion taking
    Place at different Periods of Pregnancy, &c.&c.        With select
    Cases and Formule. Bv- Augustus Bozzi Granville, M.D.
    F.R.S.F.L.S. M.R.I.
                              In the Press.
The Army Medical Officer's Manual, upon active Service; or,
    Precepts for his Guidance in the various Situations in which he
Vol. 54. No. 255.    July 1819.                 E                 may

                            Royal Society.
    may be placed ; and for the Preservation of the Health of
    Arniles upon Foreign Service. By J. G. V. Millingen, M.D.
    Surgeon to His Majesty's Forces; Associate of the Medical So
    cieties of the Faculty of Paris; and Corresponding Member of
    the Royal Medical Society of Bordeaux.
    This publication wiH fully detail the various duties connected
with the following important points :
    Organization pf the Medical Department of an Army — Forma
tion of a Field Corps of Hospital Ambulance — Arrangement pre
paratory to the sailing of an Expedition — Duties during the Voy
age — Disembarkation — Establishment of General and Convale
scent Hospitals — Hospital for Sick and Wounded Officers — De
pots — Arrangements prior to taking the Field — Duties upon a
March) — Bivouacs — Encampments — Cantonments — Regimental
and Brigade Hospitals — Duties during and after a Battle — Field
Hospitals — Intermediate Hospitals, and Movement of the Sick
and Wounded to the Rear— Duties with a besieging Force, or
with a besieged Garrison — Duties upon a Retreat — Reinforce
ments moving to the Front — Re-embarkation of Troops in pre
sence of an Enemy — General Conclusions and Recapitulation.
Parti, of Pathological and Practical Remarks on Ulcerations
    of the Genital Organs, &c. By James Evans, Surgeon of          •
    His Majesty's 57th Regiment of Foot.
               XIV.     Proceedings of Learned   Societies.
                           ROYAL SOCIETY.
    April 22.   A   letter was read from Mr. John Freeman Wood
 to W. G. Maton, M.I)., containing an account of a case of mal-
 conformation     of the heart.
     Another paper communicated by Dr. Thomas Young was
 read, entitled
                   " Observations on the new System of diagonal
 Framing introduced by R. Seppings, Esq. into His Majesty's
 Navy ;" by William Morgan, Esq.
     May 6. — A paper by Dr. Brewster was read, On the optical
 and physical Properties of Tabasheer. The substance called Taba-
 sheer, from the Persian Scher, or the Sanscrit Kschiram, signi
 fying milk, has been long known in eastern countries, and formed
 an important article in the Materia Medica of the Arabian phy
 sicians.    In the Gentoo language it is called Bamboo Milk ; in
 the Malabar, Salt of Bamboo; and in the Warriar, Bamboo Cam
 phor. It is found in the joints of the female bamboo, sometimes
 in a fluid state like milk, sometimes with the consistence of honey;
                                                                  but

                            Royal Society.                         67
 but generally in the form of a hard concretion. Some specimen*,
 of it are transparent, and resemble very much small fragments of
 the artificial pastes made in imitation of opal ; others are exactly
like chalk ; while a third kind is of an intermediate character,
 and has a slight degree of transparency. — The first person who
examined the properties of this substance was Mr. Macie (now
Mr. Smithson), who analysed a portion of the tahasheer from
 Hyderabad, which Dr. Russel had the preceding year presented
to the Royal Society.      " From its indestructibility by fire — its
                           —
total resistance to acids its uniting by fusion with alkalies in
certain proportions into a white opaque mass ; in others, into a
transparent permanent glass; and its being again separable from
these compounds entirely unchanged by acids," he considers it
as perfectly identical with common siliceous earth.       In the year
 1804,   Messrs.  Humboldt   and  Bonplaud brought   with  them from
America some specimens of tahasheer called Guaduas butter by
the Creoles, taken from the bamboos which grow to the west of
Pinchincha in the Cordilleras of the Andes. These specimens were
analysed in 1805 by Messrs. Fourcroy and Vauquelin, who found
them to be different from the tabasheers of Asia.          Instead of
being wholly composed     of silex, they contained only.70 per cent.
of this earth, and 30 per cent. of potash, lime and water. The
tabasheer which Dr. Brewster employed in his experiments was
sent from Nagpore by Dr. Moore to Dr. Alexander Kennedy,
who favoured Dr. B. with a considerable portion of it. It had
the same general chemical characters as the tabasheer from Hy
derabad, which was used by Mr. Smithson, the same specific
gravity nearly, and the same external appearance ; whence Dr.
B. had no hesitation in considering it as also composed of silex.
When the semi-transparent specimens of this substance are im
mersed in water, they imbibe it with great rapidity, emitting nu
merous bubbles of air. The transparency increases whenever
the air has been discharged, and after a few minutes the water
pervades and renders transparent the whole 'mass.          If a small
portion of water, on the contrary, is laid upon the tabasheer when
dry, instead of adding to its transparency as might have been ex
pected, it renders it as opaque and white as chalk ; and from the
same cause, the tabasheer which has been saturated with water
becomes opaque as the water evaporates, reaches its maximum
degree of opacity, and recovers its semi-transparency when per
fectly dry.    The increase of transparency from the absorption of
water is an effect easily explained, and is one with which mine
ralogists have been long familiar in the phenomena of hydro-
phanous opal ; but the production of opacity by the absorption
of a smaller portion of the same fluid which produces transpa
rency is a fact entirely new, and not easily explicable upon known
                                  E  2                     principles.

 68                   Royal Institute  of  France.
 principles.    Dr. B. having ascertained that the white opacity was
 not the result of any chemical change, had recourse to optical
 causes; and he found by forming one of the semi-transparent spe
 cimens into a prism, that the production of the opacity was owing
 to this singular fact, that the refractive power of tabasheer is not
 only lower than water, but so much lower as to be almost inter
 mediate between water and the gases.         The physical properties
 of tabasheer are not less singular than its optical qualities, and
 indicate -a structure of a very remarkable kind.
    May 13. — A paper was read On the different Qualities of the
 Alburnum of Spring- and Winter-felled Oak Trees, by T. A.
 Knight, Esq.
    May 20. — Read An Account of certain Experiments made
 with a View of determining the Law of Attraction between Iron
 and a Magnetic or Compass Needle, by P. Barlow, Esq.
                   ROYAL INSTITUTE OF FRANCE.
                Public Silting of the four Academies.
    In the public sitting of the four Academies of the Royal Insti
 tute of France, Mr. Charles Dupin delivered a discourse, the
subject of which was the influence of the sciences upon the hu
 manity of nations. In showing how far the sciences had not only
 softened the manners of mankind, but also the otherwise inexo
rable laws of war, Mr. Dupin quoted instances with respect to
England and France, which claim the admiration of all the friends
of civilization.
    The following are the examples alluded to :
    " For three centuries we have witnessed the Learned Societies
of all polished nations united in one fraternal bond ; not only the
learned of a single empire, but the most celebrated philosophers
of all nations. From every quarter an appeal has been made to
every talent, and prizes offered for the research of great truths, or
their application to the useful purposes of mankind.
    " Crowns of merit have been awarded by the Amphictyons of
science to the superior talent of all, without the invidious distinc
tion of native and foreigner.
    " Nor has war restrained the limits of this peaceful concourse.
The Society where Newton once presided, had founded a prize
for the greatest discovery relative to the laws of light and heat.
The theory of Malus respecting the polarization of light merited
the prize.    The judges were English, the author a Frenchman :
the war was at its height, and the two countries were exaspe
rated by victory and defeat, by the songs of a Tyrteus and the
harangues of orators, by fallacious pamphlets and the hirelings of
a policy without shame or remorse.
                                                               " But

                          Pyroligneous Acid.                        69
    "  But Justice held the balance with one hand, and the prism
of Newton     with the other ; — admitting of no delusion, she gives
 her award in silence, uninfluenced by passion.
    " England presents her with no work equal to that of the
 learned Malus, and Justice places the crown on the brow of an
enemy scarred with wounds, the honourable marks of battle
 waged between the two nations under the walls of Cairo and
 Alexandria.
    "  Science is not only just — impassible only when equity re
quires it ; she in every other case succours mankind with her
benevolent aid.                 »
    "  During thirty years  of war  and bloodshed — Civilization, the
daughter of Science, has maintained her rights, and often applied
them to the noblest purposes.
     " Thus the Institute of France and the Royal Society of
London have rivalled each other in generous philanthropy.           At
their intercession, captives have been liberated whose learning
might be useful to mankind ; and, to their praise be it spoken,
the Governments on both sides the sea have always yielded with
zeal to the solicitations of those scientific Institutions, who in
gratitude have paid the ransom of the liberated by their presents.
    " The Academy of Sciences, by awarding to the celebrated
Davy, about the same period, the prize for his Galvanic researches,
showed itself equally impartial, and superior to the prejudices of
 popular hatred."
            XV. Intelligence   and Miscellaneous Articles.
                         PYROLIGNEOUS     ACID.
    Extract of a Letter from M. G. C. at Paris,      to  Professor
     .                        Van Mons.
((
    A.   discovery     of the greatest importance engages at this
 moment the attention of the scientific world.     A M. Monge has
discovered that the pyroligneous acid obtained from the distilla
 tion of wood has the property of preventing the decomposition and
putrefaction of animal substances. It is sufficient to plunge meat
 for a few moments into this acid, even slightly empyreumatic,
 to preserve it as long as you please. Cutlets, kidneys, liver,
 rabbits, which were thus prepared as far back as the month of
 July last, are now as fresh as if they had been just procured from
.the market.     I have seen carcases washed three weeks ago with
 pyroligneous acid, in which there is as yet no sign of decomposi
 tion. Putrefaction not only stops, but it even retrogrades. Jakes
 exhaling infection cease to do so as soon as you pour upon them
 the pyroligneous acid.     You may judge how many important ap-
                                  £  3                      plications

70                      Oxygenated     Water.
plications may be made of this process.        Navigation, medicine,
unwholesome manufactories, will derive incalculable advantages
from it.    This explains why meat merely dried in a stove does
not keep, while that which is smoked becomes unalterable.          We
have here an explanation of the theory of hams, of the beef of
Hamburgh, of smoked tongues, sausages, red herrings, of wood
smoked to preserve it from worms, &c. &c.'*
    Dr. Jorg, Professor at Leipsic, has since made many successful
experiments of the same nature.        He has entirely recovered se
veral anatomical preparations from incipient corruption, by pour
ing this acid over them. With the oil which is produced from
wood by distillation in the dry manner, he has moistened pieces
of flesh already advanced in decay ; and, notwithstanding the heat
of the weather, soon made them as dry and firm as flesh can be
rendered by being smoked in the smoking-room.             All traces of
corruption vanish at once when the vinegar of wood, or the oil
of tvood, is applied to the meat with a brush. The Professor has
also begun to prepare mummies of animals, and has no doubt of
success.    He promises great advantages to anatomy, domestic
ceconomy, and even to medicine, from this discovery (for the re
medy seems very fit to be applied internally and externally in
many disorders), and intends to publish the result of his further
                             .
experiments.
                       OXYGENATED       WATER.
    We noticed in our last this new liquid, obtained by M. The-
nard in prosecuting his experiments on the oxygenized acids. It
is a combination of oxygen with water.         The quantity of oxygen
contained by water when thus saturated is S50 times its volume,
or twice its proper quantity.      Its specific gravity is 1'453, and
on being poured into water it sinks through it at first like a sy
rup, though it is very soluble. Applied to the skin, it has an in
stant action, and renders it white, causing a smarting, which con
tinues longer or shorter as the quantity is more or less : if con
siderable, it destroys the skin. Applied to the tongue, it has the
same effect, and thickens the saliva.      Its taste cannot well be de
scribed, but it resembles that of an emetic. It acts powerfully on
oxide of silver : each drop let fall on it dry, causes an explosion,
with an evolution of light if in a dark place. The peroxides of
manganese and of cobalt, and the oxides of lead, platinum, pal
ladium, gold, iridium, and some other metals, act powerfully on
oxygenated water.      Many metals when minutely divided produce
the same phenomena, as silver, platinum, gold, osmium, iridium,
Thodium, and palladium.        In all these cases the extra oxygen is
disengaged, and sometimes that of the oxide ; but in others a
part of the oxygen combines with the metal, as with arsenic,
molybdenum, tungstenyand selenium. These metals are acidified,
                                                            frequently

                 Mr. Smith's Works      on Fossil Shells.             71
  frequently with the production of light.     Acids render the oxy
 genated water more permanent.         Gold, finely divided, acts with
 extreme force on pure oxygenated water, but has no action on
 that containing a little sulphuric acid.
          MR. WILLIAM SMITH'S WORKS ON FOSSIL SHELLS.
                             To  Mr.  Tilloch.
                                               Plastow,  July 18, 1819.
     Sir,— Having      been induced from what   I had repeatedly read
 in your very useful Magazine, concerning Mr. William Smith's
 ingenious and practical investigations of the British strata, and in
 commendation of his intended works on Fossil Shells, to become
 a subscriber to two of them, which were a long time ago begun
 to be published in numbers ; I shall offer no apology for re
 questing permission to address Mr. Smith, through your pages,
 in order to complain of the slow progress, and apparently Unrea
 sonable delay, which seems to attend the proceedings with regard
 to these works. The first of these, "Strata identified by organized
 Fossils," was begun to be published in June 1816, and was pro-
jmised to lie continued monthly, until it was completed in seven
 numbers; yet it was only during the last month that the fourth
 number thereof made its appearance.           When does Mr. Smith
 intend to fulfil his engagements, with regard to the completion of
 this work ?
     The second of these works, " Stratigraphical System of orga
 nized Fossils," was proposed to be completed by Mr. Smith in
 two parts ; the first of which was published in 1817, and yet the
 second and concluding part has not yet been published. When is
 this to take place ?
     I make these remarks, and put these questions, from no pre
judice or ill will towards Mr. Smith : on the contrary, I highly
 value his services in the cause of practical and useful geology,
 and will, on the completion of these two works within a reason
 able time, do all I can to extend the sale of them amongst my
 acquaintances.                   1 am, &c.
                                                     A Subscriber.
     P. S. Myself   and some of my friends made application at the
 British Museum, wishing to examine the geological collection of
 fossil shells, corals, &c. which Mr. Smith had deposited there, .and
 had in part described in his Strat. Syst., but were told it was not
 in order, and could not be seen. Will Mr. Smith have the good
 ness, if he can, or some one else, to inform the scientific public,
 through your pages, whether this impediment to the spread of
 a practically useful species
                                of knowledge has since been removed,
 and is iheSmilhian collection now accessible to the British public ?
                                 E  4                            LITHIA.

 72    Lithia. — Alloys of Platinum. — Explosion in   a   Coal-Mine.
                                  LITHIA.
     Mr. Berzelius has given the following method of proving
 whether this new alkali be present in any mineral : A small frag
 ment of the mineral, of the size of a pin's head, or a little of its
jjowder, with a small excess of soda, is to be heated by a blow
pipe, for two minutes, on a piece of platinum foil.       The mineral
is decomposed, the lithia liberated by the soda ; and the whole
 being kept fluid, at this temperature, by the excess of alkali, it
spreads over the foil, surrounding the decomposed mineral. The
part of the platinum near to the fused alkali becomes of a dark
 colour, more or less intense, and over a greater or less part of the
                                                        '
 surface, proportioned to the quantity of lithia in the mineral.
 This oxidation of the platinum takes place only around (not un
 der) the alkali, where air as well as the lithia has access to the
 metal.      Potash destroys the reaction of the platinum on the li
 thia, if the latter be not abundant.     The platinum being washed
jand heated, resumes its metallic surface.
                          ALLOYS OF PLATINUM.
     It  results from some experiments by Mr. Fox of Falmouth, that
 if   about equal bulks of platinum and tin, in contact with each
  other, be heated to redness, they combine suddenly with great
  vehemence, and a considerable extrication of light and heat,
  which continues for some time after they are removed from the
  fire.    This experiment may be performed by enveloping a piece
  of tin in platinum foil, and exposing it on a piece of charcoal to
  the flame of a blow-pipe : a kind of explosion takes place at the
  moment of combination, and the alloy runs about like ignited
  antimony.
      Similar  effects take place with platinum and antimony.      This
  alloy, when highly heated for some time, becomes solid and very
  malleable, and then contains but little antimony.
      Zinc produces the same phenomena, exploding and burning at
  the moment of combination.
                 DREADFUL EXPLOSION IN       A COAL-MINE.
      It is our painful duty to notice another of those distressing ac
  cidents which so frequently occur in. coal-mines.        On Tuesday
   the 20th July, owing, it is reported, to some neglect or misma
   nagement regarding the safety-lamps in the Sheriff-hill pit, at
   Gateshead near Newcastle-on-Tyne, a dreadful explosion took
   place, by which nearly 40 persons have lost their lives.        Had
   the accident happened an hour later, it is said about 100 persons
   would have perished.
                                                              BLASTING

Blasting ofRocks. — Velocity ofSound. — French Chronometer. 7 3
                          BLASTING OF ROCKS.
    Colonel Warnaghen,      of the Brazils, has made an important
discovery;    he  has ascertained that the sawdust of wood, espe
cially of woods of the less harder sort, triples the force of the
powder employed in blowing up rocks when mixed with it in
equal parts.
                          VELOCITY OF SOUND.
    It  appears from experiments lately performed at San Jago, in
Chili, by M. D. Josef       de Epinosa and D. Felipe Bauza, that
sound moves with a velocity of 1,227 English feet in a second,
the air being at a temperature of 73.5 Fahr. and the barometer
27.44 inches.
                       FRENCH CHRONOMETER.
    This chronometer consists of a needle perforated towards the
middle by an axis fixed in the centre of a vertical dial-plate, and
which turning freely around that axis has the property of indi
cating the hour upon the dial-plate.
    It is not directed by any external moving power, and contains
in itself all the principle of its action.
    It completes in twelve hours its revolution around a dial-plate,
whose divisions, not equal but proportional, are passed over in
equal times, as those of a solar dial are by the shade.
    It has no other point of support Nthan the immoveable axis
round which it turns ; its extremities are insulated, and have no
 communication with the centre.
    If the needle is directed towards another hour than that which
it indicates on the dial-plate, it returns of itself, like the needle
of a compass when attempted to be diverted from its polarity,
 and after an extremely free oscillation recovers its first position ;
 so that it can never stop or rest in apparent repose, liiit-atjhat
point of the circumference which corresponds with the timel)T
 day.
    If the needle is separated from its axis and removed from the
 dial-plate, although to a situation where it is kept immoveable,
 it does not lose any of its anterior properties ; that is to say, on
 being replaced on the axis, it does not stop at the hour at which
 it pointed when last removed from the dial-plate, but seeks out
 and rests at the time of day when it is replaced.
    It preserves for fifteen days all these properties ; and they are
  renewed by a very simple operation.
     It may be varied in its form and its dimensions.      The speci
  men which is seen at Peschot's,      the watchmaker, No. 18, Rue
 des Filles St. Thomas, one of the inventors, indicates the hour
 upon a dial-plate of thirty inches in diameter ; it is in crystal,
 and the point which directs itself upon the hour is a gilded fleur
 de  lis.
                                                                   The

74            Geometrical    Recreation.'— Partridges.
   The axis around which it turns, may be fixed without injury
upon a glass: the hours are then indicated upon that glass.
   %* A scientific friend who has been lately in Paris, and has
seen the above instrument, and its singular action, was completely
at a loss how to account for it.     Neither electricity nor magne
tism, it is asserted, has any thing to do with its movements ; so
that its action must be entirely mechanical.
                     GEOMETRICAL     RECREATION.
   M. Allizeau, an artist of Paris,   has invented a new sort of toy,
to which he gives the name of Metamorphoses.        It consists of five
pieces, which may he so arranged as to compose all sorts of poly
gons ; to resolve twentyreight problems of geometry ; and even
to demonstrate the square of the hypothenuse.        With the assist
ance of these pieces, a person may also trace plans of fortifica
tion ; erect monuments, rustic villas, bridges, tombs, &c. The
figures obtained are all regular and symmetrical ; they result
from a perfect square, susceptible itself of being divided into
thirty-six other small squares. This invention may prove a
source of vejy agreeable recreation, and cannot fail to be of great
service; to young people desigijed for the mechanical arts.           It
exhibits the first principles of architecture and geometry, a know
ledge of which is indispensable in the practice of the arts.
   This collection of geometrical recreations is composed, 1st,
of five pieces, in wood, in ivory, or in mother of pearl, for the
planes : — 2d, of a small box inclosing the same number of pieces
for the elevations ;•— 3d, of a number of plates on which are de
signed fifty-six regular figures obtained from the composition of
the square; — 4th, of a second number of geometrical figures, &c.
—5th, of a third number containing thirty-seven subjects of
architecture in perspective elevation. — The price is fourteen
francs (lis. 8d.)             —   .
                             PARTRIDGES.
   At the latter end of last month, as a cat belonging to Mr. All-
work, pf Goudhurst, was prowling through the meadows, it was
observed to kill a partridge, and on examining the spot a nest
was found, containing eighteen eggs, which were taken up and
that evening deposited in an oven that had been recently used. On
the following -morning, when the oven.was opened, the whole of
the eggs were found hatched, and the young ones running about,
but in catching them three were unfortunately killed ; the re
maining fifteen were put into the nest, and placed in the meadow
from which it had been taken on the preceding evening. In a short
time the old cock partridge was attracted to the spot, and in a
few minutes it departed with the whole brood in the presence of
several persons. Since that time they have been frequently seen
by the gamekeeper of T. Wallis, esq.

                       Meteor. — New Cornel.                            75
                               METEOR.
    A very remarkable meteor     was seen at Aberdeen on Wednes
day   the  5th of May   at about  half past twelve in the forenoon.
It appeared at an altitude of nearly 36 degrees, having the form
of a ball of fire with a short tail darting towards the earth. The
atmosphere was uncommonly clear at the time, with bright sun
shine, and not a cloud to be seen.        In about five minutes after
it was observed, it exploded with a considerable noise, and a vo
lume of smoke issued from it which assumed the form of a small
white cloud.     The same meteor was seen in many parts of the
country. . In the parishes of Kintora, Fintray, &c. the noise of
the explosion was so loud that the cattle in the fields became
terrified and bellowed loudly.     It is very rare for such meteors to
be visible in the day-time. — The Scotsman.
                            NEW COMET.
   A new comet has within this month made its appearance in
the constellation of the Lynx.     It was seen in the northern parts
of Britain and the continent before it was observed at London.
At Edinburgh, York, Leeds, and Berlin, it was noticed on the 1st
of July ; at Hamburgh and Lauenburg on the 2d. It appears
to have presented at Edinburgh a more luminous and distinct
aspect than any where else to the southward.          Its nucleus is re
presented as having appeared there very brilliant, and of about
three-fourths of the diameter of Jupiter; and the whole breadth
of the coma, or head, as about thrice the diameter of the nucleus.
   At Berlin on the 1st, at 55 minutes past 1 1, it was in the me
ridian apparent altitude 2 deg. 20. min.; it was very brilliant,
and visible in the next morning twilight 6 or 7 degrees above the
horizon, appearing like Venus.
   On the 3d, it was seen at the Observatory at Gosport, the
learned superintendant of which (Dr. Burney) has furnished the
public with the following observations upon it.
                    " To the Editor of the Star.
                                        " Observatory, Gosport,  July 4.
   "   In the evening of the 3d of July 1819, from a quarter          pr>*-
nine till a quarter past twelve, we were gratified with the          sig>it
of a comet, with     a lucid train projecting upwards or from the
 sun, and nearly in a perpendicular direction.        At half-past ten,
it was in the N. by W. point, within 10 degrees of the horizon,
immediately in the breast of the Lynx, and by the sectant 19£
degrees distant from Capella.      At 10 h. 40 min. it was 44 deg.
from Polaris, and at half-past eleven about 40 deg. from Dubhe
in the back of Ursa Major, when it was due north, and had a
slow motion downwards of about 2\ degrees per hour.               Viewed
through a good achromatic telescope, its body appeared more
                                                                confused,

76                          New Comet.
confused, or had a greater nebulosity, than when seen with the
naked eye, perhaps from thick dewy haze then descending.
Though the brilliancy of moonlight was not favourable to obser
vations, yet the nucleus of the comet appeared of a pale white
light, and was sometimes brighter than at others, as was also the
tail, which expanded upwards at intervals from 6 deg. to 10 deg.
in length by the sextant. From its position and motion it would
appear that it had passed through the head of the Lynx, between
Auriga and Ursa Major, and was now advancing towards the head
of Gemini. The train had a little inclination westward, and ap
peared about 3 deg. in width at its greater extremity.           Its ap
parent magnitude is nearly similar to the comet that appeared
here at the beginning of September 1811; but the train is much
longer and wider."
                                      " Observatory, Gosport,  July  8.
    " Mr. Editor — I   beg leave to send you a few observations re
specting the new comet, by way of addenda et corrigenda of the
article that was hastily drawn up last Saturday night, and in
serted in your paper of Monday, and am yours truly,
                                            " William Burney.
    " The  comet's north polar distance when passing the meridian
about 12 P.M. on the 3d instant, was 44 degrees; and its north
declination 46 degrees.     On Monday night, when on the meri
dian, its north polar distance was 43 degrees, and its north de
clination 47 degrees nearly: so that its north polar distance de
creases, and its declination increases.      On Tuesday evening it
could not be seen here, from the interposition of clouds.           Last
evening (the 7th) at 20 minutes past nine o'clock, mean time, it
was 26 degrees west of due north ; and 16 degrees above the ho
rizon. Since Saturday night it has risen about 2 or 2§ degrees
towards the polar star, and receded from Capella nearly two de
grees westward ; which now makes its place on a good celestial
globe about two degrees under the three small stars behind the
left shoulder of the constellation Lynx.       Now, since the sun is
in the- focus of a comet's parabolic or elliptical orbit, it is evident
this comet, in its approximation to Polaris, is advancing to its
perihelion, and from its slow motion, and the direction of its path,
most likely we shall see it for a considerable time.        It is about
25 degrees from the sun, and within two degrees of our zenith at
noon ; and, when most brilliant, its head is globular.     Sometimes
it appears as small as a star of the second or third magnitude, at
other times equal to Saturn in apparent diameter, but of a lighter
colour than that planet. The breadth of the head, including dif
fused coma, is nearly half the moon's apparent diameter.            The
tail is well connected with the head, without any perceptible
aperture; but has not appeared on any evening to be so long by
                                                                 several

                                        New Cornet.                                       77
 several degrees as on Saturday night, when it measured from six
 to ten degrees in length, and upwards of two degrees in breadth
 at its extremity."
    The comet was observed at London and its vicinity, at Paris,
 at Brussels, &c. on the same evening as at Gosport, namely, on
 the 3d of July.
    The following is a table of the observations made upon it at the
 Royal Observatory, Greenwich.                    On the 3d, 1 1th and 13th it was
 observed on the meridian below the pole ; the observation of the
 7th was made with the- large equatorial in the eastern dome.
                           Mean Time                  Declina
       1819.       o        of Obser
                                          Comet's
                                            A.R.        tion     Longitude.
                                                                               Latitude
              Longitude.                                                        North.
                              vation.     in Time.    North.
             3. o   '  "   H.   M.  S.   H. ' " "' o      1 II
                                                                S. •
                                                                       '   "
      Julys  3  11   7 44  IS   6  55  S G  51 35  6 43  41  13 J   9 56    3 20 39 54
      tiiii
          n
             3
             3
                14
                18
                   55
                   45
                       S3 11 53
                       10 12    6
                                    2 0 7    8   9 5 48 17 41 3 12
                                    7 4 7 22 20 S 50 31 22 3 14
                                                                      28 51 25 33 54
                                                                      40 43 28     6   6
          18 3  20 39  33 12    4 29 3 7 28 34 5 51        7 31 3 15  40 15 28 51 30
                        .
    It was    at first supposed that this comet was the same with that
discovered some months ago by M. Pons ; but from a notice on
that comet which has been recently read to the Academy of Mar
seilles, by M. Blanpain, Director of the Royal Observatory there,
it appears that this is not the case. The comet discovered by
M. Pons was not in the constellation Lynx, but that oiLeo ; and
although it has ever since the 12th of June, the day of its disco
very, regularly increased in apparent size and brilliancy, it is still
very small, and quite invisible to the naked eye.                            Its nucleus is
besides indistinctly marked ; its rays are very faint ; and it has
no appearance of a tail. All these are circumstances which sepa
rate it distinctly from the comet which is now the subject of ob
servation.
    M. Bouvard, Member of the French Academy of Sciences and
Astronomer of the Bureau of Longitude, has made the following
calculation of the elements of this new comet.
   Passage to the perihelion, 2d August, at twelve, mid-day.
        Perihelial distance                                                  0 5 1744
   The distance of the earth from the sun being taken as unity.
        Longitude of the perihelion                                            0° 47'
        Longitude of the node                                            .277        14
        Inclination of the orbit                                             44      57
                          Heliocentric movement, direct.
   M. B. however remarks, that these elements are as yet but
approximations, and that this comet differs from all those which
have been hitherto observed.
                                                                                      DEATH

78                  Professor Playfair.
                                         — Patents.
                  DEATH OF PROFESSOR PLAYFAIR.
    Prof. Playfair, who has been for some time past in a de-           1
clining state of health, died at his house in Forth-street, Edin
burgh, on the 20th of July.        His death is universally regretted.
No man ever perhaps       deserved or enjoyed a larger share of the
public   esteem.     By the  world at large he was respected for his
great and various acquirements, both in literature and science,
while to the circle of his private friends he was in a peculiar man
ner endeared by his mild and unassuming character.
             UST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
    To Stephen Bedford, of Birchall-street in Birmingham, for his
improvement in the preparation of iron and other metals for va
rious purposes; and also an improvement in the converting British
iron into steel. — 22d June, 1819.
    To David Gordon of Edinburgh, and Edward Heard of Brigh
 ton, for their invention of a portable gas lamp. — 19th June.
    To Alexander Hadden of Aberdeen, manufacturer, for an im
proved manufacture for carpeting. — 22d June.
    To Edward Jordan of Norwich, for his improved water wheel
for draining marsh lands, whereby water may be raised from a
greater depth by a wheel of less diameter, and a large quantity
 of marsh land drained in a shorter time than by any water wheel
now in use, and thereby great labour and expense saved. — 22d
June.
    To Edmund William Williams, of St. Mildred's-court, Poultry,
for certain improvements in the mode or art of distilling, com
municated to him by a person residing abroad. — 26th June.
    To William Brunton, of Birmingham, for certain improve
 ments in steam-engines and furnaces of steam-engines, by which
 a saving in the consumption of fuel is effected, and the combus
 tion of smoke is more completely attained. — 29th June.
    To Nicholas Conne, of St. Mary-le-Strand, Middlesex, glass
 engraver, for an improvement applicable to lamps for domestic
 purposes, communicated to him by a person residing abroad. —
30th June.
    To John Scheffer, of Church-street, Blackfriars-road, Surrey,
 for his machine or instrument for writing, which he denominates
 the Pennographic or Writing Instrument. — Sth July.
    To William Good, of Bridport Harbour, Dorsetshire, for his
 improvement in the art of tanning hides and skins, and barking
 or colouring nets, sails, and other articles, by the application of
 certain materials hitherto unused for that purpose. — 10th July.
    To Joseph Clisela Daniell, of Frome, Somerset, for certain im
 provements in dressing woollen cloths ; also in preparing and
 using wire cards as applicable to that purpose. — 17th July.
                                                            METEORO-

                       Meteorology.                                79
    METEOROLOGICAL         JOURNAL KEPT AT         BOSTON,
                       LINCOLNSHIRE.
[The time of observation, unless otherwise stated, is at 1 P.M.]
    Acre  of
      ?he    Thermo   Baro    State of the Weather and Modification
    Moon      meter.  meter.             of the Clouds,
    DAYS.
      22       60,    29.83   Cloudy — heavy rain morning and
      23       54'    3003    Showery                      [evening.
      24       65.    30.25 Fine
      25       62.5   30-20 Cloudy
      26       64'5   30-30 Fine
      27       65.    30-32 Ditto
      28       63-5   30-20 Cloudy
     new       57-5   30-13 Showery
        1      64.    30-06 Cloudy
        2      62.    29-85 Ditto
        3      67-    29-85 Rain
        4      62.    29-60 Showery
        5      66.            Ditto
        6      60.    29'67   Ditto — rain and hail with thunder
                                 and lightning, morning and af-
        7      65-    2956    Fine                          [ternoon.
        8      67'    29-40   Cloudy — rain A.M.
        9      61.    29-54   Fine
       10      64*    29-56   Showery
      U        72-5   29-40   Fine
       12      81.    29-37   Ditto
       13      75-    29.50   Cloudy— rain in the evening.
       14      C7'5   29-60   Ditto — heavy rain at night.
      full     72.    29-80   Fine
       16      72.    29-66   Cloudy
       17      65.    29-72   Fine
       18      61-5   29-72   Ditto
       19      63.    29.86 Cloudy
      20       66.5   29-83 Ditto
                                                            METEORO

80                                           Meteorology.
                           meteorological table,
                        By Mr. Cart, of the Strand,
                                            For July 1819.
                                                                  .     J:
                      Thermometer.
                                                                 0     TS 0
                                                  Height r f
 Days of
                  o .-
                                       CJ
                                       O
                                             .
                                                 the Baro 11.
                                                                 •zM
                                                                 >/) . c                Weathet.
 Month.                        0                                 zZ)
                                                                       -a
                                                                             0
                               0                   Inches.
                                                                             c
                  o'C
                  8     Mor
                                                                 0 c^
 June       27     57         63       55        29-70                37         Stormy
            28     56         59       54           •78               33         Thunder-storms
            29    57          67      55            •94            49            Fair
            30    56          68      50            •80            40            Showery
     July   1     58          69      52            •89            49            Fair
            2     57          59      54            •88                0         Rain
             3    56          67      59            •90            46            Fair
            4     60          81      68            •84            55            Fair
             5    68          78      67            •95            48            Fair
            6     60          67      62         30-03                 0         Rain
            7     63          68      60            •27            37            Cloudy
            8     62          64      55            •08                0         Rain
                  57          70      57            •09            43            Fair
            0 9   63                  56            •15            56            Fair
                              73
        1
        1         57          69      64            •19            40            Cloudy
            12    6/          74      65            •21            54            Fair
        13        64          68      54            •28            42            Cloudy
        14        56          63      60            •23            40            Cloudy
        15        57          66      55            •10            48            Fair
        16        55          64      57            •10            57            Fair
        17        62          73      67            •12            60            Fair
        18        68          74      67            •03            62            Fair
        19        64          74      66         29-67             65            Fair
        20        68          73      54            •42            55            Fair — heavy fall of
                                                                                   rain at night
        21        54          57      55            •56            26            Cloudy
        22        56          67      60         30-1O             57            Fair
        23        60          69      66           .25             67            Fair
        24        67          77      66            •25            51            Fair
        25        68          75      66            •15            75            Fair
        26        67          75      65            •10           93             Fair
                  N.B. The         Baromeler's     height   h   taken at one o'clock.

                                  •'•
                                        C    81    ]
          XVI.      On Cohesion.            By Mr. Henry Moseley.
                                  To    Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, — The            power   of cohesion         is   universally allowed to be one
of the most interesting and important properties of matter. The
obscurity of its laws, the singularity of its effects, and its imme
diate connexion with the necessities and comforts of every class
of society, claim for      distinguished rank among the researches
                             it
                              a
of the philosopher. Nevertheless no phenomenon of nature has
received so small      share of philosophical investigation.
                         a                                        This
neglect   isperhaps principally to be ascribed to an idea (very ge
nerally received), that the nature of the attraction of cohesion (as
existing only between insensibly minute, particles of matter) pre
cludes the possibility of experimental research. As      relates to an
                                                                    it
analytical mode of investigation, this argument certainly holds
good  ;  but   itno objection to
                    is               synthetical investigation.
                                              a
 . Convinced that the known properties of matter present us with
sufficient data for ascertaining the true law of cohesion, and that
the ill success of few, whose aim was rather to reconcile expe
                         a
riment with theories the favourite phantoms of their own ima
ginations, than to deduce such theories from facts, did not stamp
impossibility on the undertaking       have been induced to com
                                              I
                                              ;
mence an investigation of the subject, the result of which      beg          I
leave to submit to the public through the medium of your valu
able Magazine.       remain, yours,
                         I     "     &c.
Canonbury,     July   12, 1819.                                 HENRY MoSELEY.
  A   connexion between the attraction of cohesion and the at
traction of gravitation has long been suspected                    by
                                                        philosophers.
It still, however, remains to prove the real existence of such a
connexion, and to show how far            extends.it In the following
remarks   I shall attempt to demonstrate that these two attractions
are different effects of the same power, following the same law
under different conditions.     So numerous and powerful are the
objections which present themselves to this hypothesis on a par
tial consideration, that its possibility will,  am afraid, be at once
                                                           I
denied; and any arguments in its favour be treated as attempts
to establish an hypothesis which daily experience contradicts.
In order therefore that the subsequent arguments may obtain an
unprejudiced consideration,     shall endeavour to remove the prin
                                    I
cipal objections to the fact generally — -that cohesion and gravita
tion are effects of the same power       and, having thus shown the
                                                  ;
possibility of my hypothesis, proceed to demonstrate its reality.
   The most powerful and evident objection to this hypothesis is,
that the cohesion of body    a    in many instances more powerful
                                        is
   Vol. 54. No.   256. Aug. 1819.                           F     than

82                          On Cohesion.
than its gravity. Now attraction being known to exist in propor
tion to the quantity of matter, and the attraction of gravity being
exerted between a comparatively small and an immensely large
aggregate of matter, whilst that of cohesion only exists between
small aggregates; it seemingly implies that a less attraction is
more powerful than a greater. In answer to this it may be stated,
that gravity being exerted at exceedingly great, whilst cohesion
only exists at insensibly small distances, the energy of the one
can be no fair criterion to judge of that of the other. In the sub
sequent part of this paper it will be shown that gravity is an ag
gregate of attractions which would be individually insensible ;
whilst cohesion is an aggregate of individually sensible attrac
tions. Now of the two masses between which gravity is exerted,
one (the earth) being infinitely greater than either of those be
tween which cohesion exists, it follows that the aggregate of in
sensible attractions is infinitely greater than the aggregate of sen
sible attractions.    But this by no means precludes the possibility
of the latter being infinitely stronger than the former: besides, it
must be recollected that the cohesion of one particle is not merely
the effect of the attraction of another, — every particle being sphe
rical, is in contact with eighteen others ; every effort therefore to
remove a single particle will be resisted in a greater or less de
gree by at least nine other particles.
   Another objection that has been urged       is, that the power of
cohesion diminishes much faster than the square of the distance     :
some, indeed, have gone so far as to assert, that    it diminishes as
the cube   of  the distance. By    what  means  these  conclusions are
obtained     know not except
              I       ;            itbe by approaching the particles
of bodies, and observing mechanically their attractions at different
distances. The power of cohesion acting only between particles,
and these particles being insensibly small, can but extend its in
fluence to insensibly small distances; and to attempt to measure
the sensible decrease of a power which at sensible distances   is  in
sensible,     attempting to divide mechanically an insensibly
               is                                                small
space — the result of such an attempt cannot certainly be urged
          ;
as an argument.
     Itmay again be objected,       by
                                    those who believe in the ex
istence of repulsion between the particles of matter, that by this
hypothesis no such power      accounted for. The existence of re
                           by is
pulsion    not, however,
              is             any means demonstrated     and all the
                                                          ;
experiments adduced in favour of      (with the exception of those
                                        it
connected with electricity and magnetism) may be accounted for
without having recourse to such a power.
   The three principal objections which apply generally to this
hypothesis having been answered,       shall consider
                                         I                admitted,
                                                          it
that the attraction of gravitation and the attraction  of  cohesion
may be the same, and proceed to prove that they are so.

                                 On Cohesion.
     The particles of bodies being individually too minute to come
directly under the observation of our senses, we can only arrive
at a knowledge of their nature and properties through the me
dium of the nature and properties of their aggregates.
     The general admission of the two following positions, drawn,
from the known properties of bodies and our ideas of the wisdom
 and goodness of the great Author of Nature, may claim for them
 the rank of axioms*. 1st, That all matter is ultimately composed
 of infinitely minute particles.         2dly, That these ultimate par
 ticles are perfectly solid, impenetrable, and consequently im
 mutable bodies.       To these may be added a third ; viz. That the
 particles of which all bodies, whether simple or compound, are
 directly composed, are homogeneous. For with respect to simple
 bodies this cannot be for a moment doubted; and of compounds
 we can form no other idea than that they are either a mixture of
 particles, or that by a certain action the differing particles com
 bine, and thus the whole are rendered similar.           That the mere
 admixture of particles is insufficient to produce a true chemical
 compound is universally allowed ; we must therefore conclude,
 that the particles of which all bodies are directly formed are ho
 mogeneous.       Now a chemical compound is produced by pre
 senting the particles of different bodies to one another; and the
 particles of a chemical compound being homogeneous, it follows
 that the particles of the component bodies must have undergone
 a change, by which their individuality has been destroyed.             The
 particles  of which     bodies   are  directly  composed,   must    there
 fore be penetrable and changeable properties, which according,
 to our axiom cannot belong to the ultimate particles of matter.
 Hence it may be fairly inferred, that the particles of which bodies
 are directly formed, differ essentially from the ultimate particles «£.
 matter ; and that bodies must be composed of at least two kinds
 of particles, which may be called primary or direct, and ultimate
 particles : the primary particles, it has been shown, are homoge
 neous; the ultimate particles are similar or dissimilar, according
 as they compose simple or compound bodies. Whether there be
 more than two descriptions'of particles or not, does not appearf:—
 the primary particles may be composed of other secondary ones,
 these of others, and so on ad infinitum, where perhaps are the
 ultimate particles of matter.
     The attraction called gravity is an universal property of mat
ter : it is found in similar bodies in proportion to their masses or
quantities of particles.      It may therefore be inferred that this at
traction exists in the particles of bodies as well as in the bodies
    * In support of these axioms may be adduced the opinions of Sir I. New
ton, Baxtej, &c.
    f On this subject I shall communicate something in the next Number of
this Magazine.                       F 2                      themselves

    84                         On Cohesion.
-themselves (for every particle added increases the attraction of
:the whole), and that the attraction of the whole is an aggregate
 of the attractions of its particles. But the particles of bodies being
 infinitely minute, the spaces in which their individual attractions
  are sensible must be infinitely small, and at sensible distances
 these attractions must become insensible.        The attraction of a
 mass therefore at a sensible distance is an aggregate of indivi
 dually insensible attractions ; but at an insensible distance it be
 comes an aggregate of sensible attractions j — a conclusion which
 is supported by actual experiment : for if two rough surfaces be
 presented to one another, the attraction is insensible, the distance
 of their particles being sensible (and the aggregate not sufficiently
 great to render the individual attractions sensible) ; but if the di
stance be rendered (by polishing)insensible, the attraction imme
 diately becomes sensible. The particles of bodies therefore, when
placed at insensible distances, exercise sensible attractions in vir
 tue of the attraction of gravitation, and at sensible distances this
 attraction (unless the masses be immensely large) ceases.         The
 attraction  of  cohesion  follows  precisely the same  laws: — may it
 not then be fairly inferred, that these attractions are one   and  the
    same   ?
      If   the primary particles of bodies be allowed to possess the
    power of attraction, it may be inferred on similar grounds, that
    the particles of which they are composed are likewise endued
    with it ; we must therefore allow them cohesion, and that their
    cohesion and attraction is more powerful than that of the primary
    particles themselves : we must likewise conclude the form of a-
    primary particle to be spherical.
       It being admitted that the attraction of cohesion and the at
    traction of gravity are the same, it follows from a moment's con
    sideration that the particles of different bodies must differ in size
    and in density.
       Let a primarv particle A containing a quantity of matter (a)
    be presented to another, B, containing a quantity of matter (Z»),
    and let the attraction at the surface of A be greater than that at
    the surface of B; i. e. let ^/B x a be greater than ^/a X b,
    and let the contact of A and B be so minute that some of the
    secondary particles of D maybe within the sphere of the attrac
    tion of those of A. Then, the attraction of the particles of A being
    greater than the attraction of the particles of B, it will also be
    greater than their cohesion ; and their cohesion being destroyed,
    the attraction of the whole mass A being greater than that of B,
    these secondary particles of B will leave   it,and form round    A ;
    and the operation will be continued till the two are formed into
    one> whilst everv secondarv particle exerting    similar attraction,
                                                      a
                                                                      the

                                       On Cohesion.                                                                    .85
 the operation may be carried on ad infinitum till the ultimate
 particles of each are placed together.
    Let it be granted :
 1st. That gravity and cohesion are effects of the same power fol
       lowing the same law ; i. e. diminishing as the square of the
       distance increases.
2d. That the particles of bodies are of different densities and
       magnitudes, and consequently of different gravities.
3d. That if two primary particles of matter, the attraction at the
       surface of one of which is greater than the attraction at the
       surface of the other, be brought within the sphere of the
       attraction of each other's particles, the two particles will
       cnmlMtie and form one compound, spherical particle.
4th. That the gravity of the whole is equal to the sum of the
       gravities of its component particles.
   Let a : b as the gravities of two equal masses A and B.
         c : d as the cohesion of A : cohesion ofB.    Then
   Problem I. — The .magnitudes of the particles of A are to
those of D as (6s c') to (a3d').
      Let x : y      as magnitudes          of particles.
      Then —         : — : :   the numbers of particles, the masses                                        A and B
being equal a-.          —                 ~       : :   ax       : b   y     : :   The gravities of the
particles (Ax. 4th.); that                is,   as the quantities                       of matter they con
tain.   4/   x   :     y :
                         :     diameter of          x    :    diam.        y  :     :   —   :           :
                                                                                                        :       squares
of diameters inversely             .\ ~         :    .—-      :
                                                              :        a            x   :   b    ^/y    :
                                                                                                        :       the at-
traction at the surface of x                   :    the attraction at the surface of                                   y
and the number             of particles exerting this attraction on any one
particle      being under all circumstances the same                                            ;   viz.   9:
                                                                                                            :     c  :   a\.
      ^/x ^/y                                                                                    d!. q. e.        d.
                                                                                    c%
.•.          :        :
                      :    be :,ad, and as               x.   y
                                                              :        ::     b3    :       a>
      Corollary 1st. — The            numbers of particles contained                                       A     and   B
are as       — —.
             1
                 :
                     l
      Corollary 2d. — The gravities of the particles of equal masses,
or    the gravities of wholes containing equal numbers of particles,
are     as   a-.       —   ib-.       —   :
                                          :
                                                 c'
                                                 bl       :       di    a1.
   Corollary 3d.— The diameters of particles as be     ad.                                          :
   Corollary 4th. — The cohesions are as the specific gravities of
wholes multiplied into the diameters of the particles.
   Problem II. — any number of particles of the mass
                             If                                 b«                                               A
presented to an equal number of particles of the mass     so that                                          B,
the particles of  and    may attract one another, and form other
                         A        B
                                           .   F   3                                                    compound

S6                                                On Cohesion.
compound particles.     Or in other words, equal numbers of par
ticles of A and B be formed into a chemical compound A + B,
                                                             then
shall the specific gravity of A + B be to the specific gravity of
Aas             I           *—           :   1.
               1+"7]'
                  cb
                     '
By the last proposition :
  bl c' : a3 di : : magnitude particles of A : mag. part
                                                             of B.
By Corollary, c' bl : d1 a1 : : gravities of particles.
By Axiom the third :
  As bl c' + a' di : bl e! : : mag. particles A + B : mag. part.
                                                                                                                                A.
  As c! b1 + di a1 : c3 b1 : : gravities of part. A + B : grav. part.
                                                                                                                                A.
     As                     : —— : :              numbers               of particles of A + B, and A
          63 c3 + «3 »i3     I'3     c3
contained equal masses                        ;
     •                      :—        :      specific gravity
                                                      b       or                    A+      B    :
                                                                                                         r arav.
                                                                                                        spec,        6          A.
                                     :        v
          &3o3 + „3,/3       b
                                             l    + (3£4
                                                                .       i   +   l)Jx^s                  .
                                                                                                            .
                                 .                              .                  cJ ——    b
                                                  jT_                                                                B.
          c3,i3 + (f3fl2&
           pc3+„3.rfj
                            :
                            1
                            :                       tt.     :'      :   •           —   ;        :              ©•        I>.
                                                                                    "rfi
     :
     :                      :
                                              1                             1-4-
     Problem          III. —The conditions being the same as in the las't
                    The cohesion of +       the cohesion of
                                                       A        B                                               A:
                                                                                                                 :
problem.
                                                                    :
          TV        7)*
 1   +
           adm
     1+    cb
                                                                                                rf3o9
     By the 4th corollary                         1/   b>   c'+a>               X   •                       t
                                                                                                                ffi       b}
     Problem IV. —                   If      achemical compound be formed with any
 two bodies Aand                         in the proportion of          being the numg            (g
                             A B
                                                                                        :   1
 ber of particles of                      added to every one  of B, and not exceeding
               then shall the specific gravity of                                   A   +   B     be to the specific
                                 +        £_si*l
                      as— gg.l.
                           i
 gravity     of   B                                                                                                            Then
                                 +           d3 a3

                                           On Cohesion.                                                                  87
    Then Corollary 2d, c3 I1 : d3 a* : : gravities of masses contain
ing equal numbers of particles or gravities of particles contained
... g c3 b1 : as sum of the gravities of the particles of A added
to every particle of B to form the compound particles of A + B
.•. g c3 b%-\-d3 a1 : d3 a1 ; : gravities of particles of A +
                                                                B : grav.
of particles of B; and (Prob. 2d), as b3 c3 + d3      a3 : d3 a3 : : mag.
of the particles .-. gb3 c3 + d3 a3 : d3 a3 :: mag. part. A + B :
mag.part.B          .-. (Prop.3d),               —— —— :
                                                 .                         - - ; :              -—                  1 :   ;
                : 1 : :                                                1.          q. e. d.
  Problem V. — The conditions being the same                                                         as      in the last
problem, the cohesion of A + B will be to B                                                         as
                                                                               1+
   For Corollary 4th 'v
                      s/ff                      A»        + a'   <i!   X                  —
                                                                                                ^-       :   da   : :    co-
                                                                               J          s   c3 1>3
                                                                                   _^
                                                                                           (i3a3
hesions   : :               «-   3
                                  .
                                      -     ,
                                          : 1 ; :
                                                      —        Vs          a
                                                                               -r--;
                                                                                          a 1   /    : 1.
                                                                                                         ,
                                                                                                                 Q. E.    D.
                          rf3 d-i I                       \    ^S                   d I   /
    -Examples. — Let it be required to find the ratios of the mag
nitudes and gravities of the component particles of lead and tin,
and the weights of masses containing equal numbers of particles.
The specific gravity of lead being 1 1-3525, its cohesion 29.25,
and the spec, gravity of tin 7.2914, its cohesion 49.25.
    Here a                  11-3523 : 7-2914.                          Log. 29-25  =1.46613
                c   :d:    : 29.25 : 49.25.                            Log. 7.2914 = 0.86279
                                                                       Log. cb     =2.32892
 Log. 113523= 1.05500                                                                      3
 Log. 49.25 =1.69214                                                       Log. c> = 6.98676       fl»
 Log. ad                 =2.74714
                                          s
 Log. a3    b3 =8.24142
    As Log.        Log. a3
                    c3   c3 b3
                            :                        d3   ;
                                                          ;    6.98676             :    8.24142              :
                                                                                                             :    Log.    1   :
 Log. 17.97 ...
                         b3
                     a3 d3
                         :                       :
                                                 :        1
                                                          :    17.97       :   :    magnitude particles                       of
 lead to magnitude particles of tin. (Prop. 1st.)
                                                          F4                                                              3x

88                                On Cohesion.
        3 x 1-69214=5-07642                       3  x 1-46613=4-39839
        2x1-05500=2-11000                          2x0-86279=1-72558
Log. d'a1                 7-18642                 Log. c» I'          6-12397
    Therefore,    as   Log. c} bl : Log. d! a1 : : 6-12397 : 7-1 8642 : :
Log. 1 : Log. 1 1-5464 .,. c3 is : di a1 : : 1 : 11-5464 : : gravities
of particles of lead : gravities of particles of tin, or of masses
of lead to masses of tin containing equal numbers of particles.
(Cor. 2d.)
    Example 2d. — Let it          be required to find the specific gravity
and corpuscular attraction of a compound body formed by melting
together masses of lead and tin containing equal numbers of
particles.
    Problem       II.
                   r
                       —   ^'xfT  c L,
                                           3
                                            *
                                                  : 1 : :  spec.grav. comp.   :  spec.
                              j l_L!?                            grav. lead.
    By last example,
g-xfT-ii-MMlll                       l+ITxi
                                     i+Jl'*           fi         12-5464
                             > • •                =—                          •6615
                             f                          *
                            J
                                                                 17-97
                                             T
                                          ,   ,
    J^'       =17.97                              cj  I
••.  -6615   : 1 : :  spec,  of comp.         : spec. grav. lead .-. 11.3523 X
•6615     = 7'3354645= spec, gravity of composition.
                             1+^1
    Problem      III.— As-. "J—rfJ ^—•-         : 1 : :   cohesion of comp.      : co-
                            1  4.            re         hcsion of lead.
    Here,   as before,                11-5464.        1  +   -~    -   18-97.    Log.
 18-97 = 1-27807        x £ =      -85204 = Log.           1 +  ^|*=Log.7-.113
  ,          f       __
                        12-5454     _     1-763 .•. cohesion of composition
           w^p13         7.113          to cohesion of lead as : 1 : 1-763.
     1  +—HT
    Example 3d. — Let it          be required to find the specific gravity
and corpuscular attraction of a compound formed by melting to
gether lead and tin in the proportion of 11-5 particles of the
former to 1 of the latter*.                                                    .    .
                                    H-5   r3&»
                              ^ j
    Problem IV. — As           — nf-?*5-         : 1 : :   spec' grav. comP-  :  sPec-
                              1 H          tt—            grav. lead.
            * Or equal weights of the two metals.             See Example 1.
      >                                                                           Log.

                                    On Cohesion.                                  89
           ilili!-Log.                                       i'
                              -
                                U-5 + Log.         £4-Log.        a-=l-0607O
              -
    Log.                                       cs
+ 6-9S676         84  1 42  =    •
                                   1 9396 -= Log. -6397
           1-5 c*
    Log-" 5^?a=           Log- 11'5 + Log.      c< £*-Log.   a*   d'-= 1-06070
                                                                     11-5   cJt
                                                                j
                                                                        ,iJ'"
 + 6-12397-7-lS642 = --00175 = Log.-99G
                                                           .
                                                                      115   c3 4»
                                                                        flJ rf3
       == 1.436    : 1 : :  specific grav.   of composition   :   spec, gravity
tin  1 -436 x 7-2914        = 8-873633S = specific gravity of the com-
               1 1 5 ( * V>
          ^ j
pound
          ~r~~^^T                     -V = S= 1-436             : 1 : :  cohesion
of tin to cohesion of compound.
    The specific gravities found in the two last examples agree
exactly with those deduced from actual experiment.                    The truth
of the principle on which they are calculated may therefore be
considered as demonstrated. The cohesions of bodies., particularly
when small, are exceedingly difficult to ascertain. A plan which,
however, I have lately adopted, will, I hope, enable me to obtain
something satisfactory on this head ; and I have no doubt but
the result will amply confirm the truth of my hypothesis.                         In
fact, the calculation of the specific gravity being founded on the
very same principle as that of the cohesion, (viz. that cohesion is
inversely as the square of the distance,) the truth of the one is a
proof of that of the other.
    From the formulae, given above may be calculated the specific
gravity and cohesion of a chemical compound of any two sub
stances, the specific gravities and cohesions of which are known;
they may therefore be extensively applied in the practice of me
tallurgy as well as chemistry.
    In a future number of the Philosophical Magazine I shall give
various formule for calculating the specific gravities and cohesions
of compounds formed by any given numbers and proportions of
different bodies, and for finding the proportions in which any
 number of bodies must be combined, in order to produce a given
specific gravity or cohesion ; as well as various new methods of
ascertaining the cohesions of bodies.               By means of these for
 mule and those already given, the portion of alloy contained in
 gold or silver may be found at once from their specific gravity;
 and the proportion in which any compound metal, as brass, &c.
 is compounded, from the specific gravity of such metal.
                                                                    XVII. 01-

                                 [   90    ]
X VII.      Observations on the Relation of the Law of Definite
    Proportions in Chemical Combination, to the Constitution of
    the ylcids, Alkalis, and Earths.        By John Murray, M.D.
    Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, of the Royal So
    ciety  of Edinburgh,   the   Geological Society of London, &c,
    Lecturer   on Chemistry, and Materia Medica and Pharmacy.*
The       law that every body enters into chemical combination in
a certain equivalent weight to others, and that when it combines
in different proportions with another, these proportions have a
simple arithmetical ratio, is perhaps the most important that has
hitherto been discovered in the science of chemistry.            It is now
so far established, notwithstanding some difficulties which attend
it, that when a view of the constitution of an extensive series of
chemical compounds is brought forward, different from what had
hitherto been proposed, it is incumbent to show that it is con
sistent wiih the operation of this law ; and if just, this may dis
play relations not before observed, and may obviate objections
which have arisen from a different view.          It is from these consi
derations that I submit the following observations on the appli
cation of the law of definite proportions to the theory which I
have proposed of the chemical constitution of the acids, alkalis,
and their compounds.        It necessarily leads to considerable modi
fications of these applications; and the conclusions which these
afford, if I am not deceived, afford proofs of the truth of the opi
nion I have advanced, and lay open some new views. The sub
ject is at the same time so extensive, as to have relations to
nearly all the details of chemistry.
                               f
     In the preceding paper I remarked, that the relations in the
 proportions of oxygen and hydrogen forming the supposed por
 tion of combined water in the acids, will probably be those of one
 or both of these elements directly to the radical.           It remained
 to be determined how far this is just.
    Sulphur affords the best example for illustration, as its com
 binations with oxygen and hydrogen are capable of being accu
 rately determined.
     Sulphur and oxygen are held to combine in two definite pro
 portions, forming sulphurous and sulphuric acids.            In the first,
  100 parts of sulphur are combined with 100 of oxygen; in the
 second, 100 are combined with 150 of oxygen, forming what is
 called the real acid, with which are further combined 56.7 of
  combined water, the entire compound, constituting the acid in
 the highest state of concentration, (1-85 of specific gravity) in
  which it can be procured in an insulated form.
     This constitution of these compounds appears at first view in
                   * Communicated by the Author.
                   f See Phil. Mag. vol. 52. p. 107 and 195.
                                                                 opposition

        On the Chemical ConstitutioJi   of Acids, Alkalis, &c.      91
 opposition to the law of definite proportions in chemical com
 binations ; for, according to that law, the higher proportion of
 an element in combination with another is a simple multiple of
 the lower proportion in which it combines with the same bodv.
And hence, since in the first combination of sulphur with oxygen,
 100 of the former are combined with 100 of the latter; in the
second, 100 ought to be combined with 200, while the combina
tion is that of 100 to 150.     And in the atomic hypothesis, this
involves the absurdity of supposing, that while, in the first com
pound, the combination, in conformity to the common rule, is
that of one atom of sulphur with one atom of oxvgen ; in the se
cond, it is that of an atom of sulphur with an atom and a half of
oxygen. To obviate this, it is supposed that a combination of sul
phur with a lower proportion of oxygen exists, — an oxide com
posed of 100 of sulphur with 50 of oxygen.        The ratio will then
be that of 1, 2, 3 of oxygen in the three compounds to one of
sulphur. And in the atomic system, the first will be held to be
that of an atom of sulphur with an atom of oxygen; the second,
that of an atom with two atoms; and the third, that of one with
three. To this, however, it may be objected, thit no such oxide
of sulphur can be obtained, though if it were a possible combina
tion, it ought, from the law of attraction, that the first proportion
of an element is retained in union with the greatest force, to be
the one most permanent and most easily obtained.
    Whether this objection be just or not, the difficulty can be
solved without any hypothesis, on the view that the elements of
the supposed water exist in the composition of the acid ; for the
quantity of oxygen in this water is just 50; of course, the entire
quantity is the regular proportion 200. And the composition is
100 of sulphur, 200 of oxygen, and 67 of hydrogen.
   This result favours the conclusion, that the relation of the oxy
gen in common sulphuric acid is entirely that of this element to
sulphur; that it is therefore in immediate combination with the
radical ; and hence, that water does not exist in the constitution
of the acid. And even if the existence of an oxide of sulphur and
of what is called real sulphuric acid were admitted, the combi
nations would be strictly conformable to the law of proportions,
being those of one of sulphur to 1,2, 3, and 4 of oxygen.
    The proportion of hydrogen is also determined by its relation
to the sulphur; for its quantity is that in which they combine, 6.7
of hydrogen with 100 of sulphur constituting the composition
of sulphuretted hydrogen.
    It thus appears that the proportions of both elements are de
termined by their relation to the sulphur as the radical of the acid,
and are those which the quantity of sulphur would separately
require.    This, so far as theory can discover, is not a neces
                                                                  sary

92                    On the Chemical        Constitution of
 sary result.    The oxygen and hydrogen might each have required
 the quantity of sulphur with which they combine, — that                 the    is,
 existing relations might have been those of sulphur to oxygen,
 and sulphur to hydrogen, in their several proportions.               other
                                                                      It   is
 wise;   there   isthe relation of sulphur to oxygen, and in addition
 to this of hydrogen to the same sulphur.            And thus, since the
 same quantity of sulphur receives the acidifying influence of both
 elements, we discover the source of the higher degree of acid
 power.      How water should augment acidity, no principle enables
 us to conjecture.       But how the joint operation of two elements
 acting on the same quantity of radical which each of them se
 parately  is capable of rendering acid, should augment the effect,
is  easily perceived. And even from this consideration alone, there
 can remain little hesitation in admitting the conclusion, that both
 these elements act directly on the sulphur, — in other words, that
 the three are       simultaneous combination.
                     in
    As there    isno proof of the existence of oxide of sulphur, and
 as no such compound as that denominated real sulphuric acid,
 composed of 100 of sulphur with 150 of oxygen, can be obtained
insulated,  it  might be supposed that the hypothesis of such com
binations ought to be excluded            and that the strict fact only
                                             ;
should be admitted, of the two compounds which constitute sul
phurous and sulphuric acids.
    There one ground, however, on which
           is                                        maybe inferred that
                                                      it
a relation of sulphur to oxygen, in the proportion of 100 to 150,
                                                         base neutralizing
                                                      by
exists.     When sulphuric acid        acted on
                                        is            a
it, its hydrogen     combines    with    portion
                                         a        of its  oxygen forming
water.      The quantity of oxygen thus abstracted            50, and, of
                                                                is
course, the above proportion lemains           and this being admitted,
                                                  ;
the existence of oxide of sulphur,          may be supposed, must also
                                             it
be assumed to bring the results under the law of definite propor
tions.     And the combinations of oxygen to sulphur will still be
in the ratio- of            4.
                            2,
                      1-,   3,
    This conclusion, however, does not follow          for in cases where
                                                       ;
this apparent     result   happens,   the  oxygen   which        abstracted
                                                                 is
forming water         replaced
                     is            the oxygen of the base, and makes
                                   by
up the proportion of 200 to 100 of sulphur            and the new com
                                                      ;
pound         ternary combination of these elements in these pro
         is
         a
portions with the metallic radical of the base.             A
                                                           single example
will illustrate this. 30.7 of common sulphuric acid require for
saturation 69-6 of oxide of lead; the former              composed of 10
                                                           is
of sulphur with 20      of oxygen,  and   0'7 of hydrogen, the latter of
64.6 of lead with          of oxygen.
                               5          The hydrogen in their mutual
action abstracts         of oxygen forming water, and there remain
                          5
20 of oxvgen, 10 of sulphur, and 64.6 of lead in combination.
The same result         established in all other cases, and they afford
                          is
                                                                         no

               Acids, Alkalis, and their Compounds.                 93
no evidence, therefore, of the existence of any such compound as
that of real sulphuric acid.
    But there is another case which does not admit of the same
explanation, and in which the relation of 1 of sulphur to 1^-of
oxygen seems to be demonstrated.       It is that of the action of sul
phurous acid on salifiable bases.      Here, as there is no abstrac
tion of oxygen in the formation of water, while there is the ad
dition of the oxygen of the base, the proportion in the combina
tion is that of 11 to 1 of sulphur.      This will be apparent from
the same example     of oxide of lead.  20   of sulphurous acid com
posed of 10 of sulphur and 10 of oxygen combine with 69.6 of
oxide of lead, composed of 64'6 of lead and 5 of oxygen: sup
posing a simultaneous combination to be established, the propor
tions will be 10 of sulphur, 15 of oxygen, and 64-6 of lead; and
supposing the two latter to observe a relation to sulphur, the
proportion is that of 100 to 150 of oxygen.
    It might be maintained that no change of composition in the
two binary compounds, the sulphurous acid and oxide of lead,
takes place, but that they merely unite ; or, at least, that while
the sulphur and lead display their peculiar relation to each other,
each of them retains its relation to oxygen.        But this is incon
sistent with the general view which has been given of the state of
a neutral compound, and can scarcely be supposed to exist with
regard to one case, when the reverse is maintained with regard
to others.
    At the same time, the relation of 100 of sulphur to 200 of
oxygen is fully established in common sulphuric acid. Whether
it is necessary to admit that of 100 to 50, except on the atomic
hypothesis, is not apparent, but it is not improbable.
    The same view may be applied to the illustration of the acids
of which carbon- is the radical.   I have remarked in the preceding
paper, that the vegetable acids are to be regarded, not according
to the doctrine of Lavoisier, as composed of a compound radical
of carbon and hydrogen acidified bv oxygen, but as compounds of
a simple base,    cajbon, acidified by oxygen and hydrogen.         On
this principle the question occurs, What is their precise composi
tion ?    The proportions assigned by the analyses hitherto given
appear at variance with every principle, and can be brought under
 no law, nor any analogy whatever; nor has this been attempted.
 Part of this may arise from the difficulties of the analysis, but
 more of it perhaps is to be ascribed to the composition not hav
ing been considered under the just point of view ; — in more re
 cent investigations, particularly in which only accurate experi
 mental results can be expected, to the idea having been enter
 tained that they contain a portion of combined water in their in
 sulated state, which they yield when combined with a base, and
                                                                   that

  94                 On the Chemical    Constitution   of
  that the composition of the acid is to be determined, abstracted
1 from this water, and as it exists in combinations in which it is
  supposed to be in what is called its real state.        The principle
  which I have applied to their constitution leads to very different
  results.
      In conformity to the law, which it has been shown exists with
  regard to sulphur, it is probable the oxygen and hydrogen will be
  in the definite proportions which they separately observe to car
  bon. And from the different proportions in which they combine
  with this element, a number of compounds may be thus formed.
      Carbon, with the first proportion of oxygen, forms an oxide.
  Hydrogen is an acidifying power.         Its addition, therefore, it is
  not improbable, may give rise to acidity, and its proportion will
  be determined either by its first or second proportion to carbon,
   or by both. Carbon, with its second proportion of oxygen, forms
   a weak acid.     The addition of hydrogen to this will no doubt
   augment acidity, and its proportion will also be determined by its
  first or second proportion to carbon, or both.      Four specific com
  pounds will thus be established, which will be represented by car-
  bonicoxide with a certain proportion of hydrogen ; one, that which
  exists in carburetted hydrogen; the other, that in supercarburetted
  hydrogen ; and by carbonic acid with similar proportions of hy
  drogen. Further, there has appeared reason to infer the existence
  of a relation in proportion of sulphur to oxygen intermediate be
  tween that of sulphurous and sulphuric acid ; a similar relation
  may exist in the case of carbon, intermediate between carbonic
  oxide and carbonic acid ; and with the addition of hydrogen, may
  give rise to acidity.    Lastly, there is some reason also to sup
  pose the existence of a combination of sulphur with oxygen in a
  lower proportion than that in sulphurous acid. There may be a
  similar combination with carbon, which may also, with an addi
  tional proportion of hydrogen, produce aciditv.          It remains to
  inquire   how far  the composition  of any  of the vegetable acids can
  be brought under these laws.
      Carbonic acid is the binary compound of carbon and oxygen.
  With the addition of hydrogen there is every reason to infer, that,
  as in the case of all the other binary acids containing oxvgen,
  an acid will be formed of increased power.          Oxalic acid is the
  strongest of the vegetable acids; and the results of its analysis
  will be found to lead to the conclusion that it is this ternarv com
  pound.
     Berzelius submitted oxalic acid to experiment bv combining it
  with oxide of lead, drying the oxalate and decomposing it by
  heat.    His object in following this method was to abstract the
  combined water of the acid, and to operate upon it in what is
  considered as its real state. He accordingly found, that the acid
                                                                     loses

               Acids, Alkalis, and their Compounds.                         95
loses water in    entering into this combination ; and he objects
to   a preceding analysis by Gay-Lussac, in which the oxalic acid
had been operated on in the state of oxalate of lime, as in this
combination the water of composition is not abstracted.                His
objection is valid, on the doctrine which has been universally
adopted by chemists, of acids containing water essential to their
constitution, which is abstracted when they enter into combina
tion with a base, such as oxide of lead, in which water is not re
tained.     And if oxalic acid in passing into this combination lose
water, as is the case, then on this idea its constitution ought to
be determined from its analysis as it exists in a dry oxalate, ex
actly as that of sulphuric acid is inferred from its analysis in the
state in which it exists in a dry sulphate.        The reasoning of Ber-
zelius, therefore, was relatively just ; and on these data his re
sults, though they have been objected to, as they involve diffi
culties in the atomic hypothesis, are correct.         But in conformity
to the doctrine I have illustrated, it is evident that the composi
tion of the acid is not thus obtained, and that what exists in a dry
oxalate, such as oxalate of lead, is a different combination.          The
crystallized   oxalic  acid is what  ought   to be  submitted   to analysis
if it contained no water of crystallization ; but as it does contain a
portion, this is to be removed, without abstracting what has been
called water essential to the acid.        It exists in this state in ox
alate of lime ; and hence the.results given by Gay-Lussac             (if
                                                                        ex
perimentally    correct.  and  they appear  to  be singularly so) give its
real composition.        They  are accordingly strictly conformable to
the view I   have stated of the composition of this acid.        The pro
portions he assigns are 26.56 of carbon, 70.69 of oxygen, and
2.75 of hydrogen*.         Now carbonic acid    is  composed of 27.4 of
carbon, and 72        of oxygen. The proportion of carbon and oxy
                        6
gen, therefore, in oxalic acid,    is precisely the same      and the sole
                                                                 ;
difference    incomposition    from  carbonic   acid is     in
                                                           the proportion
of hydrogen        contains.
                   it
    The constitution of oxalic acid may likewise be inferred indi
rectly from the method of Berzelius: and          it  will be satisfactory
if a coincidence        thus obtained.
                        is                 The composition of the real
acid, as it   iscalled, existing in oxalate of lead,       stated
                                                            is       by
                                                                      Ber
zelius at 33.22 of carbon, 66.53 of oxygen, and 0.25 of hydro
gen.     But to this, to express the true composition of the acid,
are   to be added the proportions of oxygen and hydrogen expended
in the formation of water, in the mutual action of the acid and
the oxide of lead.      The quantity of hydrogen        inferred from the
                                                       is
quantity of oxygen        and there are different principles connected
                            :
              * Recherches Physico-Chimiqucs, tomeii. p. 302.
                                                                          with

96              On the Chemical Constitution     of
with the doctrine, as has been already illustrated in considering-
the action of sulphuric acid on a base, whence the proportion of
oxvgen may be determined.        Thus, it must be a multiple of that
existing in the composition of what is called the real acid, or in
the composition of the known definite compounds of carbon and
oxygen, or it is equivalent to the oxygen in the base, this quantity
of oxygen being always abstracted in the mutual action in combi
nation with the requisite proportion of hydrogen* Adopting this
last principle as the most direct, 106 parts of real oxalic acid, it
appears from Berzelius's analysis, combine with 307.5 of oxide
of lead: this quantity of oxide contains 22-06 of oxygen, which
is therefore to be added to the composition of the acid, with the
proportion of hydrogen equivalent to this, 2.94. Hence this
quantity of acid, 125 parts, is composed of carbon 33.22, oxy
gen 8S.59, hydrogen 3.19: or in 100 parts the acid consists of
26.5 of .carbon, 71 of oxygen,, and 2.5 of hydrogen, propor
tions almost the same as those assigned by Gay-Lussac, and af
fording a coincidence on a difficult subject of experimental in
vestigation that does honour to the accuracy of these chemists.
   There can thus remain no doubt, that the proportion of car
bon to oxygen in oxalic acid is the same as that in carbonic acid.
The sole difference between them is in the proportion of hydro
gen which the former contains ; the one is the binary, the other
the corresponding ternary compound, similar to what exists in
other acids ; and hence also, in conformity to the analogy of these
acids, and to the principle which accounts for their acidity,' is
explained the difference in their acid powers.
    The compound existing in a dry oxalate, such as oxalate of
lead, ought to contain no hydrogen ; for the whole of this element,
like the hydrogen of sulphuric acid, must, in the action of the
base, be combined with oxygen, and abstracted in the state of
water. , The small portion of hydrogen, therefore, stated by Ber-
zelius, must be considered as derived from error of experiment ;
and its presence would be admitted more readily from the idea of
some portion of hydrogen being essential to the constitution of
the acid, as necessary to form what was regarded as its compound
radical. In subsequent experiments, accordingly, Berzeliusfound
reason to infer that the proportion was smaller than he had at
first assigned.    The minute quantity which he does suppose to
exist in real oxalic acid, (less than 1 per cent.) he brings forward
as a difficulty in the atomic hypothesis.     A fraction of an atom,
he remarked, cannot be supposed ; and therefore the small quan
tity of hydrogen must be considered as an entire atom. But from
the proportions it must be held to be combined with 27 atoms
of carbon, and 18 atoms of oxygen, that    is, with 45 other atoms,

                Acids, Alkalis, and their Compounds.                 97
— a combination       certainly altogether improbable ; and any ar
 rangement    that  can  be conceived scarcely lessens the difficulty.
Mr. Dalton endeavoured to obviate this, by supposing, that in
the analysis of Berzelius the hvdrogen is under-rated.         But the
reverse is the case.     The solution may now be easily given. In
the composition which properly constitutes oxalic acid, the pro
portion of hydrogen is sufficiently large to present no difficulty.
And in what was considered as real oxalic acid existing in the dry
oxalates, there is no reason to suppose that hydrogen exists. It
is also obvious, that the proportion of oxygen and carbon in a
dry oxalate is that constituting carbonic acid ; for although in the
action of the acid on the base a portion of its oxygen is abstracted
with its hydrogen, a corresponding portion of oxygen is added
from the base or metallic oxide, and a ternary compound is esta
blished.
    The proportion of hydrogen indicated in the composition of
oxalic acid is not conformable to either of the two proportions of
carbon and hydrogen, which constitute the two compounds at
present admitted as constituting tile only definite compounds of
these elements, the carburetted and supercarburetted hydrogen.
It is much less even than that in the latter, which contains the
Tower proportion.        Yet there is every reason to conclude, from
the law which has been illustrated in reviewing the composition
of sulphuric acid, that it must exist in a definite relation to the
simple radical of the acid, that is to the carbon, conformable to
the other relations which subsist between them. It follows, there
fore, either that there is an error of analysis, in consequence of
which the proportion of hydrogen is greatly underrated, or that
there are other definite proportions in which carbon and hydro
gen combine, than those which are at present admitted.             The
coincidence    in the  results of the analysis by Gay-Lussac    and  by
Berzelius, in a great measure precludes the former supposition ;
and indeed an error so great would require to be assumed, as
cannot be supposed.        The other conclusion therefore follows : it
is rendered more probable by other considerations, which give
force to the opinion that hydrogen and carbon enter into more
numerous proportions than have been assigned: And it is nearly
established by the results of this case itself.     Supercarburetted
hydrogen is composed of 100 of carbon with 17-5 of hvdrogen ;
 carburetted hydrogen of 100 with 35.          In oxalic acid, 26-5 of
 carbon are combined, according to the analysis of Berzelius, with
 2-5 of hydrogen, which is in the proportion of 100 to 9'4.       Now
 this deviates little, and not more than what may fairly be refer
red to inaccuracy in the estimation of the proportions in one or
 other of the compounds, from the fourth of the highest '      propor-
    Vol.54. No. 256. Aug. 1819.                  G                 tion

93                On   the Chemical    Constitution of
tion, that in carburetted hydrogen*       ; and hence, in conformity to
the law usually observed, hydrogen probably combines with carbon
in proportions following the ratio of 1,2, 3, 4; and taking a mean
which further investigation may determine with precision, 100
of carbon may be supposed to combine with 9, 18, 27, and 36 of
hydrogen. The proportion in oxalic acidwill be conformable to the
first of these relations, or half that in supercarburetted hydrogen.
    Tartaric acid, which is next in strength to the oxalic, oris even
equal or superior to it in acidity, appears to be the same com
bination with a larger proportion of hydrogen.
    Gay-Lussac employed tartrate of lime as the medium to de
compose the acid.        In this state, while the water of crystalliza
tion of the acid is excluded, its composition is not subverted, for
there is in the formation of tartrate of lime no abstraction of what
is called combined water.         The results therefore give the real
constitution of the acid. The proportions he assigned are carbon
24-05, oxygen 69-3, hydrogen 6.62.           Berzelius operated on tar
trate of lead. The proportions he assigns are carbon 35-98, oxy
gen 60-21, hydrogen 3-807-           But in the formation of tartrate of
lead by the action     of  the  oxide  on the acid, a large quantity of
water is formed.       This being taken into calculation, his results
agree perfectly with those of Gay-Lussac.
    The proportion of the carbon to the oxygen, it is evident, is
not much different from that which constitutes carbonic aeid ;
and the deviation is not greater than may fairly come within the
allowance due to errors liable to be present in a subject of analy
sis so difficult.
    The proportion of hydrogen is much larger than that in oxalic
acid : it must, however, in conformity to the law which has been
stated as regulating the proportions in ternary acids, bear a cer
tain relation to the radical of the acid, that is to the carbon.
And it is interesting to discover that this larger quantity is pre
cisely the other definite proportion which it has appeared from
these illustrations must be inferred to exist in the combinations of
carbon and hydrogen.         The two known proportions, those ex
isting  in  supercarburetted and carburetted hydrogen, are 100 of
carbon to 18 of hydrogen, and 100 to 36 ; the other two are those
of 9 and 27. The first was found in oxalic acid, and the other is
discovered in tartaric acid, the proportion in the above analysis
of 24-05 to 6-62, being that of 100 to 26-5.
    In the remaining vegetable acids the composition is evidently
less perfectly determined, partly from the difficulty of procuring
   * The composition of either of the carburetted hydrogen gases     is not so
well determined, as to exclude a correction sufficient to establish a perfect
coincidence.
                                                                        them

                 ylcids, Alkalis, and their Compounds.                     99
 them insulated, and partly from the sources of error which attend
 the experiment,       and which have not been checked or detected
 by  the application of a just principle.         It is therefore only from
 repeated experimental investigation, aided by such an application,
 that precision can be expected to be obtained. Still some of these
 results afford very nigh approximations to the views I have il
 lustrated.
    The proportions I assign are those founded on the analyses by
 Berzelius, corrected by the theory I have stated.             He combined
 the acid with oxide of lead, and submitted it to decomposition in
this state ; the water of composition he supposed to be thus abs
tracted, and the real acid obtained.           But the composition of the
acid is in fact subverted, and the water is formed from the com
bination of its hydrogen with a portion of its oxygen. The quan
tity of oxygen thus lost is discovered by the quantity of oxide
which the acid saturates, being equal, according to the principle
already explained, to the quantity of oxygen in the oxide.               The
hydrogen lost is the quantity equivalent to this. And these quan
tities of oxygen and hydrogen being added to the proportions as
signed by Berzelius, give the real composition.             It is further ne
 cessary to remark, that as there has appeared reason to infer the
existence of 4 definite proportions of oxygen with sulphur, ob
serving the ratio of 1 , 2, 3, 4, and 4 proportions of hydrogen with
 carbon in the same ratio, so there will be found equal reason to
infer the existence of 4 similar proportions of oxygen with car
bon, 100 of carbon being combined in the first with 62-5 of oxy
gen, in the second with 125 constituting carbonic oxide, in the
third with 187 '5, and in the fourth with 250 constituting car
 bonic acid. With these preliminary observations it is sufficient to
give the general results*.
    Citric acid appears to be carbon with oxygen in the third de
finite proportion, that between carbonic oxide and carbonic acid;
and its hydrogen is nearly in the first proportion of that element
to carbon.
    Acetic acid is carbon with oxygen in the second proportion
nearly, and with hydrogen in exactly the second proportion, that
of 100 to 18. It is represented therefore by carbonic oxide, with
hydrogen in the proportion which constitutes supercarburetted
hydrogen.
    Gallic acid is carbon with oxygen in none of the four definite
proportions, but almost exactly in the mean proportion between
the first and second.        Its hydrogen is nearly in the first propor
tion of that element to carbon.
    Succinic acid is carbon with oxygen in the second proportion,
   * Under the
                 history of the vegetable acids in the 4th volume of System
of  Chemistry, the  precise proportions will be found.
                                     G 2                                 that

  100    On the Chemical Constitution      of Acids, Alkalis, (Sc.
 that constituting carbonic oxide.         The hydrogen conforms to
 none of the four proportions, but is the precise mean between the
 first and second.
     In saccho-'.actic acid the relation of the oxygen to the carbon
 is not that of any of the definite proportions, but is nighest to the
 third. The hydrogen is that which constitutes supercarburetted
 hydrogen.
     The analysis of benzoic acid is evidently verv doubtful, owing
 to the difficulties which attend it from its volatility.      It is the
 only one in which the proportion of oxygen to carbon is less even
 than the lowest of the definite proportions of these elements.
 The proportion of hydrogen is almost exactly that of the first
proportion.
     If the definite proportions of oxygen and hydrogen to carbon
be assumed to be more numerous than A, but still observing the
law of simple multiples, all these results mav be easily brought
under the law.       The relations suggested by these researches, and
particularly those which prove that proportions of carbon both
to oxygen and to hydrogen exist inferior to the lowest known
proportions of these elements, afford much support to the con
clusion, that their definite combinations are more numerous than
the few that have been admitted, either on the doctrine of equiva
lents, or on the atomic hypothesis.        And on the latter, the com
position of organic compounds may be accounted for with this
conclusion, so as to preserve what constitutes its chief excellence,
— the principle that one body in a combination is always in the
relation of one atom, and which is confessedly incapable of being
maintained, with the assumption merely of the few definite pro
portions of the elements that have hitherto been assigned.
    The view indeed that the vegetable acids are compounds of a
simple radical (carbon) acidified by oxygen and hydrogen, and the
law existing in this and other ternary combinations, that two of
the elements observe the requisite relations in proportion to the
third as a base, may probably be extended to all the vegetable,
and perhaps even to the more complicated animal products ; and,
with the admission of a more extensive series of definite propor
tions in the primary elements, may remove the necessity of the
law advanced by Berzelius, and apparently now admitted by the
supporters of the atomic system, — that while in inorganic bodies
one of the constituents is always in the state of a single atom,
in organic bodies it is not so, but very often the reverse.       If this
law be excluded, and the reverse established, it will assimilate the
constitution of organic to that of inorganic compounds, and must
contribute greatly, independent of uniformity and simplicity, to
render that of the former, at present so involved in obscurity and
discordance, more precise.
                            [To  be continued.]

                                C
                                    101   )
 XVIII.     On the Lunar Atmosphere.        By Thomas Fibminger,
                                  LL.D.
 It   is said  in the Number of the Philosophical Magazine for June,
 (vol.  53.   p. 465) that Mr. J. B. Enunett observed an oeculta-
 tion of a small star by the moon on the fifth of December 1818 ;
and that he saw the star when " really behind the moon's disc."
It would, I think, afford some satisfaction to many of your astro
nomical readers to know how this gentleman ascertained that the
small star spoken of, was actually behind the moon's disc at the
time he saw it; he could not I think be assured of it by observa
tion onlv, and as to calculation, the place of the moon is not so
accurately computed as to assure him that the star was actually
behind the moon when he saw it.          The slow motion of the sun,
in rising or setting, and the great refractive power of our atmo
sphere, enable us to know, from calculation, that he is below the
horizon, when visible above it ; but these circumstances do not
take place at the moon.       I have observed in occultations of stars
at the moon's bright limb, that their light diminishes as they ap
proach towards the moon, and in a few seconds before the oc-
cultation they appear very small, and seem to vanish gradually.
A very remarkable instance of this circumstance I observed
whilst I was assistant to Dr. Maskelyne, and which is recorded
in the account of the Greenwich Observations : but I always con
sidered this appearance to have arisen from the supeiior bright
ness of the moon to that of the star, when very near its enlight
ened limb; the apparent magnitude of the star being rendered
almost a point at the instant of its disappearance ; but when the
star emerges at the moon's dark limb, it emerges with almost its
full splendour.       The appearance is also the same when the star
immerges at the dark limb behind the moon.           Whether the star
has immerged or emerged at the moon's dark limb, the appear
ance has been always instantaneous in all the occultations that
I have seen. In all the eclipses of the sun yet recorded, the cir
cular section of the sun, formed by the moon's limb, is always re
gular and well defined ; which I think would not be the case, had
the moon an atmosphere sufficiently dense to occasion a refrac
tion so great as Mr. Enunett observed.          Whether the occulta-
tion he has recorded took place at the moon's enlightened or
dark limb does not appear in the journal ; but t think, from the
collective testimony of my own observations, that Mr. Enunett
was led to conclude, that the star was behind the moon's limb,
from some deceptive appearance.         In the instance I have alluded
to, the star did not appear to vanish instantaneously, but gra
dually to disappear behind the moon's enlightened limb. I how
ever never supposed this appearance to have been caused by re-
                                   G 3                        fraction,

    102                 Description    of a Mercurial Pendulum.
    fraction, it being so totally different when the occultation took
    place at the moon's dark limb. If the moon has an atmosphere,
    its existence is not, I think, likely to be discovered by such ob
    servations; as the rays of light coming from a star to an ob
    server on the earth's surface, will not suffer any perceptible change
    in its direction from passing through              it,
                                               although its density should
    be as great as at the earth's surface.     The only difference in the
    appearance will be in the quantity of light, which difference                     is
    perceptible     but whether
                    ;               arises wholly from the star being near
                                       it
    to the moon, or partly from the light of the moon and partly
    from   a  lunar atmosphere, remains yet to be decided         and per    ;
    haps one of the best means to decide this doubtful point, would
    be to make accurate observations on the approach and recession
'   of stars towards and from the moon's dark and enlightened limb in
    occultations    :but for this purpose     much greater number should
                                                   a
    be computed than         usually inserted
                             is                  the Nautical Almanac.
                                                        in
    XIX.       On the Compensation          Mercurial Pendulum of Mr. Gavin
          Lowe.     Commilnkated            by   Thomas      Firminger, LL.D.
    Thk      late Mr. Gavin Lowe of Paradise-row, Islington, a gen
    tleman eminently skilled in the mathematics and in the know
    ledge of theoretical and practical astronomy,                known to have
                                                                   is
    made some years since          aconsiderable   improvement           in
                                                                        the quick
    silver pendulum,        bywhich     may easily be adjusted for the effect
                                        it
    of temperature, without removing                from the clock to which
                                                    it                                it
    is  attached, — an advantage which Graham's and the other forms
    of compensation pendulums do not possess.                 Mr. Lowe, having
    taken great pains       to compute    the dimensions     of the several parts
     of his pendulum from the best tables of expansion of steel, glass,
    and quicksilver, the materials of which the pendulum                     com is
    posed, and also the quantity of quicksilver necessary to keep the
     centre of oscillation stationary in all the variations of temperature,
    applied    itto his own transit clock; and rinding the pendulum to
     perform to his expectation, he recommended                   to
                                                                   it    few time
                                                                             a
    keeper makers of his acquaintance, who made several pendulums
    from his directions.       As the construction        simple, and the pen
                                                              is
     dulum easily made        by any ingenious workman, and as trials of its
    performance have shown that the flocks to which                  has been ap
                                                                        it
     plied, have  !j;one as  well with    as with
                                            it     any  other  kind  of compensa
     tion pendulum of more complicated and expensive construction                      ;
     and likewise as no improvement appears to have been made upon
    it  since the death of the inventor,         seems to be the only kind of
                                                   it
     quicksilver pendulum now in general use.              After having simpli
     fied his pendulum as much perhaps as                will admit, Mr. Lowe
                                                             it
                                                                             wrote

               Description  of a Mercurial Pendulum.               103
wrote out directions for its construction and for its adjustment,
which he communicated to me in the year 1804, together with
the investigation by which he had computed the invariable di
stance of the centre of oscillation: and as I believe these direc
tions have been communicated to only a few of his acquaintance,
and being informed by some time-keeper makers that they will
be of great service — from these reasons, and in testimony of the
gratitude I feel in the memory of my late learned friend, I have
communicated the whole, both directions and investigation, to the
public.                                       Thomas    Firminger.
       Description   of a Mercurial Pendulum    constructed   by
                         Mr. Gavin Lowe.
     " Fig. 2 (PI. II) shows the top of the pendulum rod, made of       •
steel  ^ of an inch thick, •§ of an inch wide, and rounded at G to
receive the fork of the crutch, so that there mav be as little slack or
play as can be perceived. Fig. 3 is the bottom, seen vertically,
of the frame that holds the glass cylinder (P. fig. 2.),which is filled
with quicksilver G-^ inches from the bottom of the glass inside up
to P. C F is the spring at top, one inch long a,nd pretty stiff. G is
the point where the crutch should embrace the pendulum rod.
The crutch should be a fork of steel the same as the pendulum rod
is. From C to G should be about 7 inches. L is the bottom of the
steel rod, and -fa of an inch of it to be turned into a screw that
has 40 threads or turnings to an inch. The whole length of the
rod, from the rivet that joins the spring to its top at F, to the
end of the screw at L, to be 33-fv inches.      The side pieces of the
frame M M to be of steel as thick as the pendulum rod, that is
-J of an inch, but not less than        The top of the frame H con
sists of two pieces of steel each £ or T'„- of an inch thick, shaped
as in the drawing, and screwed over the ends of the side bars
 3VI M.    The inside height of the frame from E to A to be Sc
inches ; and the inside width between the bars M M, about 2f
inches, so that the glass mav stand | of an inch clear of them.
The bottom piece N is of cast brass about § an inch thick from
 E to R, and formed as in the figure (3), with abase which may
be hollowed down f of an inch, so as to fit the bottom of the glass.
 The nut K is | of an inch deep, and the diameter of its circle
 from m to n is l-^ inch, having the upper edge divided into
 26 equal parts, and figured 0, 1, 2,3, or at each 7th division ;
 each of those parts is very nearly equal to 1" of time in 24
 hours.     A small bit of brass, shown in profile in fig. 4, to be
 screwed on below H, to point to the divisions on the nut K.
 A brass lid is made to fit the mouth of the glass freely or with
 out pinching ; the edge of the lid has two notches £ of an inch
                                   G 4                            deep,

104            Description of a Mercurial Pendulum.
deep, that receive the edges of the side bars M M ; a piece of
white writing paper should be gummed on upon the bottom part
of the lid. I is the index at bottom, and SS a scale of inches
divided into tenths, and about 44 inches from C, the top of the
pendulum.      Try on this scale the arc of escapement; and if it
should be 1-,V inch from e to e, then apply such a pulley weight
that the pendulum shall vibrate from V to V, or 3-fo inches.        The
diameter of the glass being 2 inches inside very nearly, and the
depth of the quicksilver fjT4r inches, the weight will be lOlbs.
fully, and therefore it will be best to buy 1 1 lbs.
   " From accurate calculation I find, that if such a pendulum
should go perfectly true when the thermometer is at 30°, but
that at 90° it should go one second slower in 24 hours, it would be
remedied by pouring in 10 ounces more quicksilver ; or taking
out that quantity, if it went one second faster in 24 hours at 90",
than 30D of the thermometer;         and for      of a second that the
clock may go faster or slower in 24 hours, its compensation is
obtained by putting in or taking out one ounce of quicksilver for
those temperatures : and this is all easily done.
     Paradise Row, Islington, June 1804.               GaVIN L.OWE."
   " Let   the glass be wiped out with a large old clean linen rag be
fore the quicksilver is poured into it. A paper funnel folded so
that the end of it will reach the bottom of the glass is best for put
ting in the quicksilver. The extremity of its end should be closed
by wrapping a bit of thread twice or thrice round, and knotting it.
About 15 or 20 pricks should be made above the extremity of the
funnel with a needle of the size that carries six-penny thread.
During the filling in of quicksilver the person that holds the fun
nel should keep the pricks in the paper below the surface of the
quicksilver that is in the glass, raising his hand as it fills up."
                        (Copied August 24, 1804.)
                                                      T. FlRMINGER.
On the Calculation and Construction         of a Mercurial Pendulum
                              for  a Clock.
   "  The absolute quantity of expansion of the following metals
was determined by the late Gen. Roy : viz.
   "   10 inches   of plate brass with 60' of Fahrenheit    "I }"^'o
   "
         expanded      ..
       10 inches of steel
                                ..      ..      ..      ..J
                                                               0 003S
   "   10 inches of white flint glass           . .     . .    0 0027
   "  In 1792, an accurate experiment was made to find the dif
ference between the expansion of white flint glass and quicksilver;
                                                                      for

                       Description of  a Mercurial Pendulum.              105
 for which purpose a thermometer of white flint glass                 c
  with a large bulb and long stem was filled to the top
  when the temperature was precisely 32° ; it was then
  put into steam of 212°, and the quantity of quicksilver
  that ran over was weighed ; the result was that 10000
  grains       gave 155.48 grs. that expanded or run over.
  This is the excess or difference between the expansion
  of the quicksilver and glass, and from which the fol
  lowing conclusion is drawn : That a cylinder of white
  flint glass filled at 32° of the thermometer with quick
  silver to the height of 10000 inches, at 2 12" the column
  of quicksilver would be 10155-48 inches long.
'       " As 10000: 155-48 : : 10 inches : 0-15548 for a
  difference of heat = 180°; and therefore 10 inches for
  a difference of heat =60 ', will give 0-05 1 9 verv nearly.
        " From the above data the calculation and construc
  tion of a mercurial pendulum is easy.           Let C B D re
  present such a one, having the rod and frame at bot
  tom of steel, and a white-flint glass cylinder resting on
  the bottom of the frame, and filled with quicksilver to
  such a height, DB, that its expansion (which is up
  wards) shall be somewhat more than double the ex-                 i    i
   pansion of the whole rod from C to D. Suppose then                 D
   that C D is 42 inches : then as 10 inches steel : : 0-0033 : : 42
   inches to . .             . .     . .    • .     . . 0-01596
                                                               2
        The expansion of the quicksilver nearly = 0-03192
   But 0-0519 inch comes from 10 inches of quicksilver, therefore
   0-03192 will come from 6-2 inches, which is nearly the height of
   the column ; add ^T of 6.2 inches to the column, or 0-2 + 6-2 =
   6-4 inches, which is verv nearly the length of the column.              Let
    CD = 42-2 inches, then          CD-    6-4 =35-8 C B.
        "PutCB=a=35-8, BD = cG-4. To find the centre of os
   cillation 0, or its distance from C.            The formula is C 0 =
    3ff'J + Snr + i*
                     '
               sT"
         "  Let   us suppose then, that the pendulum, having C B and
   B D of the          above dimensions, is constructed and set a-going at
   30° of Fahrenheit: it is required to find,
         " 1st. The centre of oscillation.
         "  2d. To find it a second time when the thermometer is at 90°
   and CD and BD expand with 60° of heat.
        "   3a-==35-Sx35-8x3 = 3844-92, 3ac = 35-8 x 6-4 x3 =
                687-36.
                                                                   "    C- =

106               Description    of a Mercurial Pendulum.
     "   C   --  64 x6-4 = 40-96,       3a= 107.4      =
                                                    -^ 9-6; therefore,
3fl'  +
                 = 1 17)4573-24(39-0S753       for the distance of cen-
    3n + —
        3°3e+C*
                   tre of oscillation for 30° of the thermometer.
     " If   10 inches  of steel with 60" expand 0 0038, then 42-2 will
expand      0-0160;    therefore   42-2 + 0-0160 = 42-216() = C D.    If
10 inches quicksilver expand 0-0519, 6-4 gives 0 0332, and
6-4 + 0-0332 = 6-4332 = c.                Hence 42-2160    - 6-4332 =
35-7S28 = a. And from these numbers the centre of oscillation
is found as above =39.08782 at 90° of thermometer ; which dif
fers from the former deduction, or when the thermometer stood
at 32°, only 0-00029.
     " It is well known that when the ball of a pendulum is let down
0-01 of an inch, it will go 10 seconds slower in 24 hours; and
therefore 0-001 will be equal one second, and 0-0001 equal          of a
second in 24 hours. It follows from this, that the above pendulum is
so nearly corrected, that its daily rate at 90° of thermometer would
be nearly 0'"29 slower than at 30°, and that the correcting co
lumn is rather too short; but the glass cistern itself expands the
same way as the quicksilver, and the excess of its height above
the top of the included mercury will fullv compensate the error
of 0-"00029. It likewise follows that the steel rod 42-2 inch,
being lengthened 0-0160, it would (if there were no compensa
tion from the quicksilver) go 16" slower at 90° than at 30' of the
thermometer.          But since 6.4 inches of quicksilver compensates
this,     r\  of an inch will compensate one second. For if the pen
dulum went one second slower in 24 hours at 90° than at 30* of the
thermometer, the remedy would be to add -fa of an inch more
quicksilver.        A glass cistern 2 inches diameter inside, and filled
with quicksilver to 6'4 inches will contain 10 pounds weight very
nearly, and therefore 6-4 inches give 10 lbs. or 160 ounces,          of
 an inch gives 2\ ozs. that is one ounce of quicksilver added or
subtracted will very nearly compensate 0-"l of the variation of
 the daily rate at SO'1 and 90° of the thermometer.
     " There are five other things that ought to be particularly at
tended to in constructing a pendulum of this sort, which are not
 deduced from theory, but the results of 4 years experience.
     " 1st. The spring at top should be one inch long, and of a pro
 per stiffness.
     " 2d. Let the crutch have a steel fork to embrace the steel rod
 at 7 inches from C, the point of suspension, and be free, with as
 little shake as possible.
     " 3d. Let a scale of inches and tenths be placed at 44 inches
 from C3 for the purpose of determining the arc of vibration and
                                                                    olso

                   Remarks    on   Madeira,   £s*c.                      107
also  the arc of escapement. When the pendulum is trnlv in beat,
 measure on this scale the arc of escapement.
   " -1th. Apply a weight to the pulley that will make the arc of
vibration from side to side three times the arc of escapement.
This is easily done by common lead shot in a bag, which when of
sufficient weight may be weighed, and the regular pulley weight
constructed.     If the arc of escapement from side were one inch,
then the pulley weight ought to be so great that it may make the
index at the bottom move over three inches from side, and so in
proportion for any other arc of escapement.
   "   5th. Let the screw at the bottom of the rod have 40 turns
or threads to the inch, and the outer edge of the circle of the nut
be divided into 28 equal parts ; when the nut is moved one of
these divisions, it alters the going of the clock one second in 24
 hours, very nearly.
  "  With regard to the five things above mentioned, some peo
ple will say, Let the crutch be short; that   is,
                                               about   or  4  inches
                                                                4
                                                                j
long, but no more. This       is a very vague direction; for     canit
be proved not only       bycalculation, but   by
                                              experiment, that the
shorter the crutch is, the more pulley-weight      required to give
                                                      is
the pendulum the requisite arc of vibration      and this unfortu
                                                    ;
nately loads the pivots of the barrel or cylinder, that the pulley-
string goes round, occasioning a great deal of friction, and con    a
sequent irregularity from foulness, or thickening of the oil in cold
 weather."
XX.   Remarks on Madeira, Climate    tlie Tropics, Trade-Winds,
                                         of
   Rio Janeiro,  the Polar Ice, &c.  Extracted from      Journala
   kept   John Hammet, Esq. in
         by                            Voyage from England to
                                         a
   Rio Janeiro. Communicated        Dr. Pearson.
                                    by
                              MADEIRA.
M r. Veitch,       who has been British consul at Madeira these
many years,    andis,   besides, a wine-merchant of the first respec
tability, gave  us  the  following opinion concerning the compara
tive virtues of Madeira and Teneriffe wines.            was simply,
                                                           It
" that bad Madeira better than good Teneriffe." Dr. Thorn
                        is
ton, however, who has written on the medicinal virtues of good
Teneriffe, differs in this respect, am aware, widely with this ac
                                   I
complished and hospitable gentleman. Mr. V. also asserted that
no Teneriffe wines are allowed to be imported to Madeira. Then,
since what has been long said concerning the consumption in the
British dominions of wines under the denomination of Port, may
with equal propriety be expressed of the consumption of wines
under the denomination of Madeira, the unjust substitution at
                                                                    home,

108       Remarks on Madeira,       Climate of tlie Tropics,
home, of Teneriffe for Madeira, can only take place with the
British wine-merchants and tavern-keepers.
    I learned from Dr. Henry, a resident and native of this island,
that the disease implied by consumption is by no means uncom
mon among the natives', and that there are in       it,at present, three
families, Portuguese natives, in which      a  marked hereditary pre
disposition to this disorder prevails. From this gentleman          like
                                                                    I
wise learned a very uncommon source of consumption,               that is
but too common here.       In consequence of the very high lands of
 Madeira, and the steep ascents to the multitude of houses above
and about the town of Funchal, the labouring classes are occa
sionally under the necessity of bearing heavy burdens on their
 heads and necks, and in their extreme anxiety to obtain relief,
are impelled to  a   temporary exertion, and corresponding quick
ness of motion, that are impulsive of an extraordinary flow of blood
to the heart and lungs, while, at the same time, the peculiar ac
tion of the muscles above, from the duration of the forced incli
nation of the head and neck, necessarily impedes its ascent.
    He further informed me, that in October, November, Decem
ber, and January, the weather     is  warm down at Funchal; while,
on the contrary,  it    extremely
                       is           cold  up in the mountains.       The
merchants' families begin to go up into the mountains          in spring,
and to return down in the end of October or beginning of No
vember.
   The prevalence of elephantiasis, and its dreadful effects on the
eyelids and eyes, had an opportunity of witnessing in the lazar-
                 I
house to the left of Funchal.     It  seems principally to attack the
poor; but   some  in good circumstances are likewise sorely afflicted
with it. In all these cases, the digestive organs have been known,
or at least said, to be out of order prior to the occurrence of the
disease.    One of the chief articles of food with the poor here is
salted and dried fish, commonly without         adue proportion of so
lid vegetable food as     corrective.
                            a            The   prickly heat induced by
the continual and excessive perspiration from blood assimilated
from such food, and, for the most part, aggravated        by  dirt, from
inattention to indispensable ablutions, and thereby injuring in a
greater degree the extreme vessels, rete mucobum, and exhalants,
cannot but tend, with the cold atmospheric changes here, to bring
on this disease.
   During the 3d and 4th of November (the time allotted for our
stay at this island) the temperature was between 73 and TO,
   On the 2d and 3d the sky was reallv beautiful          :  at lVaon   it
might well vie with what the mind      is led to conceive of an Italian
sky;    and in the evenings, the azure was every where streaked
with the fleecy and crimson, and imbued with the sombre and
golden hues, in  a   manner calculated to invite the affections, and
                                                                  enrich

                   Trade-Winds,        Rio Janeiro,    &c.                 109
enrich the imagination.          Such in general is the appearance of
the tropical skies to the     eye of the observing voyager, and such in
general is their natural effect on his mind when cultivated in the
sources of sensibility.       Yet these, such as they are, fall short of
the influencing beauties of the equatorial skies. Here, I am reallv
of opinion, that persons who are accustomed to the sight only
of the more northern * or southern skies, though they have un-
questionably their peculiar, attractive, and enlivening beauties too,
cannot possibly form a just conception of the exquisite beauty
of the equatorial firmament, particularly where the calms, I am
about to mention, prevail.          The matter of light (or, as you long
since divulged to the world, that modified state of calorific evinced
by its producing the sensation denominated vision), reflected
from the green surface of the deep, where no clouds, no vapours
intervene, seems to extend far beyond the atmospheric realm, so
remote does the ethereal concave seem, in consequence of the
pure and peculiar pallid azure thus produced ; and where they
do, they appear, especially at noon, pendent, not in lowers and
in mists, but in clusters, and in streaks of a perfect fleecy or snowy
whiteness and pellucid clearness, in consequence of the perva
sion of every particle of their attenuated bodies with the dart
ing rays of a perpendicular sun ; and in the east and west points
 of the horizon, on the rising and setting of this great agent of
light and heat and life to our system, they assume, according
to their particular densities, and relative positions with regard to
one another, all the primary and various hues in variegated splen
 dour. At night too, the moon, particularly when in opposition
 and " near her highest noon," reflects her borrowed light through
 the attenuated clouds, as well as air, with peculiar lustre. Here,
even with a common telescope her opacities can be distinctly ob
served ; which with the starry firmament around are apt to lead
the mind into an infinity of space, and matter, and perplexing
circumstances, that completely bewilder it ; — especially as the in-
   * In no place north did I at any time occasionally notice such a beautirul
clear sky, as while I was in the Prevoyante, lying in the op=n and spacious
roads of Dantzic, in 1815 and 1817, although it was in the September and
October months, when mists condense and clouds accumulate rapidly.            I
was told that in summer and in autumn it is particularly clear and delightful ;
a- circumstance rather promoted than counteracted by the contiguous posi
tion of the Baltic. It is more owing to the clearness of the sky, by which
the limited, yet adequate, influence of the sun is fully imparted, than to the
nature of the soil, however good, that the Dantzic grain, particularly the
wheat, is of a firmer texture than the English ; and it is likewise owing to
the unequal duration of the sun's influence, or summers, (both skies being
about equally clear,) that it is in general fuller and larger than any yielded
in the most fertile parts of either of the Canadas.
                                                                    tellectual

 110       Remarks cn    Madeira, Climate of the Tropics,
 tellectual excitement is increased* by the ne plus ultra of ver
 tiginous motion at the equatorial parts in the circumrotation of
 the oblate spheroidal body of the earth, and in the maximum
 agitation of the projected waters, independently of winds from
 the more immediate influence of the moon.
    On the 13th of the same month, a little before noon, we crossed
 the tropic of Cancer in 25° 05' west longitude, where the mer
 cury was up to SO.        From the time of our leaving this remark
 able parallel until our arrival at Ilio de Janeiro, which happened
 on the 17th of December, it proved to be between 78 and' 91 ;
 the latter having taken place the 24th of November at noon, in
lat. 6° 6' north, and long. 20° IS' west, the wind on the same
 day having been variable and inclining to a calm.       On the night
 of the 24th, and particularly towards four in the morning, the
 rain fell in torrents, attended with incessant flashes of vivid light
ning, and with reiterated peals of the loudest thunder.          It was
 perhaps    fortunate  for us that our conductors had  been  placed.
     It is universally known from a repetition of observations, in
 confirmation of which I beg leave to throw in my mite of testi
mony, that in the intervals of the vernal and autumnal equinoxes,
 and for some time before and after, the trade-winds extend as
far as 30°, or thereabout, on each side of the equator, where they
are about N.E. and S.E., each; and that as the sun advances to
wards either of the tropics, the trade-wind corresponding to the
same, relatively advances beyond its parallel of limitation, and
gradually assumes a more northern or southern direction, until
at last it is insensibly, or suddenly, or suddenly and violently lost
in those fluctuating and frequently ragingf winds preserving the
atmospheric equilibrium ; while, on the other hand, the trade-
wind corresponding to the opposite parallel of limitation of greater
obliquity to the sun, recedes in a certain degree in the direction
of its proximate tropic, and assumes a more easterly direction.
The limits of the trade-winds, depending as they do on a variety
of causes that involve complicated though certain principles, are
extremely uncertain, more particularly the northern.         The Co-
romandel, for instance, on her return, in June, had the N.E.
trade- wind with slight variations previous and subsequent to her
   * The excellent Mrs. Barbauld, however, judiciously as well as emphati
cally remarks, that
             "'       Souls are ripen d in our northern sky."
She doubtless implied the Gallic, and meant the Scottish as well as Eng
lish sky. With regard to Ireland, I cannot but agree with Bisset, that it
or its sky is more frequently the mother than the nurse of genius.
  •f-In eight months out of twelve, strong winds, ifnot gales, prevail near
the Azores.
                                                                   arrival

                        Trade-Winds, Rio Janeiro. &c.                  Ill
  arrival at 30° N. ; after which, she for the most part had per-
 manently, though not in exact succession, the N.E. f N. N.E. bv
  N., &c. trade-winds as far as 37" 46' N.; where, on the 26th of
 June, at 1 1 A.M. in 44° 00' west longitude, not very remote from
  the Great Bank, she fell in with a moderate breeze from the S.E.
 by E., that freshened and veered more to the southward towards
 night.      It is likewise known, that at any intermediate parallel
  between these principal parallels of limitation and the equator,
  the wind corresponds, under the intervening differences just
 stated, to some intermediate point between either of these points
 and the east.        Hence, it is evident, that there is an east wind at
 the equator, or at some intermediate parallel, where the heat is
 most intense.         As the equator is the centre of the sun's declina
 tions,   and   as  the  sun is on it twice in the year, and on each of
 the tropics but once, it is obvious that the equatorial parts ought
 to be the hottest ; but from the difference of densities between
 the two hemispheres, and from the sun's being about eight days
 longer in the northern than in the southern hemisphere (besides
 other reasons, which I shall presently assign), the parallel might
 be reasonably presumed to be on the northern side; and accord
 ingly it is found, from repeated observations, to be between the
 2d and 5th or 6th degree of north latitude.           On our way out to
 Rio Janeiro, I found the temperature between those latitudes
 higher than that between the same latitudes south, notwith
 standing the greater obliquity of the sun's rays at the same time.
 At the north side of the equator, as far as 7° or 8°, the winds
 thus counteract each other, and are productive of calms, or light
 breezes that are continually shifting; a circumstance rarely re
 marked iu corresponding latitudes south.
     It will, I trust, not be superfluous here to extend the forego
 ing comparison concerning the difference of temperature bevond
 the tropical circles. It appears from Cook's tracks in the southern
 hemisphere, that the polar ice there extends further beyond the
 antarctic circle, than what the north polar ice does beyond the
arctic circle.       Independently, however, of local circumstances, it
 also appears, that the degree of temperature arising from equal
 declinations of the sun is in general lower in the same parallels
 south than north.          This, considered chiefly in a scientific: and
 partly in a hypothetical light, may be accounted for, briefly, as
follows :
     i . We know from the relative positions of the earth in the
ecliptic, that the sun is more remote during the southern winter,
by about three millions of miles, et cesteris paribus, than it is du
ring the northern winter, et vice versa. Hence the diminution of
the     sun's influence, as   it relates to the southern hemisphere, is
not only increased in proportion         to the increasing obliquity of his
                                                                     rays,

112       Remarks on Madeira,        Climate of      the   Tropics,
rays, but also in proportion to their increasing distance, during
his apparent motion from the perihelion to the aphelion ; and,
on the contrary, the diminution of the sun's influence on the
northern hemisphere, from his increasing obliquity, instead of
-being further increased by a secession, is rendered less by his
continual approach, during his apparent motion from the aphe
lion to the perihelion.
     2. In consequence of the gradual and maximum advance of the
perigeum on the ecliptic, since the coincidence of the perihelion
 and aphelion with the equinoctial points, in the beginning, and
 in consequence of the .progressive motion of the perihelion ac
 cording to the order of the signs in the same orbit; likewise since
the.sun is nearly eight days longer in the northern than in the
southern hemisphere, and has been about 100* years longer in
it,   since the beginning, or, strictly speaking, since the omnipotent
fiat of the projectile force.
     3. The abstractive force in the atmosphere during the absence
 of the sun  is   greater       proportion than the attractive force of
                               in
the earth during his presence.
     4. The greater collection of waters in the southern hemisphere,
 which, from the preceding circumstances, indicate the great and
 continued abstraction of calorific, in the successive and protracted
 accumulations of ice.        The excess of waters. in the southern he
 misphere, which,         absorbing to
                          by            a    certain depth the matter of
 heat, admits of    a   protracted    abstraction   of    during the long
                                                          it
absence of the sun        the sun being nearer to
                          ;                                in the middle of
                                                           it,                 *
 their summer south, than ours north,           bythe aforesaid distance  ;
 and the increase, of the sun's influence,           inthe continued dim-
 nution of his obliquity, being further augmented                byhis con
 tinual approach, during the time of his leaving the aphelion
 until his arriving at he perihelion, are the principal circumstances
                          t
 relating to the sun's influence on the southern hemisphere, which
 are comparatively of less force than the foregoing, in relation
 to his influence on the northern hemisphere.
     And hence it   is,that islands, although not in very high southern
 latitudes,   are colder,   or are impregnated with frost, or covered
 with snow, to      a  degree beyond what islands or places in the
 same or higher latitudes north are.        I  was informed        two men
                                                                  by
  (in  the Coromandel    at  present)  who  had  formerly   belonged  to the
 Emerald South -sea- man elephant- hunter, of 410 tons, Mr.
 James Walker master, — that on this vessel having touched at the
 island of Desolation, in the latter end of July in 181            they had
                                                                  1,
 occasion to inter the body of      a    man, which, on arriving there
    * PKisve mimisve. — The exact time  I    leave to such accurate mathema
ticians to find out as Mr. Keith, the only writerI    know of that has exqui
sitely simplified the ambiguities of oblique-angled spherical triangles.
                                                                       about

                           Trade-Winds,        Rio Janeiro,   &c.                 1   13
about two years after, they found as fresh as on the day of inter
ment, so completely protected had the grave been by the con-
gealment of the snow that had fallen, and which, it appeared,
had resisted the influence of the sun and equatorial winds. Their
long-boat too, which they 1iad no scruple in leaving there, they
found safely imbedded in a congealed mass of snow on their re
turn.
    In my letter to you from the Prevoyante, in the Channel, in
1817) which you deemed worthy of meeting the public eye, al
though not slyly intended for                  it,
                                            believeI     pointed out that
                                                              I
the western parts of the northern hemisphere, where had been,           I
are colder in winter, and more variable in summer, than those
places, under the same parallels, in the eastern part of the same
hemisphere        and from what
                     ;                lately heard, as well as formerly
                                           I
read,    I am likewise led to think that the air of South America
is, on the whole, colder or more temperate than places under
the same latitudes in the southern part of the eastern hemi
sphere, even after the exclusion of the vast sandy and heated de
serts in it.
    A  little after 10 A.M. of Friday November 27th, in latitude
5° north, and long. 20° 26' west, about half-way between the ship
and the verge of the horizon, the ship's head having been S.W.
\  W. observed on the larboard quarter a large water-spout. It
             I
appeared in the form of long clumsy pillar, with its superior part
                                      a
expanding into         large dense black cloud, from which
                           a                                         seemed
                                                                        it
to be suspended to about 50 or 60 feet above the level of the sea.
The water, understood, had just ceased to be violently agitated
                     I
as  I got      sight of it.
                 a              The sides of the spout appeared of the
same black colour as the cloud, and the internal part of the body
of of dusky hue.
        it   a                  might have been about
                                      It                      minute in go
                                                                    a
ing up, rather slowly at first, but finally with           motion that was
                                                               a
instantaneous. — The following           beg leave succinctly to state as
                                               I
my notions concerning these phenomena.
    Electricity      known from experiments to be
                          is                                       in
                                                              greater quan
                                                                    a
tity  in  clouds   than     the in
                                 proximate  parts   of the  atmosphere.               It
    particularly attractive of aqueous vapour, and suspends             afterit
it is   condensed.
        is               Clouds are therefore       peculiar vehicle of it.
                                                         a
 Its agency and effects, however, are most striking in those con
taining the greatest proportions of light and calorific, and are
commonly manifested on any abstraction of the latter; and on the
contrary, the decrease of temperature not unfrequently noticed
after thunder-storms and changes of winds,                the natural result
                                                              is
of its presence and its influence.           great proof of its affinity to
                                                     A
the matter of heat         that all bodies become conductors of when
                                is,                                         it
 they are made hot.         The motions of the clouds from wind are
influenced           by   it,
                      in its motion to restore the equilibrium, when
    Vol. 54. No. 256. Aug. 1819.                    H                   they

114          Remarks on Madeira,       Climate of   the   Tropics,
they happen to contain different proportions of it. As the at
mosphere, from its elasticity and motive powers, is more or less
in motion, the agency of this extremely subtile fluid manifests
itself in water-spouts, as well as in.lightning and thunder, and
the rest of the great and awful convulsions in nature.
   In the densest clouds there is not that degree of density that
there is in water on the earth ; because electricity, as it becomes
intermixed with clouds in a state of vapour or expansion, coun
teracts intimate cohesion or density by its motion, its subtilty,
and its repelling powers, when the contiguous parts, which it
necessarily pervades, happen to be similarly electrified.    But as,
in the motion of the air and clouds, the influence of electricity is
neither constant nor uniform in the same or different parts, those
adjoining will necessarily gravitate, and the inferior part, by its
superior force of gravitation, will at last overcome the suspensory
power of the electric fluid, and instantaneously descend, and con
tinue to do so, until the cloud shall be exhausted, or the gravi
tation diminished, when the suspensory influence will, in conse
quence, become greater as before, and carry up again, principally
by its cohesion and extreme subtilty, what had remained unspent
of it.
   Rio de Janeiro. — A person on approaching                Rio   de   Janeiro
at first,     struck with the peculiarity of the appearance of the
             is
land, so unlike any place he had ever seen, or, in all probability,
imagined before.      Straight before him, a number of detached
hills, curiously and differently shaped, seem to rear their heads,
in wild disorder, out of the bosom of the ocean. Far to the left
are seen the high lands of Copacabana —
                  "   Clad in colours of the air,
                      Which, to those who journey near,
                      Barren, brown and rough appear ;"
 and likewise the towering Gavia, the summits of which, accord
 ing to the particular state of the weather, are ever capped with
 clouds of the fleecy or gloomy hue. Nearer, also in this direction,
 is seen, somewhat in the form of a cone, inclining towards an ad
joining ridge, so as to make something like an elliptical section
 with  it, that enormous rock called, from its implied resemblance,
 the Sugar-loaf, which     isever the prominentand unerring landmark
 formariners; and near which they can anchor their vessels in safety,
 should the wind and tide prove at any time unfavourable on en
 tering the harbour.       Close behind   ita congeries of mountainous
 hills fantastically rises, which bids defiance to the powers of the
 pencil and description     :— and on the right, or Braganza side,          is
 seen, but more    in  an extreme than lateral direction, a chain of
 lofty hills, from  which,  to the northward, high lands with rugged
summits take      a curvilinear course.    Castle-hill (the name of the
                                                                   first

                    Trade-Winds,             Rio Janeiro, &c.                   115
 first of this chain) is the site of the principal telegraph, and has
 the manifest disadvantage of being in no small degree irremeable
 to the progress of the sea-breeze in the direction of the town.
 On approaching nearer the harbour are seen, at a distance be
yond the end of     it,like an immense black cloud extending in the
northern-eastward and southern-westward directions, the Organ
 Mountains, so called on account of the inequality of their various
jutting peaks, and their fancied resemblance to the pipes of the
instrument of that name when viewed at distance.       a      To the left
of these, again,    isseen afar the alpine Tengua, over which are
the passes to the mines. And on entering the ha-V-'r, the con
templative faculties are called up          the picturesque appearance,
                                                  by
exquisite beauty,   and   striking grandeur of the surrounding scenery.
The harbour itself, particularly when viewed from any of the lofty
hills contiguous to       it,
                            seems to correspond more to the descrip
tion of      gulf, than to the common termination of two rivers
          a aharbour.      abounds with beautiful and attractive bays,
                          It
forming
that have more the appearance of romantic lakes            and which arer
                                                                ;
 happily rendered cool       and  refreshing during   the noontide  heats
 of a vertical sun,      by
                          the sea-breeze blowing directly into them,
or circuitously through delightful glens or windings, and thereby
usually with accelerated motion.
    As the force and extended iufluence of the sea-breeze of any
maritime place depend in            great measure on its position, and
                                        a
on   the  extent and  nature    of the  adjacent land, the wind blowing
into Rio de Janeiro (situate as            on the east coast of America
                                            it   is
and within the southern verge of the torrid zone)            compounded
                                                                 is
of the trade-wind and sea-breeze; and accordingly              in general
                                                                      it
blows with more than refrigerative force.            The sea-breeze ge
nerally sets in about noon, or occasionally about an hour or two
before or after ;   after which       gradually increases, and continues
                                        it
fresh for about from three to six hours, when              dies away
                                                                it              ;   a
perfect calm then ensues, and lasts for some time, frequently until
about midnight   ;  at which time the land-breeze springs up, and
is succeeded
                by
                a   short interval of calm, or             by
                                                    an immediate sea-
breeze.    At other times the land-breeze almost immediately suc
ceeds the sea-breeze     and sometimes an unusual cessation of the
                          ;
one  is productive of an irregular suspension of the other      both,      ;
however, are still referable to their primary causes.
 I   have, at different times, noticed the mercury in the thermo
meter to be influenced        the sea-breeze, without any apparent
                                   by
influx or rise of moisture on the one hand, or dispersion of      on           it
the other.    Between the 17th of December and the 23d of Janu
ary (the interval of our first stay here) the temperature was be
tween 93 or 92°* and 82" and between the 18th of March and
                                   ;
             * On shore   was frequently up to 94° and 95'.
                              it
                                             H2                                 the

     16   Remarks on Madeira,              Climate    of the Tropics, &c.
 1
  the 24 th of April (the interval of our second
                                                       stay) it was between
 85° or 86° and 78°.            I never observed         it,
                                                         under any circum
 stance, to vary more than            4,  or
                                           5,   degrees within twenty-four
                                                 6
 hours.     The season, however, proved uncommonly dry.                 was
                                                                         I
 told that  it   occasionally varies more than this within that time.
I   understood from      a  surgeon resident some time here, that           it     is
in winter so low as      5   1
                             :   I,on the other hand, learnt from an in
telligent merchant*, many years here, who                   know has been
                                                               I
particularly attentive in this respect, that            it  seldom or never
                                                               is
lower than 64°. By this gentleman               was likewise informed that
                                                 I
the alteration     of   temperature at the changes of the seasons         sois
gradual and imperceptible, that the feelings are scarcely ever sen
sible of the change, except that at night, in winter,             blanket
                                                                     a            is
required    with a  sheet,  the  only bed covering  used        in
                                                             summer. Again,
all unite in admitting that the temperature and weather in win
ter are congenial to their feelings;           circumstance that indicates
                                                 a
the former not       to  be  lower  than 60°, or at the very lowest 55°.
The rainy seasons generally take place, as in most other coun
tries, in spring and autumn, and from time to time in summer; —
the last, as before remarked, having proved complete exception.
           I                                             a
    Yet, after all, were     it  not for the salutary influence of the sea-
breeze daily,     its  vicissitudes   with the land-breeze, the alternate
flowing and ebbing of the tides, and the nature of the soil (which
is  sufficiently implied in part of the foregoing description), the
city of St. Sebastian would certainly be a most unhealthy as well
as disagreeable place to live in.
     In this city are neither rivers nor streams of any kind. The
water destined for the supply of            seems on the whole insufficient
                                            it
for this purpose     ;—   springing out of Cocanada, (one of those lofty
hills already described as situate to the left of Rio de Janeiro,)
it   isfinally conducted thither through an aqueduct about four
miles in length, from which            discharges itself through three or
                                      it
dinary fountains; where the poor unfortunate negroes, doomed as
 they are to perpetual and rigid servitude, anxiously wait night
 and day to be barely supplied in rotation, especially in dry parch
 ing weather, when the body of this current, small even in the
 wettest season, becomes still considerably diminished.
     In consequence of the want of sewers, the excrementitious and
 other matter (necessarily produced              by
                                                 such an immense popula
 tion as St. Sebastian notoriously contains) is, with the exception
 of about 150 yards from both sides of what              termed the Palace,
                                                          is
 thrown openly near the water's side along the whole extent of
 the town, and principally in those parts corresponding to the two
 market-places in it.          Hence, and from the influence of the very
   * Mr. W. Pearson, the copartner of Messrs. Seaton and Plowes, of         a   first-
rate firm in Rio de Janeiro.

                 Experiments           on the         Gas from Coal.                  117
high temperature here, and likewise the immense quantities of
animal and vegetable matter continually rendered putrid by                             it,
offensive exhalations continue to exist, that affect, particularly at
night, the sense of smelling in the strongest degree, and that oc
casionally extend even to ships   the harbour after the land-breeze
                                             in
has sprung up.
                                 [To   be continued.]
XXI.    Experiments on the Gas from Coal, chiefly with a view
    to Us practical Application. By William Henry, M.D.
    F.R.S. ®c   *
The     chemical properties and composition of the gas from coal
formed   a  principal object of two different series of experiments,
the results of which        laid before the public many years ago.
 The first of these communications, entitled " Experiments on the
                             I
 Gases obtained        the destructive Distillation of Wood, Peat,
                        by
Pit-coal, Oil, Wax, &c. with       view to the Theory of their Com
                                           a
bustion, when employed as Sources of artificial Light," appeared
in Mr. Nicholson's Philosophical Journal for June 1805            and            f;
the second memoir was published in the Transactions of the Royal
 Society for 1S08.
    By the first train of experiments,   endeavoured to derive, from
                                                   I
a  careful analysis of the compound combustible gases,      measure          a
of their illuminating power, admitting of more exact appreciation
than the optical method of comparison of shadows.
                                       a                   The one,
which   I was led to propose as the most accurate, and which                           I
still think entitled to preference, was the determination of the
quantities of oxygen gas consumed, and of carbonic acid formed,
by the combustion of equal measures of the different inflammable
gases; that gas having the greatest illuminating power, which,
in  a  given volume, condenses the largest quantity of oxygen.
The average results of great variety of experiments were com
                             a
prised in the following table.
                                 Oxygen gas required
        Kinds of gas.              to saturate 100                Carbonic acid
                                      measures.                    produced.
    Pure hydrogen                                 50
    Gas from moist charcoal            .   .      60                    35       .
              wood (oak)               . .        54                   33
              dried peat               ..         68                    43
              cannel coal              ..170                           100
               lamp-oil      ..        ..190                           124
               wax                             220                     137
   Olefiant gas                   284                  .- 179
  * From the Memoirs of the Literary and
                                         Philosophical Society of Man
chester, vol. iii. Second Series.     8vo Series, vol. xi. page 65.
                                               f
                                           H      3                                   In

 118             Experiments on the Gas from Coal.
     In the' same essay I maintained an opinion which, on the most
 mature consideration, 1 see no reason to change; that the great
 variety of gases evolved by the destructive distillation of inflam
 mable substances, do not constitute so many distinct species, but
are mixtures of a few, the nature and properties of which were
before ascertained.       It will contribute to render what follows
more intelligible, if a brief account be given of those gases of
known composition, the mixtures of which, in various propor
tions, compose, according to this view, all the observed varieties ;
and I shall make their comparison under a form best adapted to
illustrate their practical application.
     1. Hydrogen gas. — This is the lightest of all known gases,
its specific gravity, that of atmospheric air being taken at 1000,
being about 73.       As ordinarily procured, by the solution of iron
or zinc in diluted sulphuric acid, it contains impurities which
give it a disagreeable smell ; but well purified hydrogen has lit
tle if any odour.      It burns with a pale and feeble flame, not at
all suited to artificial illumination.
                                                  Product of its combustion,
                                   grains.                     grains.
The cubic foot weijr^s about 40
Consumes half a cUbic foot
       of oxyfr .n    , .   . .   300
                                  ;J40        Water     .. ..340
     2. Carburettkd hydrogen has              been shown to constitute     the
 gas of marshes and the fire-damp of coal-mines.                 In these na
 tural forms, it is contaminated with          a  small  proportion of car
 bonic acid, and a larger one of azotic gas, but appears to be free
 from all other impurities. It is proved to be a definite compound
 of hydrogen and charcoal without any oxygen. It is lighter than
 common air, in the proportion of about 600 to 1000; it has very-
 little odour ; and burns with a flame greatly surpassing that of
 hydrogen in density and illuminating power..
                                               Products.
                            oz. dr.*                                   oz. dr.
   A cubic foot weighs       0 12        1  cubic foot of  carb. acid 1 13
 Consumes 2 cubic
        feet of oxygen       2  10         Water                        1    9
                            3    6                                      3    6
     3. Carbonic oxide is rather lighter than common air. It con
 tains no hydrogen, and is purely a compound of charcoal and oxy
 gen, the latter being in just half the proportion which is required
 to constitute carbonic acid. It burns with a feeble blue light.
    * The avoirdupois ounce of   437a grains, or 16 drachms, is to be under-
.Stood.

                  Experiments       on the Gas   from Coal.                119
                                                 Product.
                                  oz. dr.                      oz. dr.
A   cubic foot weighs       . .    1   3
 Consumes     \ a cubic foot
       of oxygen     . .    . .   Oil
                                    1 14       Carbonic acid 1 14
    4. Olefiant gas, or Bi-carburetted hydrogen. — This
has been demonstrated to be a compound of nearly 85 by weight
charcoal, and 15 hydrogen, without any oxygen.                   It is a little
lighter than common air, viz.         in   the proportion   of  about 974 to
 1000.     It surpasses all other gases in the brightness and density
of its flame. Its name was originally derived from the property
which it possesses, of being speedily and entirely condensed, by
Tather more than an equal volume of chlorine gas, into a liquid
resembling oil in appearance, but since shown to approach more
nearly to the nature of ether.
                                                  Products.
                           oz.  dr.                                   oz. dr.
A   cubic foot weighs       13            2 cubic feet carb. acid      3 10
Consumes 3 cubic
    feet of oxygen . .      4    0        Water                        1   9
                            5    3                                     5   3
    Olefiant gas I found to be one of the products of the distilla
tion of oil and of bees' wax, and was led, therefore, to suggest,
that the wick of a lamp or candle, surrounded by flame, is to be
 considered as a bundle of ignited capillary tubes, into which the
 melted inflammable matter is drawn, and there resolved, not into
 a condensable vapour, but into olefiant and carburetted hydrogen
gases.     In the gas from coal, also, I detected the presence of
 olefiant gas, by the test of the action of chlorine.
    In the second series of experiments*, I submitted to distilla
 tion, on a small scale, various kinds of coal, from different parts
 of the kingdom.         The aeriform products, at different stages of
the process, were kept apart, and were separately analysed. From
coal distilled in small iron tubes or retorts, which, when filled,
 were placed at once in a low red heat, small quantities of sulphu
 retted hydrogen and carbonic acid gases came over at first, in
 mixture with the other gases, but in a gradually diminishing pro
 portion, till at length, in the last products, they were not disco
 verable at all. The production of olefiant gas observed the same
 order, and a gradual diminution took place, as the process ad
 vanced, in the combustibility of the gas, as determined by its re
 quiring less and less oxygen for saturation. A great variety was
                         * Phil. Trans. 1808,
                                                page 282.
                                      H   4                        ascertained

 120             Experiments on the Gas from Coal.
ascertained to exist in the quality of the gas from different kinds
of coal  ; that from Wigan cannel holding the highest rank in
illuminating power, and that from the stone coal of South Wales
the lowest.
    Since the period when the second of these papers was published,
the use of artificial gases, as a source of light, has been rapidly
increasing in this, and, I believe, in other countries, and pro
mises to attain an extent and importance sufficient to justify any
labour that may tend, however remotely, to its improved appli
cation.     It has frequently happened, of late years, that I have
been requested by the proprietors of large manufactories lighted
by gas in this neighbourhood, to give an opinion on practical
points, respecting some of which 1 felt myself incompetent to
decide, from the want of the necessary data.                  It is to supply
these data, that I have once more returned             to  the investigation
of the subject. The objects which I have had it in view to de
termine by the following course of experiments, are, whether, on
the large scale of manufacture, there is a decline in the value of
the aeriform products of coal, from the beginning to the end of
the distillation, similar to that which takes place on a small scale;
— at what stages of the process those gases, which may be con
sidered as impurities, are chiefly evolved ; and whether they are
essential or accidental products ; — whether the method of re
moving the sulphuretted hydrogen and carbonic acid gases by
quicklime, which I suggested in the second memoir, is adequate
to the complete purification of coal gas ; — whether this purifica
tion is attended with any loss of that portion of the gas which,
on account of its superior illuminating power, it is desirable not
to remove ; — and, if such a loss should be found to ensue, whether
it may not be avoided by some modification of the purifying pro
cess.    In determining these points, I was indebted for the neces
sary supplies of gas to Mr. Lee, at whose extensive manufactory
the principal facts were ascertained, that formed the basis of the
first accurate calculations respecting the ceconomy of gas from
coal.*
 On the Quality      of the Gas,    at different   Stages   of the Distilla
                                     tion.
    The gas which I first submitted to experiment was obtained
from Wigan cannel coal, a substance preferred in this neighbour
hood as affording' aeriform products, which, both by their quan
tity and quality, more than compensate its ^higher price f. The
retorts are charged while red hot with this substance, and indeed
   * See Mr. Murdoch's " Account of the Application of the Gas from Coal
to oeconomical Purposes," Phil. Trans. 1808, page 124.
   t  About a shilling per cwt. of 1121b. or 13Jrf. delivered in Manchester.
                                                                          are

                 Experiments       on  ike Gas from Coal.                      121
are never suffered, during the whole of the winter season, to fall
below the temperature of ignition.                The gas was collected in a
bladder furnished with a stop-cock, which was fixed into an open
ing in the pipe between the retort and the tar-pit.                It was taken,
at this place, in order to avoid contact with water, and admix
ture with any atmospherical air, that might accidentally remain
in the gasometer.        Wishing to examine the gas in a perfectly
recent state, and finding it impossible to make the necessary ex
periments with sufficient accuracy in a shorter interval, I was
obliged to be satisfied with procuring it every other hour.               In this
place, I shall only state the general results ; and I shall describe,
in a subsequent part of the paper, the methods of analysis, in or
der that other persons, who may choose to compare my experi
ments with their own, may conduct them under equal circum
stances.
     By t;he expression impure gas, is to be understood, the gas
precisely in the state in which it was collected from the retort ;
and by purified gas, the same product after being freed from car
bonic acid and sulphuretted hydrogen by solution of pure potash,
applied in very small quantity, relatively to the volume of the gas,
and with the least agitation adequate to the effect.
                                    TABLE     I.
Showing the Quality of Gas from 1 1 20 lbs. of Cannel,                    at   dif
                   ferent Periods of the Distillation.
 Hours from the  100 measures   of im- 100 m. purified gas     100 m. of purified
    commence-    pure gas contain of           consist of            gas
      ment.                                                              give
                 Sul. hyd.  carb. ac.    Qlef. other infl. az.  oxyg.    carb.
                                        i        gases.                  acid.
      an hour       Of        5f        :  16      64     20     180      94
  1   hour . ,      3         3f           18      77|     4^
                                                           ^4   210      112
  3   hours . .     2f        2f           15      80      5    200      108
  5   hours . ,     2f        2f           13      72     15     176      94
  7   hours . ,     2         2f            9      76     15     170      83
  9   hours . ,     Of        2§            8      77     15     150      73
                    0         2             6      74     20     120      54
lOf   hours . .
12    hours . ,     0         Of            4      76     20      82      36
    Excluding from the calculation the azotic gas, with various
proportions of which the products were contaminated, the follow
ing table shows the quantity of oxygen gas consumed, and of
carbonic acid produced, by the really combustible part of the
                                                                           TABLE

122                  Experiments on the Gas from Coal.
                                          TABLE       II.
Showing       the  Quality of the really combustible Part of                           the   Gas,
                   at different Periods of' Distillation.
                                     Take oxygen.                            Give earb. acid.
       100 measures         of
          half hour's gas                     225                                  118
          1    hour's gas                     220                                  117
          3                                   210                                  114
          5                                   206                                  108
          7                                   200                                    98
          9                                   176                                    85
         101                                  150                                    70
         12                                   103                                    45
   The next set of experiments was made on gas from common
coal, got atClifton near Manchester, and of fair average quality.
                                        table in.
  Showing the Quality of the Gas                       from 11 20 lbs. of common
              Coal, at different Periods                of the Distillation.
                          100 m. of im          100 measures         of    100 measures
                         pure gas con-              purified gas.             purified.
                                ta in           i
                                                            »—          :,        \.
                                                                  az.   ]
                                                                           cons,      give
                         f
                           sulp.     carb.                infl.             oxy.     carb.
                         hyd.       acid.               gases.                        acid.
        1 hour s gas         3        3           10       90      0    '    164       91
        3 hours do.          2         2            9      91      0         168       93
        5  hours     do.     3         2            6      94      0         132       70.
        7 hours      do.     1        3             5      SO     15    !    120       64
        9 hours      do.      1        2i           2      89      0
                                                                        1
                                                                             112       60
      1 1 hours      do.      1        I            o      85     15    |      90      43
   Exclusive of the azote, with which the three last portions                                  of
gas were mingled, they consumed oxygen and gave carbonic acid
as follows.       The seven hours gas in this instance, as sometimes
happens     from   irregularities of temperature, was more combustible
than that collected two hours sooner.                           >
                                             Consumed oxygen.             Gave carb. acid.
         100 m.     of  7 hours gas               . .     140       . .     . .    75
                         9 hours         . .      ..      1 23      , .     . .    66
                       11 hours         . .       . .     106      . .      . .   50
   A comparison of the results exhibited in the third table, with
those of the distillation of cannel coal, is greatly in favour of the
latter substance as a source of light.                        This will appear most di
stinctly, by setting against each other the proportions of oxygen,
which are consumed by the gases evolved from the two substances
at equal times from the commencement.
                                                                                            TABLE

                        Experiments on the Gas from Coal.                    123
                                      TABLE    IV.
Comparative Table of the Qualities of the Gases from Wigan
  Cannel, and from common Coal, at equalTimes from the Com
  mencement of the Distillation*
                                   Oxygen consumed            Oxygen consumed by
                                    by 100 m. can-             ] 00 m. of Clifton
                                         nel gas.                  coal ga
           1   hour's   gas
                                      . .   206      .   .
     It appears from these experiments, that the gas from cannel
has, in an equal volume, an illuminating power about one-third
greater than that from coal of medium quality.          The quantity,
also, from the former substance, exceeded by about one-seventh
that obtained from coal, distilled under precisely similar circum
stances ; 3500 cubic feet of gas having been collected from 1 120
pounds of cannel, and only 3000 cubic feet from the same quan
tity of coal. The whole product of one distillation of cannel,
mixed together in a gasometer, was of such quality, that 100
measures required for combustion 155 measures of oxygen gas,
and gave 88 measures of carbonic acid.       But as the gas was con
taminated with 15 measures of azote in every hundred, the oxy
gen, required for saturating 100 measures of the really combus
tible part of           it,
                     mav be stated at 195    and the carbonic acid
                                                     :
produced    at   10.1     may It
                               be necessary to observe, that in com
paring the value of gases produced from different kinds of coal,
or from the same kind of coal differently treated,        not enough
                                                                it   is
to determine the quantity of aeriform products          and no satis
                                                               ;
factory conclusion can be drawn respecting the relative fitness of
any variety of coal for affording gas, or the advantages of dif
ferent modes of distillation, unless the degrees               of
                                                       combustibility
of the gases compared be determined,                     by
                                              finding experimentally
the proportion of oxygen gas required for their saturation.
    The results expressed in the first table, when contrasted with
those which       formerly obtained
                   I                    the destructive distillation of
                                              by
small quantities of coal, present several circumstances of dis
agreement, as to the quality of the products at different stages of
the operation.      In small experiments, the sulphuretted hydrogen
and carbonic acid gases were evolved only at the early stages of
the process     and sulphuretted hydrogen, especially, could not
                   ;                                                           by
the nicest tests be discovered in the last products of gas. On the
large scale, both these gases continue to be evolved throughout
the whole operation, though in greatly diminished proportion to-
   '
 '•   •-                                                         wards

 124             Experiments   on the Gas  from Coal.
wards the latter end.      Even in the advanced stages of large di
 stillations, the presence of sulphuretted hydrogen in coal-gas may
 be traced by the proper test, though not in a quantity that ad
 mits of being easily measured.      The test which I used for some
 time was the white oxide of bismuth, for which I afterwards sub
 stituted white lead, ground with a little water to the proper con
sistence, and spread by a camel's hair pencil on a slip of card.
 This was secured by a small pair of forceps fixed in a cork, by
 means of which the slip of card could be placed in a jar or bot
tle of the gas, and kept there for some time.     By experiments on
 artificial mixtures, I found that a cubic inch of sulphuretted hy
 drogen, diffused through twenty thousand cubic inches of com
 mon air, distinctly affected the test, which it changed to a light
 yellowish or straw colour.       Bv mixing sulphuretted hydrogen
 with various proportions of common air, I prepared coloured
 cards of a variety of shades, which served as standards of com
 parison for judging of proportions of sulphuretted hydrogen in
 coal-gas, which were too minute to be accurately measured.
     In the small experiments made several years ago, I never found,
in the early products of gas from cannel coal, a proportion of ole
 fiant gas at all approaching that which is noted in Table I. and
its quantity in small distillations rapidly decreased, until in the
 latter products it could be no longer traced at all.   The method
of analysis, which I formerly employed, led me, however, as I
have lately discovered, to under-rate the proportion of olefiant gas,
aud to over-estimate that of sulphuretted hydrogen. But making
due allowance for this error, the superiority of the products of
large operations, so far as respeets olefiant gas, still exists, and
is confirmed by comparative experiments on a small scale which
I have lately made. Thus it appears from Table I. that even
after twelve hours continuance of the process, olefiant gas still
 constitutes 4 per cent. of the gases evolved from cannel.       The
other inflammable gases, also, when obtained in large quantity,
are more uniform in quality, and possess, towards the close of the
process, much greater combustibility and illuminating power, than
when procured in small experiments.          This superiority is ob
viously dependent on the greater facility of preserving an uni
form temperature, in all chemical processes which are carried on
upon a scale of magnitude.
     The temperature to which the coal is subjected, must neces
sarily be a point of the greatest importance to the quantity and
 quality of the aeriform products ; for while too low a heat distils
 over, in the form of a condensible fluid, the bituminous part of
 the coal which ought to afford gas, too high a temperature, on
 the contrary, occasions the production of.a large relative propor
 tion of the lighter and less combustible gases.      It would be a
                                                                great

                Experiments      on the  Gas from Coal.                 125
great step in the improvement of the manufacture of coal-gas, if
the whole of the hydrogen could be obtained in combination with
that proportion of charcoal which constitutes olefiant gas ; and
it is satisfactory to know, that no impediment to this arises out
of the proportion of the hydrogen and charcoal present in coal.
If this object be ever accomplished, it will probably be by the
discovery of means of uniformly supporting such a temperature
as shall be adequate to the production of olefiant gas, and shall
never rise above it ; and some probability of success is perhaps
derivable from the fact, that        M. Berthollet, by the careful de
composition of oil, which in        my experiments afforded a mixture
of gases,    succeeded in obtaining olefiant gas in a state of pu
rity*.                                                                   •>
   With the view of ascertaining how low           a degree of heat is ade
quate to the production of gas from coal, I placed a small iron
retort, containing cannel, in melted solders of various composi
tion, without obtaining more than the common air of the vessel.
The retort charged with fresh .rnaterials, was then immersed in
melted lead ; but after expelling the common air, no more than
a few bubbles of gas came over, and that only when the lead, by
being kept over the fire, had acquired a temperature about its
fusing point.      On restoring this temperature by adding fresh me
tal, the evolution of gas was always suspended.              I placed also
one of Mr. Wedgwood's pyrometer pieces in contact with a re
tort which was at work at Mr. Lee's manufactory, and which
showed only a dull red or blood-coloured heat; but, after remain
ing' in that situation half an hour, a contraction of barely one
degree of the scale had taken place.              This temperature, how
ever, I suspect is rather too low, and has a tendency to distil
over too much tar, and consequently to produce less gas than
might be obtained by a degree of heat somewhat' higher. The
best adapted temperature will probably be found to vary with
different kinds of -coal; and I have been prevented from ascer
taining it with respect to cannel, by the inconveniences that
would arise from disturbing the regular arrangements of a large
manufactory.        From some experiments of Mr. Brande, it ap
pears that    the  sudden   application of the requisite heat evolves
from coal much more gas, than the gradual heating of a cool re
tort up to the point of ignition      f.
    In the experiments upon gas from Wigan cannel, the results of
which are comprised in the first table, azotic gas was found in
all the aeriform products, from the beginning to the end of the
                  * Mcmoires de la Soc. dArcueil, ii. 84.
                  \  Journal of Science, vol. i. page 75.
 r                                                               operation.

126            Experiments         on the Gas         from Coal.
operation. But in experiments on the gas obtained at other times
from the same substance, no appreciable quantity of azotic gas
could be discovered till after the sixth hour of the process, when*
it began to appear, and progressively rose to 20 parts in the hun
dred.     Of this purity of the early products from azote, and ap
pearance of it in the latter ones, Mr. Dalton was an eye witness
on one occasion,'when he was so good as to co-operate with me;
and I had afterwards repeated opportunities of verifying the fact.
With the view of ascertaining whether the azote found its way
from the atmosphere into the distilling vessels, I subjected 100
grains of cannel coal to heat in a glass retort, the capacity of
whose body and neck did not together exceed l| cubic inch. Be
sides a portion of gas which was lost, 50 cubic inches were col
lected, which, on careful analysis, were found to contain 5 cubic
inches of azotic gas.     Of these only one cubic inch can be traced
to the common air present in the retort at the outset ; and the
other 4 cubic inches must have been furnished by the coal itself.
    It is resonabie indeed to expect, that a substance like coal,
which affords ammonia under some circumstauces, should, under
others, yield the elements of that alkali in a detached state ; and
the reason, why azote is for the most part not to be found in the
gas which is first evolved,      is,
                                  that at low temperature, that ele
                                                 a
ment unites with hydrogen, and composes ammonia.              But when
the contents of the retort, which, for some time, have been kept
comparatively cool      by the escape of condensable fluids, become
more intensely heated, ammonia               either not formed, or,
                                                 is                              if
formed,  is    decomposed again into azotic and hydrogen gases,
both of which may be traced in the aeriform products of the ad
vanced stages of distillation.      As a matter of practice,        cer
                                                                     it   is
tainly   desirable that the  azote  existing     coal in
                                                      should  enter into
the composition     of
                    a   condensable   fluid, rather than that     should
                                                                     it
escape in a   gaseous state  ;for       an impurity which, when once
                                       it   is
mingled with the combustible gas, cannot be removed                  any  by
known method, and must materiallyimpair its illuminating power.
That such an effect must result from its presence, may be in
ferred from the experiments of Sir H. Davv, who found that an
explosive mixture of carburetted hydrogen and common air was
deprived of its combustibility         being mixed with one sixth of
                                        by
its bulk of azotic gas*.
                             [To   be continued.]
                    * On the
                             Safety-lamp, page 30.
                                                                   XXII.       Free

                                 [   127   ]
XXII.    Free Remarks on the Geological Work of Mr. Green-
•    ough.    By Mr. John Farey, Sen. Mineral Surveyor.
                            To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, —   Mi r.   Greenough, who was the first President of the
Geological Society of London, and now again fills that situation,
has at length appeared before the public in the character of art
Author: his Work, entitled, " A Critical Examination of the first
Principles of Geology," follows very closely in the steps of that
of Dr. Kidd*, in labouring excessively to show, that scarcely any
thing of real knowledge yet exists, respecting the composition,
the structure, and the past history of the crust of the Earth!!.
On scarcely any of the numerous points of Geological Theory or
the general Inferences from Geological Facts, which Mr. Green-
ough's Work brings under review, does he seem able to have made
up an opinion, and for want of which, his readers are throughout
bewildered, by a mass of contradictory extracts from those Authors
(certainly not a few) whom Mr. G. (in imitation of Dr. K.) in a
somewhat arbitrary, and sometimes, as it appears to me, in an
unfair manner, selects, as authorities in Geological matters: and
too often also, the Author's own remarks are found at variance
with each other.
   In thus freely stating my opinion on the general character of
Mr. G's Work, as appears to me after very carefully and re
                      it,   byno ineaus wish or intend to deny
peatedly perusing     I                                            the
                                                                  it
merit, of containing  a  great many original and useful local Obser
vations, and also several Inferences and Remarks, which had not
previously been published, and for performing which service to
Geology, no one in England, feels more grateful to Mr. G. than
myself: although on the whole,       cannot consider his conduct fair,
                                     I
or his Work   as likely to  advance, but rather to retard, the inarch
of Geological knowledge.
   The subject of Organic Remains, and of Fossil Shells in par
ticular, appearing to me of paramount importance, amongst Geo
logical phenomena,    I    shall on the present occasion, principally
confine my remarks to the manner in which Mr. G. has handled
some of this part of his subject, which      found either incidentally
                                               is
or more formally introduced, at pages 27, 34, 179 to 184, 203,
207, 21o, 220 to 225, 227, and 284 to 304.
   In page 284 Mr. Greenough, in evident allusion to the ques
tion which has often been agitated in your pages, viz. how far
Mr. W. Smith     is to be considered as    adiscoverer of the connec-
   * On this Work offered some strictures, in your 45th vol.
                 I                                           p. 338   ;   see
also vol. 52, p. 184 Note.
                                                                      tion

128              Free Remarks   on the   Geological Work
tion now so well proved to exist, between particular Beds or la
mine of the Strata, and particular Species or varieties of Shells
or other Organic Remains, which are found imbedded therein,
and as the first who actually used and taught this mode of iden
tifying, mapping and tracing the Strata, remarks            as follows :
viz. " An opiniou has for some time past been entertained in this
country, that every Rock has its own Fossils."
    Before I proceed to remark on the Extracts, and mention of
the Writings of former English Naturalists, which follow in Mr.G's
work, and by which he wishes to appear to prove his position
above quoted, I will remark on the loose manner in which the two
material parts thereof are denned, that are marked with italics :
leaving thus his proposition open to the showing,'as in some of the
following extracts is attempted to be done, viz. that each
                                                                   " dif
ferent stone," that is each mineral species of Stone (without re
gard to its place in the series of Strata),
                                                " yield quite different
sorts or species of Shells," and that the supposed relation sub
sists, between mineral and animal Species, instead of the rela
tion which Mr. Smith and myself contend for, viz. between the
successive periods or eras of deposition of the particular Beds,
and the particular species or varieties of Animals, which, at or im
mediately prior thereto, existed in the water, on the bottom of
which the Beds in question were formed.
    Respecting Mr. G's Extract in page 284, from Dr. Lister's
Paper in the Philosophical Transactions, No. 76 (or Lowthorp's
Abr. II. 425) it is material to take into consideration, the con
nection of the same with the passage which immediately precedes
it, as follows, viz. In " our English inland Quarries,         I am apt
to think, there     isno such matter as petrifying of Shells in the
business :   But that these Cockle-like Stones ever were, as they
are at present, Lapides sui generis, and never any part of unAni-
mal.   It    most certain that our English Quarry-shells (to con
            is
tinue that abusive name) have no parts of different Texture from
                                               a
the Rock or Quarry where they are taken that is, that there
                                                ;                        is
no such thing as Shell in these Resemblances        of  Shells, but that
 Ironstoite Cockles are all Iron-stone    Lime or Marble, all Lime
                                          :
stone or Marble; Sparre or Christalline- shells, all Sparre,&.c. and
 that they were never Part of an Animal.            My reason      is,
                                                                     that
 Quart ies of different Sto?ie yield us quite different sorts of Species
of Shell," (not Shells) and so on, nearly as in the following lines
                                                      9
 of Mr. Greenough's Extract, at top of page 285 which thus ;
prefaced, as in literary justice they ought to have been, will not       I
 think be judged     byimpartial persons, to amount to much, against
 Mr. Smith's claim, as above stated, and in your 51st vol. p. 177.
    The next paragraph in Mr. Greenough's Work, still alluding to
 Dr. Lister,is as follows, viz. "The sameWriter folloived the course
                                                                         of

                               of Mr.    Greenough.                  '      129
 of the Chalk-marl over an extensive tract of country, ly mere at
 tention to its Fossils," but for reasons best known to himself, Mr.
  G. omits here, the reference, to the work to which he alludes, in
 making this important assertion. After reading through all Dr.
 Lister's Papers in the Phil.Trans., without discovering any such
 thing, I was induced to look into his Work entitled " Historie
 Animalium Anglie," wherein, at p. 228, at the end of the descrip
 tion of the small Belerrmite, engraven in his 32d title or figure, are
 these words, viz. " Locus'. Hunc lapidem plurimis in locis apud
 nos quam copiosissime inveni : at perpetuo in terra rubra ferrea,
 sive ea mollior gleba, sive saxea sit.           In all the Cliffs, as you
 ascend the Yorkshire and Lincolnshire fVooldes for above 100
miles in compas : as at Spiton, Lawnsborough, Castour,Tedford,
 Calkwell :" which doubtless is the passage, to which Mr. G. al
ludes, and the first part of which, a learned naturalist of my ac
 quaintance*, renders' thus, viz. " This stone is found very abun
dantly in many places amongst us, in a red ferruginous Earth,
either in softer or in more stony masses. In all the Cliffs," &c. as
above.
      On which, I beg to ask Mr. Greenough, how he can make out,
that the red ferruginous Earth, here alluded to by Dr. Lister, at
Specton Cliff, Londsborough, Caistor, Cawkwell, and Tetford (as
 the places are now called), is the whitish, or llueisli or greenish-
gray " Chalk-Marl "f, rather than the " Brick-earth ? or mica
ceous blue Marl (exposed and oxidated) p. 13, of Smith's "Strata
 Identified," wherein such small Belemnites, are found, and de
 scribed.     And next, I will take the liberty of saying, that Dr.Lis-
 ter does not appear to me, either to have accomplished, or to have
 had in view, the tracing or following of any particular Stratum,
 by means of these small Belemnites, by reason that he never men
 tions the same, or speaks of its relation to the Chalk Strata near
 adjacent and above it in the Series ; but intended merely to ex
 plain more particularly, by the mention of Cliff's at the edge of
 the Wold Hills, the situations in which he had found these Be
 lemnites.       It is however, a singular circumstance, that this pas
 sage, and this only, should be given in English, in Dr. Lister's Latin
     * At my request, the same kind friend, looked carefully through all this
 work of Dr. Lister's, in order to inform me, whether there are any other
 passages therein, favourable in any way to the assertions Mr. Greenough has
 made, regarding Dr. Lister's knowledge and use of Fossil Shells, in tracing or
following Strata, by their means ? : and his answer is, " It does not appear
  that Dr. Lister, either traced the Strata by the Shells, or the Shells by the
  Strata ; it also appears, that he often confounded several Species under one
 Title."
     .f Derbyshire Report, I. 112; a name, which since 1811, Mr. Smith ap
 pears to have dropped, and included this Stratum in the
                                                             " Green Sand," of
 his Map and Publications.
     Vol.  5-1. No. 256. Aug. 1819.                   I                 Work,

130             Free Remarks    on the Geological Work
Work, and further, that it should have      been marked by italics! ;
and in order to show my readiness, to the giving of every degree
of publicity to what Dr. Lister did, with regard to Fossil Shells,
 I have been at the pains to make out, as I hope, with tolerable
certainty, what are the Situations of all the Places, in modern
 Maps, to which Dr. Lister refers in this work; and by means of
 Smith's Map, joined with my own knowledge of the local situa
 tions and extents of the several Strata, to assign each Shell its
 place, in a Stratigraphical System : to which, I have added re
 ferences to Mr. Sowerby's Mineral Conchology, wherever he ap
  pears to have described the same species of Fossil Shell, and I
  now send you the same, and shall be glad to see it inserted, fol
  lowing this, in your Philosophical Magazine.
      Mr. Greenough's next passage, in page 285, is as follows, viz.
  "   Mr. Strange traced the Gryphus from the lower part of Mon
  mouthshire and Purton Passage, through Gloucestershire, Wor-
  cesterhire, Warwickshire, and Leicestershire, occupying in these
  counties, as in Northamptonshire, the lower parts under the hills,"
  and by a Note on this passage, he refers to the " Archeologia,"
  vol. vi. p. 36. I have from the volume last mentioned, carefully
  extracted all which Mr. Strange says, on the subject of Organic
  Remains, and have sent the same herewith, in hopes that it may
  be recorded in your Work, following my abstract of Mr. Lister's
  Work, above mentioned.         Mr. Greenough, besides having intro
  duced here, the mention of Northamplonshire,vA\\cX\ Mr.Strange
  does not mention (and wherein there is no part of the range of
  the Lias Gryphites, Gryphea incurva a, or G. obliquata, Min.
  Conch, t. 1 1 2), he omit3 Mr. Strange's mention of the Gravel, in
  which he found some, and perhaps several of his Grvphites ; and,
  almost without doubt, these Gravel Gryphites belonged to some
  of the higher stratigraphical localities of this genus of Shells,
  which are mentioned, P.M. liii. p. 124, or to others, and not to
  the Lias Strata, whereon Mr. Strange's description sets out, in
   Glamorgan and Monmouth Shires: and hence I think it fair to
  conclude, that Mr. Strange, had not traced any Strata through
   distant places, "by mere attention to their Fossils."
      Mr. Greenough's two following quotations, from the Journal de
  Physique, seem little to the purpose in question, because, appear
  ing to me merely having in view, the supposed relation between
  mineral and animal Species, as before mentioned.
      The Rev. A. Catcot, in page 161 of his " Treatise on the De
   luge," having spoken of thick and massive Rocks, subjoins a Note
  which begins as follows, viz. A thick Rock or " single Stratum, is
   divided into a great number of lesser Strata or small Layers, which
   will be easily distinguishable from each other, either by their co
  lour, depth, thickness, or more remarkably by their contents, or the
   Fossil bodies they contain, one layer abounding with one species

                        of Mr. Greenough.
                                                                131
of Shells, another with a different," &c, as Mr. Greenough has
the remainder of the passage, in p. 286 ; but who, by omitting
this necessary introduction to his Extract, has contrived to keep
it out of view of his Reader, that Mr. Catcot, instead of speak
ing of the means of identifying the same Stratum or Bed in a
                                                    the essence of
different and distant part of its course (which is
Mr. Smith's claim on this head) was merely speaking of the means,
of separating a thick Rock, in some one place, into its component
Strata or Beds.
   The extract from the last scientific Letter or Paper which the
late Mr. William Martin of Macclesfield wrote, before his death,
 (and which his friends afterwards sent to be inserted in your Ma
gazine, vol. xxxix. p. 81) has very unfairly towards Mr. Smith,
(before lie had been mentioned, except on a different account in
p. 150, as I shall further mention) been introduced, without the
mention of the circumstance, which Mr. Martin candidly acknow
ledges, viz. of his having omitted to mention in his printed Work,
the connection of each species of Shell that he had described, with
the particular Stratum imbedding the same ; Mr. G. well know
ing, that Mr. Martin had been led to write the passage which he
has transferred to his Book, in consequence of a particular com
munication, made by me to Mr. Martin, of Mr. Smith's dis
coveries, and of my applications of the same, to the Strata and'
places, from whence Mr. M's Specimens had been collected: af
ter the last of his Works, except this Letter, had been printed off :
see P.M. vol. liii. p. 113.
    I come now to the short mention which Mr. G. has allowed
himself to make of Mr. Smith, on the subject of Fossil Shells,
in p. 287 ; where, apparently for no other reason than to avoid
telling the world, that Mr. Smith has published (besides the
quarto Memoir explaining his Map) the greater part of two ex
press works on Fossil Shells (besides having deposited his ori
ginal Specimens in the British Museum, which had been almost
entirely collected in the last century) — I say, for avoiding saying
so much, Mr. G. has descended so Jar as to say, that Mr. Smith's
specification of " a variety of Fossils, by which the Strata of Eng
land may (in his opinion) be identified," was made, " in a table
attached to his Geological Map." ! !
    I have already alluded, to the only other instance throughout
Mr. G'sWork, wherein Mr. Smith is mentioned, which relates,
to his discovery, that the known Alluvia,th&t     is,
                                                  such water-moved
masses of Strata, as,  by  containing known species     Organic Re
                                                        of
mains (and being frequently also, of known substance) which can
                                       a
be matched to the particular Strata, from whence they were torn,
have all (with the exception of some thin and light
                                                             masses)
 leen moved in one direction, that       from the SE to the NW, or
                                       is,
nearly so and here again, Mr. G., as
         :                                   itappears to me, only
                               I   2                              for

132           On   Mr.   Greenough's        Geological Work.
for the propose of avoiding mentioning Mr. Smith's                 " Strata
 Identified" (p.   ii)or his " Stratigraphical System" (p.ix), pro
fesses, not to know Mr. Smith's reasons, for the opinion which
he ascribes to him: notwithstanding, that           have myself, years
                                                      I
ago, explained those reasons to him, and have repeatedly pub
lished the same in your Work, with confirmatory testimony from
my own experience: see vol. xxxv, p. 135, vol. xlii. p. 253, vol.
xliii. p. 125 Note, &c.
    One thing has considerably surprised me, and all others with
whom have conversed, who had read Mr. Greenough's Book, viz.
      I
that not a word or allusion      found therein, to the Map (" begun
                                  is
and altogether made on Wernerian principles," see              337 of your
                                                              p.
xlvth volume, and vol. lii. pp. 184 and 185 Note), unfounded re
ports concerning which Geognostic Map, have so long, and so
unjustly been played off, against the reputation and sale of Mr.
Smith's original Map of the Strata.
 I    shall have already trespassed too much on your pages, to         al
low me to mention herein, more than one thing in Mr. G's Book
which concerns myself, and that            is,
                                          to point out, that the words
marked with inverted commas in p. 156, and positively ascribed
to Mr. Hutchinson, are not his words         but my words, taken from
                                                 !,
page 123 (and its Note) of my Derbyshire Report: and further,
that Mr. Gveenough well knows, that in 1806,              I  made the im
portant discovery (in Surrey      and  Sussex,  regarding     the Denuda
 tion, of the Weald
                     District) which     here
                                           is alluded   to, and  gave him,
soon after, manuscript Section of the Country
            a                                            between   London
 and Brighton, for explaining'the same (P.M.       vol. xliii. p. 120); and
 that my verification and extension of the same discovery, through
 out the County and vicinity of Derby, was made, and the same
                                                                  two years
 published in Dr. Rees's Cyclopaedia, and in my Report,
 before the time, that either    he  or  myself  heard,   of the  discovery
  or of the Work of Mr. Hutchinson, or, that of Mr. Catcot, which
  were brought from Oxford (as         Iunderstood) in order to dispute
                                                               were lent to
 my claims to the first discovery of Denudation, and
  me by Mr. Greenough, in June 1813. Although until now, as Mr.
  G. has been silent to the discoveries of Mr. Hutchinson (who at
the beginning of the 18th century was employed          Dr. Wood
                                                              by
ward in forming his Museum, see Dr.      Rees's  Cyclopaedia), and
those of his pupil the Rev. A. Catcot,     have let slip no oppor
                                                 /
tunity, of referring to their Works, and doing my endeavours, to
wards making them more generally known (see vol. xliii. p. 189,
vol. xlii. p. 255, &c.) and, in case
                         ;              would meet your approba
                                                it
tion, to insert the same,    would
                             I     send you the Extracts, which         I
made from these Authors' Works, in 1813, of all the Geological
                                                   me new, or im.
passages that they contain, which appeared to
portant.                           am, your obedient servant,
                                       I
     Howland-street, Aug.   1819.
                             1,                 John Farey Sen.

A   Stratigrgphical
                                             or    Smithian                 Arrangement                       of       the      Fossil          Shells          which            were         described              (in     Latin)        g      Martin   Lister,
   in                     in      the        3d    Tract          of      his
                                                                                    "    Historic                 Animalium                                                                     there                                 of           small
            1678,                                                                                                                               Anglias,"               occupying                             78          pages            very            quarto,
    with      4         plates,         containing                64        figures          of       Shells.                  By       Mr.        ggn            *rg                Sen.,         Mineral
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Surveyor.
Alluvia,                 or     moved             Rubb,,              and        smal,r               ruins            of     Strata.
                                                   4f'        (Plott's            OxfDed'ire,                          tDe.      4,     fi.   .          Conchites                 anomius,             &c.         p.     240.
           Gunnerg1'^8,
           Ditto                              f.    57,       Pectunculites                     anomius                  trilobus,            &c<         p.    249.
           Keigh,y
                                                   f.    55,      Pectunculites
                                                                                                       subsphaericus,
                                                                                                                                           &c.
                                                                                                                                                      p.       247.
               or        flintv         Chal.
Upper,
                                                          26                        t.    2,    f.                     Echinites              e                       Se,nite,            &c.                223.
           N'wton-Grange,                                         (Plott,                                12),                                      lapide                                             p.
           Norfolk
                                                   f. f.           Echinites                 orbiculatus,                                                &c.     p.      220.
                                  County,                  If),                                                                 depressus,
           South           of      England,
                                                        f.      18,       (Plott,                                13)        Echinites,             vertice              fastigiato,             &c.         p.   219.
                              „House.             ff.      22      (Plott,
                                                                                     t.             2, f.        Echinites                 albido-cinereus,                        &c.        p.    221.
           otonor
                                                           25                       u         f
                                                                                         t. 5, 5>
                                                                                                                 Echinite9               velut                               &c.         p.   222.
                                                                                                       f. 4) ^
                                                                                                                                                      iannnjSj
Lower,             or    hard        Chal.
           Ashton-Rowant.                          f.    28
                                                                  (Plott,
                                                                                    t.                  11, and
                                                                                                                              t.    7,  f.    9)      Echinites
                                                                                                                                                                                pra>tcr            radios,        &c.        p.   224.
                                                        29      (Plott'
                                                                                 U                   14)         Echinites               radiorum                                                     225.
           EwfhTl!!'                    S'V-                                                                                                                     punctis,&c.                   p.
                                                                                         f. L 1
                                                  f.                                          f.
           Pirton                                   30                          t.       2,
                                                                                     2' 3,
                                                              (Plott,                                  and        2)         Echinites                                                                       p,     225.
                                                                                                                                                   punctis              prominentibus,
           Ro,ton
                                                  f.     54,      Pectunculites                        albidus,               &c.       p.    246.
Brick-Earth,                            or    micaceous                  Blmegarl
                                                                                                      CCly.
                                                  32,     Be,mnites                     minimus,                  &c.         p.    227.
           Cawkwell                J»f.                                                                                                           ,
           FilW      nr'iM                              fT     9      APT            So,nites,                    multi
                                                                                                                                   lo,itu'uCl                   St.          p.           App.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      :      tmes     is     Perna         aLicu,id.       (var.u,)
           miey-iindge.                           .                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                                                    .
                                                                                Sowerby's                   Min.            Conch,            t.   66,
                                                                                                                                                          f.           and      4    >   and         P.M.         liii.     p.    128,
                                                                                                                                                          »

           Londsborough.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CO
                             'iff.                                                     Be,mnites                     minimus,               &c.           p.   227.
           Sp'cton,
           Tetford.
Portland                Rock,          or                                                   &c.         Limestone.
                                                       Ay,sbury,
           Black-Hamb,ton                                 Hill.                     f.    31,        Be,mnites                   niger,            maximus,                      &c.        p. 226.
           Brough.
                             .
                             .        .        f         .           37,         Conchites                    maximus,                 margine                 lato,           &c.          p. 233.
                                        "f.                             (Plott,
                                                                                          t.     5,   f.      10     and        14)        Ammonis                     cornu,               spina      &c.      207.
                                                                            Ammonis                  cornu,            striis       lateralibus                    &c.       p.        208.
                                                                                                                                                      1.
                                                                            Ammonis                  cornu,           lave,         &c.
                                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                                 p.
                                                                  1,          Buccinitt-s                   magnus,             ventricosus,                       &c.            p.    214.          This       is     Trochus           angliciis        j3.   Sower.        Min.
                                                           12, Buccinites                                   exiguus,            &c.        p.     215.                                                                                                      [Conch,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t.   142.
                                                         31,                  Be,mnites                                                               &c.                  226.
                                          3 4, 8, 1
                                       j                                                                    niger,         maximus,                                   p.
           Bugthorp*.                                                                                                                                                  229
                                     ]                    33,                Conchites                      major,         rugosus,               &c.        p.                  f.
                                                         37,                  Conchites                 maximus,                                          lato,          &c.                 233.
                                                                                                                                    margine                                            p.
                                                        38,                  Conchites                  rugosus,              &c.          p.    234.
                                        .                 44,                Ostracites                 minor,            cardine               &c.       p.       238.
                                            f. f. f. f. f. f. f. f. f. f.
                                                      45                    (Plott,                            18,                                    Conchites                    anomius                                 &c.                        p.   238   J.
                                                                                                                         Gryphites)                                                                        rugosus,                 (var.fi)
                                                        52
                                                                                            t. t.   4, 4, 3 5,
                                                                                                                                                                                                     &c.
                                       (_f.                                  (Plott,                                         Pectunculites,                           densissimis,                             p. 245.
                                                 .              f           3.                                  ?) f.
                                                 .                                                                      10      and                   Ammonis
                                                                                                       f. f. t.                                                                                                   &c.             207.
           Byland-Abbey.                                                               (Plott,                                              14)                                    cornu,             spina,               p.
         Crake                             f.               37,               Conchites                     maximus,                margine                lato,           &c.
                                                                                                                                                                                       p.     233.
   * In      Phil.    Mag.      vol.       xxxix.               p. 96 Note,
                                                           to the Lias
                                                                                                      I      mentioned              the     reasons,
                                                                                                                                             in vol.
                                                                                                                                                                  which
                                                                                                                                                               lii.
                                                                                                                                                                              (with  hesitation)
                                                                                                                                                                                       I            induced    me formerly   to consider   the Bug
thorp     Shells,    as belonging                                       Strata:                                 unfortunately,                                           p. 353,    had   forgotten    these  proper  doubts   on the  subject.
 f      This    Shell   resembles                            Unio               crassiusculus               (Sowerb.        Min.                 Conch,         t.                                  Marl                   ;                of Strata
                                                                                                                                                                         135) from the      Crag             but its place In the series
being     different, the         differences                                 that       exist,       should    entitle              this    to        distinct            name.
 X      This   somewhat              resembles                                Gryphsea           incurva     (Min.     Conch,                         1
                                                                                                                                                 a t. a    12),       but        wSthout         doubt,
                                                                                                                                                                                                             I    think,    its    different     stratigraphical          place,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      is
accompanied           by Such          specific                             differences,             as should     entitle    to           it             peculiar           name.

 Elliker.
                                             43            (Plott,
                                                                              t.    4,   f.       19)       Ostracites                  maximus,               rugosus
                                                                                                                                                                                     &c.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  (var.       a)         pp.      236,         and         21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  app.
 Fil,y-Bridge.
                                                      (Plott,
                                                                         t.     5,f.     10     and         14)       Ammonis                  cornu,             spina,            &c.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 p.    207.
                                                                                           f.
                                     3
                                               14           (Plott,
                                                                               t.      4,           1?)       Buccinites                    laevis,         albidus,           &c.          (var.
                                                                                                                                                                                                            a.)       p.   216.
                                                21,         Echinites                   vertice            p,niore,               &c.        p.     221.
 Himlerskelfe.                                43            (Plott,
                                                                              t.          f.        19)      Ostracites                  maximus,                  rugosus                &c.         (var.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    a)      pp.        236,          and        21      app.
                                                                                         f.
                                             45                               t.               18                                 Conchites                                                                   &c.                     |8)           238:        See         Note
                           j|   j-f. f. f. f., f. f. f.    (Plott,
                                                                              t.
                                                                                   4, f. 4,           Gryphites)
                                                                                                            12
                                                                                                                                                              anomius,               rugosus,                            (var.                p.                                   J
                                              48           (Plott,
                                                                                      4,          10,               and         13   ?)     Pectinites                rarioribus                    striis,                242.                                      last      page.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      p.                                   [in
                                                               "~,
                                                              37,         Concliites                 maximus,                    margine              lato,        &c.               233.                                                                                                Co
                                                ff.                                                                                                                          p.
                                     J                f.      45     (   (Plott,
                                                                                          t.   4,    f.      18,      Gryphites)                  Conchites                 anomius,                                          &c.                    /3)    p.    238        :     See
                                W                                                                                                                                                                         rugosus,                      (var.                                            C-xj
  Londsborough,                                                                     Note              in      last                                                                                                                                                                       5"
                                                i
                                                              53         (Plott,
                                                                                          t.
                                                                                               |3,    f.       14,
                                                                                                                           page.
                                                                                                                          15      and       17?)         Pectunculites                          cinereus,                &c.                 245.
                                                   (J.                                                                                                                                                                               p.
                   ff.     14            (Plott,               t.     4,      f.   1    ?)     Buccinites                   laevis,        albidus            &c.         (var.       a)          p.      216.
 Newton.
                            36,             Conchites                         albidus,            oblongus,                 &c.       p.     232.
 KT
            .             ff.                  (Plott,
                                                                   t.              f.    15    ?)     Ammonis                     cornu           maximum,                   &c.           pp.        205,          and         21      app.
                                   13                               t>                   ,0     and                   Ammonis                                                       &c
  Nunnington.^                                                                                              u^                                 cornUj              gpin9)                              207.
                                      14                                                       ?)    Buccinites                                                      &c.                        p a)              216.
                                                  (Plott,
                                                                             f     1                                              laevis,         albidus,                        (var.                    p.                                                                            b
 Pickering                           4S
                                                                      t. t.        f. f.
                                                                          5, gj 4, 4,                12      and          13                                      rarioribus                                           242.
                                                                                                                                ?)      Pectinites
                     f {f.f.
                                                  (Plott,                                  10,                                                                                                  striis,          p.
                                                  /"f.       4,       Ammonis                  cornu             striis         lateralibus,                &c.       p.     208
                          SW         .        <       f.                 Conchites                                                            &c.              229        :    See          Note          f       in     last                                                            £5'
 Scarborough,                                                 33,                                    major,               rugosus,                        p.                                                                         page.
                                                  Lf.         56         (Plott,          t.    3,   f.       13      and       t.      4,  f.    6)      Pectunculites                          anomius,                &c.         (var.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                a)         p.   247.
                                                             (Plott,
                                                                                   t.   5,  f.      15     ?)       Ammonis                cornu            maximum,                      &c.         pp.         205,         and        21        app.
                                            1 4, 5,           Ammonis                     cornu            striis                                   &c.               208.                                                                                              23
                                                                                                                          lateralibus,                         p.                                                                                          [and                app.
 Specton,
                 shore.
                                            f. f. f.          and
                                                                         1
                                                                         1
                                                                         f.                                               t.    5,   f.                Ammonis                    cornu           5                                   &c.                   (8)
                                                                                         app.             (Plott                            12)                                                           anfractum,                            (var.                 pp.      209,
                                                                  Pectunculites                       anomius,                  tri,bus,              &c.         (var.      eir)     p.        249.*
                                         [_f. 57,
                                                                                                                                f.                  St                       is                                                                            a                             CO
This   resembles     Terebratula                          media          (So.           Min.        Conch,          t.    85,        as)    but          doubtless                   smeciently                 different         to deserve                dis.nct          name.

          Thornton,                    f.      48                         t.    4,      f.                      12 and            13            Pectinites              rarioribus                               p.     242.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               r
                                                          (Plott,                                 10,                                                                                            striis,
                          f'                                                        laevis,             ore          &c.             218.
         Wh'T                        Si'       ^> Cochlites                                                                    p.
         wniiwen.
                                 <^f           5g ^piottj               t      ^                                15      and      17
                                                                                                                                        ?) ^    p'ctunculites                  cinereus,                &c.         p. 245.
Coral            Rag,           with         Pisolite             beoeath                         sometimes.
                                              'f.    13                                                              Strombites                                      striatus,            &c.
                                                              (Plott,                                                                          e,ganter                                              p. 216.
                                                     40
                                                                                t. t.                   2)' 2)       Bucardites               ex      albido                                     &c.
          H  aa-                      J                       (Plott,                                                                                                flmeesirns,                        p. 235.
          Hedclington.<                                                         t<                                                             striis                                   &c.
                                                     51                                                                pectinites                            duplicibus,                          p. 244.*
                                                              ^p|ott^                                       U)
                                                     59                                                5)            Pectunculites                 striis       densis,           &c.         p.   250.
                                            f J. f.           (Plott,
                                                                                              f. f. f- f. f.
                                                     17                        t. t.                                                                              sex                                                              218.
                                                                                     f it, 4, 7, 4j 4, 6,
          Shotover-Hill.                                       (Plott,                                         11)      Coch,omorphites                                     spirarum,                  (var.        a)    p.
Clunch                Clay,            with         its     'unch               or       DCl*er                      beas.
          Huntingdon,
                                            f.  43
                                                           (Plott,
                                                                           t.       4,   f.         19)          Ostracites                 maximus,                rugosus,            &c.        (var.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /3)      pp.       236,       and        21     app.
Alum-Shale,                          with       .ment                   .gs,             Lit,            -.
                                      f~f.           Ammonis                    cornu
                                                                                                      spina,            &c.       p.      206      :    This        is   Ammonites                     Walcotii              /3,    Sow.       Min.          Conch,       t.   106.
                                       f.
                                              2, 5
                                                    and      f.     1
                                                                    1                      (Plott,
                                                                                                                 t.     5,    f.             Ammonis                cornu      5        anfractum,                  &c.                   a)              209     and     23
                                                                           App.                                                     12)                                                                                        (var.            pp.                               app.
          m,.,                                                      The                                 of       these          figs,           Ammonites                  communis                     *,     Sow.       Min.            Conch,          t.    107,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        f. 2      and
                                                                                largest
                 11
                        '*                                        3                                                                                                                                                                                        f.    2.
                                                                                                                                        is is
                             J]                                               and         the           smal,st                fi.            Amm.             annulatus             a,       Sow.           Min.         Conme,           t.      222,
                                       f.      14
                                                                        ; t.    4,    1
                                                                                      f.            ?)          Buccinites                                                  &c.                      /3)              216.
                                                        (Plott,                                                                             laevis,     albidus,                        (var.                  p.
                                     |_f.      34,        Conchites                   sublividus,                        &c.      p.     230.
Cornbrash,                      or     Beurord                Limesto-.
                                                            41                       .         f-
                                                                                               7'                3)        'ucardites               costis                           p.         235.
                                              J*f-                   (P,tt'                                                                                      donatus,
          North^Le?f'h'
          Tees         Riv'r.           If.         5      and      f.     11
                                                                                     app.                (Plott,
                                                                                                                            t.   5,     f.    12)       Ammonis                cornu            5      anfractum,                  &c.     (var.      y)        pp.     209,      and
          Wansford.                     j                                 23     app.
   *     This     shell       somewhat               resembles                Pecten                                                 Min.       Conch,         t.           f. 8)        from          the     Forest        Marble        :   but    this      shell    should      be
                                                                                              rigidus                   (Sow.                                       205,
differently           named,          as belonging                  to another              stratum.

                              f.      41
                                                                 7,
                                                                 t.           f.      3)         Bucardites                  costis                                p.      235.
           Witney,                              (Plott,                                                                                       donatus,
Upper                                                               or      Bath              Freestone.
                  Oolite,                S,erior,
                                      ~{.       17                                                                                                       sex                                     (var.         fi)    p.   218.
                                                       (P,tt,                                    11)        Cochleomorphites                                        spirarum,
                                    If.         20
                                                                           t. t.        f. f.             Echinites                parvulus             striis,          &c.       p.        220.
           ,r                      <                      (Plott,
           tayntou.                   f         23                          t      6, 8, 5>                Echinites                                           222.
                                                                                                                                    0carius,            p.
                                                24                          t.                             Echinites                ocarius                              p.     222.
                                      ^f.                 (Plott,
                                                                                    f f.5,      9) ^ 6)
                                                                                                                                                     parvus,
Fuller's                Earth               Stratum,                  or                            Clag
                                                                              Purp,
                        ,             •     T             ff.    7                             t.   5,     f.     13)        Ammonis               cornu            striis,            *c.          p.    211.
           '             T      '                                          (Plott,
           L-reat           Kollngnt.                                 5g                          {>      A{       4^         pectunculites                    striis          iatiusculis,                    &c.        p.   250.
                                                                              ^ploU}
Under              Oolite,               ..rior.
           ,urford.             f.                                  t.      2,                  and                 Echinites                                                          strias,           &c.         p.   224.
                                         27        (Plott,                                                  ')                                 prClter            Clinas
                                                ^                        t-
                                                                                       9 f.                Ammonis                  cornu                          &c.                 210.
                        T                             (Plott*                                   11)                                                striis,
           ri                       J~f'
           Wayclon.                ¦<                                                                                                                                                  235.
                                                39                                                      &<jj       Concnites                   Mytuloides,
                                                                                                                                                                               p. p.
           Fullbroo.                          27      (Plott,
                                                                           ^ t.         if 9          and         10)    Echinites                 pmeer              quinas              strias,          &c.        p.       224.
                                                                         t.
                                f f. f.                                                                Bucardites                                                    236.
           Shutford.                     42,         (Plott,                                  4)                                    reticulatus,               p.
                                                                              f. 5, ^ 2, f.
                                                                                     f. f. 9
                                                                                        7,
                                f.       27                           t.    2,                  and                 Emeinites                                                      strias,          &c.         p.      224.
           Tang,y.                                 (Plott,                                                  10)                                prater             quinas
Blue                         or,                                              Lime              Roc.
                Lias,                   Water,etting
                                                                              45                           t.     .4,        8,                                Tonchites                                                                &c.            a)    p.    238:   This
           u                            c      ^                      ff.                (P,tt,                                      Gryphites)                                              anomius,                 rugosus                  (far.
           Burton             on        btratner.                                                                                                                                                                t-     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1         F.    1.
                                                                 ^                                  fa                               incurca          ^        gow             Min>           Conch                            2,
                                                                                                            Gryphffia
                                                                                                 in       12th     ?         Cgl        S,,           of      the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       as         1g.
Ironstone                    Balls,                          Iron           nodu,s                                                                                       Dergshire                        CglgClsures,                        gCl.          p.
                                                'ay
           Adderton.                            as)          -
                                                                 35                                    Conchites                   leviter                                &c.                 231        :       This       is        Unio      subconstrictus,           Sow.
            SC?*]ey"            v                                          (Muscle)                                                              rugosus,                               p.
                                                                                     Min'           Conch-              X'
                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                      1          an(1        2>
                            S                    1f. I                                                                        33>
           Leeds
            Whit,y-Hall.
                                            J

3rd   Coal         Shale,        Slat'-                          Blae,         Plate.                                                                                                                                                                       £s
                                                   clay,
                            *                                Ammonis                cornu           ,x      Qgrum,                   &c.                2g.
      Hali'x           N                                                                                                                          p.
      Ditto
                                    .,f.           49,        Pectinites               metnbranaceus,                        &c.         p.     243.
't    Derbyshire-Peak                              Limestone,                     or                       ggtain                     Limeston'.
                                                                                         Upper
       Ashton-Tarne,                 S.      f.     9       (Plott,
                                                                           t.     6,    f.     12?)        Ammonis                    cornu            lseve,       &c.
                                                                                                                                                                              p.    212.                                                                    §J
       Broughton.
                                                               ^         Conchites                 anomius,                 tenuis,          &c.        vp.     241.                                                                                          K;
                      Mine-field.
       Crmeen,
                                                  \jJ
                                       9                         t.   6,    f.      12   ?)      Ammonis                    cornu           laeve,        &c.               212.                                                                            71gLi
                                 ff.              (Plott,                                                                                                              p.
                                             15, Buccinitcs                       lsevis,       sublividus,                 &c.        p.    217.
      Ditto                  «(           50,        Pectinites                minor           striis                                       &c.                     a.)     p.     243.                                                                      _
                                  f. f. f.                                                                  capillaribus,                               (var.
                                                     Pectunculites                                                          &c.              247.
                            I|[f.
                                          55,
                                          56        (Plott,
                                                                                        subsphaericus,
                                                                                         13, and
                                                                                                          t.   4,    f.     6)
                                                                                                                                       p.
                                                                                                                                     Pectunculites                        anomius,             &c.       (var.      (3)    p.    247.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5H
      Frier-head,           N.      f.    9        (Plott,
                                                                  t. t.  3, 6, f. f.
                                                                                       12    ?)    Ammonis                   cornu             lasve,         &c.      p.    212                                                                            g
                                        47,         Conchites                 anomius               tenuis,           &c.                241                                                                                                                 ^
                                                                                                                                  p.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1(5
                                          50,       Pectinites                 minor,           striis,        &c.          (var.
                                                                                                                                       a)         p.    243.
                            {f.  f. f. 56           (Plott,
                                                                   t.    3,    f.      13,      and       t.   4,     f.    6)        Pectunculites                       anomius,             &c.      (var.       /3)    p.    247.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            *
4th   Derbyshire-Peak                             Limestone.
      Beresford.            f.      50,      Pectinites                  minor,          &c.       (var.        /3)      p.       243.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~? 5-
      tl    a       , ,.     . .             ,        ,         ff.      55,      Pectunculites                      subsphaericus,                      &c.        (var.     B)      p.       247.
       Staffordshire-Moorlands,
                                                              j  f       5g                      fc     ^  f                  ^        t       {
                                                                                                                                               ^          fi)       ^ctunculites                      ^omita,              &c.             y)   p.   247.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ?
                                                                                                                     ^                                                                                                             (var.
One   of   the     Derbgshire-Peak                                Limestones.
      Derb,hire
                            Mine-field,                f.       57,      Pectunculites                     anomius                  trilobus,           &c.         (var.     fi)         p.   249.
                                    *        At     Cathrine                                     Sow.       Min.         Conch,            vol.   I.                          P.     M.    vol.       xlvi.
                                                                         Slack,         (See                                                            p.     132, and                                          p. 218.

                              [   139    ]
An Extract of all     such Matters concerning Fossil Shells and
   Plants, as are mentioned in the Remarks o/John Strange,
   Esq. read to the Society of Antiquaries, 28 Jan. 1779, and
   printed in the M Archceologia.'*        Vol. vi. pp. 35 to 38.
   After describing four different Views, which are engraven, of
the promontory (of whitish Limestone) called Wormshead, run
ning out W from the village of Rosilly, in Glamorganshire, Mr.
Strange thus proceeds, (in p. 36,) viz.
                                             " Wormshead point also
merits the attention of naturalists, for the extraneous and marine
fossil bodies it contains, especially Entrochi, which remaining
often prominent above the surface of the Limestone, on account
of their resisting better the action of the air, make a singular ap
pearance, and have been supposed to be the hardened excre
ment of sea Gulls."
  "The phytolypolithi, or fossil impressionsof plants,in the Strata
about the coal-mines, are very curious. They are chiefly Filices ;
not of our common indigenous species, but exotics ; and I re
marked several that seemed to correspond exactly with some
of the American Filices figured by Plumier in his celebrated
Herbal.
   (p. 37.)
              "  I have since seen much the same impressions in
the Strataof the coal-mines of St. Chaumont, in the province of
Lionoise, in France : the origin of which, has been so very ably dis
cussed by the late learned naturalist Monsieur de Jussieu {Mem.de
VAcad. 171 8.) I also observed similar impressions in the coal Strata
near Rive de Giez, in the same neighbourhood.            Other impres
sions, nearly of the same kind,   are likewise  observable in the iron
stone of Glamorganshire : particularly between Breton Ferry and
Neath : and which appeared to me more curious than any I had
ever seen before, or, indeed, since. A recent author, Mr. Beuth
(Julias est montem &c. 1776, Svo.) in his account of some ex
traneous fossil bodies of Lower Germany, has given the descrip
tions and figures of two curious phytolypolithi, greatly resembling
some of those, which I remember to have particularly remarked
in the said Ironstone.      Mr. Beuth may well style these bodies,
rarissimi partus.
   "The hilly promontory      a few miles to the west of Cardiff, as
well as the blue limestone of the lower country, between Cardiff
and Newport, also affords fossil marine bodies in plenty, especi
ally the Gryphites oyster, which is not only found abundantly in
the lower part of Monmouthshire,         and about Purton Passage,
but also extends, in considerable aggregates, along the neigh
bouring midland counties ; having myself traced them, either in
the Gravel or Limestone, through Gloucestershire, Worcester
shire, Warwickshire, and Leicestershire ; occupying in like man
ner, the lower parts of those Counties, under the Hills.
                                                                   « In

 140           On the Effect          of   Vapour on Flame.
    "In the high mountains on the confines of Glamorganshire and
Brecknockshire, near Yneskedwyn (p. 38) I observed a rock of
the same kind of black shelly Marble, that is found in such plenty
near Kilkenny in Ireland ; and which I afterwards saw in great
abundance in Pembrokeshire, where it is also worked. The pe
trified shells contained in all these Marbles, are striated conches
anomice, which are not only exotigs, but known to be extremely
scarce."
XXIII.      On the Effect of Vapour on Flame. By J. F. Dana,
     Chemical Assistant in Harvard University, and Lecturer on
     Chemistry and Pharmacy in Dartmouth College.*
                          To Professor Silliman.
                                      Cambridge, Mass. February 5, 1819.
                A bout      a year since I made some experiments on
 the effect of steam     on ignited bodies, with a view to learn the
 theory of the action of the
                                 " Americap water-burner." These
 experiments were published in an anonymous paper in the North
 American Review, and have been published in London, without
 an acknowledgement of their source.
     The effect of them concerning bodies is peculiar, and it pro
 bably admits of more extensive application to the arts than in the
 above named instrument alone.
     When a jet of steam, issuing from a small aperture, is thrown
 on burning charcoal, the brightness is increased if the coal be               ,
 held at the distance of four or five inches from the pipe through
 which the steam passes ; but if the coal be held nearer, it is ex
 tinguished, a circular black spot first appears where the steam is
 thrown on it.      The steam in this case does not appear to be de
 composed,     and  the increased brightness of the coal depends pro
bably   on   a current  of atmospheric air, occasioned by the steam.
But when a jet of steam, instead of being thrown on a single
coal, is made to pass into a charcoal fire, the vividness of the com
bustion is increased, and the low attenuated flame of coal is
enlarged.
    When the wick of a common oil lamp is raised, so as to give
off large columns of smoke, and a jet of steam is thrown into            it,
the brightness of the flame       increased, and no smoke
                                 is                            thrown
                                                                  is
off.
    When spirits of turpentine         made to burn on
                                      is                    wick, the
                                                              a
light produced  is    dull and reddish, and   large quantity of thick
                                                a
smoke   is  given off but when a jet of steam
                     ;                               thrown into this
                                                      is
flame, its brightness    ismuch increased; and when the experiment
is  carefully performed, the smoke entirely disappears.
                  *
                         From Silliman's Journal, No. 4.
                                                                       When

             On  the Preservation   of Provisions   and Gooas.        141
    When the vapour of spirits of turpentine is made to issue from
a small orifice, and inflamed, it burns, and throws off large quan
tities of smoke ; but when a jet of steam is made to unite with
the vapour, the smoke entirely disappears. When vapour of spi
rits of turpentine and of water are made to issue together from
the same orifice, and inflamed, no smoke appears.              Hence its
disappearing, in the above experiment, cannot be supposed to
depend on a current of atmospheric air.
   When a jet of steam is thrown into the flame of aspirit-of-wine
lamp, or into flames which evolve no smoke or carbonaceous
matter, the same effect is produced as by a current of air.
    It appears from these experiments, that in all flames which
evolve smoke, steam produces an increased brightness, and a
more perfect combustion.
    Now, with a very simple apparatus, steam might be intro
duced into the flames of street-lamps, and that kind of lamp
which is used in butchers' shops in London, and in all flames
which evolve much smoke.           The advantage of such an arrange
ment would be a more perfect combustion, and a greater quantity
of light from the same materials. The flame of the lamps, to
which steam is applied, might be made to keep the water, boil
ing which supplies the steam.
    I hope the above may not be altogether uninteresting and use
less to the readers of your journal.
                     Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
                                                         J.F.Dana.
  XXIV.        On the Preservation    of Provisions  and Goods.      By
                      Joseph MacSweeny, M.D.
                               To Mr. Tilloch.
            The
                                                 London, Aug. 17, 1819.
                    facility with which cutlery of every* kind maybe
put    in  water deprived of oxygen by iron-filings, and covered with
oil, makes it a matter of some consequence to ascertain whether
a large quantity of iron has the power of decomposing water at
ordinary temperatures. Unbiassed by any opinion on the subject,
and desirous only of arriving at truth, I have been led to make
the following experiments.
    I put a quarter of an ounce of iron-filings in two ounces and
a half of water boiled and covered with oil ; at the end of twelve
days the appearance of the iron-filings was unchanged.              I put
a large quantity of iron-filings in a phial, and covered them with
a layer of warm water about a quarter of an inch thick, the water
was covered with oil, a bent tube was attached to the phial, and
the end was left under a receiver in a pneumatic apparatus        during
    ,.   .                                                       a week:

142          On the Preservation   of Provisions and Goods.
a week    : no hydrogen was evolved.      A small phial was nearly     -
filled with iron-filings, some boiled   water was poured in so as to
Form a thin layer over them ; oil was placed on the water, a bent
tube was fitted to the phial, and the end was left under a receiver
during a week, as in the former experiment. No trace of hydro
gen was discovered.       A test tube was nearly filled with mercury,
some paper containing iron-filings, moistened with warm water,
was forced in a short way; the tube was then filled to the brim
with mercury and was inverted over the same fluid.         It was kept
inverted during five days ; no hydrogen was given off.           Some
paper, containing moistened iron-filings, was forced up to the
end of a test-tube with a quill ; the tube was then kept inverted
over mercury.      The mercury rose rapidly in the tube until it at
tained a certain height, where it remained stationary, evidently
from the absorption of the oxygen of the atmospheric air con
tained in the tube, as was to be expected from the experiments
of Dr. Marshall Hall. The glass-vessels containing the water
and iron were moved several times during the course of these
experiments : perhaps a state of perfect rest may be necessary for
the decomposition of water by a large quantity of iron at ordinary
temperatures.      But it appears difficult to me to reconcile these
experiments with the account which states that it takes place
rapidly.
     In a former paper I stated that I had put some fresh meat
in water covered with oil, with some iron to abstract oxygen ; and
that its appearance was unchanged at the end of seven weeks.
 In the first place I neglected to state that the meat had been
boiled; in the second place I judged of its state of preservation
entirely from its appearance through the glass-vessel.        After al
lowing it to remain ten weeks in the water, I removed it : it was
found softened, the structure was not much changed, but its odour
was offensive.     To keep meat as dry and as cool as possible du
ring   warm   weather  is the plan that ought to be attended to.
    Where bales of goods are moist by any accident, and it is not
in the power of persons to unpack them immediately to dry the
goods ; it may perhaps be found useful, for preventing mildew,
 to immerse them in water, and to cover its surface with oik
     I have found that the decay of vegetable substances is very
 much retarded by immersing them in water covered with oil and
 deprived of oxygen by iron.      A vegetable substance may be sunk
by attaching a weight to it ; any iron employed for abstracting
oxygen ought to be previously removed.
    Water in a situation where it is scarce may be preserved, I
presume, in an open cask by covering its surface with a thick
layer of oil, and by putting in recently prepared charcoal.        The
trouble of preparing powdered charcoal is an objection to its use.
                                                                 Large

              Occultalion of a fixed Star     ly Jupiter.            143
Large pieces of fresh made charcoal should be attached to a
weight, and let down through the oil into the water by means of
a cord. The charring of the cask long since recommended, ought
to be attended to.      After the charcoal has remained for some
time in the water, it ought to be drawn up by the cord, and re
cently prepared pieces should be attached to the weight, and let
down. This could be repeated daily, and the water could be drawn
from a cock at the lower part of the cask.        In this manner char
coal could be put in or removed without exposing the surface of
the water to the atmosphere.
               I remain your most obedient humble servant,
                                               Joseph MacSweeny.
           XXV.    Occultation  of a fixed Star ly Jupiter.
                            To  Mr.  Tilloch.
                                                         Aug. 24, 1819.
          O N viewing    Jupiter, on the 8th instant, about 9 o'clock
in the evening through a small reflecting telescope, I observed
a bright star, apparently about the 7th magnitude, nearly in con
junction with him, in a line with his satellites, but on the oppo
 site or western side ; all the satellites being at that time on the
 eastern side of Jupiter.    It was at about the same distance from
 Jupiter's body    as the  fourth satellite, and of about the same
brightness.     Having no convenient instrument at hand for mea
 suring the distance, I can only speak from estimation.           On the
 following evening, I could not discover the star ; it being either
 eclipsed by Jupiter's body, or else rendered invisible, through the
 smoky atmosphere of this place, by the superior brilliancy of Ju
 piter.   On the following evening (the 10th), it was nearly in con
junction with the 4th satellite, and might readily have been mis
 taken for one of Jupiter's satellites by a casual observer ; as the
 2d satellite was then eclipsed.     On endeavouring to identify this
 star, which is situated near 6 Capricorni, and which exceeds in
 brilliancy many in its immediate vicinity, I was surprised to find
 that it is not inserted in any catalogue.         I have examined in
 vain the large and small catalogues of Bode, the catalogues of
 Piazzi, Bessel, Cagnoli, Zach, and the Histoire CSleste of La-
 lande.    But in none of them (although many smaller stars are
 noted) is there the least mention of it. Indeed I was much sur
prised to find, in the course of this inquiry, how much remained
to be done towards forming a complete catalogue of all the stars:
but, such an undertaking would be so laborious, that I fear,
without the aid of private application, and a more general com
munication amongst observers, the task will never be fully accom
                                                                 plished.

 144                              Notices respecting New             Booh.
 plished.      In taking out             a list    of the stars between the parallels
 of ^ft31 2° and 315°, and the parallels of South Dec.    17° to 19%
 I found only three, in the large collection of Bode (which con
 tains upwards of seventeen thousand stars), viz. Flamstead's
 No. 21 and 23, and a small star numbered 101 by Bode.            On
examining Piazzi's catalogue, I find that he has added four
others, viz. No. 394, 428, 443, and 481 : and from the Histoire
 Celeste (containing the observations of fifty thousand stars) I can
deduce only two more : thus making the whole number, between
the parallels abovementioned, not more than nine. Yet there are
 many others visible through a telescope of very moderate power:
and the star which was so nearly          not quite)    contact with
                                                       (if                in
Jupiter, and whose position      alout .#13 14° 25' and S. D. 18° 9',
                                             is
 is far superior in brilliancy to any of those abovementioned, ex
 cepting No.      and 23 and must (one would suppose) have been
                   21               ;
 seen    bythose observers to whose labours and researches we are
 so greatly indebted for the valuable catalogues which at present
exist.    However this may be,     hope that what have thus hastily
                                               I                      I
written may induce others to attend to this subject, and lead to
 the formation of    new and more extensive British Catalogue.
                              a
                               am, sir, your obedient servant,
                                        I
                                                                                    Zeus.
      P.S. — Jupiter will                 in
                            conjunction again with this star, on
                                    be
 the 26th of November; but his latitude will then be four minutes
 less than     at present
              it   is     so that they cannot then be
                                         :                   con                    in
 tact.
                   XXVI.           Notices respecting New Books.
Memoirs        of       the   Literary find Philosophical Society                  of   Man
            chester. — Second Series. Vol.                   III.   Svo. pp.509.
The       present volume      not inferior in interest and importance
                                     is
 to any of its precursors.    Some of the papers contained in      are                  it
 curious  ;  all of them well worthy of perusal.    The following    a                   is
 list of their titles Experiments and Observations on Phosphoric
                              :
-Acid, and on the Salts denominated Phosphates.          By Mr. John
 Dalton.   —  Experiments  and  Observations   on the Combination's of
 Carbonic Acid and Ammonia.          By Mr. John Dalton. — Memoirs
 of the late Charles White, Esq. F.R.S. with reference to his Pro
 fessional Life and Writings.      By Thomas Henry, F.R.S. &c. —
 Remarks tending, to facilitate the Analysis of Spring and Mi
 neral Waters.       By Mr. John Dalton. — Accpunt of the Floating
 Island in Derwent Lake, Keswick.          By Mr. Jonathan Otley.—
                                                       ,
 On the Refractive Powers         Muriatic Acid and Water separate
                                             of
 and in State of Mixture.
         a                      By Mr. Henry Creighton. — Au Essay

            Annates Generates     des Sciences   Physiques.        145
on the Origin of Alphabetical Characters.         By the Rev. William
Turner junior, A.M. — Observations on the Rise and Progress of
the Cotton Trade in Great Britain, particularly in Lancashire,
and the adjoining Counties.         By John Kennedy, Esq. — Me
moir on a new System of Cog or Toothed Wheels.              By James
White, Engineer.    — On  the  Flexibility of all Mineral Substances,
and the Cause of Creeps and Streets in old Coal-mines. By Mr.
John B. Longmire. — Account of the Black Lead Mine in Borro-
dale, Cumberland. By Mr. Jonathan Otley. — Account of a White
Solar Rainbow. By the Rev. R. Smethurst. — Remarks, chiefly
Agricultural, made during a short Excursion into Westmore
land and Cumberland in August 1815. By John Moore, jun. Esq.
 — A Tribute to the Memory of the late President of the Literary
and Philosophical Society of Manchester.           By William Henry,
M.D. — An Essay on the Signs of Ideas ; or the Means of con
veying to others the Knowledge of oiir Ideas.         By Edward Car-
butt, M.D. — Account of some remarkable Facts observed in the
Deoxidation of Metals, particularly Silver and Copper. By Sam.
Lucas, Esq. — Observations upon the Callous Tumour. By Mr.
Kinder Wood. — On the Possibility of reconciling the Scriptural
and Profane Accounts of the Assyrian Monarchy.            By the Rev.
John Kenrick, A.M. — A Descriptive Account of the several Pro
cesses which are usually pursued in the Manufacture of the Ar
ticle known in Commerce by the Name of Tin-plate.             By Sam.
Parkes, F.L.S. — The Laws of Statical Equilibrium analytically
investigated.    By Mr. John Gough. — Experiments on the Gas
from Coal, chiefly with a view to its practical Application.        By
William Henry, M.D. —An Enquiry into the Effects produced on
Society by the Poor-Laws.        By John Kennedy, Esq. — Memoir
on Sulphuric Ether.       By Mr. John Dalton. — Observations on
the Barometer, Thermometer,         and Rain at Manchester, from
 1794 to 1818 inclusive.      By Mr. John Dalton.
Annates Generates     des Sciences  Physiques, par MM. Bory de
    St. Vincent,     Drapiez     &   Van Mons.        Tome Premier.
    8vo. pp. 98.    Brussels.
    The present is the first number of a new scientific work which
has been commenced in the Netherlands by our old and much-
 esteemed   correspondent M. Van Mons, with the assistance of
 two other gentlemeu whose names are not less favourably known
 to the friends of science.    We have derived much pleasure from
 the perusal  of it. The papers are marked by a strong vein of
originality, and a spirit of inquiry the enthusiasm of which we
 are far from being disposed to quarrel with. The following are
 among the most important : — A Notice on some Improvements
 on Sir Humphry Davy's Safety-Lamp.            By M. Chevremont. —
    Vol. 54. No. 256. Aug. 1819.                                    An

146 Royal Academy       of Sciences and Belles Let Ires  of Brussels.
An Account of the Hydraulic Press of Count Real. By M. Van
Mons. — On the Mocanere, Visnea Mocanera.             By M. Bory de
St. Vincent. — Description of Eight new Insects.         By M. Dra-
piez, &e. We shall take an early opportunity of enriching our
pages with some of the valuable information which they contain.
    Works in course of publication by R. Ackermann :
    1 . An Historical and Characteristic Tour
                                                 of the Rhine, from
 Mayence    to Coblentz   and  Cologne,  in six monthly parts : con
taining   a complete history   and picturesque description of a por
 tion of country full of curious and interesting circumstances, as
 well as resplendent for its landscape, grandeur and beauty.       The
 work will be embellished with twenty-four highly finished and co
 loured Engravings from drawings expressly made by an eminent
 artist resident near the barjks of the Rhine, and habitually fa
 miliar with every part of it. A correct Map of the river, and the
 territory, according to its last arrangements, through which it
 flows, is preparing exclusively for this publication.
    2. Letters from Buenos Ayres and Chili; with an original
 History of the latter Country: illustrated with Engravings, by the
Author of " Letters from Paraguay."
   3. An Elementary Work, of peculiar interest, on the Construc
tion of the Machines adopted in the Arts andManufactures; from
the French of M. BeTancourt. — It will afford an analytical and
perspicuous display of the various combinations which occur in
the arrangements of the practical mechanist, with their several
applications to use, and constant reference to the engines and
machinery of this and other countries. It will be, illustrated with
thirteen Plates of much novelty and elegance, and be altogether
calculated to engage the young student, and gratify the more
learned and practical.
            XXVII.     Proceedings  of Learned Societies.
      ROYAL ACADEMY      OF SCIENCES AND BELLES       LETTRES  OF>
                               BRUSSELS.           .•           '-- ,., .
The.     Academy have proposed for competition during the, yeajr
 1820, the five following questions in the department of science :
    First Question. — Suppose a plate of a given figure attached to
a surface either by means of screws of a known number, position
and force, or by means of some intermediate matter capable of
unitipg the one to the other solidly, and the specific. tenacity qf
which is also known ; if to a point of the circumference of this
plate an arm be affixed which acts in the same plane with the
                                                             surface,

                   Discovery     of'   the Cause         of       Gravitation.                  147
surface, It    required to know what resistance this plate will be
              is
capable of making against a force applied to this arm as lever,                            a
considering the material, as well of the plate as of the arm and
surfaee, as   aperfect mathematical abstraction      that   to say, as       ;    is
perfectly rigid or non-elastic, as infrangible or incapable of break
ing, &c. ?
    Second Question. — body being suspended from the extre
                              A
mity of  a  cord, the other extremity of which           fixed to the roof   is
of  a room   :   this body
                 if             made to describe an arc of
                                  is                               certain             a
circle round the     fixed extremity      and      besides,       if,
                                                                movement          a
                                —                is ;
of projection      given to
                    is            it,    required to know the nature
                                            it
of the curve, or rather double curvature, which this body will de
scribe, according to the hypothesis As            the resistance of the
                                                                   is
air^ so the  square   of velocity           ?
    Third Question. — there If         an identity between the forces
                                            is
which produce the      electrical  phenomena, and those which pro
duce the galvanic phenomena, — whence                that we do not find
                                                                   is   it
a  perfect accordance between the former and the latter                                ?
    Fourth Question. — Many modern authors believe in the iden
tity of the chemical and galvanic forces —              required to prove
                                                              :         it   is
 the truth or falsity of this opinion               ?
    Fifth Question. — What           the true chemical composition of
                                        is
sulphurets, as well oxidized as hydrogenized,            made according
to the different processes        and what are their uses in the arts
                                  ;                                                              ?
    The answer must be supported as far as possible with new
facts, and experiments easy              of
                                     repetition.
        XXVIII.          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
             DISCOVERY OF THE CAUSE OF GRAVITATION.
                             [From     a    Correspondent
M
                                                                    ]
     R. John HeRapath of Bristol has lately conipleted the solu
tion of the celebrated problem respecting the cause of gravitation,
in which he has be.en engaged at different time's for several years.
His researches for' the solution of this problem (which was some'
years agri the object of ardent inquiry      the Royal Society andby
the continental mathematicians) show that gravitation          only                        is
a  particular case of     general principle, which comprehends all
                            a
the £r'eat phenomena of nature.            reniarkabFe that this de
                                                        It   is
duction exactly coincides with the 6piliioh of some of the greatest'
 Philosophers of rhoderh times; and, in particular, with thatofthe
{ate Professor Play'fair,   hfa" Outlines of Natural Philosophy.'"
                                in
In the' general theorem which Mr. H. has brought out to express
the law-of gravitation,         found that the intensity of the at
                                 it    is
tractive force between two ultimate atoms, varies inversely as the
                                                K 2                                        square

  148             Application o/Chesnut Wood to         the Arts
  square of the distance affected by a term, whic h has no influence
 unless when the atoms are very nearly in contact. This theorem,
 therefore, not only includes the general law of gravitation, but
 likewise those of cohesion, affinity, &c. from the application of
 which to chemical philosophy we may reasonably expect some
 important discoveries.
    APPLICATION       OF CHESNUT WOOD TO         THE ARTS    OF TANNING
                                AND DYEING.
                      [From Professor Silliman's Journal.]
     Remarks. — A considerable time since, we were confidentially
 made acquainted with the discovery detailed in the following let
ter. We have repeated the most important of Mr. Sheldon's ex
periments, both in relation to tanning and dyeing, and are well
satisfied that the discoverer has not overrated, or erroneously esti
mated, the value of his own results.           We are persuaded that the
highly useful arts alluded to, will derive important aid from the
use of a material so abundant and cheap as chesnut wood.
                          To Professor Silliman.
                                           Springfield, Mass. Feb. 27, 1819.
     Dear Sir, — I     send you a more particular account of the newly
discovered properties of the chesnut.
     This tree (Fagus Castanea Linn.) is very abundant in New-
England and the middle states ; and occurs in the mountainous
districts, as far southward as South-Carolina, or perhaps even
Georgia.       It is one of the stateliest trees of the forest ; scarcely
less distinguished by the beauty of its foliage, than by the dura
bility of its wood.
     By repeated analyses, conducted with the minutest attention
to every circumstance which could ensure accuracy, it appears,
incredible as it may seem, that the chesnut wood contains twice as
much tannin as ross'd * oak lark, and six-sevenths as much colour
ing matter (which gives a black with iron) as logwood. I am aware
that nothing could be further from the common apprehension
than such results ; but the uniform success of a great variety of
experiments in tanning and dyeing, in addition to the other kind
of evidence, should satisfy the most incredulous.
     The leather tanned with it has, in every instance, been su- .
perior to that tanned in a comparative experiment with oak bark ; .
being firmer, less porous, and at the same time more pliable.
The reason for this difference will probably be found in the high
state of oxygenizement of the bark, particularly of the epidermis,,,
by which it is rendered to a certain degree acrid and corrosive.
    * That is, the inner bark deprived of the epidermis or outer bark by the
shaving-knife.
                                                                         Dr.

                       of Tanning and Dyeing.                    149
Dr. Bancroft    was perhaps   the first who noticed the oxygenize-
ment of barks.     He attributes the dark-brown colour of the epi
dermis of his quercitron to this cause ; and as a confirmation of
the idea, I have observed that ink made of the epidermis of an
other kind of bark, though at first not to be distinguished by the
colour from that made of the cellular and cortical parts, is in
comparably less permanent.
   As a material for making ink, the wood of the chesnut is pro
bably unrivalled. Combined with iron in any proportion, it gives,
as it is dilute or concentrated, a pure blue or blue-black ; while
galls, sumach, &c. &c. unless combined with a greater propor
tion than is consistent with the highest degree of permanency,
afford a black more or less inclining to a reddish brown. The
lake of the chesnut is indeed a blue, and not to be distinguished
by the eye from indigo ; but when diffused on paper, this same
substance becomes an intense shining black.         In dyeing, little
difference is observable between the chesnut and galls, and su
mach, except that the former has a rather greater affinity for wool,
&c. than the latter, and of course requires less boiling. Its perma
nency has been completely tested by long exposure to the sun and
the weather ; but no doubt can exist on this head, if the posi
tion of Berthollet be true, that permanent blacks are formed only
by the combination of iron and tannin.
    To prepare the chesnut wood for the purposes of tanning, a
mode has been devised for reducing it to a suitable degree of fine
ness.    This method consists in the application of knives, either
in the direction of, or transversely to, the grain, by a rotatory
motion.     This mode obviously involves the greatest possible oeco-
nomy    of moving power.     Messrs B. and M. Stebbins, of West-
Springfield, who are making arrangements for going largely into
the exportation of the article, have in construction a machiue
upon this plan.
   As might be expected, the inspissated aqueous extract of the
chesnut bears a near resemblance in many particulars to cate
chu.     Professor Dewey, of William'sCollege, who at my request
has gone through an extensive and elaborate course of experi
ments, informed me that he obtained a quarter more of the ge
latinous precipitate from the former than from the latter.        By
the taste, the two substances are not to be distinguished, except
that the former is more pungent.         It leaves upon the tongue
the same permanent and refreshing sweetness for which the
other is so much prized in the East ; where it is used as an article
of luxury, with betel nut.    Might not the extract be advantage
ously substituted for catechu, in the celebrated life-preserving
composition of Dr. Pearson ; the object being to concentrate the
                                 K3                          greatest

 150                           Mud-Baths.
greatest passible quantity of nutritious and tonic substances in
the smallest weight ?
   The colouring properties of the two substances are entirely
different.      After the discovery, twelve or fifteen years since, of
the composition of the terra japonica, attempts were made in
England to introduce it into the materia tingentia, as a substi
tute for galls ; but unfortunately, like the extract of quercitron,
it affords with iron nothing but a meagre olive; and Dr. Ban
croft states, that in a great number of trials, he was unable, by
the greatest accumulation, to produce any thing like a black, even
upon wool, much less upon cotton and silk.
     A singular fact which I observed in the course of my experi
ments is worthy of notice. I had prepared for a certain purpose,
solutions from the wood of the trunk of a tree about three feet,
and from that of a limb about three inches in diameter.             The
same quantity of wood and of the solvent was employed in both
cases.     On adding to each the same quantity of the solution of
gelatine, abundant precipitates immediately appeared, as usual,
apparently much the same in quantity ; but to my astonishment,
the size of the several congeries in each bore a near proportion
to that of the sticks from which they were obtained, not differing
much from that of middling and of very small flakes of snow. Is
not this an extraordinary fact, evincive of a complication in the
arrangement of these bodies hitherto unsuspected ? May it not
at some future period lead to a nomenclature of precipitates ;
affording, like the crystallography of Haiiy, anew and accurate
mode of determining the compositions of substances ; and per
haps throwing light upon the obscure subject of chemical, or, if
you please, electro-chemical affinities ? The size of a stick might
probably be ascertained with almost as much precision, as by
actual admeasurement.          The solutions in this experiment were
formed by maceration in cold water.              When hot water was
employed, and the process       was  completed   in  two or three hours,
the appearance of the precipitate was very different, the conge
ries being smaller, irregular, and not well defined.
    I have only to add, that having taken measures to secure the
discovery, both in this country and Europe, it is my wish to bring
it into general use as speedily as possible.
              I am, Sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
                                                 William Sheldon.
                              MITD-BATHS.
                                                         —
         [From Hallaiu's Letters from the North of Italy. Murray.]
   The    village of Abano is celebrated for its muds, which         are
taken out of its hot basins and applied either generally or partially
                                                                      as

                              Mud-Balhs.                            151
  as the case  of the patient may demand.        These are thrown by
  after having been used, and at the conclusion of the season re
  turned to the hot fountains, where they are left till the ensuing
  spring, that they may impregnate themselves anew with the mi
  neral virtues which these are supposed to contain.         The most
  obvious of these to an ignorant man are salt and sulphur.        The
  muds are, on being taken out, intensely hot, and must be kneaded
  and stirred some time before they can be borne. When applied
  — an operation which very much resembles the taking a stucco
  cast — they retain their heat without much sensible diminution for
  three quarters of an hour, having the effect of a slight rubefacient
  on the affected part, and producing a profuse perspiration from
  the whole body ; a disposition which continues more particularly
  in the part to which they have been applied when unchecked by
  cold.    Hence heat is considered as so essentially seconding their
  operations, that this watering-place, or rather mudding-place, is
  usually nearly deserted by the end of August, though there are some
  who continue to wallow on through the whole of September.
     The baths, though sometimes considered as a remedy in them
  selves, are most generally held to be mere auxiliaries to the muds,
  and usually but serve as a prologue and interlude to the dirty
  performance which forms the subject of the preceding paragraph,
  they being supposed to open the pores and dispose the skin to
  greater susceptibility.
     1 can for myself see nothing    improbable in the effects which
  the muds are supposed in many cases to produce ; but to pursue
  a safer mode of reasoning, I have seen myself cases which might
  alone fairly establish the reputation of Abano.       It is true that
  the muds act very uncertainly ; but this is probably the case with
  every medicament : and I suppose, with the exception of bark
  aud mercury, it may be said there is no such thing as a specific.
  A gentleman of Feltre, of about two or three and forty, was
  brought here last year labouring under the effects of a recent
  paralytic stroke, and contrary to the advice of his physicians,
  who considered him too much reduced to be able to support the
  severe discipline of the place.   His first attempt confirmed these
  opinions, and he was obliged through mere debility to suspend
  his operations ; but he was of that class of invalids who determine
- to get well, and in their own way. Having therefore reposed till
  he had recovered breath, he returned to the charge, and took
  the muds and baths for a considerable time, without injury indeed
. at first, but without any sensible benefit.     At length, when all
  considered his perseverance as fruitless, these began to act ; and
  their effect was as rapid as it had at first been slow.       He now
  mounted on crutches, and after a few days quitted the place,
                                   K  4                          having

152         Additional Notice   of  Tungsten and Tellurium.
having arrived at walking with a stick.       He returned this spring
— completed his cure in three or four weeks —and danced qua
drilles.
    ADDITIONAL NOTICE       OF THK TUNGSTEN AND TELLURIUM
                  mentioned in our June Number,
                  Part  I. — Description of the   Ore.
   Colour, dark brown, almost black, brittle ; powder a lighter
shade of brown than the mineral, hard, scratches glass, scintil
lates with steel, with a red spark ; a degree of polish produced,
where the steel strikes, and when the steel is impressed upon it.
    Structure compact, in some places slightly porous ; lustre, ge
nerally dull, sometimes glimmering, and almost resinous.
    Crystals octahedral.     Specific gravity of three massive pieces,
57, 6, and 6'44 ; mean, 6-0a nearly; probably that of the cry
stals would be higher.
    Infusible by the blow-pipe even with borax, and does not by
strong ignition impart any colour to it or to potash ; not mag
netic, even in fine powder, not after being heated red hot on char
coal, and in contact with burning grease.
    Many specimens decrepitate violently under the blow-pipe.
When heated on coals in pieces of considerable size, they often
explode with a smart report, and are thrown in fragments some
times several yards from the fire.
    Gangue quartz ; accompanying minerals in the same vein, na
tive bismuth, native silver, galena, iron, and copper pyrites,
much magnetic pyrites, blende, &c.
    Geological Relations. — The country is primitive, and the im
mediate rock which forms the wallsof the vein is said to be gneiss.
 (We have not seen it.)
    Locality; town of Huntington, parish of New Stratford, county
 of Fairfield, 20 miles west from New-Haven, Connecticut.
    Remark.      Native bismuth in small quantities has been for
 several years obtained from this mine, but the shaft has been sunk
only about ten feet.
                  Part II. — A Variety of the Ore.
    General character as above ; but on some parts there is seen
 a whitish, or yellowish, or sometimes darkish metallic substance;
it is in thin plates, like the leaf metals, and sometimes reticu
lated, and graphic in its disposition ; it is soft and easily cut with
the knife.     In the specimens examined, it was so much blended
with the other ore, and so trifling in quantity, that it was not
possible to separate it mechanically, so as to examine it sepa
rately.                                                               .'.» '
                   Part  III. — A.   Chemical Trials.       '•
                                                               .
                                                                 •• > ""•>••
    i.  Muriatic acid, hot   or cold, produces  no   effect ;  hot  nitro-
       •    v                                                    muriatic

          Additional Notice of Tungsten and Tellurium.                         153
muriatic dissolves the ore with energy, red fumes are evolved, and
generally a red solution obtained, from which ammonia preci
 pitates red oxide of iron abundantly.
    2. A heavy lemon-yellow powder remains, insoluble of course
in acids, but easily and completely soluble in warm ammonia.
    3. A dark powder, in diminished quantity, again appears, more
acid dissolves it in part, and again reveals the yellow powder,
which ammonia again dissolves, and so on, till nothing remains
but some portion of the gangue.                            ..... -\-
    4. The ammoniacal solution, which contains the oxide of
tungsten, is decomposed by acids and by heat, and instantly de
 posits a white heavy powder, becoming yellowish by standing, and
 full yellow by heat.
    b. This powder is infusible by the blow-pipe; but ignited with
borax in a platinum crucible, it became of a superb blue, like
 smalt, or between that and Prussian blue.
    6. The quantity obtained was too small to make it conve
nient to attempt its reduction to the metallic state ; no doubt
remained, however, that it was oxide of tungsten, or, as it is
 sometimes called, tungstic acid.
    7. There were traces of manganese; and all the facts perhaps
justify the conclusion, that the ore is very similar to the ferrugi
 nous tungsten or wolfram.
    8. The calcareous tungsten occurs in octohedral crystals ; but
 we have not before heard of this form in the ferruginous species,
which generally affects the prismatic forms.
                               B. Remark.
   We had been for some time inclined to believe that the above
ore was ferruginous tungsten ; but although fortified by the opi
nion of Col. Gibbs, we were withheld from announcing            be       it,
cause the form of the crystals, the specific gravity, the colour,
and perhaps some other characters, were not perfectly accordant
with European descriptions, and with the specimens in our pos
session, which are from Saxony and Cornwall.
   During the necessary chemical trials (which have, we trust, es
tablished the correctness of the above opinion,) we very unexpect
edly discovered in some of the ores of tungsten, proofs of the
existence of tellurium.  The conclusion was induced       the phe by
nomena, for nothing was further from our expectations.
   Two fragments were pulverized              ly
                                        an assistant, and we there
fore cannot say whether they had any external characters different
from those of the other pieces     they came, however, from the
                                     ;
same part of the vein, and their powder resembled that of the
other pieces,.  .
                  - •> .-, . ..
                    ;            .  ..
                                     -,
                                         >..  ,    .„  ;                ;.
                                          s
   1.   Digested   in   nitro-muriatie acid,       a   straw-yellow    solution,
                                                                        slightly

 154        Additional Notice      of Tungsten   and Tellurium.
slightly inclining to green, was obtained, and        a black powder was
left behind.
    2. More acid digested on this powder, gave a deep red solu
tion of iron, and left the yellow oxide of tungsten, which being
dissolved in ammonia, the black powder again appeared, and so
on, as under 3. Part III.
    3. The solution 1, diluted largely with water, deposited an
abundant white precipitate, which was very heavy, and rapidly
subsided.
    4. Alcohol and ammonia respectively produced the same
effect, only more decidedly.
    5. This precipitate, evidently an oxide of a metal, being col
lected on a filter and dried, exhibited the following properties.
    6. Heated by the blow-pipe on charcoal, it was instantly vo
latilized in part, and in part decomposed, with an almost explo
sive effervescence; numerous ignited globules of metal appeared
on the charcoal, and burned with an abundant flame of a deli
cate blue colour, edged occasionally with green.
    7. In many trials, these results always occurred, and sometimes
a peculiar odour was perceived, at first thought to be owing to
arsenic, but it was incomparably feebler, and somewhat resem
bled that of radishes*.
    8. Zinc, iron, and tin, plunged into separate portions of the
nitro-muriatic solution, precipitated abundantly a black floccu-
lent substance.
    9. On charcoal before the blow-pipe this substance was very
combustible, with a blue flame, and was completely dissipated in
the form of white oxide, with the above smell.
     10. Some of it was obtained on the charcoal in metallic glo
bules ; it was a brittle metal, white, with a tinge of red, and
foliated, but not so distinctly as bismuth and antimony.
     11. The filters -on which the white oxide had been deposited,
burned almost with explosion, nearly as rapidly as if they had
been soaked with nitrate of potash or of ammonia, and the cha
 racteristic blue flame appeared while the burning lasted.
     12. Other experiments were made upon the metal (not the
 oxide). It gave to strong sulphuric acid (simply by standing in
it in the cold) an amethystine colour, which disappeared as the
 acid grew weaker, by attracting water from the air.
    * This was most remarkably perceived on one occasion, where, under the
 idea that possibly chrome might exist in the ores, they had been intensely
 heated in a forge along with pearl-ashes.  The mass, when lixiviated, gave
only a greenish solution, becoming colourless by nitric acid, and again
greenish by an alkali ; this was supposed to be owing to iron and manga
 nese.   No metal wss obtained, except a few minute globules of attractable
 iron ; but the laboratory was filled with white fumes, having the peculiar
 odour alluded to.
                                                                 13.  With

           Additional Notice of Tungsten and Tellurium.                  155
     13. With nitric acid it formed a colourless solution, not de
composed by water.
     14. It did not dissolve in muriatic acid, till a few drops of ni
 tric acid were added.
     15. The white oxide heated with charcoal in a small coated
 recurved glass tube, afforded brilliant metallic globules, which
rose by distillation,      collected in the bend of the tube, and re
 sembled drops of quicksilver, except that they were solid.
                                 C. Remark.
    The above facts having induced the conclusion that the metal,
 thus unexpectedly discovered in the ores of tungsten, was tellu
 rium*, we were led to search for external characters by which to
judge what specimens contained it. The ores from Transylvania
 (the only telluric ores with which we are acquainted) bearing no
 analogy in appearance or composition to those before us, we
 were led to inquire whether the tellurium in these latter ores was
 in combination with tungsten, or merely in mixture.                The ex
 ternal characters detailed in Part II. tend perhaps to fortify the
 latter opinion.      If we mistake not, we there found a proper ore
 of tellurium mixed with a proper ore of tungsten ; but we have
 also by chemical means found tellurium where similar external
 characters were not apparent.            Before the appearance of our
 next Number, we hope to obtain pure and better specimens. In
 the mean time we add the following facts.
     1. A crystal, and a massive piece of the kind described under
 Part II., were digested in nitro-muriatic acid.
    2. Both oxide of tungsten and oxide of tellurium were ob
 tained from all of them.
    3. Many specimens have been examined which have afforded
 tungsten only, and no tellurium.
    At a convenient time it is hoped that a more complete exa
 mination of this subject may be presented to the public.
     In the mean time, we may submit to mineralogists and che
  mists, whether, if this is not a new mineral, it is not at least a
 new association of two minerals before known.               It has not been
 forgotten that gold and silver are frequently combined with tel
 lurium : neither of them has, however, been discovered (although
 sought after by proper tests) during the above trials.
    Vale College,  (U. S.) March,   1819.
    * Several of the facts, we are aware, accord with the properties of bis
 muth, between which and tellurium there are several strong points of re
 semblance; but a number of other facts appear irreconcileable with the pro
 perties of that metal, and of every other except tellurium.
                                                                     LITHO-

156                     Lithographic Process.
                      LITHOGRAPHIC        PROCESS.
                [From  Senefelder's  Course of Lithography.]
   In the chemical or lithographic process of printing, it matters
not whether the lines be engraven or elevated ; but they must be
covered with a liquid to which the printing ink, consisting of a
homogeneous substance, will adhere according to chemical affi
nity and the laws of attraction, while at the same time all those
places which are to remain blank, must possess the quality of re
pelling the printing ink. Now all greasy substances, or such as
are easily soluble in oil, will not unite with any watery liquid. That
principle is the foundation of this new art. It is not sufficient
however to make certain spots of the plate greasy, and others
wet  ; water, generally    speaking, not having power sufficient to
repel the printing ink from the places on which it ought to be.
It is necessary therefore to prepare the surface of the plate, so
that in those places which are to remain black, it may reject the
printing ink, as if from aversion.
   Among the different materials applicable to this new method
of printing, the calcareous slate occupies the first place.       It pos
sesses not only a strong tendency to combine with unctuous sub
stances, and to retain them obstinately, but it likewise possesses
the power of absorbing bodies of a different nature, such as aque
ous fluids ; and, thus impregnated, will repel oleaginous and
unctuous bodies.      The best stone of this description is that pro
cured from Solenhofen, in the district of Manheim, three leagues
from the town of Neuburg.           In general the proper thickness of
a plate of it is from two inches to two inches and a half ; and,
provided their surface be uniform, the harder sorts of stones are
the best for all the manners of lithography.          They require to be
carefully polished : first with pumice-stone and water, until the
edge of a ruler applied in all directions every where touches
the surface ; the stone is then (having been placed horizontally)
to be thinly covered with fine sand, mixed with a spoonful of wa
ter, to which a little soap may be added ; another stone is then
to be put on the 'surface, and moved up and down in different
ways; at intervals, fresh sand and water must be applied; and
thus two stones are at the same time polished and rendered per
fectly level.
   The next important requisite for lithography is the chemical
ink to draw or write with. The principal qualities of this ink are
—its filling the pores of the stone in. those places to which it is
applied with an oily, greasy substance, and its capacity of resist
ing the action of aquafortis and other acids. M. Senefelder com
municates a variety of recipes for this, ink.. We transcribe one.
Wax (by weight) 2 parts ; shellac 4 parts ; soap (the common
kind, prepared from tallow and soap lees) 4 parts ; lamp-black
                                                                  1 part.

                                    Skeleton     of a Whale.                                      157
1    part.The manner of making the ink is as follows : — The wax,
the shellac, and half the soap are put together in an iron sauce
pan, and exposed to a strong fire, until the whole mass ignites.
When the quantity                 is reduced by ignition         to one half, the sauce
pan is covered, or put into a pailful of water, to extinguish the
flame, and cool the composition.        The other half of the soap is
then added, keeping the saucepan over a fire, at such a degree of
heat as is sufficient for the solution of the soap. The lamp-black,
which must be of the finest quality, and must have been pre
viously burned in a close vessel until yellow smoke no longer is
sued from          it,
                    now added to the composition, stirring
                         is                                       con                       it
tinually all the while. When all has been well mixed, and worked
up until     gradually becomes cool, the composition
              it                                            taken out             is
of the saucepan,      when  any shape may    be given to it. Most of
it ought to be formed into small cylinders or sticks       and in that      ;
dry state preserved for occasional use; rubbing          down, when
wanted, with a few drops of water            cup, until in  about the
                                                             a            it it   is
thickness of cream. — softer ink for transferring drawings or
                                    A
writings from paper to the stone     made in the same manner, but
                                                   is
with the following ingredients — Shellac       parts
                                               :      wax   part 3        ;                 1            ;
tallow   parts mastic
          6         ;    parts; soap parts lump-black
                                    5                   4  part.  ;                         1
                        [To be continued.]
                       SKELETON OF A WHALE.
     Amost interesting point in natural history has occurred in
Clackmannanshire.
   On Monday last, the 19th instant, while some workmen were
employed in making improvements upon the estate of Airthry,
the property of Sir Robert Abercromby,       bart. about 300 yards
south from the east porter's lodge which leads to Airthry castle,
they came upon a hard substance, which proved to be that of a
large sized whale,'dimensions nearly as follow          Feet, Inches. :
The head, or crown bone, in breadth
                                                                                  5 8
                                                                                                 5
Ditto, in length                                                                                 0
      There are nine vertebre, some of which are in
         diameter, independently of the side processes,
                                                                                                 6 8
                                                                                   1
 Breadth, including the processes,                                                3
      Two bones of the swimming paws                         :
 One of these     in length
                    is
                                                                                                 8 8 4
                                                                                  4 3 3 5
 The other (broken)       ..
 Circumference of these bones
 Six broken pieces of bone from one foot      length to          in                              0
      Thirteen ribs of these             :
 One     in length
         is            .  ..  .                         10                                       0
 Ditto in circumference                       .     ..
                                                             ....     .            1              1
 And one in length            .    ..               . .                           9
                                                                                                 2 3
                                     .
                                     .       .
 Ditto in circumference                                                            1

158                     Skeleton   of a Whale.
Besides these large bones, a very entire oval and                   inches
                                                       Feet
  hollow bone was found similar to a shell :
In length                                                  0            5
In diameter                                                0            3
Along with the bones, a fragment of the lower
   part of a stag's horn was also found, measur
   ing in length                                           1            2
Circumference where a branch had been broken off 0              8
   What is most singular regarding this horu         is,
                                                       that at nine
inches from the root a hole of about an inch diameter has been
perforated, evidently previous to the horn being deposited in the
place where      was dug up.
                   it
   All these bones were found at a depth of frorh eighteen inches
to three feet from the surface of the ground, in what       termed
                                                               is
recent alluvial earth, formed    the river Forth, and composed of
                                       by
a blue-coloured sludge or sleek, with      covering of peat earth
                                                 a                          a
few inches thick.
   The situation where the bones were dug up naturally refers to
a very remote period of time, of which we have no record, when
the river Forth was here a great arm of the sea, extending from
the Ochill mountains on the north, to the rising ground in the
Falkirk district on the south and when the very interesting and
                                   ;
picturesque greenstone rocks of Abbey Craig, Stirling Castle,
and Craigforth formed islands in the midst of deep water.
   The skeleton was found lying       a diagonal direction across
                                            in
the line of march betwixt the estates of Airthry and Powis and      ;
it   very probable1 that the bones adjoining the tail will be found
     is
upon digging into the estate of Powis, the property of Edward
 Alexander, Esq.
    The lovers of natural history are under very great obligations
 to Sir Robert Abercromby, for the particular care and attention
.he has paid in preserving these very singular and interesting re
 lics of the animal kingdom.
     Sir Robert Abercromby having caused his workmen to pro
 ceed in search of the remaining bones, has found no less than
thirty additional vertebre, and one shoulder-bone of fan shape
                                                           a                ;
 this bone measures in breadth     feet4in length,
                                             ;       feet
                                                     3      inch.
                                                                1
     It   hoped the remaining bones of the skeleton will be found,
          is
 as Mr. Alexanderof Powis has, in the most polite manner, granted'
 permission to cut through the march fence in search of the same.
     According to the situation of the Roman stations and cause
way at  small distance from whence the skeleton has been found,
               a
itmay reasonably be concluded that the whale has been stranded
at period prior to the Christian era.
     a
                                                               METEORO-

                              Meteorology.                             159
             METEOROLOGICAL       JOURNAL KEPT AT        BOSTON,
                              LINCOLNSHIRE.
      [The time of observation, unless otherwise stated, is at 1 P.M.]
             .\ge of
   1819.       the   Thermo  Baro   State of the Weather and Modification
             Moon.    meter. meter.            of the Clouds.
             DAYS.
July    15     23      63.   29'80  Cloudy
        16     24      68-   29-74  Ditto-
        17     25      69-   29-70  Fine
        18     26      78-   29.50  Ditto
        19     27      73-5  29-15  Ditto
       20      28      73-5  29-    Ditto
       21      29      58-   29-35  Showerv
       22 new          67-   29-70  Fine
       23         1    76-   29.77  Ditto
       24        2     76-5  29-76   Ditto
       25        3     7.V   29-66   Ditto
       26        4     73-   29-76   Ditto
       27        5     73-   29-78   Ditto
       28        6     72-   29-85   Ditto
       29        7     73-5  29-63   Ditto
       30        8     76-5  29-69   Ditto
       31        9     76-   29-57   Ditto
  Aug.    1     10     73-5  29-62   Ditto
          2     1 1    68-   29-55   Ditto
          3     12     65-5  29-55   Cloudy
          4     13     66-   29-35   Ditto
 -91 SO*       full    64.   29-62   Ditto
          6     15     68.5  29-55   Ditto
          7     16     71-   29-55   Ditto
          8     17     70- 5 2970    Ditto
                18     75-5  29-70   Ditto
        10      19     73-   29-61   Fiue
        1 1    20      71- 5 29-52   Ditto
        12     21      78-5  29-87   Ditto — rain in the evening.
        13     22      73-   29-40   Rain
        14     23      73-5  29-60  Cloudy
                                             •
 ,Ktuo1    1
    •
                                                                 METEORO-

160                                              Meteorology.
                        meteorological table,
                     By Mr. Cary, of the Strand,
                                     For August 1819.
                  Thermometer.
                                                                             t'S       c
                                                          Height of          «-
 Days of         8   1                                    the Barom.
                                                                             9
                                                                                  H
                                                                                  M
                                                                                       S
                                                                                       0      Weather.
 Month.          5   S
                                                 Night.
                                     lld'Clock
                          Noon.                             Inches.          1- M      M
                 CO r*H
                                                                            O c~
 July    27      60       74          64                  30-24                   62       Fair
         28      60       75          61                      •28                 47       Fair
         29      60       74         66                       •20                 80       Fair
         30      66       78         67                       •17                 98       Fair
        31       68       78         68                       •10                 70       Fair
  Aug.    1      66       78         66                       •10                 65       Fair with Thundei
                 56       72         57                       •02                 57       Fair
         4 3 2
                 56       69         61                   29.99                   46       Cloudy
                 64       68         60                   30'02                   54       Pair
                 66       68         65                       •05                 40       Cloudy
          6 5    65                                                               45
                          73         61                        •05                         Cloudy
          7  64           74         60                       •10                 65       Fair
          8  62           70         61                   .   '17                 74       Fair
          9  65           75         65                       •23                 55       Fair
         10 66            74         59                       •20                 61       Fair
        3
        1    60           71         63                       •05                 50       Cloudy
         12 64            74         66                       •01                 47       Fair
         13 66            72         64                        •08                46       Fair
         14 64            71         63                        •13                55       Fair
         15 66            75         70                        •20                72       Fair
         16 64            76         68                        •31                65       Fair
         17 66            79         65                        •35                66       Fair
         18' 64           72         64                        •38                54       Fair
         19 64            73         63                        •30                56       Fair
         20 60            70         60                        •29                57       Fair
         31  60           71         62                        •32                56       Fair
         22 60            71         60                       •24                 47       Fair
         23 66            76         64                        •20                65       Fair
         2-1 67           76         66                       •07                 66       Fair
         25 64            76         64                       •05                 81       Fair
         26 66            71         62                       •15                 62       Fair
                 N.B. The         Barometer's                 height   is   taken at one o'clock.

                               [   161   ]
XXIX. On Mr. Troughton's Expedient for               correcting Errors
   arising from    the   Excentricity of   the Point round which the
   Indexes    revolve   in Reflecting Circles.     By Mr. Edward
   Riddle,     Newcastle-on-Tyne.
                            To   Mr. Tilhch.
Sir,—     w hile      the success which has attended the researches
of the continental mathematicians       in every department of phy
sical astronomy is on all hands allowed to be most splendid and
imposing ; and while the honour is most cheerfully paid which is
due to the meritorious individuals who have devoted themselves
to such arduous and important investigations ; it is satisfactory
to reflect, that in practical talent the artists and observers of our
own age and country are entirely unequalled and without rivals.
What artist in any country, but our own, could be put in com
petition with Troughton ? What observer has raised to himself a
name so distinguished as that of Maskelyne, Pond, or Brinkley ?
    The skill of the distinguished artist whom I have just named,
has succeeded in imparting to comparatively small instruments
a degree of accuracy which would scarcely seem compatible with
their limited dimensions.       Many of the expedients by which this
has been effected are very admirable.          But there is one which
has materially contributed to the well merited esteem in which
his instruments are held ; yet the circumstance is curious, that
the correction which it is intended to produce is not, in general,
 theoretically perfect.
    I allude to the expedient which Mr. Troughton has devised to
correct, among other errors, that arising from the excentricity of
the point round which the indexes may revolve in reflecting cir
cles.
    In a paper on these instruments, by Capt. Mendoza Rios,
published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1801, is the fol
lowing remark : " Two noniuses opposite one another might,
however, be advantageous in order to correct the errors of ex
centricity, but in my opinion a greater number ought not on any
account to be used."
    I know not whether this remark was intended as a hint to
Mr. Troughton, who had, for some time previous, made his im
proved circles with three verniers placed at equal distances from
each other on the arc ; but the author of the article " Circle,"
in Rees's Cyclopaedia, appears to have considered it in that light.
He accordingly wrote to Mr. Troughton on the subject, and he
has incorporated in the article, referred to, an extract from Mr.
Troughton's reply.        Mr. Troughton observes, that " it is plain
that two opposite indices will correct this kind of error perfectly,
   Vol. 54. No. 257. Sept. 1819.                  L                and

 162           Mu       Troughlon's Expedient for correcting
and it is equally true, though not so obvious, that three indices
will do the same."     Meaning, I presume, three placed at equal
distances as they are in his circles.
   After this and a further extract from the same letter, the au
thor of the article proceeds to observe, that the truth of Mr.
Troughton's statement respecting three indexes admits of geo
  metrical demonstration ; and he accordingly adds what he ap
 pears to consider a satisfactory investigation of the truth of the
 property.
     In Dr. Brewster's Encyclopcedia also, article " Circle," it is
 stated that " three readings perfectly correct the error arising
 from any excentric motion of the index."
    But notwithstanding all these authorities, I conceive it will be
 easy to show that, unless one of the indexes coincide with the
 line joining the centre and the excentric point round which the
 indexes revolve, the required compensation will, as I have al
 ready said, not be theoretically perfect.
    With respect to two opposite verniers, it is indeed abundantly
 obvious that the correction will in all cases be in theory com
 plete ; as it is a well known property of the circle, that if two
 straight lines intersect in any point within   the angle which they
                                                  is by it,
 make with each other      will be  measured     half the sum of the
                                                  a
intercepted arcs. Hence, while the angle           constant quantity,
 the sum of the intercepted arcs       also
                                        is    constant quantity.
                                              a
    But for three verniers, as they are placed       Mr. Troughton,
                                                              by
let A    be the centre of the circle; BC, BE, BG, the indexes
 which revolve about the excentric
point    B ; AC, AK, AM, indexes
which revolve in similar manner
                        a
round the centre A.       Then when
one of the indexes revolving round
B   coincides with one of those re
volving round      A,as AC and BC
do in the figure        ;   it obvious
                                  is
that KE, GM, which measure
the deviations of BE and BG, are
equal and of contrary affections,
and the correction           therefore
                             is
complete.
   Let now AI, AL, AN, be another position of the indexes revolv
ing round      and BD, BF, BH, the corresponding positions of
               A
               ;
those revolving round B. Then    CD + EF + GH
                                       if            not =3 IC,    is
or   ID + LF not =HN, the correction
    if             is                          imperfect.
                                                      is
   On  I Aproduced let fall from the perpendicular BP, and on
                                       B
AN, AL the perpendiculars BO, BQ, and put = the angle CAI.
                                                        a
                                                                        Then

                Errors in the Use  of Reflecting Circles.           163
Then Z BAP = o, A BAQ = 60°-<7, and           I  BAO=60° + a; also
 BQ, BP, BO are sines of BAQ, BAP and BAO, to the radius BA.
But sine 60°— a + sine a= sine 60 + a ; wherefore, generally,
 BQ + BP= BO. Now BQ, BP, and BO are sines of LF, DI,
and HN, to the radius of the circle.    Hence sine DI + sine LF=
sine HN; and consequently chord 2.DI + chord 2.LF = chord
 2.HN. But the sum of the chords of two arcs is greater than
the chord of their sum ; therefore HN is greater than DI + LF,
or the correction is theoretically imperfect.
   Again : When the sum of the sines of two arcs is equal to the
sine of a third arc, the sum of the two arcs is a minimum, and
consequently the difference between that sum and the third arc
is a maximum, when the two sines or when the two arcs are
equal.
    Hence the error of the correction is a maximum when BQ =
BP. or when the Z CAI=30°, or when one of the indexes re
volving round the excentric point is perpendicular to the line
drawn through that point and the centre.
    Having now, I trust, satisfactorily proved the existence of the
error in theory, it is proper that I should add, that as the instru
ment is actually made, the maximum error is too minute to be
computed by common trigonometrical tables.            If we suppose an
excentricity of   -\,  the maximum error will be about 26", but
if we suppose an excentricity of         the maximum error will be
a very small fraction of a second.
   And when we consider that the actual excentricity is probably,
in all cases, a very small part of what we have last supposed, and
reflect on the other important purposes to which the contrivance
in question is made subservient ; we shall still have sufficient rea
son to admiije the ingenuity of its author, though he was wrong
in supposing that one of the advantages which he proposed from
its adoption would in strict theory be always produced.
    But that a mistaken idea should have been generally enter
tained respecting the theory of an instrument of such importance,
is a circumstance which I hope will apologize for my troubling
you with this communication, and requesting you to give it a
place in the Philosophical Magazine.
                               Your obedient servant,
                                                Edward Riddle,
Aug. 27,  1819.                      Master of the Trinity-House School,
                                              Newcastle-on-Tyne.
                              L  2                        XXX. Expe-

                                                [   164     ]
     XXX.         Experiments on the Gas from Coal, chiefly with a view
          to   its practical Application.  By William Henry, M.D.
          F.R.S. &c.
                                          [Concluded from p. 12C]
                                On the Purification       of Coal Gas.
     The      chief impurities mingled with the gas from coal, which it
     is desirable and practicable to remove before applying it to use,
     are carbonic acid and sulphuretted hydrogen gases.                The former
     is of little importance ; but the latter imparts to the coal gas
      when unburned a very offensive smell, resembling that of bilge
      water, or the washings of a gun-barrel, and the inconvenient pro
      perty of tarnishing silver plate ; and during combustion, gives rise
      to the same suffocating fumes (sulphurous acid) which are pro
      duced by the burning of a brimstone match.                The most obvious
      method of absorbing both the carbonic acid and the sulphuretted
     hydrogen, is to bring the recent gas into contact with quicklime;
      and the cheapness of that substance, and facility of applying it,
      led me, several years ago, to propose it for the purpose *.                 It
      has since,   I  believe,  been   suggested    that  the sulphuretted hydro
      gen may be removed by chlorine ; but a sufficient objection to-
      this agent    is,that      would also separate the most valuable part
                                  it
      of the product, the defiant gas. The transmission of the gas
      through ignited tubes has also been proposed                 but  ;      well  it   is
                                                                                          a
..    known property of both the varieties of carburetted hydrogen,
      that they deposit charcoal when strongly heated and M. Ber-
                                                                              is ;
      thollet has shown that the amount of this effect              proportionate
      to the increase of temperaturef.             Some persons practically en
      gaged in lighting with gas have, to my knowledge, been led, by
      the increase of the quantity of gas which               obtained
                                                                   is      passing    by
     it  through red-hot tubes, to imagine that an advantage                   thus        is
      gained;     and  they   have  not   been  aware    that the  gas, when   thus
      treated,   sustains     much
                                 a    more    tkan proportional loss    of illumi
      nating power.
         The quantity of quicklime required for the absorption of a cu
      bic foot of carbonic acid, or of the same volume of sulphuretted
       hydrogen gas, will be found on calculation not to exceed 1050
      grains, or about          ounces aVoird.
                                 2   -J                   volume of coal gas con
                                                            A
      taining   a cubic  foot  of each   of those  impurities will require, there
      fore,  at least     ounces   of  lime   applied in the best possible man
       ner.   But   it   is 5
                         never found in practice that the whole of any gas,
      when sparingly diffused through another, can be taken out en
      tirely, without using much more of the appropriate agent than,
                            * Phil. Trans.      1808, page 303:
                      f          Memoires    de la Soc. dArcucil, iii. 154.
                                                                                                from

               Experiments     on the Gas      from Coal.               165
from its known powers of saturation, might have been deemed
equivalent to the effect. The proportion employed by Mr. Lee
is five pounds of fresh burnt lime to 200 cubic feet of gas. The
lime, after the addition of the quantity of water necessary to re
duce it into powder, is passed through a sieve, and then mixed
with a cubic foot (about 1\ wine gallons) of water. This is found
to be enough to purify the gas sufficiently for ordinary purposes;
but it still retains a minute proportion of sulphuretted hydrogen,
which, from the shade of colour produced in the test, may be
 estimated at about one ten thousandth of its volume.     For some
purposes, the same gas is therefore washed a second time with a
similar proportion of fresh lime, which, without being removed
from the cistern, is again employed to give the first washing to
another quantity of fresh gas. After the second purification,
 the gas produces no change whatever in the test, which pre
serves its perfect whiteness, thereby demonstrating the complete
 removal of the sulphuretted hydrogen.      In this state of purity,
 its odour, also, is so much diminished as scarcely to be at all of
 fensive.
     In order to ascertain whether any, and what portion of ole
 fiant or carburetted hydrogen gas is lost by the action of the lime
 liquor, I compared, with the greatest care, the products of the
 combustion of the recently prepared gas, and of the same gas
 after one and two washings with lime aud water.
                                   Consumed oxygen.         Gave carb. acid.
   100 measures of the unwashed gas 190                         108
   Gas once washed                       175                    100
   Twice    washed            . .  .. 175                      100
   The frequent repetition of similar experiments fully satisfied
me that the fresh prepared gas from coal does in fact sustain, by
agitation with lime liquor, a loss of combustible matter amount
ing to about 8 or 10 per cent. ; but that the second washing is
not attended with any further appreciable loss.         1 found, also,
that the recent gas, by being kept a fortnight in bottles com
pletely filled withit, and well stopped so as to exclude all agency
of the water in which they were inverted, was diminished           in
                                                                 com
bustible matter about half the foregoing amount.         On the other
hand, gas which had been washed with lime liquor suffered no
change, when kept under like circumstances for an equal time.
It   isprobable, therefore, that what        separated from the un
                                             by is
washed gas, whether      by keeping  or     the action of lime liquor,
is chiefly  condensable  matter, partly perhaps an ethereal oil and
partly  a  substance which    it  desirable to remove, rather than
                                   is
to allow  it  to be deposited in   solid form, in the small pipes, or
                                    a
in  the burners.
                                        L3                              The

  166            Experiments      on the Gas   from Coal.
    The little  effect of the lime liquor on the olefiant gas, which
 I had- not anticipated, admits however of being satisfactorily ex
 plained on known principles.          Water and similar fluids absorb,
 according to Dalton, about £th, according to Saussure about
 -^th, of their volume of olefiant gas. The utmost quantity, there
 fore, which a cubic foot of lime liquor, acting upon pure olefiant
 gas, could absorb, would be j-th of a cubic foot.         But agreeably
 to a law discovered by Mr. Dalton, and explained and confirmed
 by my own experiments *, a cubic foot of lime liquor, when
 brought into contact with 36 cubic feet of olefiant gas mixed with
  164 cubic feet of other gases, can absorb only about one-fifth of
 one-seventh, or xyth, of a cubic foot of olefiant gas. This quan
 tity, which does not exceed -nrVotn part of the olefiant gas pre
 sent in 200 cubic feet of the best coal gas, is too trifling a loss
 to be discoverable by experiment, or to be worthy of being re
 garded in practice, even when doubled by a second washing. It
 is therefore consistent with general reasoning, as well as with ex
periment, that the washing of coal gas with a due proportion of
 lime liquor should entirely remove the sulphuretted hydrogen gas
 and other offensive ingredients, without abstracting an appreci
 able quantity of either of the carburetted hydrogen gases.              It is
 nevertheless important that the quantity of water, employed in
washing the gas, should not be increased beyond what is neces
sary to give the mixture due fluidity, because, under equal cir
cumstances, the power of water to absorb a gas is in direct pro
portion to the quantity employed.
    Such are the principal circumstances that occurred to me as
requiring to be investigated, and to be at the same time capable
of affording results that may admit of general application where-
ever coal gas is employed as a source of light. There are others
of more limited utility, that may be left-to be determined by those
persons who are interested respecting them ; such as the pre
ference due to different varieties of coal as sources of gas, and
sometimes even to other inflammable substances, which, on ac-
count'of local situation, may be entitled to preference over coal.
The facts which have been stated supply, also, data for deciding
other questions, whieh may be suggested by circumstances of
partial interest ; — for example, whether it may not be adviseable,
in some cases, to collect only the first portions of gas ; or, if all
be collected, to reserve different portions apart from each other,
and to apply them to appropriate uses.            Thus, when coal gas is
conveyed in portable gasometers to a distance, (as is now prac
tised by Mr. Lee in supplying his house two miles from the ma-
   * Nicholson's Journal, 8vo. vii. 297. and Thomson's Annals, vii. 214.
                                                              nufactory,)

                            Experiments    on the Gas from Coal.                   167
nufactory*,) it will be important to select that gas, which in a
given volume has the highest illuminating power, and which
therefore requires vessels of the smallest capacity for its convey
ance.    Having, I hope, furnished documents for solving ques
tions of this sort, I shall proceed to describe in what manner the
facts were ascertained.
                                   Method     of Analysis.
        1.               of the proportions of carlonic acid and sul
              Determination
phuretted hydrogen gases in coal gas.         In experiments formerly
made on this subject, I employed the agency of chlorine to con
dense both these impurities, and estimated how much of the ab
sorption was due to each, by a rule which I have stated f. Re
cent experience, however, has led me to distrust this method ;
and after comparing the effects of several other agents, by expe
riments on mixtures of known composition, I now prefer the
white carbonate of lead, precipitated from acetate of lead by car
bonate of ammonia without heat, and therefore fully saturated
with carbonic acid. This precipitate it is better not to dry, but,
after washing it sufficiently, to leave it under as much water as
will give         it,
               when wanted for ose, a due degree of fluidity.      This
mixture may be applied          means of
                                     by      tube of the capacity of
                                                         a                           a
cubic inch, divided into 100 equal parts, and accurately ground
into short and wider piece of tube, which ought not to contain
         a
more than three or four tenths of that quantity.       The wider tube
being filled with the fluid carbonate of lead, and placed with its
mouth upwards under water, the graduated measure full of gas
   fitted to      and the gas and liquid are brought into contact
by is
                   it   ;
     alternately inverting the two tubes, all violent agitation being
carefully avoided.     The sulphuretted hydrogen        thus absorbed,
                                                                     is
and the carbonic acid, being left untouched,         afterwards taken
                                                                is
out from the same portion of gas             similar use of solution of
                                                    by   a
pure potash.
    2.  To ascertain the proportion       olefianl gas in the residue
                                                    of
left         by
          potash.   From 25 to ;i0 hundredths of         cubic inch of
                                                                     a
chlorine gas are passed into     tube of the diameter of about -foths
                                          a
of an inch, accurately divided into hundredths of cubic inch              a         ;
and the volume of the chlorine      noted when actually in the tube,
                                              is
   *  A small carriage upon springs conveys two              square close gasometers
made of wrought iron plates, and each containing             50 cubic feet of perfectly
purified gas, equivalent together to about lbs. of tallow.
                                                    6         Each gasometer
weighs about 160 pounds; and has       valve at the
                                              a     bottom, which     opened  is
by the upright main pipe, the moment the gasometer           immersed in the
                                                                     is
pit. The strength of one man      found to be sufficient for the labour of re
                                      is
moving the gasometer from the carriage to its place.
t    Phil. Trans. 1808, page 295.
                                                   L4                               to

 168                Experiments      on the Gas from Coal.
to avoid errors from its absorption in rising through the water.
To this is admitted half a cubic inch (equivalent to 50 measures)
of the gas under examination, and the mixture is left, excluded
from the direct light of the sun and perfectly quiescent, for fifteen
minutes. At the expiration of this time, the remainder is noted,
and the diminution which has taken place being divided by 2,
the quotient shows the quantity of olefiant gas in fifty measures
of the mixture.          This process, I am aware, however, does not
gK'e results of perfect accuracy; for, in addition to other sources
of fallacy, I find that chlorine begins to act on sulphuretted hy
drogen' much sooner than is generally supposed*, though within
the period mentioned, and in such narrow tubes, it does not oc
casion a sensible diminution of bulk.                 The method described
may, therefore,        be  considered     as affording a tolerably near ap
proximation to the proportion of olefiant gas ; and as all the va
rieties of coal gas were subjected to the test under precisely the
same circumstances, the errors must have been of nearly the
same amount in all cases, and cannot materially interfere with
the fair comparison of the different specimens of coal gas, so far
as respects their proportion of olefiant gas.
     3. To ascertain the quantity of combustible matter in gas
which had been deprived only of sulphuretted hydrogen and car
bonic acid, a mixture of the gas with a due proportion of oxygen
gas was fired hy the electric spark over mercury.                  This method
I preferred to slow combustion, carried on'with the apparatus
whidi I nave described in the Philosophical Transactions for
 1 808.
           soie]y because, when a great number
                                                           of experiments are
                                                     of detonation    is attended
n*crjssary, as in this inquiry, the method
v\ith a great saving of time. But on all occasions where only
  few experiments are required on gases of great combustibility,
                                                                                 I
                                                       of greater safety    to the
  prefer slow combustion, both on account
  apparatus, and, from          the  quantities   that  may be consumed, of
                                                                 is practised, I
  greater accuracy also. When rapid combustion
                                        more   accurate   results  are gained by
  believe that, on the whole,
                                                      conducted,    than at two.
  firing the gas at one operation properly
   The latter method seems to have been preferred by M. Berthol-
  let; but so far as my experience goes, it is more apt to precipi
   tate charcoal from the gas.
      To burn each measure of the early and more combustible pro
                                                                                 of
   ducts of gas, I employed from 3 to 4 measures or upwards
                                                              been ascertained.
   oxygen gas the degree of purity of which had
   The volume being noted after' firing,            and   again    after agitating
      * While this sheet was passing through the press, I have noticed a pas
                                                        156 n.), from which it ap
   sage in Mr. Brande's Manual of Chemistry (page
                the         action of chlorine on  carburetted  hydrogen had been
   peal's that      speedy
   observed by Mr. Faraday.

                   Experiments     on the Gas  from Coal.               169
  the residue with liquid potash, the last diminution showed the
  quantity of carbonic acid.        The gas left by potash was next ana
  lysed by    combustion    with   a due proportion of pure hydrogen*,
  which   showed      how much  of the residue was oxygen, and how much
  azotic gas. If more azote was found, than had been introduced as
  an impurity of the oxygen gas, it was considered as having formed
  a part of the combustible gas.         A single experiment on any kind
  of gas was never relied upon ; and to ensure accurate results, the
  same gas was fired with different proportions of oxygen. Deduct
  ing the pure oxygen found in the residue, from its quantity at the
  outset, the volume of oxygen gas was learned, which had been
  spent in saturating a given measure of combustible gas.
      In gases free from all admixture with carbonic oxide, it is easy to
v know how much of the oxygen consumed has been spent in satu
  rating the charcoal; for as oxygen gas by conversion into carbonic
  acid suffers no change of volume, the quantity which lias com
  bined with the charcoal is exactly represented by the volume of
  carbonic acid produced by the combustion.           For example, as 100
   meausures of olefiant gas afford by detonation 200 of carbonic
   acid, 200 measures of oxygen must have united with the charcoal
  of the olefiant gas.     But beside these 200 measures, an additional
    100 measures of oxygen are found to be consumed, and these
   must have combined with hydrogen, the other ingredient of the
   gas, the volume of which in its full state of expansion would be
   200 measures, as determined by the fact, that oxygen gas uni
   formly takes for saturation double its volume of hydrogeu gas,
   and no other proportion.
                         Nature  of the  Gas from Coal.
      The opinion which I formerly advanced on this subject f,
   though opposed by writers of so much authority as M. Berthol-
   let and Dr. Murray, still appears to me to be much more pro
   bable, than that the varieties of gas from inflammable substances,
   which may be almost infinitely diversified by modifications of
   temperature, are, as those philosophers suppose, so many distinct
   compounds of hydrogen and charcoal, or of hydrogen and char
   coal in combustion with oxygen.           The reasons that induce me
   to abide by my original view of the subject are the following :
       1. We are acquainted with two distinct and well characterized
   compounds of hydrogen and charcoal, in one of ^vhich a given
   weight of charcoal is united with a certain quantity of hydrogen,
   and in the other with double that quantity.           Besides these two,
   no other compound of those two elements has been hitherto
    proved to exist.
      * The method of doing this is given in my Elements of Chemistry, vol. i.
   chap. v. sect. vi.         t  Nicholson's Journal, 8vo. xi. 68.
                                                                       2dly.

  170                Experiments    on the Gas  from Coal.
     2dly.  It  is inconsistent  with experience, that two bodies which,
 li|te hydrogen      and  charcoal, unite by an energetic affinity, should
  combine    in  all possible proportions.    On the contrary, it is to be
  expected from analogy in general, and from that of the com
 pounds of charcoal and oxygen in particular, that hydrogen and
  charcoal unite in few proportions only, and in such a manner
 that these proportions are multiples or divisors of each other by
 some entire number.
     3dly. All the phenomena may be satisfactorily explained by
 supposing the gas from coal, and from other inflammable sub
 stances, to be mixtures of this kind.         For example, referring to
 the one hour's gas in the first table, we shall find that it contains,
 in 100 measures, 18 of olefiant gas, which require for combus
 tion 54 measures of oxygen, and afford 36 of carbonic acid. The
 same gas contains also 77| measures of another inflammable gas,
 in the combustion of which 210 — 54= 156 measures of oxygen
 have been spent, and which' have afforded 1 12 — 36=76 mea
 sures of carbonic acid.         This is as near an'approach as can be
 expected to the properties of carburetted hydrogen, the 77?
 measures having consumed very nearly twice their bulk of oxy
 gen, and given an equal -volume of carbonic acid. We may, there
 fore, consider the early products of the gas from cannel as a mix
 ture of about one volume of olefiant gas and four volumes of car
 buretted hydrogen*.
     The early product of gas from Clifton coal does not admit of
being thus theoretically resolved into a mixture of olefiant and
 carburetted hydrogen gases only.           For after deducting from the
 oxygen    consumed       (164 measures)   that   spent in saturating the
olefiant gas (10x3 = 30) we have only 134 measures of oxygen
left for the combustion of 90 measures of inflammable gas. These
90 measures, it appears, afford 91 — 20=71 measures of car
bonic acid.         This portion of the gas does not, therefore, auswer
to the characters of carburetted hydrogen, since it neither gives
an equal volume of carbonic acid, nor consumes a double volume
of oxygen.         In this case and a variety of similar ones, we can
only   at present explain the phenomena, by comparing them with
hypothetical mixtures of the different known gases.               As an ex
ample, I shall describe the particulars of the combustion of the
first product of Clifton coal, and endeavour to explain the results
in the manner which has been suggested.
    * I am perfectly aware of the importance of
                                                 taking the specific gravity of
mixed gases, as one datum for determining their proportion in any mixture;
but I was prevented from ascertaining it in these experiments by the state
of the necessary apparatus, which was found, from long disuse, to have
become unfit for the purpose. So far as respects the practical objects of
this paper, the omission is of no consequence.
                                                                    Measures

                    Experiments        on the    Gas from Coal.                  171
    Measures of the gas                   11
    Mixed with oxygen                      39 = 37 pure oxygen + 2 azote.
                   Total                  ~50
    Volume after firing        ..•...      31
    do. after washing by potash 21 = 19 oxygen 4- 2 azote.
                                                   1 8 oxygen consumed .
    In this   case, the diminution         by firing is 19 measures.; that by
potash, which denotes the carbonic acid, 10 measures; and the
gases consumed are 11 + 18 = 29.                     Let us examine what mix
ture of gases will account for the appearances.
     M. of infl. Gas.       Take Oxyg.         Give Carb. Acid.     Dimin. bv firing.
       1-1 defiant               3.3              .. 2-2 .. .. 2-2
       7' Carb. hydr. 14-                 ..      .. 7,       .. .. 14'
       1.    Carb. oxide 0'5              .. .. 0'5 .. .. 1,
       2.    Hydrogen . . 1.                                                3*
      11-1                     18-8                      9-7              20-2
    The sums,      of the numbers thus theoretically obtained do not, it
is true, exactly correspond with the experimental ones; but they
approach as. nearly as, from the nature of the subject, can be
expected, the greatest disagreement (that in the diminution by
firing) not mueh exceeding ^th of the observed amount.
    In a similar manner we may explain the composition of the
lighter and le3s co'mbustible products obtained at advanced pe
riods, of the distillation.          For example, a portion of the last pro
duct of gas from cannel, distilled in a glass retort, gave the fol
lowing results :
    Measures of gas                    20
    Mixed with oxygen             . . 30 = 28 pure oxygen + 2 azote.
                        Total      ..~50
    Fired    ..      ..     ..     ..22
    Washed with potash            . .  18  = 14-7 oxygen + 3'3 azote.
                                                 13-3 oxygen spen$*
    In this experiment, 1'3 more azote were found in the resi
duum than can be traced to the oxygen employed.                           The com
bustible gas was, therefore, only 1 8J measures ; the carbonic
acid produced 4; the oxygen spent 13 -3 ; and the diminution
by firing 28.        The following supposed mixture will explain: these
facts.
         Measures.               Take              Give           Diminished
               of                Oxyg.         Carb. Acid.         by firing.
           Carb. hydr.          ..     4                             . .   4
                                                                     ..2
       2                                     . .     . .   2
                                 ..2
                                                              . .
       2   Carb. oxide                       ..      ..2      ..
      15   Hydrogen      . .    . .    7|                                 22f
      19
                 •
                                      13|                 4               28|      In

172       First Report           of-   the Commissioners appointed to consider
   In this instance the hypothetical constitution coincides even
more nearly with the facts than in the former case.            must,        It
indeed,  he acknowledged   that the explanation  rests on hypothesis
only  ; but        on an hypothesis which
                  it   is                       perfectly consistent
                                                              is
with  a copious and increasing induction of facts, all tending to
establish    limitation to the proportions in which bodies com
             a
bine  ; while the opposite explanation     at variance with this ge
                                                         is
neral law of chemical union.
XXXI. First Report                     ofthe Commissioners appointed to consider
                    the Subjects            of
                                             Weights and Measures.
     May    it    please    Your Royal Highness,
      ,  the Commissioners appointed          Your Royal Highness for
                                                         by
the purpose of considering how far         may be practicable and ad
                                                    it
visable to establish within His Majesty's dominions           more uni a
form system of weights and measures, having obtained such in
formation as we have been able to collect, beg leave to submit
with all humility the first results of our deliberations.
     1.We have procured, for the better consideration of the sub
ject referred to us, an abstract of all the statutes relating to weights
 and measures which have been passed in the United Kingdoms
from the earliest times      and we have obtained from the County
                                       ;
 Reporta, lately published                   by
                                  the Board of Agriculture, and from
 various other sources, a large. mass of information respecting the
 present state of the customary measures employed                different in
 parts of the United Kingdom. We have also examined the stand
 ard measures of capacitv kept in the Exchequer, and we have in
 quired into the state of the standards at length of the highest
 authority.    Upon     deliberate consideration of the whole of the
                                 a
 system   at present existing, we are impressed with         sense of the
                                                                       a
 great difficulty of effecting any radical changes, to so consider
 able an extent as might in some respects be desirable; and we
 therefore wish to proceed with great caution in the suggestions
 which we shall venture to propose.
    2. With respect to the actual magnitude of the standards of
 length,     does not appear to us that there can be any sufficient
             it
 Teason for altering those which are at present generally employed.
 There       no practical advantage in having
             is                                      quantity commen
                                                                   a
 surable to any original quantity existing, or which may be ima
 gined to exist,     nature, except as affording some little encour
                            in
 agement to its common adoption            neighbouring nations.
                                                    by                 But
it   isscarcely possible, that the departure      from  a standard    once
 universally established in a great country, should not produce
                                                                      much

              the Subject of Weights and Measures.                 173
much more labour and inconvenience in its internal relations than
it could ever be expected to save in the operations of foreign
commerce and correspondence, which always are, and always
must be, conducted by persons to whom the difficulty of calcu
lation is comparatively inconsiderable, and who are also remune
rated for their trouble, either by the profits of their commercial
concerns, or by the credit of their scientific acquirements.
    3. The subdivisions of weights and measures, at present em
ployed in this country, appear to be far more convenient for prac
tical purposes than the decimal scale, which might perhaps be
preferred by some persons for making calculations with quantities
already determined. But the power of expressing a third, a fourth,
and a sixth of a foot in inches, without a fraction, is a peculiar ad
vantage in the duodecimal scale, and for the operations of weigh
ing and of measuring capacities, the continual division by 2 ren
ders it practicable to make up any given quantity, with the smallest
possible number of standard weights or measures, and is far pre
ferable in this respect to any decimal scale.       We would there
fore recommend, that all     the multiples and subdivisions of the
 standard to be adopted should retain the same relative propor
tions to each other as are at present in general use.
    4. The most authentic standards of length which are now in
 existence being found upon a minute examination to vary in a
 very slight degree from each other, although either of them
 might be preferred without any difference that would become
 sensible in common cases, we beg leave to recommend, for the
 legal determination of the standard yard, that which was em
 ployed by General Roy in the measurement of a base on Houn-
 slow-heath, as a foundation for the trigonometrical operations
 that have been carried on by the Ordnance throughout the coun
 try, and a duplicate of which will probably be laid down on a
 standard scale by the Committee of the Royal Society appointed
 for assisting the Astronomer Royal in the determination of the
 length of the pendulum; the temperature being supposed to be
 62 degrees of Fahrenheit, when the scale is employed.
    5. We propose also, upon the authority of the experiments
 made by the Committee of the Royal Society, that it should be
 declared, for the purpose of identifying or recovering the length
 of this standard, in case that it should ever be lost or impaired,
 that the length of a pendulum vibrating seconds of mean solar time
 in London, on the level of the sea, and in a vacuum, is 39' 1372
 inches of this scale ; and that the length of the metre employed
 in France, as the ten-millionth part of the quadrantal arc of the
  meridian, has been found equal to 39'3694 inches.
    6. The definitions of measures of capacity are obviously capa
 ble of being immediately deduced from their relations to measures
                                                                      of

 174   First Report of the Commissioners appointed     to consider
of length ; but since the readiest practical method of ascertain
ing the magnitude of any measure of capacity is to weigh the
quantity of water which it is capable of containing, it would, in
our opinion, be advisable in this instance to invert the more na
tural order of proceeding, and to define the measures of capacity,
rather from the weight of the water they are capable of contain
ing, than from their solid content in space.        It will therefore
be convenient to begin with the definition of the standard of
weight, by declaring that 19 cubic inches of distilled water, at the
temperature of 50 degrees, must weigh exactly 10 ounces of troy,
or 4,800 grains ; and that 7,000 such grains make a pound
avoirdupois ; supposing, however, the cubic inches to relate to
the measure of a portion of brass, adjusted by a standard scale
of brass. This definition is deduced from some very accurate ex
periments of the late Sir George Shuckburgh, on the weights and
measures of Great Britain ; but we propose at a future period to
repeat such of them as appear to be the most important.
   7. The definitions thus established are not calculated to in
troduce any variation from the existing standards of length and
of weight, which may be considered as already sufficiently well
ascertained.    But, with respect to the measures of capacity, it
appears,   from the report contained in the Appendix (A), that
the legal standards of the highest authority are considerably at
variance with each other: the standard gallon, quart, and pint of
Queen Elizabeth, which are kept in the Exchequer, having been
also apparently employed, almost indiscriminately,      for adjusting
the measures both of corn and beer ; between which, however, a
difference has gradually, and, as it may be supposed, uninten
tionally, crept into the practice of the Excise; the ale gallon
being understood to contain about 4| per cent. more than the
corn gallon, though we do not find any particular act of parlia
ment in which this excess is expressly recognised.       We think it
right to propose that these measures should again be reduced to
their original equality; and at the same time, on account of the
great convenience which would be derived from the facility of
determining a gallon and its parts, by the operation of weighing
a certain quantity of water, amounting to an entire number of
pounds and ounces without fractions, we venture strongly to re
commend, that the standard ale and corn gallon should contain
exactly 10 pounds avoirdupois of distilled water, at 62° of Fah
renheit, being nearly equal to 277'2 cubic inches, and agreeing
with the standard pint in the Exchequer, which is found to con
tain exactly 20 ounces of water.
    8. We presume that very little inconvenience would be felt by
the public, from the introduction of this gallon, in the place of
the customary ale gallon of 282 cubic inches, and of the Win
                                                              chester

               the Suljecl   of Weights and Measures.          175
 Chester   corn gallon, directed by a statute of King William to
 contain 269, and by some later statutes estimated at 272^ cubic
inches ; especially when it is considered that the standards, by
which the quart and pint beer measures used in London are
habitually adjusted, do not at present differ in a sensible degree
from the standard -proposed to be rendered general.     We appre
hend also, that the slight excess of the new bushel above the
 common corn measure would be of less importance, as the cus
tomary measures employed in different parts of Great Britain
are almost universally larger than the legal Winchester bushel.
    9. Upon the question of the propriety of abolishing altogether
 the use of the wine gallon, and establishing the new gallon of
 10 pounds, as the only standard for all purposes, we have not yet
been able to obtain sufficient grounds for coming to a conclusive
 determination; we can only suggest, that there would be a mani
fest advantage in the identification of all measures of the same
name, provided that the change could be made without practical
 inconvenience: but how far the inconvenience might be more
 felt than the advantage, we must leave to the wisdom of His Ma
jesty's Government to decide.
     10. In the mean time it may be advisable to take into consi
 deration the present state of the numerous and complicated laws
 which have beeu enacted at various times for the regulation of
 the weights and measures employed in commerce ; and the abs
tract of these laws, which we have prepared, will be found in
 the Appendix (B) of this Report.       We must, however, reserve
for a future occasion the information which we have procured
respecting the customary weights and measures of the different
 counties, as we have not yet been able to reduce our abstract
 into the most convenient form for affording a connected view of
 this branch of the subject referred to us.
          (Signed)   Jos. Banks.             Wm. H. Wollaston.
          ,           George Clerk.          Thomas Young.
                      Davies Gilbert.        Henry Kater.
 Soho-square, June 24, 1819.
    We think it but just to state, that the main ideas now brought
 forward by the Commissioners, with a few modifications, were
 laid before the public more than two years ago, by a gentleman
 who, though he is not upon this commission, was recommended
 to be placed upon it by the late Lord Stanhope, at the time when
he caused to be thrown out of the House of Lords the absurd bill
 which had been carried through the House of Commons by some
of the gentlemen on the present commission.
     In the British Review for February 1817, there appeared an
 interesting and elaborate article on weights and measures, which
                                                                has

176    First Report of the Commissioners appointed        to consider
has been generally, and we believe correctly, ascribed to Dr.
Olynthus Gregory, of the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich.
It was soon afterwards published in a separate pamphlet by Bald
win, Cradock, and Joy.      That our readers may judge to what
extent the present Commissioners have adopted Dr. Gregory's
train of thinking, and how far their slight deviations may be real
improvements, we shall lay before them an extract or two from
his dissertation : —
    " Let us now endeavour to draw some practical conclusions
from this long train of inquiry.   With this view we would recom
mend that the standard foot, to be legalized in future, should
agree either with that on Bird's scale made for General Roy (still
used in the Trigonometrical Survey) or that on Bird's Parliament
ary scale of 1758 (in the custody of the Clerk of the Journals of
the House of Commons) ; either of these being regarded as the
27,404th part of the base on Hounslow-heath,          and as equal in
length to the prismatic plate that is suspended, and vibrates
36,469 times in five hours, as already described; or rather, that
vibrates a certain number of times, agreeably to the result of ex
periments to be instituted for that purpose under the direction of
Parliament. Several rods or plates should be made to agree ex
actly with this foot, in some fixed temperature, — suppose that of
56 or of 60 degrees Fahrenheit ; and several other 2-feet, 3-feet,
and 4-feet rods should also be constructed.         The length of all
may easily  be  adjusted to the 5000dth part of an inch, by means
of a micrometer screw such as is described in Lord Stanhope's
account of his monochord ; and if the ends of all of them are
precious stones set in a,nd ground down to the precise length,
the standards will, we apprehend, be rendered more durable than
by any other process ; except, perhaps, that in which the ex
tremities of the lineal unit shall be shown by metallic points let
into the faces of the measures. These, properly stamped, should
be lodged at suitable places in the metropolis, and at others in
the county towns, as well as other large town's, in the custody of
proper officers.
   " Instead of dividing this foot into inches, or twelfth parts
                                                                     (a
denominator which always gives a circulating decimal by division,
except when the numerator is 3, 6, 9, or their multiples), we
would recommend that it be divided into tenths, and each of these
again into tenths, or hundredths of afoot. Such division and sub
division would tend to simplify computation, at the same time that
they would answer every purpose proposed to be attained by the
use of inches and their 12th parts. Together with these we would
allow to practical men the binary division of the foot.      Although
the yard be a multiple of the foot (its triple), which is inconsistent
with the general principle of augmentation and diminution by
                                                                means

                                                                         "-
                the Subject    of Weights    and Measures.                    177
 means of the numbers 2 and 5, their powers and products, which
 we should on the whole recommend ; still, as it is one of the oldest
 of English measures, and is in more frequent use than any other,
 we conceive it will be advisable to retain it ; especially as all the
 established lineal and square measures above it may remain as
they are. The onlv complex multiple which will then remain in
the system will be 16| feet in a pole; and even that is consti
 tuted of 2x2x2x2 and l-J-2, a power and a submultiple of 2.
     " But it may be asked, Why, since we render our standard of
 length determinable by means of a pendulum, do we limit it to
 the precise length of the foot now in use ? Why do we not take
 the yard as the unit ; or why do we not adopt some unit that has
 no obvious relation to either the foot or the yard ? We reply,
 Because we can as well employ the pendulum to fix one absolute
 length as another ; because the main object of. fresh legislation
 is, not to make changes, but to prevent changes, except so far as
 they become necessary to check incessant fluctuation and irregu
 larity; and, more than all, because by selecting the foot, with
the absolute value it now possesses, as the unit of lineal measure,
we are enabled to connect with        it,   by
                                            the simplest possible rela
tions, measures of capacity and of weight, which shall deviate
from those now employed, the latter not at all, the former in such
a   manner as to furnish  a  medium between those which exist.
     " Take, for example, ten cubic feet as equivalent to the quar
 ter of dry measure. The inches in this, divided           by give 2,160
                                                                8,
for the cubic inches in the bushel which we would recommend.
 The capacity of the bushel thus chosen         nearly an arithmetical
                                                 is
mean between 2,16S, the capacity of the bushel which              the oc is
tuple   of Queen  Elizabeth's   gallon, and  2,150   2-5ths   that  of the
Winchester bushel. The difference from either less than would
                                                          is
be occasioned    by pouring corn into the measure just over its brim,
and at the distance of feet above it.
                         4                      fourth of this will give
                                                 A
540 cubic inches for the capacity of the peck         ; and half of this
again gives 270 for that of the gallon, differing only the 270th
part from Queen Elizabeth's gallon.         Continuing the successive
divisions,  we have  67y,  33|,  and  8, 7-16ths cubic inches, for the
quart, pint, and gill respectively.      Neglecting at once the un
necessary distinctions between the ale and wine gallons, and be
tween the ale, beer, and wine hogsheads, and the multiple 63
(i. e.7  X9,  numbers both of which give circulates                 by
                                                                division)
expressing the gallons in     awine hogshead, we would retain the
more natural multiples, and call eight gallons        firkin, two firkins
                                                      a
a kilderkin, two kilderkins       barrel, and two barrels or 64 gal
                                  a
lons double barrel.
      a                   It  will be observed that            by
                                                             introducing
this name, instead of calling 64 gallons          hogshead, we act in
                                                  a
conformity with   a  principle that should always be kept in view
    Vol. 54. No. 257. Sept. \8\9.               M                       in

                                                               t.-
178     First Report of the Commissioners appointed to consider
in this inquiry   — we mean that of never giving an old name to a
 new measure, except it differ almost imperceptibly from the old
one that bears the same name, or except the new measure be a
medium between several old ones of the same name which are to
be abandoned: for this variety of things with one name evidently
facilitates imposture.
   " Whatever be the means of capacity actually adopted, the ex
pediency of having a new series of standards constructed, and
deposited at the Exchequer^ and other appropriate offices, is
evident.     But there is room for diversity of sentiment with re
spect   to the  shape which shall be given to these standards.     We
have every reason to believe that vessels in form of parallelopipeds
are most easily and accurately constructed.         Yet we know that
where workmen are employed who are acquainted with the most
correct processes for boring, hollow metallic cylinders may be
constructed with nearly equal accuracy."
   After a few scientific remarks on this subject, which we here
omit, the author proceeds thus: —
   "   The standards of weight, as well as those of capacity, may
be drawn by an obvious process from that of length.       It has been
ascertained by repeated experiments, from the time of Sir Jonas
Moore down to the present, that a cubic foot of distilled water,
at the temperature of 5650 on Fahrenheit's thermometer, and un
der an atmospheric pressure measured by 29.76 inches on the
barometer, weighs precisely 1000 ounces avoirdupois.           Conse
quently, a cubic tenth of a foot of the same liquid weighs an
ounce, a cube of two-tenths on each side a half-pound, and a
parallelopiped of the same base and double height (that          four-
                                                                     is,
tenths) weighs    a  pound.   Let,  then, two  cubes  and  aparallelo-
pided of the dimensions just specified be accurately formed of
brass or some' other metal, and let each of them be carefully
weighed both in air and in water, of the above-mentioned tem
perature,   by  means of good hydrostatic balance the differences
                        a                            ;
of the weight in air and in water    in the several cases will be pre
cisely equal   to the avoirdupois  ounce,  half pound, and pound re
spectively.
     " standard -of weight, suppose pound, may also be found
       A                                  a
by placing the parallelopiped before mentioned in         a  vessel, and
filling the vessel carefully with water at         deg. then removing
                                                     ;
the parallelopiped, and weighing together the vessel and the wa
terit   contains  ; then filling the vessel again, and re-weighing         it
with   this additional portion of water;     the difference between the
two weights  is   manifestly the weight of 16-l,000dths of       afoot of
water, and this, as before,    is   equivalent to
                                                a     pound avoirdupois.
This process, however,    is   not so correct as the preceding, because
of the well-known difference which exists between the quantity

                the Subject   of Weights         and Measures.              179
of water or other liquid which      a vessel may be made to contain
when its brim is thoroughly dry, and that which it will hold with
out running over, when its edges have been moistened.
   " The system of weights maybe carried on to any extent with
great accuracy, from those of the ounce, half-pound, and pound,
by means of the process invented by Borda, and called by the
French la methode des doubles pesces, the only method with which
we are acquainted that is entirely independent of friction and of
inequality in the arms of the balance*.        In extending the avoir
dupois system, we think the " long hundred" or hundred weight"
                                                    "
of 112 lbs., and its quarter, should be entirely rejected; not
merely because the number 7 enters the constituent factors 4, 7,
and 4 ; but because its use is absolutely contrary to law.         The
common hundred of 4 times 25, but distinguished by some other
name, would be far preferable.
   " With the awkward divisions and denominations of the wool-
dealers, we know not what to do.          Whether they shall be re
tained or rejected is a question of expediency. Troy-weight must,
we apprehend, be allowed to the goldsmiths and jewellers : the
ratio (576 to 700) of its pound to the avoirdupois pound is well
ascertained.    The use of grains, scruples, drachms, &c. must,
doubtless, be allowed as heretofore to the apothecaries.
   " We have now, we trust, brought the results of this long, and,
in some respects, intricate inquiry, into a shape that is both prac
tical and scientific.   No deviation from existing measures         re-
                                                                      ii;
commended but where there          ispalpable irregularity  or extreme
fluctuation; and the several standards of length, capacity, and
weight, are mutually connected          principles which, while they
                                         by
are calculated to satisfy the philosopher, are within the compre
hension of all men of moderate intellect and information.            A
                                                                    sy
stem of such gentle but effectual reformation as we have sketched,
may, we conjecture, be introduced without affecting the real in
terests, or violently shocking the prejudices, of any class of men.
It remains that we say    alittle respecting the legislative means by
which this maybe best ensured.
   * In order to
                 ascertain the weight of     abody, W, by this method, place
it in one of the plates ot' basins, B, of the balance, and produce an equili
brium by putting certain bodies in the other basin, B'. Begin, for example,
by placing heavier substances in B', such as may be known to approach to
wards W in weight. Then place successively in the basin B' bullets, smaller
shot, minute fragments of sheet copper, then of paper, &c, till the tongue
of the balanceis brought permanently to the vertical position this evidently
                                                             ;
indicates the horizontality of the arms of the balance.  Then gently remove
the given body W, and substitute for    itin the basin B, such weights, shot,
fragments of paper, &c. as will together restore the balance to the hori
zontal position: the aggregate of these will correctly express the weight of
the body W, in whose place they have beea substituted.
                                    M   2                          « Here,

ISO          First Report of the Commissioners appointed   to consider
    "   Here, of course, it is not our intention to enter into detail ;
 but merely to indicate the prominent particulars to which atten
 tion should be paid in the Act of Parliament.            If our general
 views are correct,   we  conceive it should be enacted—
     eC
        That a standard of a foot, ascertained and marked at the
 extremities as before described, be made of platina, or some other
 suitable metal ; and that others of 2, 3, and 4 feet respectively
 be made at the same time, each having two series of divisions on
 different sides ; that    is,
                             tenths of the foot on one side, and halves,
 fourths,  and  eighths  of the  foot on the other.   That standards of
 the several measures of capacity from the bushel down to the
 gill and, besides the usual troy and apothecaries' weights, a
        ;^
 series of avoirdupois, that      is,of 100 pounds, of 25 pounds, of
8   pounds,' of     pound,
                     I       \  pound,  £  pound, 1  ounce,\   ounce,|
 ounce, and of      drachm, be also constructed.
                     1                                 That five sets of
 complete and accurate copies of all these, whether of length, ca
 pacity, or weight, be likewise made     :  and that, each series being
 stamped with appropriate and distinguishing marks, there be de
 posited, one complete series at the Exchequer, another at the
 proper office in Westminster, another at Guildhall, another at
 Founders'-hal!, another at the British Museum, and another in
 the rooms of the Royal Society.
        That copies of the standards of length, and of the Act of
 Parliament, be sent to all foreign Governments with which Eng
 land     at peace.
         is
     " That other exact copies of the several standards be sent to
 the several county-towns, cities, and boroughs in the realm, hav
ing, besides the Exchequer stamps, the name or arms of each
city, &c, to which they are sent, marked upon them and that ;
 they be safely lodged in the custody of some proper officer, not
for the purpose of sizing and adjusting new measures (except as
 below), but for that of detecting error or fraud with regard to
 measures       in
               use.   And that these copies shall be only producible
 for certain purposes specified in the Act.
    "   That another series of copies of the standards, appropriately
 marked, but in some way distinct from each of the others, be sent
 to every excise division, and placed         the custody of the super
                                             in
visor of excise for, the time being.
    "   That all the measures of the several series be sized and ad
justed in      room where they have previously remained at least
                a
 24 hours, in       certain assigned temperature, or within certain
                     a
narrow limits.
  " That ail the standards of capacity have marked upon them
in permanent legible characters their respective proportions to
old measures bearing the same name.    On the gallon measure,
for example, there might be placed—
                                                                    The

               the Subject of Weights and Measures.              181
The271-282d part                                and l,40-231stof
                          27 1 cubic inches,
   of the customary                                the customary
                        or 0-1568287 of the
   ale gallon.                                      wine gallon.
                              cubic foot.
   "  That certain officers be appointed, one of them at least be
ing competently acquainted with mechanical and mathematical
science, under the direction of the Lords Commissioners of His
Majesty's Treasury, to take care of the standards deposited in the
Exchequer, and to ascertain, size, and mark, within the pre
scribed limits of temperature, all new measures of weight and
capacity, which are in future to be employed out of the limits of
the jurisdiction of the cities of London and Westminster, and of
the Founders'-hall charter.      That since some irregularity will
inevitably attend the sizing and stamping of weights and mea
sures of capacity in county towns, all such, intended for use in
the country, wherever made, shall be tried and marked at the
above-mentioned office : and that the expenses of such office be,
at least in part, provided for by certain small sums payable upon
the assizing of measures and weights, and by the amount of li
censes to be granted to the makers of such measures and
weights.
      That it be allowable for yard-wands and carpenters' two feet
rules, to be tried and adjusted by the measures deposited in the
county towns and boroughs, agreeably to methods prescribed by
the Act.
   "  That after the new standards are constructed, all the old
weights and measures at the Exchequer shall be deposited in a
separate apartment, safely locked up, and never in future be taken
out but in the presence of some high officer of His Majesty's Go
vernment, or by his express direction for some specified object.
And that it be recommended that the measures now deposited at
Guildhall, &c. be also locked up, to make way for the new stan
 dards.
   "  That, in future, all new weights and measures be marked
with the name and abode of the maker, the initials of the ex
aminer at the proper office, and the temperature in which they
were adjusted.
   " That all heaped measures be abolished, and, if it be found
necessary, new measures be substituted instead of them.
   " That the use of old and of new measures
                                                 (where they differ)
be optional for twelve months, or some other fixed time, after the
passing of the Act.    That from the end of that period all plead
ings in actions and suits must express the size, quantity, or value
of things, in terms conformable to the new measures.
   " That after two years it shall toe penal to charge a weight or
measure for any commodity, which does not agree with the stan-
                                  M 3                          dards

 182               On the Chemical Constitution    of
dards appointed by the Act ; and after four years it shall be pe
nal to employ in trade or commerce any measure or weight which
is not marked agreeably to the directions of the Act.
    " That it be highly penal for any person to make or sell mea
sures and weights, but in compliance with the requisitions of the
Act.
    ** That tables of equalization and reduction, of inches into
tenths of feet, ale and wine gallons into standard gallons, &c. be
computed, and attached to the Act, as well as printed for sepa
rate circulation : and that country schoolmasters, who teach arith
metic, be entitled to receive a copy of the Act of Parliament and
of these tables, from a prescribed parish officer — first gratuitously,
and afterwards at a fixed price.
    " That suitable officers under the sheriffs of counties, mayors
of corporations, &c, be appointed to read the Act at all fairs,
and once a month at markets, for five or seven years.
    "  That all former Acts, or clauses of former Acts, that are
                                                                         „
either contradictory to one another or to this Act, be repealed.
    "  That the requisite exemptions be made in favour of goldsmiths
and apothecaries ; and in reference to the privileges of the cities
of London and Westminster, the Founders' Company, &c.
    " That the effects of the proposed changes (slight as they are)
upon the excise, taxes, rates, allowances, parochial customs, and
different branches of trade and commerce, be ascertained ; and
the manner of providing for them be carefully explained in the
Act."
XXXII.      Observations on the Relation of the Law of Definite
    Proportions in Chemical Combination, to the Constitution of
    the Acids, Alkalis, and Earths.      By John Murray, M.D.
    Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, of the Royal So
    ciety of Edinburgh, the Geological Society of London, &c;
    Lecturer on Chemistry, and Materia Medica and Pharmacy.
                         [Concluded from p. 100.]
Th e      compounds of nitrogen with oxygen present considerable
difficulties ; some of them are not easily obtained insulated; the
specific distinctions, therefore, which constitute the series', have
been variously represented, and the subject is still imperfectly
elucidated.     Two of them, however, are determined with suffi
cient precision, from which we may proceed — those constituting
the two oxides, the first, nitrous oxide, being composed of 10 of
nitrogen with 5-7 of oxygen; the second, nitric oxide, of 10 of
nitrogen with 11-4 of oxygen.
    These combinations are conformable to the usual law of defi
                                                                    nite

                 Acids, Alkalis, and their Compounds.                183
  nite proportions, the oxygen in the one being to that in the other
  as 2 to 1.    It might be expected, therefore, that in the two suc
 ceeding compounds admitted by chemists, nitrous and nitric acids,
-the same ratio would be observed ; that the oxygen in the one
 would be as 3, and in the other as 4.        It appears, however, from
 experimental evidence, that these are not the proportions.
     Nitric acid, the extreme of the series, is the one most capable-
 of being obtained uniform, and the composition of which admits, .
 therefore, of the most exact determination.           Even with regard
 to it there are discordant results ; but from those of greatest ac
 curacy the proportions may be fixed at 10 of nitrogen with 28.5
 of oxygen, — a proportion of oxygen which is to the first not the
 multiple of 4, but 5, and which therefore breaks the uniformity
 of the series.
     The composition thus assigned, however, is that of what is
 called real nitric acid, free from the portion of combined water
 supposed to exist in the acid in its insulated state, and abstracted
 when it passes into its saline combinations.        If we exclude this
 hypothesis, and consider this water as existing in the acid in the
 state of its elements, and the acid, therefore, as a ternary com
 pound of nitrogen, oxygen, and hydrogen, this portion of oxygen
 is of course to be admitted into the calculation.         But still this
 does not obviate the difficulty.       The quantity of this water has
 been variously estimated.        If the estimate by Dr. Wollaston be .
 admitted, that of 0-25, it gives the proportion of 10 of nitrogen
 and 40 of oxygen, which makes fhe multiple of oxygen 7, a re
sult equally distant from the regular progression.
    The composition of the intermediate compound, nitrous acid,
it has been found stiil more difficult to determine, principally from
the difficulty of obtaining it insulated, and free from all inter
mixture of nitric acid and nitric oxide.          Different views have
been proposed with regard to.it to remove the difficulty.           Gay-
Lussac, in particular, assumed the existence of two compounds,
pernitrous and nitrous acid, intermediate between nitric oxide
and nitric acid, which, from their proportions, afforded the in
termediate multiples 3, 4, that of real nitric acid be^jng considered
as 5. But Dulong has shown that these acids are the same. He
has also obtained nitrous acid in its insulated state ; its compo
sition is 10 of nitrogen with 22-8 of oxygen; a proportion of
oxygen which gives the multiple 4, so that the series is still in
complete, being that of 1,2, 4, and either 5, or 7.
    When this acid is acted on by an alkaline base it is decom
posed, one part passes to the state of nitric acid, and forms a ni
trate, and the other forms a nitrite.      It might be supposed, there -
fore, that one portion of it yields
                                "        oxygen to the other, and that
1
                                   M 4                              thus

 1S4              On the Chemical Constitution           of
   thus a subnitrous acid is formed, which might afford the inter
  mediate proportion.      Nitric oxide gas, however, is disengaged, so
  that there is probably no reduction in the degree of oxygenation.
  And if there were, it would, conformably to the principle illus
  trated under the consideration of sulphuric acid, be replaced by
  the oxygen of the base, and form the ternary compound consti
 tuting the nitrite, so that the relation of this element to the ni
  trogen would be the same.         There is therefore no evidence of
  the existence of any definite compound intermediate between ni
  trous acid and nitric oxide, and the ratio of oxygen in nitrous
  oxide and these two compounds is that of 1, 2, 4.
      The proportion in nitric acid, it has been stated, is that which
  gives the multiple 5 of oxygen. But this applies to what is called
  the real acid free from water, and no such compound exists, not
  even in combination with a base ; for, as has been already shown,
  when an acid yields water from the action of a base, though there
  is thus an abstraction of a portion of its oxygen, it receives that
  of the base, and forms a ternary combination, in which the pro
portion of oxygen to the radical remains the same.
      The real composition, therefore, must be determined in its state
.
  of hydro-nitric acid. The quantity of combined water, according
  to the common expression of the fact, existing in                it,
                                                                has been
  variously   stated
                  ;    but if the  estimate in Dr. Wollaston's   scale of
   0.25 in acid of the specific gravity 1.50 be taken, this gives as
   the composition 10 of nitrogen, with 40 of oxygen and 1-55 of
   hydrogen: and this again gives       7 as the multiple of oxygen in
   the series of compounds, — result which
                                    a            it     scarcely possible
                                                         is
   to connect according to the established law with the multiple                   4,
   in the lower compound, nitrous acid.
   It   is  certain, however, independent of this circumstance, that
   the quantity of water, (or of oxygen and hydrogen equivalent to
   it,) thus assigned,is  not the just proportion, essential to the con
   stitution of the acid   ; for the specific gravity 1.50       not the
                                                                    is
   highest at which       can be procured.            obtained with cer
                                             it It
                      it
                                                 is is
   tainty at 1-55 at 60J,      by
                                some chemists        stated at 1-58, and
 by     Proust even at -62. At 1-50, therefore,
                      1                                  must be diluted
                                                         it
   with a   certain portion in addition  to the real  combined   water of
   the common hypothesis.         Dr. Wollaston has observed, that to
   decompose nitrate of potash so as to afford nitric acid,           ne it   is
   cessary to employ as much sulphuric acid as forms bi-sulphatc of
   potash, and hence each portion of potash from which dry nitric
    acid is separated, will displace the water from two equivalents of
   sulphuric acid.     One of these portions of water,       may be pre
                                                              it
   sumed then, will go as essential to the constitution of the nitric
   acid, or rather .its oxygen and hydrogen will do so       the other
                                                              ;                    is
                                                            adventitious,

                Acids, Alkalis, and their Compounds.              185
adventitious, though from the volatility and facility of decompo
sition of the acid it may not be easily abstracted.
     On this view, the composition of the acid will be found to be
100 of nitrogen, 34 of oxygen, and 0-76 of hydrogen, which gives
6 as the multiple of oxygen to the first proportion of that ele
ment.      The proportion of hydrogen is to the nitrogen as the first
or lowest equivalent, that in ammonia being the third, the former
being 0-76 to 10, the latter to the same quantity of nitrogen 2.3.
     The same view of the composition of hydro-nitric acid may be
inferred from the proportion of oxygen and nitrogen in the dry
nitrates.     In these, as in other analogous cases, the abstraction
of oxygen in the formation of water at their formation is com
pensated by the oxygen of the base ; the metallic radical of the
latter merely replaces the hydrogen of the acid, and the propor
tion of oxygen to the radical of the acid remains the same.
     It thus appears, that the series of the nitrous compounds is
nitrous oxide, nitric oxide, nitrous acid, and nitric acid.       The
oxygen     in  the first is to the nitrogen as 5.7 to 10; and  taking
this first proportion of oxygen as 1, that in nitric oxide is 2, in
nitrous acid 4, and in hydro-nitric acid 6, — a ratio sufficiently
conformable to the law of definite proportions.
     If it were admitted, that the oxygen and nitrogen remaining
after the action of hydro-nitric acid, and anhydrous nitrous acid,
formed binary compounds which entered into direct combination
with the alkali, then from the abstraction of one proportion of
oxygen in the one by the formation of water, and in the other
by the production of nitric acid, compounds would be formed,
intermediate in the former between hydro-nitric and nitrous acid,
and in the latter between nitrous acid and nitric oxide, and thus
the series of the proportions of oxygen of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, would
 be completed. This view, however, is not probable. At the same
time, the relation of these elements in these intermediate pro
portions may exist in other ternary compounds, though they are
not found in binary combination, or in the ternary combinations
 which they form with hydrogen, or with metallic bases.
     The composition of the acids, of which phosphorus is the base,
is so imperfectly determined, and the most recent experimental
 researches are so much at variance in their results, that scarcely
 any satisfactory application of a principle can be applied to them.
 There is some reason to believe, that the three acids which ap
 pear to be of definite composition, the hypo-phosphorous, phos
 phorous, and phosphoric acid, contain oxygen in proportions af
 fording the multiples 1, 2, 4. The intermediate multiple of 3
 is probably to be found in the combination which is established
 of phosphorous acid acting on a base, conformable to the view
 illustrated in the analogous case of sulphurous acid, — the acid
                                                             receiving

 186              On the Chemical    Constitution   of
 receiving the oxygen of the base, and a ternary compound being
  formed, in which the whole oxygen and the radical of the base
  observe the due relation to the radical of the acid.      And from
  the quantity of base which phosphorous acid must saturate, this
  additional proportion of oxygen will be precisely a multiple of
 that with which phosphorus combines.        Phosphoric acid appears
  to be formed in the combustion of phosphorus in oxygen, and must
  therefore be admitted to exist as an insulated binary compound.
 It is further capable, however, of combining, according to the
  common expression of the result, with a definite proportion of
  water, that is, with an additional proportion of oxygen, and with
  hydrogen equivalent to that proportion. The quantity of this
 has been variously' estimated, and does not appear to be very ac
  curately determined ; but it will probably be equal to an addi
  tional multiple of oxygen, that is about 14 in 100, and then the
 series of phosphoric compounds will contain oxygen in the ratio
 of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. If the estimate, however, bv Berthollet and
 Berthier were correct, which makes the quantity of combined
 water equal to 25 in 100, it would be equal to 2 multiples; and
 the series might be 1, 2, 3, 4, 6.       And if phosphorous acid
 does not combine directly with the elements of the alkaline bases,
 but forms, as has been affirmed, partly phosphates, partly phos
 phites, the series will be that of 1, 2, 4, 6, similar to that of the
 nitrous compounds.
     In the muriatic compounds, no regular progression has been
 discovered, considering either muriatic acid, or chlorine, as the
 first of the series. Some such progression may perhaps, however,
 be traced.
     Considering muriatic acid as a compound of a radical with
oxygen, Berzelius has inferred, from the application of the prin
ciple, that the quantity of oxygen in an acid is either equal to,
or a simple multiple of the quantity of oxygen in a base which
it saturates, that it consists of 4 1.632 of radical, and 5S'368 of
oxygen.      This applies, however, to what i3 called the real acid
free from water, a compound, the existence of which is not proved.
Taking the proportion of water, or rather of its elements in hy
dro-muriatic acid into calculation, it gives as the composition
31.224 of radical, 65.851 of oxygen, and 2.925 of hydrogen.
The proportion of oxygen to the radical in oxymuriatic acid is
the same, the only difference between the two being the pre
sence of hydrogen in muriatic acid ; in oxymuriatic acid, there
fore, the proportion is 32- 164 of radical, with 67.836 of oxygen.
The next compound is euchlorine, composed of 100 of oxymu
riatic acid, with 22.26 of oxygen ; this is almost exactly the third
of the former; the relation   is, therefore, that of 3,  4.  Another
gas, which has since been discovered    by   Sir H. Davy, contains a
                                                                much

                               i
                          Acids, Alkalis, and their Compounds.                          187
 much higher proportion, of oxygen, being composed of 100 of
 oxymuriatic acid with 8.0; this is exactly 4 multiples, and gives
 therefore the series of 3, 4, 7.         Hyper-oxymuriatic or chloric
 acid is composed of 100 of oxymuriatic acid with 1 1 1 of oxygen,
 which is another multiple, or 8. It earrnot, however, exist in
 sulated, as Gay-Lussac states, without the presence of water ;
 that     is,   it  ternary compound, containing probably an addi
                     is   a
 tional multiple of oxygen, and thus affording the series of                           3,   4,
7,   9.   If an error of experiment were supposed with regard to
 the second, or euchlorine, so as to have deviated from the mul
 tiple     this would afford
          5,                        series somewhat regular.
                                         a                        But even
.without assuming this,           of importance to find in all these, that
                                    it   is
 the proportions are simple multiples of first quantity.      a    And as
 the relations of carbon to oxygen and hydrogen, in the composi
 tion of the vegetable acids, show the numerous definite propor
 tions in simple multiples in which they combine, so combinations
not more numerous may supply the intermediate multiples in the
 muriatic compounds.
    There         peculiarity in the muriatic compared with the sul
                 is
                 a
 phuric and nitric compounds.           In the latter, there does not exist
any binary compound of the radical with oxygen, in which the pro
portion of the one to the other            the same as the proportion in
                                                    is
which they exist in the ternary compound which they form with
hydrogen.       There       therefore no oxysulphuric or oxynitric acid.
                               is
In hydromuriatic and oxymuriatic acids, the proportion of oxygen
to the radical        the same, and there
                          is                   only in the former an addi
                                                         is
tion of hydrogen.        Hence the apparent peculiarity of oxymuriatic
acid having an excess of oxygen, and the circumstance, that by
an addition of hydrogen              converted into muriatic acid. This,
                                     it   is
however,         not absolutely peculiar to
                 is                                           it,
                                                   and presents therefore
no anomaly.        The same thing holds in the relation of carbonic
and oxalic acids.         In both, the same proportion of oxygen to
carbon exists        the oxalic acid only containing, like the muriatic
                          ;
acid, an addition of hydrogen.           Did hydrogen act with the same
facility  on  carbonic    acid that    does  on oxymuriatic acid, itwould
                                               it
convert        into oxalic acid in the same manner that
                it                                                converts  it
the other into muriatic acid.           And were the attraction of car
bon to metals and inflammables more powerful than                    so as  it   is,
to bring       into ternary combination with them with oxygen, or
                it
its affinity to hydrogen equally strong with that of the radical of
muriatic acid, its action, in apparently imparting oxygen, would
probably be equally energetic as that of oxymuriatic acid.
  The constitution of the alkalis and earths, which have consi          I
dered as ternary compounds of radicals with oxygen and hydro-       "
                                              •           "gen,

1   88                 On the Chemical Constitution              of
gen, will be found to exhibit, in conformity to this view, a per
fect coincidence with the law of proportions.             One or two ex
amples will be sufficient for illustration.
    Potassium, in the proportion of 100 with 20.5 of oxygen, con
stitutes the binary compound denominated dry potash, and which
is probably the first degree of oxidation.                 If,
                                                      in the ternary com
pound, which constitutes the alkali in its common state, fused
potash as  it    named, the additional portion of oxygen
                  is                                                 equal     is
to this, or the whole quantity       twice that in the first, conform
                                      is
able to the usual law of proportions, then the quantity of water
which will be obtained from the subversion of its composition,
and which, according to the common doctrine,                   water com
                                                                      is
bined with the alkali, will be 16 from 100 of the fused potash.
 Now, Berthollet assigned the quantity from experiment at 14,
and Sir H. Davy at from 17 to 19.           The mean of these may be
taken at 16, conformable, therefore, to the theoretical applica
tion.    And this quantity     stated on the authority of Berzelius
                                is
as the precise proportion.       This second proportion of oxygen
seems to be established as an insulated binary compound in com
bination with the radical, as well as in the ternary combination
into which hydrogen also enters,           if    perfectly just, what has
                                                it    is
been asserted, that the excess of oxygen in the product of the
 combustion of potassium in oxygen           expelled
                                                 is         heat. byAnd                  if
 this compound were capable of being acted on                          by
                                                                 hydrogen,
 (which  it can scarcely be doubted        is,) it  would afford another
                                                           it
 perfect analogy to oxymuriatic acid, as by this action              would    it
 be converted into potash, precisely as oxymuriatic acid                the   is    by
 same action converted into muriatic acid.              The facility with
which hydrogen         admitted into the binary compound, so as to
                        is
form the ternary combination,          still greater than the facility
                                           is
 with which   a similar change     produced in oxymuriatic acid, the
                                     is
 addition of water alone producing the effect, converting the per
 oxide of potassium into potash, and liberating of course the cor
 responding excess of oxygen.
    Sodium combines with a larger quantity of oxygen than po
 tassium does     and therefore soda ought (adopting the language
                  ;
of the common doctrine) to contain              larger quantity of com
                                                     a
 bined water, — the water being always proportional to             multiple
 of the oxygen combined with the radical.             The fact     accord   is a
ingly conformable to this, 100 of fused soda affording about 24
of water.
    Barium, on the contrary, combines with less oxygen.
              .                                                          Sir
 H. Davy, from indirect results, infers, that 89.7 of barium com
 bine with 10.3 of oxygen.      In conformity to the law, therefore,
 barytes ought to afford less water, which          accordingly the case,
                                                           is
                                                                       100

                Acids, Alkalis, and their Compounds.                    1   89
100 of hydrate of barytes, as it is named, affording, according
to the estimate of Berthollet, 9 of water, according to that of
Berzelius about 10.5.
    The neutralization of acids and of oxides, by their mutual ac
tion, I have already stated, is probably not merely the result of
combination, but of subversion of composition.               The radical of
the acid,   and  the radical of  the  base,   are in combination    with the
oxygen which remains after the abstraction of any portion of this
element by the formation of water.             And the proportions esta
blished will be found directly conformable to the relations of these
elements.      It has been already shown, (page 186,) that the re
lation of the oxygen in the ternary combination is that which it
separately observes to the radical of the acid, and the relation of
the radical of the alkaline base is that which it also separately
observes to the radical of the acid. And the three elements exist
in simultaneous combination.           So far the constitution is ana
logous to the composition of the ternary acids and bases, with
this difference, that in these the oxygen and hydrogen are in their
respective proportions to the radical of the acid or base, and in the
salts the oxygen and the radical of the base are in their due pro
portions to the radical of the acid.         In the conversion of the one
into the other, there is merely the substitution of the radical of
the base for the- hydrogen of the acid, and the abstraction of that
portion of oxygen with which the former was combined, and the
formation of a portion of water equivalent to this.               In the for
 mation   of a  neutral salt from   the union     of a binary acid, there is
simply the production of a ternarv combination, in which the pro
 portion of oxygen to the radical of the acid is increased by that
of the base.      And the difference in the salts formed by the binary
 and ternary acids of the same radical, is in the quantity of oxy
 gen being a higher multiple in those of the latter than in those
 of the former ; so that the addition or abstraction of that portion
 of oxygen converts the one into the other.
     There is every reason to infer, that in the ternary acids, and
 the ternary alkaline bases, while the due relation of oxygen to the
 radical and of hydrogen to the radical exists, there will be a si
 milar relation in the hydrogen and oxygen to each other. These
 two elements combine only in the proportion of 1 to 7.5.                 But
 there may be other proportions multiples or submultiples of these,
 in which they exert mutual actions, though they do not in con
 formity to them form binary combinations, and they may exist
 under the influence of such actions in ternary combinations.              In
 hydro-sulphuric     acid the   quantity    of  oxygen   in  relation  to the
 hydrogen present is four times the quantity of oxygen which con
 stitutes the composition of water.           And this may be a relation
 actually existing, independent of the others j that          is,   while the
                                                                    oxygen
                            '

 190                On  the Chemical     Constitution   of
oxygen in the proportion in which it is present, acts on the sul
 phur, and the hydrogen acts on the sulphur, the oxygen and hy
 drogen likewise act on each other; and these actions are in
equilibrium consisting the sulphuric acid.          And in all these ter
 nary compounds at least, the elements may exist in these uniform
 relations, instead of any of them being in any case in intermediate
proportions.      In like manner, in the compound salts, the two
radicals, that of the acid and that of the base, will observe their
due relation in proportions to each other.
    In the neutral salts, then, there exists neifher acid nor alkali ;
and their decomposition is merely the transfer of the radical of
the base in the one to the radical of the acid of the other.           The
decomposition, for example, of nitrate of barytes by sulphate of
potash, consists in the transfer of barium to sulphur and oxygen,
and of potassium to nitrogen and oxygen.            The quantities must
be equivalent to each other ; and hence the law of Richter, that
the state of neutralization remains*.
    In the mutual action of acids and salifiable bases with regard
to saturation, the simple rule will be, that in all cases an acid will
saturate that quantity of»a base, the radical of which is in the
equivalent weight to the radical of the acid.           And the quantity
of oxygen in the salt will be that which constitutes the usual pro
portion of that element to the radical of the acid.
    The capacity of saturation in the different acids and bases, in
their reciprocal action, has been proposed as a measure of the
force of affinity which they exert, those acids being inferred to
have the strongest attractions to the salifiable bases, which in the
smallest quantities saturate a given weight of these bases ; and
the same rule being applied to the attraction of the bases to the
acids.     The capacity of saturation, however, depends altogether
on   a different cause, — on the relations of the more remote tle-
ments to each other, and not any direct action of acid and base.
A larger quantity of barytes is necessary to saturate a given weight
of the different acids than of potash, not because barytes has a
weaker action on acids than potash has, but because the com
bining weight of barium is greater than that of potassium, and it
combines, therefore, in larger quantity with the radicals of the
acids ; and conversely, a larger quantity of sulphuric than of car
bonic acid is necessary to saturate a given weight of the different
bases, not because its affinity to them is less powerful,, but be-
   * Under these principles, the laws given by Berzelius with regard to the
quantity of combined water in acids and in bases, and the proportion whicli
the oxygen in an acid bears to the oxygen of an oxide with which it com
bines, which some have regarded merely as empirical, and which others have
denied, are explained. They follow indeed necessarily from the relations in
the combining weights of the elements, when these are considered as in si
multaneous combination.
                                                                     cause

             Acids, Alkalis, and their Compounds.                         191
cause the combining weight of sulphur is higher than that of car
bon.    And were the doctrine of the influence of elective affini
ties, independent of the operation of external forces on chemical
attration, established, barytes would be considered as exerting a
more powerful attraction than potash to sulphuric acid, from the
attraction of barium to sulphur being stronger than that of po
tassium to sulphur.    From the test, however, of the strength of
attraction to be found in the capacity for saturation, the attraction
of potassium must be inferred to be superior to that of barium to
sulphur; and fhe results of double decomposition of what are
called their saline compounds must be ascribed, in conformity to
Berthollet's doctrine, to the influence of the force of cohesion, —
this force acting more powerfully on the ternary compound of
barium, sulphur and oxygen, than on that of potassium, sulphur
and oxygen.     These views apply to ail the other cases of decom
position in saline combinations.
              Supplement      to the preceding    Paper.
  Sir H. Davy    has stated some experiments in opposition to the
evidence of water being procured from the action of muriatic acid
gas on metals*.     On these, as far as they refer to the experi
ments which I executed on this subject-)-, I may take this op
portunity of offering a few observations.
   In passing muriatic acid gas through glass tubes ignited, Sir
H. Davy found water to be deposited, which he ascribes to the
action of the acid on the oxide of lead and the alkali in the glass.
   In passing it through glass tubes containing iron ignited, (the
experiment I had performed) much more water appeared.
                                                              " But
this he ascribes principally to the combination of hydrogen dis
engaged from the muriatic acid gas by the iron, with the oxygen
of the common air." Any one repeating this experiment will
at once be satisfied that this circumstance can have little or
no effect in producing the result. The water does not appear
until the air has been expelled from the tube by the introduction
of the muriatic acid gas; it continues to increase after this, when
no air can be supposed present ; and the whole quantity of air
which the tube could contain, were it even filled with         it,
                                                                 in  is
adequate to afford,       its oxygen, any sensible production of
                         by
water in such an experiment.      The circumstances and result of
the experiment which     Ihave described at page 297 of the Sth
volume of the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh,
in which the air in the tube had been previously expelled       the  by
introduction of the gas, and that described p. 298, in which
      * Philosophical Transactions for1818, Part  I.
    f   Edinburgh Philosophical Transactions, vol. viii. page 287.
                                                                          the
                     i

192                On the Chemical          Constitution   of
the air had been withdrawn from the retort by exhaustion, alto
gether preclude this supposition.          But its utter inadequacy will,
to any    one  taking    the trouble   of  repeating the experiment, be
sufficiently apparent.
  '
    It is stated that, in the action of muriatic acid gas on metals,
hydrogen equal in bulk to half the volume of the gas is produced;
and therefore, it is added, if water had been generated by the
 action of the acid gas on metals, it must have been the chlorine
or the metal, or both, that were decomposed. " But in an ex
periment of passing chlorine gas over ignited iron wire, not the
slightest appearance of moisture was perceptible."
    This argument, in common with some others of Sir H. Davy's
results, may apply with sufficient 'force to those experiments in
 which it is said that water was obtained equal, or nearly so, to
the whole quantity of water which, according to the old doctrine,
is contained in muriatic acid gas; for it is evident that this water
could not have been deposited and hydrogen also evolved.                But
it does not apply to my experiments, in which a small though
very sensible portion of water was obtained ; for in such a case
hydrogen will also be produced, though not to the precise amount
of half the volume. The actual results, therefore, in the parti
 cular form of experiment employed, ought to have been ascer
 tained, instead of a general conclusion being reasoned on, more
 especially when even the general fact is not so clearly established
 that it can be held as demonstrated. The theoretical result no
 doubt  is,  that hydrogen will be evolved equal to half the volume of
 muriatic   acid  gas, since the latter      formed from equal volumes of
                                            is
 hydrogen and chlorine. But circumstances may occur connected
with the experiment, which will modify this. There               is one ob
 vious circumstance of this nature, — that of the absorption of a
 portion of the muriatic acid gas          the muriate formed, — whence,
                                           by
 as the entire quantity of acid       isnot decomposed, the quantity of
 hydrogen produced must,       if     the experiment be accurately per
 formed, appear     less  than  half the  volume. On this point accord
 ingly there   has  been   considerable   diversity of result. Sir H. Davy
 himself at   a  former period, in experiments conducted with much
 care and having no reference to theory, found that the quantity
 of hydrogen evolved from the action of potassium, and of mer
 cury on muriatic acid gas,    is    equal only to about one third of the
 original volum'e of the gas*.         When therefore the conclusion       is
 adopted    as the  ground   of  argument that the quantity     is one half,
 without any allusion to any difficulty in the experiment, any
 source of fallacy attending    it,   or any opposite result having been
 obtained, its inaccuracy, or at least its uncertainty, may be fairly
presumed.     I    had already observed in relation to this point, that
                  * Philosophical Transactions,
                                                1809-10.
                                                                      .-   if

                 Acids, Alkalis, and their Compounds.                          1   93
if the  whole water essential to the acid is decomposed by the ac
tion of the metal, half the volume of hydrogen ought to be ob
tained, muriatic acid gas being composed of equal volumes of
oxymuriatic gas and hydrogen gas; while on the other hand,
                                                                            if
                                            into  union, besides  that form
any additional portion of acid       enter
ing a neutral compound, the water of this will be liberated, and
of course the full proportion of hydrogen will not be obtained.
J  therefore endeavoured to determine whether this is the case or
liot ; and in repeated experiments, in which iron and zinc acted
 on muriatic acid gas, the quantity of hydrogen was always igss-
•than the half ; and on an average, about twelve measures, were
 obtained when thirty measures had been consumed*.                It appears, .
 therefore, that in experiments attended            with  the results I had
 obtained, that      is,when   a portion of water        obtained from the
                                                              is
 action of metals on muriatic acid gas, and                super-muriate
                                                                a                   is
 formed, the quantity of hydrogen evolved              not equal to half the
                                                           is
 volume of the gas consumed            and hence, in reference to these
                                        ;
 experiments     at  least, Sir H.  Davy's attempt to decompose chlo
 rine was very unnecessary, and the want                 of
                                                      success, which      was
                                                                           it
 easy  to anticipate,   affords no argument whatever.
     Muriate of ammonia,      it   stated,
                                   is          not altered
                                                is                  by
                                                                being passed
 through porcelain or glass tubes heated to redness             but ;  metals
                                                                         if
 be present,    itaffords similar results to muriatic acid gas, and the
 water obtained      isascribed to the action of the hydrogen liberated
 from the acid and from the ammonia on the oxide of lead in the
 glass.    In the experiments of which             have given an account
                                                     I
 (Edinburgh Transactions,       vol.  viii. p. 301)    found that exposure
                                                           I
 to heat not so high as that of ignition
    a                                                 not necessary to ob
                                                         is
 tain water from the action of metals or muriate of ammonia; one
 much more moderate, and at which no action on the glass can be
 supposed to be exerted,        issufficient; and accordingly, not the-
 slightest indication of the glass being acted on can be perceived.
 In obtaining, for example, water from a mixture of tin filings and
 muriate of ammonia heated in              retort
                                            a         the gentle heat of a
                                                         by
 small lamp, the retort remains perfectly unaltered, in colour,
 transparency, and lustre.
     These objections, then,       Iregard as of no force; at the same
 time   I do not consider the discussion as of much importance.
 The view which      I   have now proposed of the nature of muriatic
 acid does not rest on any exclusive proof of water being obtained
 from    it,but on other grounds; and            it quite sufficient that
                                                      is                            it
yields water in the same cases of chemical action, in which other
powerful acids,. as the sulphuric, nitric and oxalic, afford             it,
                                                                        while
the sulphurous and carbonic afford none.              The same theory ap
plied to the constitution of the former will fall with every proba-
    *    Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, vol. viii. p. 307-
Vol. 54. No. 257. Sept. 1819.                                 N                bility

194             Remarks on Madeira,           Climate    of'
                                                         I     fie   Tropics,
bility to be applied to that of muriatic acid; and whatever supe
riority may belong to         it,
                             this will be applied to both.     The
question, therefore, deserves attention only on the principle, that
in chemical investigations        always of importance to adhere
                                    it   is
rigidly to the observation and strict expression of a fact, whe
ther  it    conformable to
           is                prevalent doctrine or not, or whether
                               a
it admits of obvious explanation or not, on any established law.
In numerous experiments on muriatic acid gas have always ob     I
tained water in small but very sensible quantity, where its pro
duction, am satisfied, cannot be accounted for from any of the
           I
extraneous sources to which         has been attempted to refer it.
                                        it
And certainly shall not refrain from maintaining what
     I                                                        regard          I
as the strict expression of an experimental result; at the same
time, in the experiments at present refered to, the formation of a
supermuriate affords a principle, which, as     have already stated,
                                                         I
sufficiently accounts for the fact.
XXXIII.    Remarks on Madeira, Climate       the Tropics, Trade-
                                                         of
   Winds, Rio Janeiro, the Polar Ice, &c. Extractedjrom Jour,                     a
  nal kept    John Hammet, M.D. Surgeon R.N., in Voyage
                 by                                                           a
 Jrom England to Rio Janeiro. Communicated        Dr. Pearson.       by
                          [Concluded from p. 117.]
On     the 23d of January we left Rio Janeiro, sine privilegio
regali minime gentium, in order to proceed to Ribeira in the
district of Ubatuba, to take in our lading of timber, the last
granted perhaps for many years to come, and anchored at        P.M.               7-
of Monday the 25th in four fathoms,         little round
                                                     a    biangular       a
projection to the left in Sharks' Bay.     Between Rio de Janeiro
and the village of Ubatuba the land      in general bold and high,
                                                is
abounding with impendent precipices above*, and rugged decli
vities between these and naked rocks half buried in the sea be
low; but between Ubatuba and the village of St. Sebastian, on
the main land and opposite the island of the same name,            a              it   is
continued series of bays, of various sizes and forms, running in
different directions. — The m\v$\olcr§oio; bu\a.(rvra, so accordant
to the venerable Chryses' or our own reverend vicar's feelings,                             is
outdone      the loud surges of the multitudinous billows of the
                by
Southern Ocean rolling and dashing in succession with the
greatest impetuosity and violence against the long and level sandy
beaches in this part of the Brasils.
    The short sail from Rio de Jaueiro to Ribeira was certainly
                                    .   Rupes et acuta letho
                          Saxa."
                                                                                pleasant

           Trade- Winds, Rio Janeiro, the Polar Ice, &c.             195
 pleasant in the extreme.          The fragrance of the vegetable crea
 tion of South America is well known, and its influence I must
 for my own part say I experienced, owing to the moderate breezes
 that prevailed, the pleasantuess of the weather, and our proximity
 to the land.      In consequence of the number of bays along this
 coast, we had occasion on our passage to anchor for a while be
 tween the islands of Victoria and Briseas in this direction, in or
 der to ascertain the situation of the bay to which we were bound.
 The whole of these circumstances were calculated to excite cheer
 fulness, and conspired to remind me of that beautiful simile of
 Milton's, in the fourth book of his Paradisus Perditus, so well
 known to the Jesuits in Du Halde's time :
         "               As when to them who sail
           Beyond the Cape of Hope, and now are past
           Mozambic, off at sea north-east winds blow
           Sabean odours from the spicy shore
           Of Araby the blest ; with such delay,
           Well-pleased they slack their course, and many a league
           Cheer d icith the grateful smell old Ocean smiles."
     There certainly is in this part of the Brasils much left yet for
 the patient research of the botanist and naturalist : — Here are
 still on every side, as well as back in the mountains, woods *
             "  Where the rude axe with heaved stroke
                Was never heard the nymphs to daunt,
                Or fi-ight them from their hallow'd haunt   ;"
 or, in reality, where ounces, sloths, black tigers, guanicos, and
.non-descript animals range at large, without molestation and
 without danger ; and whence the ravenous ouraboos instinctively
 wing fheir way in flights, into distant plains, to devour dead ani
 mals and every species of carrion that otherwise would tend to
 render the air pestiferous.         Of these, the low swampy tracts are
 more particularly the abode of the syrakoora, the natural enemy
 of noxious insects ; the [range de agua and tesovra, unobservant
 of each other, keep in those parts near the water, and occasionally
 frequent marshy places ; the synarnloo is more accustomed to
 excursion than to aerial flights ; and the wild rnakook and shy
 and rare jakoo keep exclusively to woods situate on hills and
 mountains.      Besides various others of a novel and singular na
 ture, there are many hitherto unknown, which from their solitary
 abodes, circumspective habits, and instinctive dread of ruthless
 man, are likely to continue so for generations yet to come. In
 these also are insects of all hues and kinds ; some as beautiful
 as they are harmless, and some as insidious as they are venomous.
                          *             Ut mihi devio
                             liipas et vacuum nemus
                            Mirari libet."
                                        N  2                       Here

 196       Remarks on Madeira, Climate        of the Tropics,
 Here also the beetles act in stunning concert at night, while the
 creeping things hurtful and unhurtful venture out with impunity
 and in safety.
     We departed from Sharks' Bay on Tuesday the 23d of Febru
 ary at 5 A.M., and at 7 P.M. the same day anchored opposite
 Villa Velha Princessa, in the island of St. Sebastian, in seventeen
 fathoms, in the channel between it and the main land, or terra
Jirma, as the Portuguese- Brasilians very properly term it. In
 this place, which is remarkable for thunder and lightning, we
 witnessed a violent thunder-storm on the second night after our
 arrival. Here we completed our lading, and took our departure
 from it for Rio de Janeiro on Friday the 12th of March at 10
 A.M., at which we again arrived on Friday the 19th of the same
 month at noon, and finallv- left it for England on Saturday the
 24th of April at 6 A.M.        We crossed the equator in 20° 30'
 west longitude, in the first watch (at night) of Saturday the 22d
 of May; on which day at noon the temperature was, with mo
 derate breezes from the S.W.,at 86° : and on Sunday the 30th,
 in 3° 26' north latitude and 18° 54' west longitude, it was, with
 light and variable airs at noon, up to 94, the highest that I re
 marked it between the tropics on our way out and home this
 voyage; We crossed the tropic of Cancer in 36° 15' west longi
 tude, between 9 and 10 at night, the 16th of June, on which
 day, at noon, the temperature was, with lowering dense clouds
 and fresh easterly breezes, only at 76, notwithstanding the ver
 tical position of the sun at the same time. And between the
 tropic at this meridian and the unusual extent of the trade-winds
 to the parallel of 44° north and the meridian of 38 west, this
 month (as already stated) the temperature was only between 77
 and 72: — so unstable are the elements, that Bacon might well
                                                       "
 cry out in his sounding and emphatic gerunds — non fingen-
 dum, aut excogitandum, sed inveniendum, quod nalura facial
 out feral." At 72° we all at first thought it extremely cool ; a
 proof that animal sensation, depending, as it entirely does, on
 previous susceptibility, that is continually varied by every passing
 influence, has little relation in the admeasurement of the absolute
 matter of heat. Between this and the latitude of 42° 23' north
 and longitude 2S°56'jyest, to which we arrived on the 2d of
 July at noon, the temperature was, with prevailing breezes from
 the southward, between 73 and 69 ; and between this and the
 latitude of 45° 51' north and 16° 40' west, to which we arrived
 on the 6th of July at noon, the temperature was, with prevailing
 breezes from the northward, between 60 and 56 ; and from this
 to the soundings in Channel, to which we have just arrived, the
  10th of July, after a tedious passage of eleven weeks, it has been,
 with prevailing breezes from the westward, and with an appa
                                                               rently

           Trade-Winds,    Rio Janeiro, the Polar Ice, &c.       197
rently frosty sky and foggy weather, rather higher.      The degree
of temperature,   as mentioned here, is to be referred to the time
between the hours of eight and eight in the day. These are only
a few of the innumerable instances of the extraordinary muta
bility of temperature, to which not only sea-faring men but
sea-faring patients, in traversing distant seas, are in general ex
posed.
    On the 17th, ISth, and particularly the 19th of June, while
near the tropic, and a little to the westward and eastward of
36° 15' west longitude, we fell in with considerable detached
pieces of sea-weed, resembling a small white kind of berry, that
must have made their way with the current drifting in this di
rection out of the Gulf of Florida.
    While near the equator on our return, and as far as 1 8 west
longitude and 7° 45' north latitude, there were incessant torrent's
of rain with prevailing calms and occasional squalls ; among
 which was remarked the grain blanc, formerly noticed by the in
genious and unfortunate French circumnavigator.        To steer clear
of these tremendous and highly sickening torrents, it is necessary
to cross the equator on the western side of, at least, its 25th de
gree, in the same direction ; because, as the sea-breeze, occa
sioned by the dry and heated continent of Africa, springs up at
an immense distance from the land, and the trade-winds com
mence in the same or contiguous parts, the atmosphere, from its
being thus drained or attenuated, suffers an incessant or instan
taneous descent of the vapours or clouds continually going on or
occasionally impelled thither from the remoter parts.
    In the horizons of these trackless regions are still to be seen
slave ships stealiug along to-tbe Portuguese, French and Spanish
settlements, notwithstanding all that has been said and done
concerning this iniquitous and infernal traffic.     On Sunday the
6th of June, at about nine at night, in 7° 25' north latitude and
23° 16' west longitude, we fell in with, and detained until about
the same hour the following morning, the Roger (French slave-
ship) from Havre de Grace, having 230 negroes on board, con
sisting of men, women and children, and bound from the river
 Gabon to Havana, or the island of St. Thomas.          She was out
48 days, lost her reckoning, was considerably short of water; all
her crew but three affected with a malignant ophthalmia, and
the hapless creatures devoted to slavery like to have their fate
averted in the successive deaths, that daily or frequently occurred,
in consequence of confinement, and, as I was informed, priva
tions in the mere common necessaries of subsistence, which, for
 the honour of human nature, I hope was not the case.         At any
rate, three of their dead bodies were committed to the deep early
 in the above morning of our separation. — Surely' those barbarous
                                 N 3                              and

 198         Remarks on Madeira, Climate            of the  Tropics,
 and speculating; agents, who dare risk imperfect and uncertain
 equipments of this kind, are guilty of the manifold crime of wil
 ful murder. — Finding that my services were not solicited on this
 calamitous occasion, and learning that the person in the capacity
 of surgeon on board her was almost entirely blinded with the
 disorder, I could not refrain from officiously proffering both my
 advice and assistance.          This unfortunate man, and the master
 of the vessel, I found in despair on account of their malady, which,
 with that of all but three of the crew, who were, as I have just
 stated, similarly affected, seemed to me to be of a highlyinveterate
 and formidable nature, owing chiefly to their having no saturnine
 or astringent collyria, or, in fact, efficient applications of any kind,
 and otherwise to imperfect and consequently to ineffective treat
 ment, which consisted simply of ablutions with cold water ap
 plied with dirty rags, and the application of blisters to the nape
 of the neck alone. — Respecting the history of this affection, I
 could learn nothing further, than that it broke out in one or two
 of the men just before the vessel left the river; and in conse
 quence of confinement from the heavy and protracted falls of
 rain, and the consequent want of ventilation and cleanliness,
 and, in all probability,          a similarity of predisposition       among
 the crew, it continued rapidly to spread and to increase in inve
 teracy; which, under those circumstances, induces me to suppose
 it infectious or contagious, or infectious and contagious, and as
 such to be dreaded and avoided.              Here it is necessary to state,
 that under existing circumstances the Coromandel could not well
 detain this vessel, at such an immense distance from any port as
 that implied.
     During the intervals of our having remained at Ribeira and
 the island of St. Sebastian, the sick-list contained between 15 and
 18 on an average.          The disorders were chiefly inflammatory fe
vers, and infectious dysenteries.             Much the greater part of the
 timber was lodged in an angular recess round the projection al
 ready mentioned, as situate to the left of Sharks' Bay, a place
 entirely shut in from the sea-breeze ; so that in addition to this
 circumstance, if there be considered the nature of the duty itself
 under a vertical sun, requiring an immersion of one half of the
body, and likewise, from its plenty and cheapness, the free use of
 the agoar dente de cana, or de cachaca*, and the consequent
improvident exposure of the body, by night as well as by day,
    * Tills ia almost, as
                          indigestible as the koumis of the Baschkirs in Asiatic
Russia, specified in your (Dr. Pearson's) Lectures, Sir ; for as the one, from
its indigestible' and stimulating nature, retains a considerable share of its
                                                         "
inebriating properties after it takes a '* north-east      passage through the
system, so does the other remain in some instances little changed after it
takes a " north-west" course through it.
                                                                         under

            Trade-Winds,    Rio Janeiro, tke Polar Ice,  &c.       199
 under a highly and peculiarly influencing atmosphere, notwith
 standing the strictest attention to the judicious regulations in
 these respects, the prevalence of these disorders will not appear
 at all wonderful.    There were, I am happy to inform you, no
 deaths ; on the contrary, from prompt and active treatment, and
 the favourable circumstance of a clean ship with large port-holes
 admitting every possible degree of ventilation her position would
 admit, the fever patients became convalescent in about eight
 days, and the dysenteric patients in about a fortnight or three
 weeks at most.
    In reference to my mode of treating dysentery, you will find
 it sufficiently exemplified in the subsequent part of these obser
 vations and reflections ; and in relation to my treatment of in
 flammatory fevers, I will freely confess to you, that it was on the
 Sangradian principle, inasmuch as it implies promptitude in san
 guineous evacuations, and unrestraint in the use of tepid drinks;
 with this difference, however, that the drinks administered by me
 were of a starchy nature, or of composing and refreshing virtues,     .
 and were intended, in the first instance, to. promote the speedy
 effects of drastic, remedies exciting the peristaltic action of the
 glandular and seriferous extreme vessels in the internal coats .of
 the intestines.
    On this occasion, I cannot, by the way, refrain from remarking
that Le Sage's account of Sangrado is not so much a lampoon,
a caricature, or a satire, as it is a gross and scandalous libel
against the faculty in general.     This, I think, is fully evinced in
his invectives throughout the whole of his justly, celebrated Gil
Bias, in the evidently falsified statement of deaths, occasioned
not by him alone, but by physicians in general, that could be
written with the view only of dishonouring the profession, and in
the opprobrious epithet bestowed on the ostensible personage in
that work, his object of attack on every possible occasion.         As
the Spaniards are remarkable for native intellect, it is not un
reasonable to suppose that Sangrado, perhaps, was some great
and original genius, whose conspicuity of character alone subjected
him to the libellous denunciation so artfully displayed by this
writer, notwithstanding his prefatory asseveration to the contrary,
and to which he could have been incited only by the prevailing
ignorance or prejudice of the times ; a prejudice that pervaded
even the monastic orders of both sexes, among whom an un
willingness to admit any of the laity, however qualified, to inspect
into their complaints, or to administer to their relief, was inva
riably manifested ; since with Le Sage's libel, in many instances
notoriously ludicrous, not a few of the monks of that time vainly
cooperated with their stillborn censure ; whose motives are con
ceivable, but may not be expressed.
                                N 4                        Cervantes,

200         Remarks on Madeira,          Climate    of the  Tropics,
     Cervantes, Fielding, Marivaux, and Smollet, the superiors in
my humble opinion of Le Sage, have shown better judgements
on this head. Smollet, who on more accounts than one was the
best qualified in this respect, saw the proper openings for satire,
 admirably entered into and traced them.
    That first-rate broker of episodes, however highly gifted he
was to retail to the world the wiles and hypocrisy of common
life, open alike to all mankind, was certainly unqualified to dive
into the mysteries of the medical profession, or to decry its pro
fessors.     Le Sage, not having studied and practised physic him
self,  could   be in nowise authorized to judge of the unfitness of
evacuations, or to infer death as their necessary consequence.
This principle is finely enforced by numerous writers of the highest
rank, and by none more than by Homer, Horace, Pope, and
 Goldsmith, who, in particular, with his usual naivete inveighs
 against Peter the Great, and Locke, notwithstanding the powers
of his mind, and his partial attention to physic, for meddling with
the principles of a profession that can be radically learned only
by a knowledge of matter and nature in general, and by an inti
mate acquaintance with the living and dead subject in every
stage and in every state.            It is however well known that Le
 Sage lived to recant what he had said in dispraise and derision
 of a profession coeval with fallen man, and whose genuine pro
 fessors have been ever honoured by the first writers and charac
 ters of every age and country, on account of their indispensable
 utility, and who, in the opinion of Swift *, should not only take
 precedence of doctors of the canon or civil law, but should be
 ranked in the first classes of the community, instead of the lower
 order of nobility, as is on extraordinary occasions the case.
     People living in a state of mere nature will experience the
 wants and dependencies of man, and privations will necessarily
 prevail m all colonies at first. In those parts of the Brasils where
 I have been, they seemed to want the skill, or require the means,
 necessary to render the mandible produce of the soil most con
 ducive to digestion, or, strictly speaking, to chymification, chyli-
 fication, sanguification, and assimilation.           Their staple article of
 food is farinha, a coarse meal made from the root of the man-
 dioca or casada plantf. It is made use of simply in its dry state
 with water, after or on being mixed up in a decoction of fish,
                                                                         which
    * One of the three original writers in modern times, according to Voltaire.
 Again, the curious reader can find what Blackstone has said in praise of
 medical men. Thus we perceive a first-rate doctor of the canon law avow
 edly, and a first-rate doctor of the civil law indirectly, yielding the palm of
 greastest honour to the genuine medical professors.
    .f Each family that I happened to notice has a handmill, with which the
 root, on being well scraped and washed, is ground ; after which it is pressed
                                                                             and

          Trade- Winds, Rio Janeiro, the Polar Ice, &c.                     201
which together commonly constitute their principal meal. The
middle sort, however, make use also of feijao or black beans,
and occasionally fowl, &c. with agoar dente as a corrective.
Their breakfast generally consists of Jarinha and coffee. At any
rate, it must be partly owing to the nature of the food made use
of, or to the manner of dressing         it,
                                     as well as to the nature of the
climate, that scarcely an individual    to be met with, who
                                               is                not  is
affected with some of the prominent symptoms ostensive of dys
pepsia, and that    far the greater number of the inhabitants are
                     by
variously and grievously affected.    Persons who live in solitude
will find the ravaging effects of disease, particularly within or
near the torrid zone —
                  "             sub curru nimium propinqui
                  Soils, in terra domibus negata.''
For this reason, and in order to exclude misery from such, his
favourite state, the inimitable St. Pierre, in one of the most ex
quisite paintings that the love of nature and of virtue ever in
spired, has not forgotten to particularize the use of medicine.
   Here the inhabitants have, or pretend to have, high opiniona
of English physicians, which, with the remoteness of Rio Janeiro
arid San Paulo, the nearest places where medical men of any
description can be found, caused such as were diseased to flock
from all the contiguous parts to the ship, for cure or relief so          ;
that     may be allowed to say concerning the diseases of these
         " haud inexpertus loquor."
     I
parts, —
 I   have often admired that excellent passage in Shakspeare's
works, so remarkable for its physical justness, viz.
         "                           Life,
                                              a breath thou art,
             Servile to all the skyey infiuew.es,
             That do this habitation where thou keep'st
             Hourly afflict."
         "                    Thou art not certain  ;
             For thy complexion shifts to strange effects,
             After the moon."
   From this last paragraph, in particular,      am led to remark
                                                        I
that diseases have of late been very generally referred to        su   a
perficial or first-sight doctrine of induction alone    and     local
                                                                  ;   a
modification, without any due regard to what produces             has it,
been as generally considered the sole exciting cause.      Thus Dr.
Parr of Exeter, in his remarks on the influence of the heavenly
bodies, states, that diseases may be referred to causes less remote.
and washed, in order to extract a poisonous juice from      and. then put into
                                                            it,
a kind of kiln and dried. — In the liquor, which runs through in the press, a
sediment forms, which, on being washed and levigated, constitutes the well
known tapioca.
                                                                            For

 202        Remarks on Madeira, Climate       of the Tropics,
 For my own part, I really wonder how       a man  of his vast medical
 lore, and extensive erudition, could possibly     hazard  such an il
 logical assertion, when, in nine instances out of ten, those causes
 are manifestly consequences depending on, or connected with,
 those remote ones. Dr. James. Johnson, again, an eminent surgeon
 in the navy, and a gentleman entitled to great praise and respect
 on account of his industry, abilities, and services, attacks Dr.
 Mosely omnibus nervis suis for his Canidian doctrine of lunar
influence.    Had Dr. Mosely, however, been only attacked here,
he certainly would have proved invulnerable. — Shades of Boer-
haave, of Mead, of Arbuthnot, and of the Gregorys! your doc
 trines are decried, and about to be exploded, not by such men
 as these alone, but by others, who cannot trace the synthetic
 links of the great chain of atmospheric influence, through causes
 and effects, and who seem to grope and tread in thorny confu
sion, and finally, with vexatious disappointment, to look up and
 exclaim against the goodly tree. What, in the name of science,
 are the seasons of the year, and the morning and the evening,
 and the noon and night, of the diurnal period, but modifica
tions of the sun's influence on the atmosphere and earth, ac
                                                                        '
 cording to the particular positions of the latter in the ecliptic,
and (notwithstanding      any abrupt assertions to the contrary)
more or less varied by the influence of the moon, according to
her relative positions in conjunction and opposition, and in pe-
rigcRO and apogcso, in her intricate motion through her zigzag*
orbit?    For the truth of the varied difference of animal sensation,
from the particular state of the weather induced by the influence
of the heavenly bodies, I could, in point of evidence, appeal even
to the feelings of the wandering Tartar or apathetic Indian ;
hut, authorized as I am, in so clear a case, to judge and decide,
I will simply state that there is no patient, valetudinarian, or
person of sensibility, who has not, in a high degree, experienced
gladdening and depressing sensations from the vicissitudes of the
seasons and the changes of the weather; and that these are only
modified states of the atmosphere, by which, from the conjunct
influence of the sun, moon, and earth, we live and breathe and get
our being. — Concerning planetary influence, as it is, in a medi
cal sense, certainly too remote, I have nothing to offer; and shall
leave it to the votaries of horoscopes, and to the admirers of the
celebrated Dr. Dee, and Farquhar's inimitable astrologer,, who
placed, with such dexterous aptitude,       "  Forceps, Furnes, Dix-
mude, Namur, Brussels, and Charleroy," among the constella
tions in the zodiac, there to remain as long as any placed by the
   *  What honours are due to the memory of Mayer and Euler, as well as
Newton and La Pluce, on this head!
                                                               learned

          Trade-Winds,            Rio Janeiro, Ike Polar Ice, &c.                      203
learned   Dr. Halley, or by Ovid, or any of the poets of antiquity,
elsewhere   beyond the Goat and Crab.
    Ludicrous digressions apart:                 It    is,
                                                however, certain that every
 climate, and every change in              it,
                                         has  its specific and relative in
 fluence on man     ;  and thus       itthat every place has its endemic
                                           is
 or prevailing diseases, favoured, however,                      by
                                                         accidental and local
 circumstances.       In England, for instance, the density of the at
 mosphere, the prevailing humidity, and occasional siccity of                              it,
 and the mutability of temperature, are the exciting causes to
 rheumatisms, asthmas, catarrhs, and pulmonary disorders, so
 prevalent iu     it,
                    and that afterwards, on their occurrence, prove
 inimical to their cure. On the contrary, in climates intensely
 hot, as Rio de Janeiro, and those parts of the Brasils already
 mentioned, the atmosphere               remarkable for its tenuity, its
                                           is
 mildness, and its comparative inequality of temperature; and
 these disorders,       it  true, rarely take place, unless in extraor
                             is
 dinary instances of exposure by night, or unless among the Ne
 groes, who go about almost naked in the sun, and in this state
 at night stretch their fatigued bodies on the damp ground. —
 Again, that gloom or heaviness of the mind, which so frequently
 seeks refuge in self-destruction in England,               in those climates
                                                                      is
utterly  unknown.         That  starting   from    sleep, peculiar to melan
cholic  serious  or  irritable  minds, and common in cold, moist, and
heavy atmospheres, and the occasional intrusion, at the same
moment, of horrid anxiety for one's own or family's condition,
or of the varied " dreadful thought" of " eternity," are also, in
a   physical sense, unknown.                It true that in those climates
                                                      is
the mind     is notoriously    influenced                  by
                                                  the languor of the body                  ;
still equanimity prevails      amid  the  depression of the spirits, and
the mind has nothing of that northern dejected and repulsive, or
compassionated cast, alluded to, about it.               Hence we perceive,
that although in such climates as the Brasils the mind                  liable    is
to, and does actually suffer, amid the prevalence of a variety
of diseases, and particularly of dyspepsia, from the manifest
nervous connexion between the stomach and brain, through the
medium chiefly of the par vagum and nerrius sympatheticus
maximus; we however perceive, that                  moist, dense and cloudy
                                                             a
atmosphere alone has            peculiar influence on the mind per se,
                                  a
through the sympathetic and immediate agency of the nervous
system, and more particularly the primary source of                         it,
                                                                   the brain.
But then, on the other hand, as have just intimated, the Brasi-
                                           I
lian climates are notorious for the prevalence of the whole train
of symptoms constituting the disease of dyspepsia, and all those
diseases connected with the glandular system; — for torpor, con
gestions or infarctions, as well as inflammation of the liver — for               ;
                                                                           elephantiasis
                                                                                       ;

204      Remarks on Madeira,       Climate      of the Tropics, tsfc.
elephantiasis; erysipe!atous«legs ; every species of caligo ; hypo
gastric morbid tumours, long before and after the final menstrual
cessation; swelled testes, chiefly spermatocelesin the first instance;
and particularly for bringing on, with occasional circumstances
unconnected with contagion, the disease of dysentery ; on which
accounts, and its not being, as is commonly erroneously imagined,
                                        I
propagated from person to person, have considered it infectious,
not contagious. — Here, admitting for a moment that the disease
of dysentery is contagious and not infectious, as is commonly
supposed to be the case in camps and ships, and that it broke
out among twelve persons there, and that the twelfth received
it from the eleventh, and the eleventh from the tenth, and so on,
until the second received it from the first: how did it arise in him?
Is it from to Oelov of Hippocrates ? In short, our definitions of it
are erroneous ; and this quid pro quo is frequently nothing more
than a similarity of predisposition amongjbodies congregated to
gether, which subjects each to the same atmospheric influence.
But to return. — Again, in high temperatures not mutable, infec
tious influences prevail, and diseases are produced in consequence
of the stagnant effluvia, which necessarily exist in such a state,
and in consequence of the concurring agency of electricity in the
same. Thus, in places remarkable for the plague*, a high tem
perature is generally known to prevail, without any evident change
in it, while, at the same time, the silent and morbific agency of
electricity can be obviously traced; so that, in     physical as well
                                                        a
as in a  moral sense,
               "   Heaven's just balance equal will appear."
   From the whole of what has been just stated,        may be briefly
                                                          it
inferred, that the former     inimical chiefly to the thoracic, and
                              is
the latter to the abdominal viscera      and that persons affected
                                            ;
with any of the thoracic complaints prevalent in England or
similar climates, particularly tubercles and vomice, are, from the
dangerous influence of the torrid climates, also liable to become af
fected with fevers, diarrhoeas, and more especially with dysente
ry, which above all will not fail to aggravate the former, and in
many instances fatally.
   * Epidemics of this nature can only get birth in northern or southern
climes, under the circumstance of an incidentally high temperature, favoured
by local and other circumstances   ;as in the particular instance of the ra
vaging plague in London   ; of which we have a fictitious account by the in
genious author of Robinson Crusoe, who,          appears, could, like Cowley
                                                it
and Hawkeswcrth, deal out fiction better by wholesale, than plain matter of
fact by retail.
                                                               XXXIV. Ob-

                                          [   205   ]
XXXIV.       Observations on certain free Remarks by Mr. Farey
     published in the last Number of the Philosophical Magazine.
     By G. B. Greenough, Esq.
                                     To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, —      In the last Number of your Magazine, Mr. Farey com
plains with justice that a passage, extracted from his Agricultural
Report of Derbyshire, is, in a work which I have lately published,
ascribed, not to its real author, but to Mr. Hutchinson.           I am
sorry for the error, and still more that, not being previously in
formed of      it,
                 Ihave had no opportunity of cancelling till now the
leaf that contained it.      To say that the error was unintentional,
is  scarcely necessary.     This must be obvious to every one who
does not consider me destitute of common sense as well as com
mon honesty.
    That   I ascribe to Mr. Hutchinson the words of Mr. Farey,               is
however not my only offence.           am accused of not ascribing to
                                              I
Mr. Farey the discovery* of Mr. Hutchinson. am accused also  I
of not quoting books which had not read. Both these charges,
                                          I
like the former, are perfectly just.
    Your correspondent considers me, in common with many other
persons, actuated          feelings of hostility towards Mr. Smith.
                              by
Now my feelings towards that gentleman are directly the reverse.
I  respect him for the important services he has rendered to geo
logy, and    I esteem him for the example of dignity, meekness,
modesty, and candour, which he continually, though ineffectually,
exhibits to his self-appointed champion.
    In the work of Dr. Lister, entitled Hisloria Animalivm An-
glice,       passage which      have alluded but not referred to, " for
          is
          a                          I
reasons,"      it said,
                    is  " best known to myself."     Your Correspon
dent has discovered this passage, notwithstanding         all the pains
I  took to conceal       and, being in Latin, has got
                             it,                             translated
                                                                 it
by a gentleman whom, with a proper sense of gratitude for the
service conferred upon this occasion, he characterizes as learned     a
naturalist and kind friend.        That he     a kind friend
                                                        is       readily
                                                                      I
believe; for, not content with misconstruing the last clause in the
sentence, he does not construe at all the words iC at perpetuo,"
by   far the most important of any, as affecting the question at
issue. The question                is,
                             whether Lister did or did not perceive a
connexion between the small belemnite and the bed which con-
     * In your Magazine, vol. xlii. p.
                                     107, Mr. Farey, referring to the case of
faults deranging the strata beneath, but without a corresponding step or cliff
appearing on the surface, informs U3 that this fact was first pointed out by
Mr. John Hutchinson     in your last Number he says " Mr. Greenough well
                         ;
knows that in 1806    made the important discovery."
                         I
                                                                          tains

206                    A new        Theory        of Galvanism.
tains it. The original passage         " Kunc lapidem (viz. the be-
                                                  is,
lemnite)plurimis in locis apud nos quam copiosissime inveni at                       ;
perpeiuo   terra, rubra ferrea sive ea mollior glela sive saxea sit."
            in
Now follows the translation " This stone found very abundantly
                                         :                    is
 in many places among us in a red ferruginous earth, either in-
 softer or more stony masses."
     In one of my Essays have mentioned the name of Mr. Martin
                                I
 first, and that of Mr. Smith afterwards, to the great displeasure
 of my commentator, who thinks           should have mentioned the
                                                  I
 name of Mr. Smith first, and that of Mr. Martin afterwards for                     ;
 what reason am utterly at a loss to imagine, unless, because in
                 I
 reading the passage my commentator has overlooked the words
 " at an early period," as his friend has overlooked the " at per-
petuo."     I really feel obliged to one, who,         questioning myin
fairness, affords so characteristic    specimen of his own.
                                                  a
     In the same volume      have adduced my reasons for doubting
                                I
the intimate and invariable connexion which has been said to
exist between contemporaneous strata and their fossils.            Mr.
Farey,    an advocate  for that connexion, which he maintains was
first laid down         Mr. Smith, does not undertake to prove
                           by
its correctness he contents himself with assuming it. But as
                  ;
the assumption of a contested fact          apt to imply, not the ab
                                                        is
sence of doubt, but the absence of evidence,         am somewhat cuI
rious to be informed how far Mr. Farey's theory on this subject
is  borne out    his experience. He has examined Derbyshire with
                 by
very laudable industry; will he take the trouble to mention, what
the fossils are,      by
                     which he    enabled to distinguish the different'
                                         is
limestones in that county, or the different sandstones, or the dif
ferent shales    ? There will be time to discuss the originality of
the doctrine when its truth      established.
                                         is        its truth cannot be
                                                               If
established,     beg very respectfully
                 I                       to  ask Mr.   Farev, whether
he can hope to exalt the character of his teacher          proving him       by
the first discoverer of that which does not exist                        ?
                           am, sir, your obedient servant,
                                I
                                                                   G. B. Grhenough.
XXXV. A new     Theory     Galvanism, supported
                                    of                some Expe              by
  riments and Observations made      means       the Calorimotor,
                                                        by          of
    new Galvanic Instrument also,
     a                                new Mode
                                             ;       decomposing
                                                         a                   of
  Potash extemporaneously.     Read before the Academy of Na
  tural Sciences, Philadelphia. By Robert Hare, M.D. Pro
 fessor of Chemistry in the Medical Department of the Univer
  sity of Pennsylvania, and Member     sever ul Learned Societies.
                                                         of
I   have for some time been of opinion that the principle ex
tricated by the Voltaic pile   compound of caloric and elec
                                             is
                                             a
                                                                                  tricity,

                               A    new Theory          of Galvanism.                        207
tricity, both being original and collateral products of Galvanic
action.
    The grounds of this conviction, and some recent experiments
 confirming       it,
                 are stated in the following paper.
  It   iswell known that heat        liberated                   by
                                                   Voltaic apparatus, in
                                                   is
a manner and degree which has not been imitated                   means of            by
 mechanical electricity     and that the latter, while
                                    ;                          strikes at a      it
greater distance, and pervades conductors with much greater
speed, can with difficulty be made to effect the slightest decom
              Wollaston,         true, decomposed water           means of
                                                                                      a by
positions.                              it   is
it; but the experiment was performed of necessity on scale too
minute to permit of his ascertaining, whether there were any di«
vellent polar attractions exercised towards the atoms, as in the
 case of the pile.    The result was probably caused           mechanical        by
concussion, or that process                        by
                                      which the particles of matter are
 dispersed when      battery
                          a      discharged through them. The opi
                                              is
nion of Dr. Thomson, that the fluid of the pile                    quantity      is   in
greater, in intensity less, than that evolved            the machine,    by                   is
very inconsistent with the experiments of thechemist above men
tioned, who, before he could effect the separation of the elements
of water         by
               mechanical electricity, was obliged to confine its
emission to      point imperceptible to the naked eye.
                      a                                             already            If
so highly intense, wherefore the necessity of         further concentra
                                                                  by a
tion?   Besides, were the distinction made            Dr. Thomson cor
rect, the more concentrated fluid generated
                                                                       by
                                                          Galvanic appaa
ratus of great many small pairs, ought most to resemble that of
            a
the ordinary electricity; but the opposite           the case.     The
                                                                  is                         ig
nition produced                by
                          few large Galvanic plates, where the in
                                    a
tensity     of course low,
            is                      result most analogous to the che
                                             is   a
mical effects of a common electrical battery.           According to my
view, caloric and electricity may be distinguished by the follow
ing characteristics.     The forrner permeates all matter more or
less, though with very different degrees of facility.              radiates           It
through air, with immeasurable celerity, and, distributing itself
in the interior of bodies, communicates a reciprocally repellent
power to atoms, but not to masses. Electricity does not radiate
in or through any matter; and while            pervades some bodies, as
                                                           it
metals, with almost infinite velocity;          others      by so far from  it   is
being conducted,     that    can   only pass through them
                                        it                          a frac              by
ture or perforation.       Distributing itself over surfaces only,                            it
causes repulsion between masses, but not between the particles
of the same mass. The disposition of the last mentioned princi
ple to get off       neighbouring conductors, and of the other to
                          by
combine with the adjoining matter or to escape                   radiation,       by
would prevent them from being collected at the positive pole,                                 if
not in combination with each other. Were                not for     modifi
                                                                       it                a
                                                                     cation

208                  A new Theory    of Galvanism.
cation of their properties, consequent to some such union, they
could not, in piles of thousands of pairs, be carried forward
through the open air and moisture ; the one so well calculated
to conduct away electricity, the other so favourable to the radi
ation of caloric.
    Pure electricity does not expand the slips of gold leaf, between
which it causes repulsion, nor does caloric cause any repulsion
in the ignited masses which it expands.         But as the compound
fluid extricated by Galvanic action, which I shall call electro-
caloric, distributes itself through the interior of bodies, and is
evidently productive of corpuscular repulsion, it is in this respect
more allied to caloric than to electricity.
    It is true, that when common electricity causes the deflagra
tion of metals, as by the discharge of a Leyden jar, it must be
supposed to insinuate itself within them, and cause a re-action
between their particles.     But in this case, agreeably to my hypo
thesis, the electric fluid combines with the latent caloric previous
ly existing there, and, adding to its repulsive agency, causes it to
overpower cohesion.
    Sir Humphry Davy was so much at a loss to account for the
continued ignition of wire at the poles of a Voltaic apparatus,
that he considers it an objection to the materiality of heat ;
 since the wire could not be imagined to contain sufficient caloric
 to keep up the emission of this principle for an unlimited time.
 But if we conceive an accumulation of heat to accompany that of
electricity throughout the series, and to be propagated from one
 end to the other, the explanation of the phenomenon in ques
tion is attended by no difficulty.
    The effect of the Galvanic fluid on charcoal is very consistent
 with my views, since, next to metals, it is one of the best con
 ductors of electricity, and the worst of heat, and would therefore
 arrest the last, and allow the other to pass on. Though peculiarly
liable to intense ignition when exposed between the poles of the
Voltaic apparatus, it seems to me it does not display this cha
racteristic with common electricity.      According to Sir Humphry
Davy,    when   in  connexion  with the positive pole, and communi
 cating by   a platina wire with the negative pole, the latter is less
heated than when, with respect      to the poles, the situation of the
wire and charcoal is reversed. The rationale is obvious : char
coal being a bad conductor, and a good radiator, prevents the
greater part of the heat from reaching the platina, when placed
between it and the source whence the heat flows.
    J had observed that as the number of pairs in Volta's pile had
been extended, and their size and the energy of interposed agents
lessened, the ratio of the electrical effects to those of heat had
increased ; till in De Luc's column they had become completely
                                                        predominant ;

                     A   new Theory   of Galvanism.             209
predominant; and, on the other hand, when the pairs were made
larger and fewer, (as in Children's apparatus,) the calorific in
fluence had gained the ascendancy.    I was led to go further in
this way, and to examine  whether  one pair of plates of enormous
size, or what might   be equivalent  thereto,  would not exhibit
heat more purely, and demonstrate it equally with the electric
fluid, a primary product of Galvanic combinations.          The ele
mentary battery of Wollaston, though productive of an evanes
cent ignition, was too minute to allow him to make the observa
tions which I had in view.
    Twenty copper and twenty zinc plates, about nineteen inches
square, were supported vertically in a frame, the different metals
alternating at one half-inch distance from each other.        All the
plates of the same kind of metal were soldered to a common slip,
so that each set of homogeneous plates formed one continuous
metallic superficies.    When the copper and zinc surfaces thus
formed    are united  by an intervening wire, and the whole im-
merged in. an acid    or aceto-saline solution, in a vessel devoid of
partitions, the wire becomes intensely ignited ; and when hy
drogen is liberated it usually takes fire, producing a very beau
tiful undulating or coruscating flame.
    I am confident, that if Volta and the other investigators of
Galvanism, instead of multiplying the pairs of Galvanic plates,
had sought to increase the effect by enlarging one pair as I have
done, (for I consider the copper and zinc surfaces as reduced to
two by the connexion,) the apparatus would have been considered
as presenting a new mode of evolving heat as a primary effect
independently of electrical influence. There is no other indica
tion of electricity when wires from the two surfaces touch the
tongue, than a slight taste, such as is excited by small pieces of
zinc and silver laid on it and under       and brought into contact
                                         it,
with each other.
  It   was witha   view of examining the effects of the proximity
and alternation in the heterogeneous plates, that     Ihad them cut
into separate squares. By having them thus divided,         I   have
been enabled to ascertain, that when all of one kind of metal are
ranged on one side of the frame, and all of the other kind on the
other side of  it, the effect  i3no greater than might be expected
from one pair of plates.
   Volta, considering the changes consequent to his contrivance
as the effect of a movement in the electric fluid, called the pro
cess electro-motion,    and the plates producing     electro-motors.
But the phenomena show that the plates, as         I it
                                                      have arranged
them, are calori-motors, or heat-movers, and the effect |calori-
motion.     That this    a new view of the subject, may ibenferred
                         is
from the following passage in Davy's Elements.            That great
    Vol. 54. No. 257. Sept. 1819.              O             chemist

  210                  A   new Theory     of Galvanism.
  chemist observes,       " When very small conducting surfaces are
  used for conveying very large quantities of electricity, they become
  ignited ; and of the duferet conductors that have been compared,
  charcoal is most easily heated by electrical discharges *, next
 iron, platina, gold, then copper, and lastly zinc. The phenome
 na of electrical ignition, whether taking place in gaseous, fluid,
  or solid bodies, always seem to be the result of a violent exertion
 of the electrical attractive and repellent powers, which may be
 connected with motions of the particles of the substances af
fected. That no subtile fluid, such as the matter of heat has been
 imagined to be, can be discharged from these substances, in
 consequence of the effect of the electricity, seems probahle, from
 the circumstance, that a wire of platina may be preserved in a
 state of intense ignition in vacuo, by means of the Voltaic appa
 ratus, for an unlimited time ; and such a wire cannot be sup
 posed to contain an inexhaustible quantity of subtile matter."
      But I demand, where are the repellent and attractive powers
 to which the ignition produced by the Calorimotor can be attri
 buted?      Besides, I would beg leave respectfully to inquire of this
 illustrious author, whence the necessity of considering the heat
 evolved under the circumstances alluded to as the effect of the
 electrical fluid ; or why we may not as well suppose the latter
 to be excited by the heat?          It is evident, as he observes, that a
 wire cannot be supposed          to contain   an inexhaustible supply of
  matter, however subtile ; but wherefore may not one kind of sub
  tile matter be supplied to it from the apparatus as well as an
  other ? especially, when to suppose such a supply is quite as in
  consistent with the characteristics of pure electricity, as with
  those of pure caloric?
      It is evident from Mr. Children's paper in the Annals of Phi
  losophy, on the subject of his large apparatus, that the ignition
  produced by it was ascribed to electrical excitement.
      For the purpose of ascertaining the necessity of the alternation
   and proximity of the copper and zinc plates, it has been men
  tioned that distinct square sheets were employed. The experi
  ments have since been repeated and found to succeed by Dr. Pat
  terson and Mr. Lukens, by means of two continuous sheets, one
   of zinc, the other of copper, wound into two concentric coils or
  spirals. This, though the circumstance was not known to them,
  was the form I had myself proposed to adopt, and had suggested
   as a convenient for a Galvanic apparatus to several friends at
                                     f
   the beginning of the winter ; though the consideration above
      * The conclusions are drawn from experiments made by the electricity of
   the Voltaic apparatus.
      f Especially to Dr. T. P. Jones, and Mr. Rubens Peale, who remember
   the suggestion.
                                                                     stated

                                                                        1
                   A   new Theory     of Galvanism.                 21 1
stated induced me to prefer for a first experiment a more ma
nageable arrangement.
    Since writing the above, I find that when, in the apparatus of
twenty copper and twenty zinc plates, ten copper plates on one
side are connected with ten zinc on the other, and a communica
tion made between the remaining twenty by a piece of iron wire
about the eighth of an inch in diameter, the wire enters into a
vivid state of combustion on the immersion of the plates.          Pla-
tina wire equal to No. 1 S (the largest I had at hand) is rapidly
fused if substituted for the iron.
    This arrangement is equivalent to a battery of two large Gal
vanic pairs ; excepting that there is no insulation, all the plates
being plunged in one vessel.        I have usually separated the pairs
by   a board extending    across the  frame merely.
    Indeed, when    the  forty plates were successively associated in
pairs, of copper and zinc, though suspended in a fluid held in a
common recipient without partitions, there was considerable in
tensity of Galvanic action.       This shows that, independently of
any power of conducting electricity, there is some movement in
the solvent fluid which tends to carry forward the Galvanic prin
ciple from the copper to the zinc end of the series.       I infer that
electro-caloric is communicated in this case by circulation, and
that in non-elastic fluids the same difficulty exists as to its retro
cession from the positive to the negative end of the series, as is
found in the downward passage of caloric through them.
    It ought to be mentioned, that the connecting wire should be
placed between the heterogeneous surfaces before their immersion,
as the most intense ignition takes place immediately afterwards.
 If the connexion be made after the plates are immersed, the
effect is much less powerful; and sometimes after two or three
immersions the apparatus loses its power, though the action of
the solvent should become in the interim much more violent.
Without any change in the latter, after the plates have been for
some time suspended in the air, they regain their efficacy. I had
observed in a Galvanic pile of three hundred pairs of two inches
square, a like consequence resulting from a simultaneous immer
sion of the whole*.       The bars holding the plates were balanced
by weights, as window sashes are, so that all the plates could be
very quickly dipped.       A platina wire, No. 18, was fused into a
globule,   while the  evolution  of potassium was demonstrated by a
 rose-coloured flame arising from some potash which had been
placed between the poles.         The heat however diminished in a
few seconds, though the greater extrication of hydrogen from the
 plates indicated a more intense chemical action.
    Agreeably to an observation of Dr. Patterson, electrical ex-
                        » See Plate III.  fig. 3.
                                    O   2                      citement

212                   A new Theory     of Galvanism.
citement may be detected in the apparatus by the condensing
electroscope ; but this is no more than what Volta observed to be
the consequence of the contact of heterogeneous metals.
     The thinnest piece of charcoal intercepts the calorific agent,
whatever it may be. In order to ascertain this, the inside of a
hollow brass cylinder, having the internal diameter two inches,
and the outside of another smaller cylinder of the same substance,
were made conical and correspondent, so that the greater would
contain the less, and leave an interstice of about one-sixteenth
of an inch between them. This interstice was filled with wood,
by plugging the larger cylinder with this material, and excavat
ing the plug till it would permit the smaller brass cylinder to be
driven in.      The excavation and the fitting of the cylinders was
performed accurately by means of a turning lathe.           The wood in
the interstice was then charred by exposing the whole covered
by sand in a crucible to a red heat.          The charcoal, notwith
 standing    the shrinkage consequent     to the  fire, was brought into
 complete     contact with  the inclosing  metallic  surfaces by pressing
 the interior cylinder further into the exterior one.
     Thus prepared, the exterior cylinder being made to touch one
 of the Galvanic surfaces, and a wire brought from the other Gal
 vanic surface into contact with the outside cylinder, was not
 affected in the least, though the slightest touch of the interior
 one caused ignition. The contact of the charcoal with the con
 taining metals probably took place throughout a surface of four
 square inches, and the wire was not much more than the hun
 dredth part of an inch thick ; so that, unless it were to conduct
 electricity about forty thousand times better than the charcoal,
 it ought to have been heated, if the calorific influence of this ap
 paratus result from electrical excitement.
      I am led finally to suppose, that the contact of dissimilar me
 tals, when subjected to the action of solvents, causes a movement
 in caloric as well as in the electric fluid, and that the pheno-
  mena of Galvanism, the unlimited evolution of heat by friction,
  the extrication of gaseous matter without the production of cold,
  might all be explained by supposing a combination between the
  fluids of heat and electricity. We find scarcely any two kiuds of
  ponderable matter which do not exercise more or less affinity
  towards each other.      Moreover, imponderable particles are sup
  posed highly attractive of ponderable ones.           Why then should
  we not infer the existence of similar affinities between imponde
  rable particles reciprocally? That a peculiar combination between
  heat and light exists in the solar beams, is evident from their not
  imparting warmth to a lens through which they may pass, as do
  those of our culinary fires.                                        ^ .
      Under this vLw of the case, the action of the poles in Gal
                                                                     vanic

                           1
                     A new Theory    of Galvanism.               213
vanic decomposition is one of complex affinity. The particles of
compounds are attracted to the different wires agreeably to their
susceptibilities to the positive and negative attraction ; and the
 caloric, leaving the? electric fluid with which it had been com
bined, unites with them at the moment that their electric state
is neutralized.
    As an exciting fluid, I have usually employed a solution of one
part sulphuric acid and two parts muriate of soda with seventy of
water; but, to my surprise, I have produced nearly a white heat
by an alkaline solution barely sensible to the taste.
    For the display of the heat effects, the addition of manganese,
red lead, or the nitrats, is advantageous.
    The rationale is obvious. The oxygen of these substances
prevents the liberation of the gaseous hydrogen, which would
carry off the caloric.      Adding to diluted muriatic acid, while
acting     on zinc, enough, red lead to prevent effervescence, the
temperature rose from 70 to 1 10 Fahrenheit.
    The power of the Calorimotor is much increased by having the
communication between the different sheets formed by very large
strips or masses of metal.     Observing this, I rendered the sheets
of copper shorter by half an inch, for a distance of four inches of
their edges, where the communication was to be made between
the zinc sheets ; and, vice versa, the zinc was made in the same
way shorter than the copper sheets where these were to com
municate with each other.       The edges of the shortened sheets
being defended by strips of wood, tin was cast on the interme
diate protruding edges of the longer ones, so as to embrace a
portion of each equal to about one quarter of an inch by four
inches.      On one side the tin was made to run completely across,
connecting at the same time ten copper and ten zinc sheets. On
the other side, there was an interstice of above a quarter of an
inch left between the stratum of tin embracing the copper, and
that embracing the zinc plates.         On each of the approaching
 terminations of the connecting tin strata was soldered a kind of
forceps, formed of a bent piece of sheet brass furnished with a
screw for pressing the jaws together.       The distance between the
 different forceps was about two inches.        The advantage of a
very    close contact  was  made   very evident by the action of the
screws; the relaxation or increase of pressure on the connecting
 wire by turning them being productive of a correspondent change
 in the intensity of ignition.
     It now remains to state, that by means of iron ignited in this
 apparatus, a fixed alkali may be decomposed extemporaneously,
 if a connecting iron wire, while in combustion, be touched by the
 hydrate of potash, the evolution of potassium is demonstrated by
  a rose-coloured flame.     The alkali may be applied to the wire in
                                    O 3                         small

 214                    A new   Theory    of Galvanism.
 small pieces in a flat hook of sheet iron.           But the best mode of
 application    is   by  means   of  a  tray   made   by doubling a slip of
 sheet   iron  at  the  ends, and  leaving   a  receptacle in the centre, in
 which the potash may be placed covered with filings. This tray
 being substituted for the connecting wire, as soon as the immer
 sion of the apparatus causes the metal to burn, the rose-coloured
 flame appears; and if the residuum left in the sheet iron be after
 wards thrown into water, an effervescence sometimes ensues.
     I have ascertained that an iron heated to combustion, by a.
 blacksmith's forge fire, will cause the decomposition of the hy-
 drat of potash.
     The dimensions of the Calorimotor may be much reduced
 without proportionably diminishing the effect. . I have one of
 sixty plates within a cubic foot, which burns off No. 16, iron
 wire.     A good workman could get 120 plates of a foot square
 within a hollow cube of a size no larger. — But the inflammation
 of the hydrogen which gives so much splendour to the experi
 ment. can only be exhibited advantageously on a large scale.
     Explanation      of thePlate (III). — A     a, fig. 1st, two cubical ves
 sels, 20 inches square, inside, b b b b a frame of wood containing
 20 sheets of copper, and 20 sheets of zinc, alternating with each
 other, and about half an inch apart.             T T 1 1 masses of tin cast
 over the protruding edges of the sheets which are to communi
 cate with each other.        Fig. 2. represents the mode in which the
junction between the various sheets and tin masses is effected.
 Between the letters z z, the zinc only is in contact with the tin
 ~. asses.    Between c c, the copper alone touches.            It may be ob
 served, that, at the back of the frame, ten sheets of copper between
 c c, and ten sheets of zinc between z z, are made to communi
 cate by a common mass of tin extending the whole length of the
 frame, between T T: but in front, as in fig. 1, there is an inter
stice between the mass of tin connecting the ten copper sheets,
 and that connecting the ten zinc sheets.                The screw forceps,
 appertaining to each of the tin masses, may be seen on either
 side of the interstice; and likewise a wire for ignition held be
 tween them. The application of the rope, pulley, and weights
 is obvious. The swivel at S permits the frame to be swung
 round and lowered into water in the vessel a, to wash off the
 acid, which, after immersion in the other vessel, might continue
 to act on the sheets, encrusting them with oxide.               Between p p
 there is a wooden partition which is not necessary, though it may
be beneficial.
     Fig. 3. represents an apparatus alluded to p. 211. — It consists
of a couronne des tasses, reduced to a form no less compact than
                                                                          that

                             On Friction in Machinery.                       215
that of the trough ; hollow parallelopipeds of glass are substi
tuted for tumblers or cells. The plates are suspended to bars
counterpoised like window sashes.
   The advantages are as follow : The material is one of the best
non-conductors, is easily cleansed, and is the most impervious to
solvents. The fracture of one of the cups is easily remedied by a
supernumerary. They maybe procured (as in the United States)
where porcelain cannot be had. The shock from 300 pairs is such
as few will take a second time : some of the effects have already
been stated       *.
XXXVi;        On Friction in Machinery.              By Mr. Henry Meikle.
                                    To   Mr. Tilloch.
                                                 35, Bemers Street, Aug. 27, 1819.
         A    s hinted at the conclusion of my miscellaneous remarks
 on friction, carriages, &c. in your Number for March, I again
 venture to resume that inexhaustible subject.
     From the very accurate experiments of Professor Vince and
 M. Coulomb, it appears that, on hard bodies, friction is an uni
 formly retarding force; or, that it is constant during all the
 changes of an uniformly varied motion.              This          is,
                                                                perhaps, the
 most valuable and general mode of experimenting, in order to
 discover the laws of friction, so far as the velocity           concerned
                                                                       is      ;
 because, from         it,
                         we  learn that friction is, cceleris paribus, the
same for all the different uniform velocities which do not exceed
 the greatest attained in the experiment. We must not, however,
like Chemists with their laws of expansion and temperature, sup
 pose that friction           the same for velocities greater than those
                             is
experimented on. Though this seems probable,                     not certain;
                                                                  it   is
and to presume on             it,
                               we might meet with the same downfall as
the fanciful laws of temperature did when they attempted to soar
 above the ken of observation.
 I     formerly noticed that, on account of heat, friction sometimes
increases     a   little with the velocity. This, the experiments re
ferred to, were hardly calculated to detect, as               not likely they
                                                             it   is
were continued long enough to accumulate heat sufficient to af
fect the result.        Rut there is, perhaps, some ground for suspect
ing   that  the   friction  of bodies which have long rubbed on each
other,   is  somewhat different from the friction of those that only
pass a    few trials for the sake of experiment.        have often thought
                                                         I
that the difference between the results obtained              by
                                                            Professor Vince
and M. Coulomb, relating to the pressure, was probably owing
to causes of this nature.
   * The
           glasses may be had      applying to Edw. A. Pearson, No. 71, Corn-
                                    by
hill, Boston.
                                          0  4                                In

   216                   On Friction in Machinery.
       In perusing Mr. Tredgold's
                                       papers in your Numbers for Janua
   ry and July, I was not a little
                                        surprised to find that he had ar
   rived at the singular conclusion of
                                              the friction in uniform mo
   tions being inversely as the velocity—
                                                a doctrine directly opposed
  to by tar the greater number of
                                        experiments I have ever heard
  or; which, with a very few
                                    exceptions, mostly lying the other
             connrm the general opinion that, on hard
 way . 00;                                                       bodies, fric
 tion is tue         for a11 velocities.     This led me to examine more
               sam.e
 closely the a.^erent steps of his investigation, in order, if possi
 ble, to find whentv the mistake had originated.             In the former of
 these papers, page 6, Mr. T. asserts that the depth of indenta
 tion is as the square of the time ; and in July Number, page 23,
:he quotes the same, saying that         "  the depth of impression is as
 the force, and as the' square of the time the force acts."              Why
 he should have pitched on the square rather than any other
 power of the time, he has not thought proper to inform us.                  It
 may not, however,      be  altogether    useless  to  show that it cannot
  be as the square of the time : it is well known, that when a
  heavy body meets with a resistance which still allows it to descend
  through a space proportional to the square of the time, that re
  sistance must be uniform.           In which case it is evident there
  could be no such thing      as a maximum        of indentation or impres
  sion ; because the one body resting on the other, and meeting
  with no increase of resistance to impression, if it sunk at all,
  would continue to do so, with a uniformly accelerated motion,
  till it had got quite through the lower body — nor would it likely
  be at rest on this side of the earth's centre if time sufficient only
  were allowed.
      Such are the ridiculous consequences to which this doctrine
  would lead.      Nearly in the same way it might be shown that the
  depth of impression can be as no constant power of the time
  whatever.      Indeed we have no data for determining the relation
  which subsists between the time and depth of indentation.               But
  the resistance to indentation, without doubt,            increases   rapidly
  with the depth. This is abundantly evident from Mr. Rennie's
  interesting experiments.
      In January Number, page 7, Mr. T. further states that "the
   space abraded will be as the square of the velocity." This I am
   not disposed to contradict, as he, no doubt, means the entire
   spice abraded from the commencement of motion. But I con
   fess I do not see how it applies : for, it seems clear that it is not
   the whole space passed over from the beginning, but only its
   rate of increase that he has to do with, and which must be as
   the velocity simply. There is just as good reason for including
   the whole space, from the commencement of motion, in the fric
   tion of the uniform motion, as there is in the accelerated.            For,
                                                                      however

                      On Friction in Machinery    .                    217
however unknown the nature of friction may be, nothing seems
more certain than that the friction, for any given instant, depends
on the then value of, and relation which subsists       at that instant
among,    the  quantities concerned in producing it. Present fric
tion has really no more concern with past space, than we have
with " the years beyond the flood."
    Besides the consequents of the mistakes already noticed, there
are some other things in Mr. Tredgold's investigation, which, if
not erroneous, are at least fanciful enough. But be these as they
may, by combining mollia aim duris, he has luckily hit on the
truth in his (10) prop., which, however, contains the condemna
tion of the (8).               .            i
    The mistake first noticed about the indentation being as the
square of the time, has no doubt given birth to his (8) prop, that
— in uniform motions friction is inversely as the velocity ; and this
in its turn has been the fruitful parent of many strange incon
sistences. For instance, if friction were inversely as the velocity,
it would necessarily follow that the thickness of an axle is a mat
ter of total indifference as to the moving of the carriage : for,
as the axle's diameter increases, the relative velocity of sliding
at its surface, increases, and by prop. (S) the friction diminishes.
But the effect of the power at the wheel's rim to turn it round,
or overcome the friction at the axle, is also, cceteris paribus,
inversely as the diameter of the axle.        Consequently, the wheel
must have the same disposition to turn, whatever be the axle's
diameter.     Let, therefore, the axle's diameter become nearly
equal that of the wheel, which, if it turned before, will, for the
same reason, turn still. The obvious conclusion then            is,
                                                                 that on
a  polished railing   it   in the wheel's option whether to turn or
                           is
slide; or, that the use of wheels      is merely to overcome the in
equalities of the road. Mr. Tredgold has thus duly laid claim to
the very delusion which     Iexposed towards the end of my former
letter, though   it  be directly contrary to what he teaches us on
page 21 of July Number. But the remaining pages of that pa
per are sadly infected       prop. (8) — the final conclusions, espe
                            by
cially IV and VI, being quite contradictory.       On these, however,
I  shall not now enlarge, but only remark, that       it   is indeed no
small recommendation to any theory, however vague, that                be
                                                                      it
consistent with itself.   This     at least a possible case
                                  is                        ;   yet, how
rarely do we meet with an instance of the kind!
    Admitting that friction      constant for all velocities,
                                 is                             itreadily
follows that friction, when referred to the first mover, or, in other
words, that the waste of moving power in order to overcome fric
 tion, is, cceteris paribus, directly as the relative velocity of the
 rubbing surfaces.     It   on this principle that friction wheels are
                            is
                                                                           of

                       On poisonous Tea-leaves.
of any  use, or that they even turn round : for, if friction were
inversely as the velocity, they could (as we have already seen)
have no disposition to move, — nay, their inertia would always
oblige them to remain at rest.
   Several other necessary observations I shall pass over at pre
sent, and conclude with one remark on Mr. TVs statement al
ready quoted, that (cat. par.)
                                " the depth of impression is as
the force." Now this again obviously implies, that the resistance
to impression is uniform, or the same at any depth, than which
nothing can be more absurd ; siuce even on a fluid, the resistance
increases exactly as the depth.  How much more quickly must
it do so on a hard road ! I am, sir,
                                  Your most obedient servant,
                                                       Henry Meikxe.
XXXVII.        On poisonous Tea-Leaves.          By Mr. James    Millar.
                           To   Mr.   Tittoch.
Sir, — The       regular establishments for the manufactory of imi
tation tea-leaves arrested not long ago the attention of the
public; and the parties by whom these manufactories were con
ducted, together with numerous venders of the factitious tea, did
not escape the hand of justice. The fraud of manufacturing
sloe and white thorn leaves into an imitation of tea, which has
been drunk by the public as the genuine beverage of tea, is com
paratively harmless, when compared with the fraud lately detected
of manufacturing real genuine unsaleable tea-dust into tea, by
means of a process which renders the article absolutely deleterious
to health.     In proof of this statement, you will have the good
ness to lay before the public, through the medium of your Ma
gazine, the following facts.
   A poor woman, having purchased an ounce of green tea, was
struck by the lively blue colour which the beverage made of it
assumed, on pouring into it a tea-spoonful of spirit of hartshorn.
This person (a char-woman) being in the habit of frequently
partaking of tea in other houses where she went to work, and
being constantly in the habit of adding a tea-spoonful of harts
horn to the tea- beverage, without having observed that singular
appearance which her own tea-leaves produced, made a com
plaint to the grocer from whose shop the tea was purchased.
This person, unsconscious of any deleterious admixture, having
paid a fair price for his commodity, took a sample of the suspected
tea-leaves to Mr. Accum the chemist, who analysed          it,
                                                           and pro
nounced  it   to contain copper.    So unexpected    result induced
                                                       a
                                                                 the
    .'"V   .     .-

                       On poisonous Tea-haves.                      219
 the vender of the poisonous tea-leaves, whose whole support de
 pended on the rectitude of a fair tradesman, to inquire into the
 fraud committed upon him.         He consulted some of his friends
who received their tea from' the same quarter, and it became
 evident that the deceptions practised in this diabolical branch of
commerce were greater than was by him expected.               The poi
sonous tea had all the appearance of the leaves of genuine Hyson ;
 but it was noticed by the chemist who examined the suspected
 samples, that a portion of the leaves when infused in boiling
water became speedily resolved into a fine powder, and that part
 of this alone remained in an entire state, so as to make it possi
ble to recognise the vegetable structure ; and this led to the opi
nion that the manufacturer of the poisonous commodity had em
ployed the dust of the leaves of Hyson tea, [the sale of which
forms a regular business with many tea-brokers], and moulded
it, probably   bymeans of  a small quantity of mucilage, into com
                                                                a
pound possessing in every respect the external characters of
genuine Hyson tea.       This fraud may therefore be detected by
merely throwing    the sophisticated tea-leaves into warm water,
which instantly eauses them to fall into       a fine powder, which
speedily settles to the bottom of the vessel.     The infusion, when
mingled with liquid ammonia, affords       abright blueish green co
lour, indicating the presence of copper. But the presence of this
metal may be more strikingly rendered obvious,         by   mixing two
parts  of  the suspected  tea-leaves with  one  of  nitrate  of potash
(saltpetre), and throwing the mixture into     acrucible kept red hot
in    acommon fire.    The whole of the vegetable matter of the
tea will thus become destroyed, and the copper remain behind
in combination with the alkali of the saltpetre.        If water there
fore be poured into the crucible to dissolve the mass, the pre
sence of copper will be incontrovertibly rendered obvious, by
the admixture of liquid ammonia, which imparts to the fluid a
beautiful sapphire blue colour.
                     I   am with respect, sir,
                                Your humble servant,
Grove Cottage, Lisson Green, Sept. 22, 1819.       JaMKS MlLLAR.
  P. S. — Mr. Accum, in his Report, remarks that the copper
employed for colouring the tea     in the state of carbonate, and
                                   is              a
not as verdigris, which he states totally inapplicable for its frau
dulent purpose of giving    bloom to the tea-leaves.
                            a                              need not
                                                            I
remind your readers, that all preparations of copper are deadly
poisons. —J.   M,
                                                     XXXVIII.       On

                               [  220   ]
    XXXVIII.      On the Geology  of Lock Leven in Scotland. By
                           Mr. Gavin Inglis.
                            To  Mr. Tilloch.
Dear Sir,
       of Loch
              -W     hen I sent you Outlines of the Geological His
tory            Lomond, 1 pledged myself to furnish a similar ac
count of Loch Leven in Fife, or rather in Kinross-shire.        Since
that period I have been diligently making observations and col
lecting materials for that purpose.
    Taking advantage of the present low state of the river flowing
from the lake to examine the depth and strata of the alluvial
soil, occupying what had formerly been deep water, and now
forming the coarse lands between Auchmoor Bridge and Loch-
end, I took a trip up the river in a small flat-bottomed boat.
I was favoured with a still day, a clear sky and radiant sun, whose
rays darting direct to the bottom of the deepest pools, uninter
 rupted by the smallest ruffle on the surface, enabled me, by the
reflected light, most distinctly to observe every layer of stratified
soil, the roots, trunks and branches of large oaks lying at the
depth, in some places, of 20 and 30 feet under the surface of the
bank. Doubling on by the windings of the stream, where the
last winter's floods had brought down part of the bank, I ob
served hanging loosely from the side, something like a piece of
broken tile. Rowing immediately towards the spot, I discovered
it to be a fragment of one of those ancient terra cotta vessels that
have occasionally been dug up in different parts.       Looking at
tentively into the opening left by the portion taken from the
bank, I could observe the edge of remaining fragments, which I
obtained by digging into the sandy clay ; and from the position
of what was thus procured, I judged the remainder must have
fallen into the water with the avalanche from the bank, and might
be found at the bottom.       Shoving off the boat a little from the
 edge and remaining still, till the ruffle on the surface had sub
 sided, I could distinctly observe the other parts lying at a consi
 derable depth, part still adhering to a lump of clavey soil in which
 it had originally been imbedded.      After many efforts and consi
 derable difficulty, I succeeded in recovering all the mouth of the
 vessel, and some fragments of the side corresponding to those
 parts taken from the bank.
     The mouth is 5 finches in diameter; no handles
 have been attached to it ; and it is of this form :
 The whole bears evident marks of having been
 turned on a wheel.       No glazing could be disco
 vered either on the surface of the vessel itself, or
  in the surrounding soil, which was carefully ex-              I
 amined on finding none attached to the surface.                   The

                      Notices respecting New Books.                            221
    The position of the vessel, its contents, the soil in which it
was imbedded, added to every other circumstance connected with
its situation, leaves not a doubt on my mind, of its having found
its resting-place by chance.   It was buried two feet seven inches
under the surface of the bank, with two unbroken straths of turf
soil above it.    Standing nearly erect, it was filled with the same
materials in which it was enveloped.     It must have been crushed
by the consolidating pressure of the superstratum on the sub
siding of the waters of the lake, as each fragment lay con
joined to its corresponding fracture.
    Could the age of these vessels be ascertained, might not some
data be formed as to the duration of this depth of the alluvial
matter now occupying so large a proportion of what must have
 been deep water when the lake was in its primitive majesty ?
 I intend sending these fragments to Edinburgh for preservation,
 and that they may be compared and remain with their kindred
 shreds of former times.
                                 I am, &c.
 Strathendry, Aug. 27, 1819.                         GAVIN In'GLIS.
             XXXIX.             Notices respecting New Books,
Peintures Antiques de Vases Grecs,               de   la Collection   de   Sir John
 Coghill, Bart. publiSes par James               Millingen,      Rome, 1818*.
M    R. Milmngen has been long honourably known as a learned
and judicious antiquary; having published in 1812 a valuable
collection of inedited Greek medals in quarto ; and in 1813, a
collection of paintings of Greek vases in folio, with 63 plates,
preceded by an introduction full of curious researches and ob
servations.   This present work is the more valuable, as the col
lection of Sir John Coghill has been lately brought to the ham
mer, and we believe entirely dispersed. This precious collection
had been formed by M. de Lalo, private treasurer to the late
Queen of Naples ; at his death it was purchased by Chevalier
Rossi, and afterwards came into the hands of Sir John Coghill.
   Mr. Millingen's present work contains in the introduction
some positive ideas on the manufacture of the Greek vases of
baked earth : they are in a great measure contained in three let
ters written by M. de Rossi.
   The site of some very great ancient cities is still a subject of
dispute and learned research ; and two or three thousand vases
of baked earth, most of them made four or five centuries before
  * We  are indebted for the following review of the ingenious work of our
                                                                                      '
countryman Sir John Coghill, to the Journal des Savons for May last, and for
the translation of   it,   to the Literary Gazette.
                                                                                the

222               Notices respecting New Books.
the vulgar era, are the ornament of our cabinets.         The dry and
argillaceous matter of which they are formed, and the excavations
in which they were contained, have ensured to them, as it were,
an eternal duration ; whereas, if we except Herculaneum            and
Pompeii,    the oxidation  caused   by  the humidity  of the earth has
every where destroyed almost all vases of bronze.
    During the last century and a half, collections have been formed
of painted Greek vases : endeavours have been made to guess at
the processes employed by the potters : but time alone has re
vealed them to us.     It was necessary to possess a very great num
ber, to discover among them some which showed vestiges of the
first labour; and to have eyes sufficiently exercised to be able to
recognise and describe them ; it is only within these few years
that this could be done.
    First a clay was chosen, in which baking would produce the
colour desired, red, black, or yellow.      When this clay was not to
be had, they introduced into     that  which  they were forced to em
ploy, ochres (oxides of iron) to produce the colour.         The vase
thus formed was placed in the oven, where the first baking gave
it so much consistency that the fluid colours would not sink in.
From the hands of the potter these vases were transferred to those
of the painter.     The painter traced upon them, with a metal
point, in dotted lines, the oval of the head and the parts of the
limbs which were to be covered by the drapery; sometimes this
sketch is done with a coloured line, but of a colour different from
that of the ground : then he designed round this oval and the
other dotted lines, with the pencil, a broad black line.          This
sketch and first operation are still visible on two vases in this col
lection, but they are generally hidden by the colours, which were
laid on flat without degradation.       Those vases are considered as
the most ancient which are of only one colour, that of the clay
of which they are made. Soon after they were painted black :
hence comes the name of A'iSv-;, which Hesychius gives to the
vases placed in the tombs ; and the poor retained the use of them,
while the rich employed those which were adorned with figures.
The most common vases are still sought after on account of the
beauty of the forms.
    The vases adorned with painted figures are those which are the
most highly valued.      Antiquaries are agreed in considering as the
most ancient, those of which the ground is yellow (the colour of
box), and the animals painted on them, oftener than human fi
gures, of a brick red.     Mr. Dodwell found several in tombs near
Corinth : the inscriptions painted upon some of them indicate the
highest antiquity.
    The vases of the second period have a yellow or white ground,
 and the figures are black; their inscriptions are for the most part
                                                                   not

                Millingen's Collection of Greek Vases.                  223
not to be read ; the drawing is incorrect ; the figures want life
and expression ; the subjects represented are frequently inexpli
cable, because the vases are anterior to the fourth century, when
Zeuxis created, and caused to be generally adopted, constant modes
of painting the gods and heroes.        It is believed that the second
sort of vases is that which was most generally imitated in the
following ages, from love of archaism.
   The ground of the vases of the third sort is black ; the figures
are yellow or red : these are the most common.
    Sometimes we find on the Greek vases, blue, green, carmine,
and even gilding.     The white colour was added on the painting
in the accessaries, as well as the inscriptions ; hence it happens
that they have often been in part rubbed off. The white colour
was partly made of white lead.
   A second baking fixed the colours on the vases, and gave them
that bright varnish which distinguishes the most precious of them.
As for ordinary vases, a varnish was given to the whole ground
before the baking, which in this case was not followed by a se
cond.
    The figures were generally copies, and not original, of the in
vention of the painters of the vases.      M. de Rossi thinks we mav
infer this from the circumstance, that no painting is found in
 which the artist has corrected himself, that is to say, where he
has departed from the dotted lines, or even changed any attitude.
    Such are the mechanical details of the manufacture and paint
ing ; which was the part least known.
   Very different judgements have been passed on the painters of
the Greek vases of baked earth, or rather on the designers ; for
the name of painters should be reserved for those who create
their subjects, and not mere copyists*.         If we examine the va
riety, the elegance  of the  draperies,  the  beauty  of the figures, the
exactness of the proportions, we shall own that these designers
have some merit, especially when we consider that the figures
drawn on the convexity of the vases, and in the concavity of the
patere, are in true perspective, so that they may not appear de
formed : this is so true, that if we trace the outline of one of these
figures, and lay it on a plane surface, it will seem to lean back
wards, to fall          the art of the painter of ceilings).
                          (it   is                                On the
 other hand,  the  extremities  of these   beautiful  figures (the hands
 and feet) are drawn with as much negligence as we find in the
   * Though we have in this place used the words painters and designers as
in the French,  it   not because we consider them as properly expressing the
                     is
meaning intended, but rather because we could not fuliy make up our mind
in the choice of two single words exactly corresponding. In fact, designer,
from its root design, seems more strongly indicative of invention than jminter
does.   — Bn.
                                                                    pictures

224                Notices respecting New Books,
pictures of savage nations.      The designers (or drawers) were
therefore not painters, properly so called ; they were indifferent
copyists: and the paintings on the Greek vases are not originals,
but copies of pictures, bas-reliefs, or statues, which had acquired
celebrity.
   How could these designers make a collection of studies of these
fine works ? What substances did they employ in lieu of our dif
ferent kinds of pencils, of our transparent paper ? &c.   It is pro
bable that our mode of tracing was unknown to them, by which
the most moderate artists trace faithful copies ; what process did
they use in its ,'place ?   Perhaps they made sketches of the pic
tures  which  they   intended  to imitate, or of those which they
had seen on their travels. Hence it comes that, in the paintings
on vases, the principal parts are well executed, and the extre
mities are .very incorrect.     Having trusted the latter merely to
their memory, they were incapable of drawing them faithfully.
M. de Rossi illustrates this idea by a striking example. The
potters of Urbino, the native town of Raphael, adorned their
ware with subjects designed by that great master and his pupils;
we recognise them by the nobleness of the style, by the spirit of
the design ; but how far is the execution from equalling the sub
ject !
    Notwithstanding the imperfections of the paintings on the
 Greek vases, the study of them must be very useful to our artists;
they will find means to form their taste in the nobleness, the sim
plicity of the compositions, in the grace, the energy, the just ex
pression of the attitudes.   It is there we find true models of the
folds of draperies, not only in figures at rest, such as statues, but
also in figures that are in motion.
   The name of Sicilian vases is improperly given to those in
which the figures are distinguished from the ground by their black
 or dark colour, (whereas in the others, the figures are yellow on a
 dark ground,) and which are found in other places besides Sicily.
 This mode recalls to mind the invention of painting, the imita
 tion of the shadow on a wall : the style of design is barbarous and
incorrect; hence many antiquaries have assigned them the highest
 antiquity.    They would have been in the right, if they had said
 that this style, appearing to be appropriated to masquerades, ca
ricatures, and the like,was probably imitated at all times in sub
jects of this kind.   What evidently proves it   is,that in the ma
 nufacture of these vases, the elegance of their forms  is  the same
as in the vases of the finest style, the vases of Nola  :   the same
 must be said of the ornaments which accompany the figures,
 flowers, festoons, &c, which are the same, and equally elegant.
 However, what we most frequently see on the vases called Sici
 lian, are Bacchanalia, that is  to say, masquerades, orgies, cari
                                                             catures,

              Millin gen's   Collection   of Greek  Vases.          225
catures, for which this kind of painting was perfectly adapted ;
and was probably affected to be retained for these subjects, from
 a spirit of religion.    The Athenian coins afford a similar in
stance of affectation of archaism.
    Since I have spoken of the festivals of Bacchus, I must speak
also of the mysteries and initiations; because there has been es
tablished, since the time of Passeri and Montfaucon, an opinion,
which ascribes all the -painted vases to the initiated, whom they
accompanied in the tombs.           Mr. Millingen has successfully re
 futed this opinion.     First, it is not founded on the authority of
 any ancient author.      When we discover a collection of tombs,
 all containing vases more or less precious, will it be asserted that
 all the dead, whose remains are contained in these tombs, were
 initiated in the mysteries of Bacchus?          What shall we say of
those of children, who could not have been admitted to. initiation,
and which also contain vases ?
    For what reason were vases placed in, or near the tombs ? The
Greeks burned or interred the dead indifferently: as is proved
by the vases containing bones and ashes, placed in some tombs,
which are surrounded by other tombs, in which the dead are laid
upon leaves.     The first tombs contain fragments of vases, which
were broken when they were thrown upon the funeral pile; those
fragments were gathered up with the ashes, and bear evident
marks of the action of fire.         The vases improperly called La
chrymatories,    which   are found    in the tombs, and the urns of the
Romans,     have  the same   origin.     Their arms were interred with
warriors, the appendages of the toilet with women ; with both,
the vases which had been valued ; which had contained the wine,
the oil, the milk, the perfumes used on the bodies, the central
water which served for the purifications, the portion of the funeral
repast which was consecrated to the dead, &c.              Some placed
these vases carefully in the tombs, others threw them in and broke
them : hence the many fragments of vases, which the restorers
artfully collect, filling up the vacancies with other pieces which
they dexterously paint.        (This fraud may be detected by ap
plying acids to the newly painted parts.)
    It is not my design to retrace the history of the discovery of
the painted Greek vases, either at Corinth in the time of Julius
Cesar, or in Etruria and Campania, on the revival of learning,
because these details are to be found in numerous works; nor to
repeat the explanations of the paintings and of the inscriptions
which Lanzi has judiciously restored for the most part to the Greek
fables.    I cannot, however, pass over in silence the explanation
given by M. Akerblad, of the frequently repeated inscription
HOIIATS KAA02, which Mazzochi, Millin, &c.have read the
    Vol. 54. No. 257. Sept. 1819.                P            beautiful

22G                Notices respecting Neu> Books.
leautiful Hopa'us. M. Akerblad reads HO IIAI2 KAAOS                     (o iroii;
xa\oi)      beautiful child.
            the
   After giving just praise to the two collections of painted Greek
vases by Mr. Millingen, I must speak of those published in France
by M. Dubois de Maisonneuve. The first appeared in two volumes
folio, with explanations by the late M. Millin under the title of
Peintures de Vases.    The public will doubtless receive with equal
satisfaction the new collection publishing by the same gentle
man, under the title of " Introduction a l'Etucle des Vases An
tiques d'Argile Peints," &c. and of which three numbers have
been published out of the eight which the work is to contain.
An Inquiry     into Doctor Gall's System concerning Innate Dis
   positions, the Physiology of the Brain, and Materialism, Fata
   lism and Moral Liberty, including some general Reflections on
   Prison Discipline, the Prevention of Crimes, and the Reforma
   tion of Malefactors, &c.      By J. P. Tupper, M. D. Fellow
   of the Royal College of Surgeons, F.L.S., Member of the Me
   dical Society of Paris, and of the Society of Arts and Sciences
   of Bordeaux,and Surgeon Extraordinary to H.R.H. the Prince
   Regent*. Svo. pp. 150.
   Dr. Tupper is of opinion that the doctrines of Dr. Gall and
his co-professor Spurzheimf are wholly fallacious — that in their
particular as well as their general application, they confound
good and evil ; and render it next to impossible to discriminate
between virtue and vice, to distinguish innocence from guilt.
The question is not one of that nature in the discussion of which
we are disposed to participate.     We feel somewhat under the
same impression as Dr. T., when he remarks that the cranio-
logical system in dispute "relates to things which appear far
beyond the reach of all human understanding." p. 187. We
owe   it,however, to the author, to state that we have read his
work with much pleasure that we recognise fully the laudable
                               ;
motive which has induced him to venture into the field of philo
sophical polemics    ;and that,    he has not always succeeded in
                                    if
convincing us of the soundness of his views, he has at least left
us most favourably impressed with his acuteness and candour as
a controversialist. — The following are the subjects treated of in
the course of the work — Objections to the first principles of
                             :
Dr. Gall's system. — Of innate dispositions. — Of the difference of
  *Also author of An Essay on      the Probability of Sensation in Vegetables,
of which a second edition has      been published, containing Additional Ob
servations on Instinct, Sensation, Irritability, &c.
f    We mention the name of Spurzheim, as he      is the joint professor of the
same philosophy, although we believe that there are few points upon which
                                                       a
they differ.
                                                                       talents

             Mitchell's Elements of Natural Philosophy.              227
talents in different people.— Of dreams.— Dreams influenced by
 bodily sensations.— Of the renewal of the frame.
                                                       — Of memory. —
 Influence of the will in our intellectual operations.— Nature of
 the soul incomprehensible. — Phamomena relating to the intel
 lectual faculties.— Of instincts.— Of the instinctive organs ae-..
 cording to Dr. Gall's system. — Of the analogy between reason
 and instinct. — Of the intellectual organs according to Dr. Gall's
 system. — Anatomical, physiological        and pathological proofs
 against   the  same  system.—   Other  objections.  — Of materialism.
 —Of fatalism.    —  Of  moral  liberty. — Of    the two-fold nature of
 man.  —  Influence of the organization.  —  Allusions   to Scripture. —
 Of prison discipline.  —  Impropriety of assize-balls. — Of simple
 exile as a punishment,   —  Of death as a punishment. — Dr. Gall's
 system, a source of apologies for crimes. — Review of Dr. Gall's,
  arguments respecting mental alienation.
  The  Elements    of Natural Philosophy    :   Illustrated throughout
    ly Experiments which       may   be  performed     without regular
     Apparatus.     By James Mitchell,        M. A. 8vo. pp. 362.
    Although many treatises on a popular plan have been written
 on the Elements of Natural Philosophy, the experiments by which
 the principles of the science are illustrated, are, as the author of
 the present work justly remarks, in general such as can only be
 performed by means of a large assortment of philosophical in
 struments; and the individual who studies in private can only
 refer to the plates, and endeavour in his imagination to form
 an idea of what he reads. The work before us solicits distinction,
 on the ground that all the illustrations are drawn from the more
 ordinary phoenomena of nature, from objects met with in com
mon life, from experiments which may be performed with such
things as a person in most circumstances may easily procure;
and there can be no doubt that on such a ground there is room
for establishing a very high claim to utility.
    Mr. Mitchell's style of demonstration is in general sufficiently
plain and perspicuous : if it wants any thing, it is a little more
precision.     The work aims in a particular manner at the instruc
tion of the young ; and nothing can be more likely to lead a phi
losophical tyro astray than a loose indication of essential princi
ples. The experimental illustrations, on the strength of which
the author rests his chief hopes of approbation, are uniformly of
the simplest description, in many instances very apt, and, with a
few exceptions, well calculated to impart clear ideas of the posi
tions they are employed to elucidate and establish. We shall
subjoin a few specimens extracted at random.
    On Momentum. — " Some animals act instinctively as if they
perfectly understood the art of increasing their momentum. A
                                   P 2                              ram

228               Notices respecting New Books.
 ram, in fighting, butts with his hard forehead ; but in order to
 increase his momentum he moves backward, and then coining
 forward with great velocity dashes his head against his antago
 nist.   Making these animals fight, is a favourite amusement at
 the Court of the King of Persia. One of the Barber of Bagdad's
 brothers is said, in the Arabian Tales, to have been a favourite
 with the nobility for his skill in teaching these animals to fight.
 It is not improbable that the sight of rams assaulting each other,
first suggested the idea of the warlike machine called the batter
ing ram, which was used for breaking down the walls of a town."
p. 39.
    Centre of Gravity. — " In old buildings where the whole fabric
is closely bound together, it may occur that a part may overhang
the base, and yet that part not fall: but if the centre of gravity
of the whole building were brought without the base, ruin would
instantly ensue. The two towers of Bologna, in Italy, close be
side one another, hang several feet beyond the perpendicular, and
seem to beholders as if ready to fall; but as the whole building
firmly adheres together, and as the centre of gravity is still above
the base, they are perfectly secure.      They must have been long
in this state, as they are mentioned in the poems of Dante who
died in 1586. The tower of Pisa is 182 feet high, and is swagged
thirteen feet and a half from the perpendicular; it is built of fine
marble, and is most firm and secure.        No records can tell how
long it has been in this state." p. 56.
    The Pendulum. — " The same principle which occasions' the
motion of a pendulum, viz. that a body in its descent acquires
force sufficient to raise it to the same height, has given rise to an
 amusement which is pretty common in Russia when the rivers
 are frozen over. The ice is piled up so as to form a declivity
 sloping with a smooth surface to the level of the river, and there
 commences another pile which rises to nearly the same height,but
 not quite.   It again slopes down to the river, and again another
 commences, and so on.        A person gets into a vessel like a but
 cher's tray, artd gliding along the first pile of ice acquires a velo
 city which carries him up to the top of the second, down which
 he goes and ascends the third, and so on.       In summer they em
 ploy wood instead of ice.       Near Paris, in the summer of 1816
 this Russian amusement was introduced, and gave great satisfac
 tion to the Parisians, and it still continues in favour." p. 102.
                     "
     Hydrostatics. — The rapidity with which water flows from
 a hole in the side of a cask is in the same proportion as above
 stated (as the square root of the depth). Get a bucket or cask
 and make a hole in the lower part of    it, and mark at the side,   by
 means of any scale or measure, the height of one inch, of four
 inches, of nine inches, of sixteen inches, and of twenty-five
                                                                inches.

      Danger     of cleaning JVine-rloltles     by means   of   Shot.    229
 inches.    Fill the bucket or cask as high as twenty-five inches,
 and notice exactly, when the water is running out, how long tinie
 it takes to sink as low as sixteen inches ; it will require exactly
 the same time to sink from sixteen to nine inches ; also exactly
 the same time to sink from nine inches to four inches ; the same
 time also to sink from four inches to one inch ; and then the
same space of time for the remaining part of the water to run.
 entirely out. . It was upon this principle that the Clepsydra (or-
Roman water-clock) was founded.         Cesar mentions making use
of them as measures of time, in his expedition into Britain."
p. 151.
    Froin. an unceasing endeavour to be extremely simple, it is not
surprising that the author should in some instances have been be
trayed into offences against the dignity of science. The following
illustrations we feel disposed to rank among this number.                "A
man of greater weight striking a less man has an advantage."
"   A ship at sea running against a boat, or a small vessel, will
probably upset it or dash it to pieces."        "
                                              A stone on the ground
will not leave its place, except some one remove it." " If a
bird hovering in the air were not drawn down, it might continue
for ever to do so."      " Point a gun in a certain direction, and
the shot flies that way."     " If a piece of wood be thrown into
the Thames when the wind blows right across, the wood will be
carried to the other side, but lower down."
    On the whole, however, the work is one which deserves to be
recommended to the attention of the philosophical student, but
more particularly of those who may be desirous of acquiring a
respectable stock of scientific information without encountering
the difficulties and fatigues inseparable from a more systematic
course,   of study.
      XXXIX.          Intelligence   and Miscellaneous   Articles.
    DANGER OF CLEANING WINE-BOTTXES BY MEANS OF SHOT.
It   is well known that bottles in which wine has been kept, are
usually cleaned by means of shot, which by its rolling motion de
taches the tartrite of potash from the sides of the bottles.  This
practice, which   is generally pursued by wine-merchants, may  give
rise to serious consequences, as will become evident from the fol
lowing case :
   A gentleman who had never in his life experienced a day's             ill
ness, and who was constantly in the habit of drinking half bot       a
tle of Madeira wine after his dinner, was taken ill, three hours
after dinner, with    severe pain in the stomach and violent bowel
                      a
colic,  which   gradually yielded within twelve hours to the re-
                                       P   3                 medies

230                        Peruvian Bark.
medies prescribed by bis medical adviser.      The day following
he drank the remainder of the same bottle of wine which was
left the preceding day, and within two hours afterwards he was
again seized with the most violent colliquative pains, head-ach,
shiverings, and great pain over the whole body.    His apothecary
becoming suspicious that the wine he haddrunk might be the cause
of the disease, ordered the bottle from which the wine had been
decanted, to be brought to him, with a view that he might ex
amine the dregs, if any were left. The bottle happening to slip
out of the hand of the servant, disclosed a row of shot wedged
forcibly into the angular bent up circumference of it. On ex
amining the beads of shot, they crumbled into dust, the outer
crust (defended by a coat of black lead with which the shot is
glazed) being alone left unacted on, whilst the remainder of
the metal was dissolved.    The wine, therefore, had become con
taminated with lead and arsenic, the shot being a compound of
these metals, which no doubt had produced the mischief.
                          PERUVIAN BARK.
  In the Journal   de   Pharmacie for May last, there   is a curious
detail of effects produced by an atmosphere impregnated with
cinchona. M. Delpech of Guayra (the port of the Caraccas) had
stored up (in 1 806) a large quantity of newly collected cinchona
— filling several apartments on the ground-floor.     Being visited
by  a  number   of friends, he was  obliged to put some of them in
the rooms occupied by the cinchona (each ^containing from eight
to ten thousand pounds). These apartments were of much higher
temperature than the rest of the house, occasioned by the fermen
tation of the bark. A bed in one of them was occupied by a tra
veller ill of a malignant fever (then very prevalent).   He found
himself much better after the first day, though he had taken no
medicine; and in a few days he was perfectly restored. This un
expected event induced M. Delpech to place other persons ill of
fever in his magazine, all of whom were speedily cured, simply
by the effluvia of the bark.
   M. Delpech had deposited along with the bark a bale of cof
fee selected for his own use, and some bottles of French brandy,
all of which remained for some months in the midst of the cin
 chona. After this time, M. Delpech on visiting his magazine ob
served one of the bottles uncorked ; and suspecting a servant had
been making free with     it,he determined to try the quality of the
brandy.     He was much astonished to find its quality greatly im
proved ;   having acquired somewhat of an aromatic flavour, and
become more tonic and agreeable. This improvement he could
 only attribute to the bottle having been left uncorked     ; for on
 opening the others they were found no way altered      : but being
                                                        ,       then

                  Extraordinary    Cure  of Lock- Jaw.              231
then left open, they soon acquired all the good qualities of the
first bottle.
    The bale of coffee was now opened, and a portion of it was
roasted.      Its flavour was found much altered : it was more bit
ter, and left in the mouth a taste similar to an infusion of bark.
    The bark which produced these effects was fresh. Would
the cinchona of commerce produce the same effects ? This ques
tion can be answered only by experiment.
                 EXTRAORDINARY       CURE OF LOCK-JAW.
                          [From the Quebec Gazette.]
    The interest of suffering humanity .tending at times to excite
public attention, I publish the following case, which even the
gentlemen of the faculty will not peruse with indifference.         It is
well known with how little success the medicinal art has hitherto
struggled with that terrible disorder known by the name of Te
tanus (Opisthotonos), especially when caused by a wound.
    On the 15th of December last, Mary Saint Gelais, 19 years
old, a servant to Mr. Saul, fell on the glazed frost and lacerated
the integuments of her right knee; but the wound not appearing
dangerous, she continued her usual occupations. Eighteen days
after, although the wound appeared perfectly healed, she began
to complain of a stiffness in the back of her neck, and a- cer
tain difficulty in moving her jaw; accompanied with a pain in
her knee, which the curing of the wouad had not been able to
dispel. The pain having increased in an alarming manner during
the day, the patient was carried in the evening to Dr. Blanchet,
who prescribed something for the night — Dr. I Aland being called
in, at Mr. Saul's desire, declared that the tetanus was then com
plete.    During three days he employed in a masterly manner
every thing that the art prescribes in such cases ; but perceiving
all his efforts were useless, he requested his friend Dr. P. De
Salles Latterriere to form a consultation.           Of this, the result
was amputation ; to which, nevertheless, the patient' and her re
lations positively refused their consent.        They then contented
themselves with enlarging the wound, and dressing it with the
common stimulants, leaving the patient with such full conviction
of her approaching death, that they thought it their duty to give
her warning of her extreme danger, and her relations of the cer
tainty of her death.
    1 found the poor woman in so violent a paroxysm that her
whole body was bent like a bow, and supported only on the back
of the head and on the heels. The jaws were so closed that it
was impossible to introduce the blade of a knife.' I confess that
I also thought her on the very point of expiring; yet her pulse>
although weak and rapid, and milch resembling such a one. as
        ,                           P 4                       commouly

   232           Bismuth. — Timber. ^-Natural History1.
   commonly accompanies the inflammations of the brain, holding
   out toleratly well, I immediately came to the resolution of bleed
   ing her until she fainted. I was obliged to take from her thirtyrsix
   ounces of blood — The fainting fit lasted a long time; but the
   contraction of the jaws and the general spasm yielded visibly to
   that powerful depletion — I then took advantage of the slackness
   of the jaws to make her swallow four ounces of castor oil, and I
  prescribed the same quantity in a clyster; — after two hours she
"
  had two copious stools.      She notwithstanding relapsed, and as
  violently as before ; I repeated the bleeding, which was followed
   by a fainting after a fresh loss of eighteen ounces of blood.
      During the three following days she took each day an ounce
   and a half of good laudanum; — the fourth day her mouth again
   closed, and the same convulsions began : another bleeding, ad
  deliquium, thirty ounces ; and the patient found herself relieved
  as it were by enchantment.       Her great repugnance to the tinc
  ture of opium made me substitute in its place the extract of pure
  opium combined with calomel. The doses will appear more than
  extraordinary, and the success alone can justify them : I gave
  her three days successively, sixty grains of opium alone ; the ca
  lomel did not cause any salivation ; it acted powerfully on the
  bowels, from which it expelled several worms of an astonishing
  length. The woman is at present perfectly cured of the tetanus,
  though extremely weak, which weakness her excessive poverty
  will in all probability keep up but too long.
     Quebec, February 1/1819.                         Jos. PaINCHAUD.
                                 BISMUTH.
      It appears by experiments made by M. Chaudet, that bismuth,
  even when covered with charcoal, is entirely volatilized in a tem
  perature of 30° Wedgwood, if exposed to this heat for a sufficient
  length of time. — Ann. de Ckim. et de Phys. ix. 397.
                                 TIMBER.
      From recent researches made in Sweden, it appears that the
  birch reaches the furthest north, growing beyond the 70th de
  gree.; the pine reaches to the 69th ; the fk to the 6Sth ; the
  osier, willow, aspen, and quince, to the 66th ; the cherry- and
  apple-tree to the 63d ; the oak to the 60th ; and the beech to
  the 57th : while the lime, ash, elm, poplar, and walnut, are to be
  found only in Scania.
                           NATURAL HISTORY.
      The splendid collection of zoology, lately purchased from
  Dufresne of Paris, for the College Museum, Edinburgh, has
  reached its destination in safety.       It consists of 1600 birds;
  1 2,000 insects ; 2000 shells ; 800 eggs of different species      of
  birds ; besides corals, quadrupeds, and amphibious animals.
                                                         VACCINATION.   »

    Vaccination.-Gas Lighls.-Sympiesomeler.-Hygrometer.            233
                             VACCINATION.
     Between the years 1752 and 1762 the small-pox carried off in
  Copenhagen 2644 persons; in the next ten years 21 16;— from
  1772 to 1782 the victims to this disease were 2233; — and from
  17S2 to 1792, 2735.      In 1802 vaccination was introduced and
 enforced by authority; and from that time to 1818 only 158 per
 sons were carried off by small-pox; viz. in 1802, 73 ; in 1803,
 5 ; in 1804, 13; in 1805, 5 ; in 1S06, 5 ; in 1807, 2 ; in 1808,
 46; in 1809, 5; in 1 S 10, 4; — since which time not a single
 case of small-pox has occurred in the dominions of the King of
 Denmark. After such a fact, can it be longer doubted that the
 small-pox, which has carried off infinitely more victims than all
 the wars and pestilences which ever afflicted the human race, may
  be entirely extirpated from the face of the earth ?       This being
 once effected, vaccination itself would become unnecessary.
                        PORTABLE GAS LIGHTS.
    Mr. Gordon of Edinburgh        has taken out a patent for this
 contrivance,   which  consists in  condensing from 20 to 30 atmo
 spheres of the gas in a vessel of sufficient strength, and furnished
 with one or more apertures for combustion, with proper stop
 cocks.    A globe of one foot diameter properly charged with gas,
 will yield a light equal to six common candles for twelve hours ;
 and so in proportion for other sizes.     The forms of course may
 be varied. — The result of this contrivance will be, that families
will by and by send their servants to the gas-maker (as formerly
 to the candle -maker) to get their portable magazine charged and
Teady for lighting every day, or every second day, without sub
jecting themselves to the trouble of making the gas in their own
 houses.
                        THE SYMPIESOMETER.
    This name is given by Mr. Adie of Edinburgh to a new in
strument of his invention, for indicating those minute changes in
the weight of the atmosphere which might be supposed to arise
from the action of the sun and moon.         Its indications are given
by the pressure of the atmosphere.       He employs an elastic fluid
or gas (hydrogen is best), and any liquid (excepting quicksilver)
not liable to be acted on by the gas which it confines, nor by the
 air, to a contact with which it is in some measure exposed. The
 liquid he prefers is almond oil coloured with anchusa root. The
 whole is inclosed in a tube with double bulbs, and fitted to a
 common thermometer.
                         NEW HYGROMETER.                             \
    This instrument, the invention of Mr. Adie, is composed of a
small bag made of the internal membrane of the arundo phrag-
                                                                 mites,

 234                     Lithographic Process.
 mites, and fitted, like a bulb, to the lower end of a thermometer
 tube.   It is then filled with mercury, which rises and falls in the
 tube, by the sensible and rapid changes that take place in the
 contraction or dilatation of the membrane, from the humidity or
 dryness of the atmosphere.     In point of sensibility, Mr. Adie has
 found this membrane to exceed any thing he has ever met with.
                        LITHOGRAPHIC    PROCESS.
                          [Concluded from p. 157-]
      Lithographic   chalk is a composition which can be applied      to
 the stone in a dry state like Italian chalk ; and different sorts of
 drawings may be produced with it.           For the composition of this
 chalk M. Senefelder gives a number of recipes.           We extract the
 •first.  Wax 4 parts ; soap 6 parts ; lamp-black 2 parts. The
 wax and the soap are melted together, then the lamp-black is
 added ; the whole is well rubbed down on a hot iron plate, then
 put into a saucepan and exposed to the fire until it returns to a
 liquid state. It is then poured out on a stone plate, well im
 pregnated with oil, so as to form a cake of the thickness of the
 eighth part of an inch.        The mass when cooled is cut into small
 slices, and is fit for use.    In the other compositions, tallow, sper
 maceti, and shell lac are added in various proportions, as it is re
 quired to make the chalk of a harder or of a softer texture.
      There remains the composition of the printing ink, which should
 be made of oil varnish, and fine burned lamp-black, well ground
 and united.      Sometimes ivory-black is used, and occasionally
  Frankfort black.
     The next thing considered by M. Senefelder, is what is called
 "   the preparation of the stone;" by which is especially meant the
  process by which the stone receives the quality of repelling the
 printing ink in certain distinct places.         Gum arabic, and some
 other similar substances, are the principal means of thus pre
 paring the stone ; the operation of aquafortis or other acids only
 rendering the stone more disposed to admit of the preparation.
  As the gum acts only on the uppermost surface of the stone, and
  by the frequent wiping off of the ink in printing is gradually di
  minished, it becomes necessary to renew          it,  while the stone
                                                                      is
  printing,   about   twice  a-day.    M.  Senefelder's  work contains a
  mass of minute and valuable information on this point.
      The best mode of making steel pen for lithographic purposes
                                a
 is   then described; as also the manner of cutting sable pencils in
  order to qualify them for tha production of lines of equal thick
  ness.    The lithographic student must also provide himself with
  tracing and etching needles   ;     and with a chest well lined with
  pitch,  in which   to bite  in the stones.
      There are three different sorts of paper necessary.    '   Transpa-
<.
                                                                    rent

                            Lithographic Process.                       235
  rent paper ; blotting paper ; and printing paper.            The transpa
  rent paper is for the tracing of drawings, in order to transfer them
  to the stone ; which may be done either in the ordinary way, by
  rubbing the back of the drawing with black-lead, and, having
  laid it on the stone, marking the outlines with a tracing needle,
  or by making the drawing on the paper with the softer chemical
  ink already described, and, having laid it on the stone, passing
  it through a press ; in which case the paper must undergo a par
  ticular preparation ; and is then called prepared transfer paper.
  The blotting paper is used principally as a covering for the paper
  which is to be printed.        With regard to the printing paper, the
  best is the half-sized, or wholly unsized paper used for copper
  plate printing. It ought to be moderately wetted, and then com
  pressed, and left for twenty-four hours before it is used.
       The description given by M. Senefelder of the various kinds of
  lithographic presses is not susceptible of abridgement, and would
  be unintelligible without the plates.        He acknowledges that this
   is  a part  of  the art capable of great improvement; for that at
   present too much is trusted to the skill and attention of the
  printer.
       We proceed to the account of the different manners of litho
   graphy.     They are divided into two principal branches — the ele
   vated, and the engraved manner.          In the first, all those parts of
'
  the stone that are covered by a greasy ink, resist the action of
   the acid poured over the whole surface of the stone, by means of
  .which the other parts of the surface become corroded ; they
   stand therefore higher than the latter,         as if elevated from the
   plain surface of the stone. In the second manner, all those lines
   or parts of the drawing or writing which are to give the impres
    sion are engraved into the surface of the stone by means of a
    sharp needle, or bitten into it by the action of an acid.
       The sub-divisions of the elevated manner, are 1st, the pen, or
    hairbrush drawing ; 2d, the chalk manner; 3d, the transfer man
    ner ; 4th, the wood-cut manner; 5th, the scraped manner; and
    6th, the sprinkled manner.
       With reference to the pen or hairbrush drawing, the stone, in
    order to prevent the chemical ink from spreading, ought to be
    slightly prepfired, by washing it with a strong solution of soap
    and water, and subsequently with pure water, which ought to be
    carefully wiped off.      The drawing is then to be made on the
    stone with the chemical ink already described.           When dry, the
    biting in with acid may commence. This is effected either by a
    flat varnishing brush, or by effusion.        In the first case, a com
    position  of  aquafortis,  and three or  four  parts of water is repeat
    edly arid uniformly passed over the surface of the stone; in the
    second case, the stone having been previously placed in the
                                                                     pitched

                          L\thograpldc Process.
  pitched chest before noticed, a composition of aquafortis, and
  20, 30, or 40 parts of water is poured over it. Experience alone
  can teach the exact strength of the acid, or the proper duration
  of its action.    The stone having been properly bitten in, should
  be washed    with, water ; and, when dry, covered with a solution
  of gum arabic in four or five parts of water.         In two or three
  minutes, a few drops of water and of oil of turpentine should be
  spread over the surface of the stone ; and then, by means of a
  woollen rag, the whole of the drawing may be wiped off.           The
  surface  of the stone should then   be  well wiped  with  a damp  rag,
 so that it may be every where slightly wet, and immediately
 charged with priutjng ink by passing a printing roller several
  times over it. The stone may then be printed ; to simplify which
  operation, M. Senefekler gives very copious instructions ; to
 which we must refer our readers.
     The lithographic chalk is used on the stone in the same man
 ner as common black chalk is used to produce a drawing on pa
 per ; a coarser or smoother grain having first been communicated
 to the stone by rubbing it with the,finest gravel sand, and a lit
 tle soap water.      The chalk will not however bear so much cor
 roding as the ink.      In general therefore, for that purpose, to one
 part of aquafortis, a hundred parts of water may be added ; and
 the darker shades may be further bit in by means of the flat var
 nishing brush and stronger acid.        The printiugof a chalk draw
 ing on stone     is extremely difficult, and requires strict attention
 to a- variety of cautions recommended by M. Senefelder; who
likewise explains at considerable length the way in which defects
or accidents may be remedied ; and describes a mode of producing
 a very agreeable effect by using two plates ; on the one of which,
 a sort of middle tint is bitten in all over, with the exception of
the high lights of tne subject, and in the other the shades are ex
pressed.      Several stones may thus be brought into play; and a
 variety of colours thereby introduced.
    The transfer manner M. Senefelder considers as the most im
portant part of his invention.       The paper for this manner must
be previously prepared with a thin starch, mixed up with French
chalk, plaster of Paris, and gamboge. The drawing or writing
is effected on it with a dilution of the chemical ink in soft water.
When dry, the back of the paper must be sponged with very
weak aquafortis until it is thoroughly soaked, when the super
fluous moisture must be absorbed by blotting paper, and being
placed with its face on a clean stone, the whole must be passed
two or three times through a press. When taken out, it must be
put into the pitched chest, and a solution of aquafortis in water
(one part of aquafortis to a hundred parts of water) be poured
over it so as to wet the whole surface.       Pure water must then be
                                                                poured

                                  Pompeii,                          237
poured over it in like nranner until the paper is disengaged. The
solution of glim may then be applied, and the stone is ready for
printing; although its effect may be increased by a rebiting.
 If chalk be used instead of irik, it must be'previously softened by
 the addition of a little tallow.
    We have rto room for a description of what M. Setiefelder calls
the -wood-cut manner, the sprinkled manner, and the Indian ink
 manner ; or for an account of his mode of printing in colours,
and in gold and silver.      Leaving the elevated, we must content
ourselves with a very brief notice of the engraved manner of litho-
 grapffy.
    The stone, when it is intended to engrave Upon It, must be
rubbed down as smooth as possible, and prepared with gum wa
ter, which, however, must be immediately washed off. It should
then be covered by a flat varnishing brush with a thin colour,
composed of a solution of gum and lamp-black or red chalk.
When perfectly dry, the drawing must be either traced or sketched
on the surface ; and the lines must then be all drawn in with an
etching needle, cutting through the covering coat, and entering
more or less deeply into the stone as a greater or less degree of
strength of shade is required.      A soft ink, composed of thin var
nish, tallow, and lamp-black, must then be rubbed over the sur
face of the stone, into all the lines ; and immediately wiped off,
together with the original covering coat, by means of a woollen
rag dipped in gum-water.
    A drawing may also be etched on stone by a process similar to
that used in etching on copper.
    Some very curious and diversified processes of lithography are
also described by M.Senefelder, under the names of — Manner of
drawing with prepared or gum ink, the sprinkled aquatint man
ner, the soft ground manner, &c. all of which exhibit very strik
ing ingenuity, and deserve to be closely studied by those who are
desirous of obtaining proficiency in this new art.        Instructions
are also given for printing with oil and water colours at the same
time, for the application of the stone to calico-printing, for print
ing oil-paintings by transfer, &c. We regret that although M.
Senefelder's recently invented stone paper, intended to supersede
the use of stone, is again mentioned, the mode of preparing it is
not specified; M. Senefelder, however, promises to make this the
subject of a separate work. .
                               POMPEII.
    In prosecuting the excavations at Pompeii, they        have lately
discovered several edifices in the fine street that leads to the tem
ples of Isis and Hercules, and to the Theatre.        In a house sup
posed to have belonged to some man of science, some surgical
instruments were found of excellent workmanship ; also some
paintings representing fruit and animals, executed with great
truth.

238 The Comet. — Lectures.      — Patents.— Death of Mr. Watt.
                             THE COMET.
    A late conjecture that on the 26th of June the earth was in the
 direction of the tail of the comet now visible, is fully confirmed,
since the orbit has become better known.         The sun, the comet,
and the earth, were on the 18th of June in the morning so nearly
in a right line, that the comet was to be seen on the sun's disk.
According to calculation, the nucleus of the comet entered the
sun's southern limb at 5h 22m A.M. true time at Bremen.            It
was nearest    to the centre of  the sun 1' 27''  west, about 7h 13m,
and issued from the sun's northern limb about 9h 22m.            The
comet during this most remarkable transit was something more
than seven millions of German miles distant from the sun, and
about fourteen millions of miles from the earth.
    Bremen, July 28, 1819.                              W. Olbers.
                               LECTURES.
    The Courses of Lectures of the St. George's Hanover-Square,
on Physic, Chemistry, and Surgery, will commence on Mohdav,
October 4th, 1819.
    The Medieal Lectures, by George Pearson, M.D. F.R.S. &c.
    The Chemical, by W. T. Brande, Esq. Professor to the Royal
Institution, and Secretary of the Royal Society.
    The Surgical, by B. C. Brodie, Assistant Surgeon to St.
George's Hospital.
    The gratuitous Lectures of Sir Everard Home as usual, to the
Pupils of St. George's Hospital.
             LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
    To James Head, of Lower Brook-street, Grosvenor-square, esq.
for a machine or instrument for ascertaining the difference of ships'
draught of water forward and aft at sea or in harbour. — 27th of
July 1819.
    To Henry Tritton, of Clapham, for an improved apparatus for
filtration. — 1 1th of August.
    To Charles Phillips, of Haverford West, commander in the
Royal Navy, for certain improvements on capstans. — 20th Sept.
    To William Brockedon, of Poland-street, for certain improve
ments in wire-drawing. — 20th Sept.
    The celebrated Mr. Watt of Birmingham died at his house at
Heathfield, on Wednesday the 15th of September. Mr. Watt was
elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1 784; of the
Royal Society of London in 1785; and a Member of the Biita-
vian Society in 1787; in 1806 the honorary degree of Doctor of
Laws was conferred upon him by the spontaneous and unanimous
vote of the Senate of the University of Glasgow; and in 1 808 he
was elected a Member of the National Institute of France.

                            Meteorology.                             239
          METEOROLOGICAL JOURNAL KEPT AT BOSTON,
                           LINCOLNSHIRE.
    [The time of observation, unless otherwise stated, is at 1 P.M.]
          Age of
 1819.     the Thermo    Baro     State of the Weather and Modification
          Moon.  meter.  meter.              of the Clouds.
          DAYS.
Aug.  15   24     76.     29.66   Cloudy
      16   25     72-     29-75   Ditto
      17   26     73-     29-80   Ditto
      18   27     70'     29.92   Ditto
      19   28     69-     29.88   Ditto
      20 new      68-5    29'90   Ditto
      21     1    67-     29-88   Ditto
      82     2    72-     29-88   Ditto
      83     3    76-5    29.70   Fine
      24     4    78-     29-60   Ditto
      25     5    73-     29-50   Ditto
      26     6    68-     29-70   Cloudy
      27     7    72-     29.70   Ditto
      sa     8    74-     29'55   Fine
      89     9    73-     20/23   Ditto — brisk wind.
      30    10    69-5    28-80   Showery
      31    11    61-     28.96   Stormy
Sept.   1   12    58-     20-24   Ditto
        2   13    61-     29'40   Cloudy   — rain at night.
        3   14    70-     29.23   Fine
        4  full   69-     29'50    Ditto
        5   16    66-     2g-40    Ditto — heavy rain this morning.
        6   17    62-5    29-60 Ditto
        7   18    75-     29.94 Ditto
        8   19    76-     29-64    Cloudy
        0   20    74-     29-70    Ditto
      10    21    74-     29-59    Ditto
      11    22    65-     29-60    Ditto
      12    23    66-5    29-98    Fine
      18    24    66-5    29.98    Ditto
      14    25    69.     29-00    Ditto
                                                               METEORO

240                                Meteorology.
                       meteorological table,
                   By Mr. Cary, of the Strand,
                             For September
                                      -  .»..
                                                     1
                                                   1 8 1 9-
                                                        -
                  Thermometer.                         rv
                                                      Q   ~Z a
                                        Height of
  Days of                                             "3  -31        Weather.
                                        the Baroni.
  Month.                  5
                          o    6.1         Inches.
                c   °                                  u. >n Sd
                                                                                  •
  Aug.   27     64      73     60         30.15           56    Cloudy
        28      63      71      61        29.97           47    Cloudy
        29      60      71      60            •75         62    Fair
        30      59      61      58            •45         56    Stormy
        31      56      60      51            •55         61    Fail-
   Sept.   1    54      64      51            •70         66    Fair
           2    53      65      61            •79         70    Fair
           3    64      72      60            •81         45    Fair
           4    66      70      66            •96         47    Fair
           5    64      65      55            •92         22    Rain
           6    56      66      51        30-09           61    Fair
                                                                                1
           7    64      70      66            •14         21    Cloudy-
           8    67      74      66            •22         51    Fair
           9    65      74      63            •22         51    Fair
         10     63      72      61            •15         40    Fail-
         ] 1    56      63      60            •20         16    Cloudy
          12     58     67      54            •33         54    Fair
         13      55     67      54            •36         55    Fair
         14      56     71      61            •30         61    Fair
         15      60     71      62        29-95           30    Cloudy
         16      56     57      43            •64         37    Fair with rain at
          i7     53     62      55        30-14           58    Fair          [night
                                                                               >
         18      61     67      56            •31         45    Fair
          39     55     60      48            •27         55    Fair
         20     49      61      47            •42         62    Fair
         21      52     60      54            •35         49    Fair
         22      50     60      46            •49         47    Fair
         23      51     62      53            •26         40    Cloudy
          24     56     64      53        29.95           46    Fair
          25     56     62      52            •43          0    Rain
          2(1    53     59      52            •56         36    Showery
                N.B. The Barometer's height is taken at one o'clock.
                                        Erratum.
   Page   1 12,  line 12,  for orbit ; likewise since read orbit likewise since,
          116, — 29,       for Cocanada read Cocavada.

                                             [   241    ]
XLI.    Remarks on Mr. Meikle's Paper on ^finding the Longi
    tude by Lunar Observations. By Mr. Edward Riddle.
                                        To   Mr. Tilloch.
                                                                        25, 1819.
           -w-wT         Trinity-House School, Newcastle-on-Tyne, Sept.
Sir, — When                    a person who   undertakes   to  animadvert   upon
                                                                  and
the views of others, executes his purpose with moderation
                                               in knowing     whether         is,
candour, all that the public is concerned
                                       But when, in the plenitude                           of
his objections are well founded.
self-satisfaction, such   person in every paragraph of his inquiry
                                    a
affects to hold in derision the talents of all who have previously
considered the subject;          necessary not only that the justness
                                       it   is
of his particular objections  should   be quite indisputable, but that
the correctness of his    belief  in  the  superiority of his own ac
quirements should either be apparent, or admit of being easily
proved.
   The immediate cause of these remarks           miscellaneous let-"1
                                                                is   a
ter on the subject of lunars, &c, by Mr. H. Meikle, printed in
your Magazine for July.       perusal of that letter will show even
                                         A
those who may be unacquainted with the subject of          the spirit        it,
in which       it   is   written.
    What confidence may      be put in the author's assertions, what
weight     attached to his judgement, or what regard ought to be
paid to his censures,    purpose at present to inquire.
                                   I
   He censures in severe terms the deduction which, in low alti
tudes,    sometimes made from the semidiameters of the sun and
          is
moon, before they are applied to the observed distance. He says,
"  we shall afterwards see that this   an elaborate way of creat
                                                       is
ing new errors." As      do not afterwards
                                   I        see, in Mr. M.'s letter,
a satisfactory reason to believe any such thing,     shall show, be      I
fore I proceed further, that in the principle  of the correction no
error exists.
   Conceive        D to represent the upper
                    A    B
half of the moon's disk, and let us suppose
that it  an ellipse whose horizontal and ver
          is
tical semidiameters are        and  AC. Sup
                                         C        B
pose also that         star, and FE its mea
                          F   is
                              a
sured distance from the nearest point      of               E
the moon's disk.     Even when —— has the
                                  AC
least value which, in the practice of lunars,      can ever acquire  it
from the effect of refraction   and when, from the position of
                                             ;                                              F,
the angle      F
               E      also a minimum
                         C    is           and further, when
                                                        ;                           E
                                                                                    F       is
the least distance that     used in the solution of the problem —
                                    is                                                  :
   Vole 54, No. 258. Ocf.1819.                                  FE   Q

242                      On finding. the Longitude
FE    + E C will differ from F C by an almost unappreciable frac
 tion of a second. If it were possible for F E C to be
                                                                 175", which
 it never can be; and if F E were 15°, the difference between
 FE + E C and FC would not exceed                        part of a second.
A* would, in fact, be too minute for computation with the best
tabled in common use.          In all cases, therefore, F E + E C may
be takeA /or     F  C,   without sensible error.
    Now CE is necessarily less than A C, from the property of the
curve ; the theoretical existence of the correction is therefore ap
parent, notwithstanding Mr. M.'s censure of those whom he af
fects to call the " learned authors" that have recommended it
to be applied.
    He has indeed charged those authors with a mistake which he
must be content to have attributed to himself.              It is not, as he
says, the line D E (in his figure) which they
                                                       " have been pleased
to consider as shortened by refraction ;" but the line drawn from
the centre to the point in the disk from which the distance is
measured.       And it has just been shown that if the semidiameters
so reduced     be   applied to the observed distance, the result will
differ from the apparent central distance by a quantity indefinitely
small. I proceed, in the next place, to show that the method
which has hitherto been pursued by those computists whom
Mr. M. describes as        "  aiming at great exactness," will always
give correctly    the   true and apparent altitudes of the centres of the
objects.
    Setting aside the effect of refraction, the centre of the lumi
nary will be in the line joining the observer and the centre of the
disk.    And   if,   from the effect of refraction, the centre of the
disk be elevated, the centre of the luminary, having the same           al
titude, will be elevated in the same degree.           The apparent place
of the   centre,   therefore,  will still be in  the  line joining the ob
server and    the    point to which   the  centre  of  the  disk
                                                               is   elevated
 by refraction.
    Let then  B,  C,be the true places
of the lower limb, and the centre
of the luminary; and D,E, the ap
parent places of the same points.
BAC will represent the true or
augmented        semidiameter,       and
DAE the reduced or contracted
semidiameter corresponding to the
altitude FAD.
                   there be added
  If  now to
               D
               A     F
the reduced semidiameter DAE,
the sum will be the angle FAE, obviously the apparent altitude
                                                                         of

                         by   Lunar Observations.                                  24a
of   the centre E above the sensible horizon AF.            If the refrac
 tion E A C corresponding to F A E be deducted from that angle,
 the remainder will be the angle C A F, the true altitude of the
 centre F above the sensible horizon ; and if the parallax A C G
 corresponding to C A F be added to                  it,
                                              the sum will be      GC, the
                                                                 G H
 true altitude of the centre above the rational horizon           H.
     This  is the principle of the method which        generally adopted
                                                           is
 in correcting the altitudes       and
                                   ;       obviously gives correctly the
                                                it
 true and apparent altitudes of the centre of the luminary.         There
 fore by   the methods on which Mr. M. animadverts with so much
 severity, the true and apparent altitudes of the centres of the ob
jects will be correctly obtained         and the apparent distance of
                                            ;
  the centres will also be obtained correctly to within         very small
                                                                 a
fraction    of   asecond.    The   distance  may  then,  from  these  data,
  be cleared from the effects of parallax and refraction,               the    by
 usual formula   ;   and from whatever points the apparent distance
is   estimated, the result of the computation will be the true di
  stance of the same.
     Now the object of the computation for clearing the distance,
is   to deduce, from observations made upon the surface of the
  earth, the angular distance of the objects observed as they would
  be seen at the centre of it.       By comparing the distances so de
  duced with those previously computed for a known meridian,
 the time at that meridian            found.
                                       is       And as those previously
  computed distances are the distances         of the centres of the ob-
jectSj it   is obvious that the distances compared with them ought
  to be the distances of the same points.
      Mr. Meikle proposes as an improvement, that the apparent                      di
  stance should be estimated not from the centre, but from an ex-
  centric and variable point       !
      What have already said will enable us to appreciate the value
           I
  of this extraordinary proposal, the absurdity             of
                                                          which     only to
  be equalled    by the air of self-gratulation with which            it is
                                                                       deli   is
  vered, and the contemptuous allusion which the author of                          it
  makes to " the old-established habit" of estimating the apparent
 -distance from the centre.          would indeed appear that he
                                       It                               not    is
  aware that the central distance of the objects        what
                                                           is    required.
                                                                 is
  I     have now,    Itrust, sufficiently vindicated the deduction from
  the semidiameters applied to the distance from the charge of a
  tendency to produce error.           have also shown that, in the cor
                                       I
  rection of the altitudes, the deduction from the vertical semidia
  meters ought to be applied to obtain correctly the altitudes of
  the points of which    it    the object of the problem to compute
                              is
  the distance.     In the principles, therefore, which direct the com
  mon application of the corrections in question, there            no error.
                                                                     is
                                            Q   2                              Those

 244                     On finding the Longitude
Those which      Mr. M. imagines he has detected are merely con
 sequences    of his  own misconception.
     But   after all his  affectation of superior precision, it will not
perhaps be expected that the improved method which he proposes
for finding the true altitude is founded on the same principles,
and must always produce exactly the same result, as that of which
he has endeavoured to prove the fallacy. — Yet that this is the
case will be easily made appear.
    From the apparent altitude of the limb FAD (see last figure)
lie deducts the corresponding refraction, which is DA B ; to the
remainder he adds the true semidiameter B A C, and the sum is
obviously the angle FAC, the true altitude of the centre above
the sensible horizon, and of the same magnitude as we have be
fore determined it to be.
    If further elucidation be necessary, the truth of the matter, in
any given case, may be put to the vulgar test of arithmetical com
putation. Let us take an extreme case, and suppose the alti
tude of the lower limb to be 5°, and the semidiameter parallel to-
the horizon 16'. —The computation for the true altitudes above
the sensible horizon by both methods will stand as under :
      .....             By the common Method.
 , .      Observed altitude, lower limb               . .  5° 0'  0"
          Reduced semidiameter            . .        . .   0  15 35
          Apparent altitude centre          . .      . .   5  15 35
          Refraction    to 5° 15±'     . .           . .   0   9 28
          True alt. above sensible horizon             . . 5   6  7
                      By Mr. Meikle's Method.
                                                           5°  0' 0"
          Refraction    to 5°                              0   9 53
          True alt. lower limb above        sens.   hor.   4 50   7
          Horizontal semidiameter               . .        0  16  0
                                                           5   6  7
                     This I hope will be satisfactory.
   On this part of the subject it appears then, that if Mr. M. has
produced nothing new, he has proposed nothing which will lead
to error.     But when to the angle FAD he directs the " aug
mented" semidiameter, that is the angle B AC, to be applied,
and considers the result as the apparent altitude ; he immediately
gets perplexed in what he calls the angular point of the triangle,
                                                                     and

                        by  Lunar Observations.                   245
 and determines the altitude of a point which, as we have already
 seen, has nothing to do with the computation.        The difference
 between the true and apparent altitudes, technically called the
 correction of the altitudes, which is a most important circum
 stance to be attended to, will in this way be erroneous by the
 whole effect of refraction in contracting the vertical semidia-
meters.
    I have now shown the reason which has hitherto induced as
tronomers to follow " the old established method" of estimating
the apparent distance from the apparent place of the centre ;
 and that there is nothing erroneous in the principle of making a
deduction from the horizontal semidiameters before they are ap
plied to the observed distance. — I have also shown that the cen
 tre is the point from which the distance must be estimated ; and
that if the reduced semidiameters be applied to the observed di
stance of the limbs, no appreciable error can arise from consi
dering the result as the apparent distance of the centres.        And
 I have lastly shown, that as the semidiameters and other correc
tions are usually applied by careful computers, in correcting the
altitudes, the true and apparent altitudes of the centres are cor
rectly determined. The distance computed from these data may
therefore be depended on as correct in theory.
    It is obvious also that Mr. M.'s proposal of applying an aug
mentation to the semidiameter applied to the distance, instead
of making a deduction from it — and of taking an excentric point
in the disk for the angular point of the triangle — is founded on
misconception, and must produce error. Such is the consequence
that would result from the adoption of Mr. M.'s theoretical views.
    I shall now inquire whether any error would arise worth notice
in the practice of lunars at sea, from neglecting some of the cor
rections of which I have shown the existence in theory.          It is
obvious that if any small correction be omitted which ought
to be directly applied to the apparent distance, the true distance
will be erroneous by nearly the same quantity.        The deduction
from the semidiameter applied to the distance is therefore a cor
rection which cannot be dispensed with where great accuracy is
required; though when the altitudes are above 15° the correc
tion becomes so minute, that in observations taken at sea it will
generally bear but a small proportion to the unavoidable errors
of observation.
    With respect to altitudes for correcting lunar distances, it may
be observed generally, that if the apparent central distance be.
correctly obtained, no conceivable mistake in the application of
the semidiameters in correcting the altitudes, can entail a mis
take worth regarding on the result of the computations — If the
apparent altitudes be determined to a minute or two, the dif-
                                 Q 3              ,           ference

246                     On finding the Longitude
 ference between the apparent and true altitudes may generally
-be determined      to a second ; and under such circumstances the
 resulting   distance  will not be affected to an extent worth caring
 for by any such small errors in the altitudes themselves.
     But if the case were otherwise, such errors could not always be
 avoided in observations taken at sea. For the observations which
 have been made with Dr. Wollaston's Dip-sector show that from
the variableness of the horizontal refraction, the apparent de
 pression of the horizon will sometimes differ more than three
.minutes from its mean quantity.
     In the apparent altitudes, therefore, greater errors are generally
 unavoidable than the imaginary ones which drew from Mr. Mei-
 kle this querulous exclamation — " It is in vain that we expect ac
 curacy even from the best observers and instruments, if such
 needless errors are persevered in."
     It is however evidently pushing the calculation to a nicety in
 consistent with the data, to compute the apparent altitude of the
 centre to a second, when that of the limb may possibly be af
 fected by an error of two or three minutes ; and in altitudes for
 clearing the distance, it is fortunate that such precision is not
 necessary.
     In the apparent distance we have seen that much greater ac
 curacy is requisite ; and it is one of the advantages of the lunar
 method of finding the longitude, that this element, the distance
 on the correctness of which the precision of the result so mate
 rially depends, can generally be measured with very considerable
 exactness.
     But supposing the elements determined from observation to be
 correctly obtained,it is certainly desirable thatweshould not in any
 degree vitiate the result of a good observation by mistakes in the
 theory on which our computation from it is founded.          What the
 theoretical principles are which must guide us in the preparatory
 steps of the operation, I hope the reader of the preceding remarks
 will not need to be informed.       And if he have already been in
 structed in the method of finding the longitude by lunar obser
 vations " according to the old established method," it may af
 ford him some satisfaction to perceive that the cavils which
 Mr. Meikle has raised against that method are entirely without
 foundation.
     Dismissing this subject, I come to his remarks on the princi
 ples of the quadrant.       Though it is true that if a ray of light be
reflected from a revolving mirror, the angle described by the re
 flected ray will be double that described bv the mirror ; and
 though it is an obvious consequence of this property that the an
gle measured by the revolution of the index in the quadrant is
 half that described by the reflected image of the object observed ;
                                                                    »et,

                       ly  LuTiar Observations.                          247
                                            the principle of its opera
yet, as the instrument is constructed,
                                                                        from
tion may be explained, and in fact is generally explained,
                             of which  this one  is  a consequence ; viz.
the elementary property
*< the
        angle of reflexion is equal to the angle
                                                    of incidence." With
the assistance of this elementary property        of  reflexion, the prin
                                                             from the geo
ciple of the instrument is generally demonstrated
                                                                    and the
metrical properties of the figures formed by the rays
                                                  an observation is con
planes of the mirrors, at the time at which
                                                                      that by
ceived to be completed. The angle to be measured, and
                           inferred from  the  instrument,      are  thus  ex
which its magnitude is
hibited and directly compared.
     Let B represent the index mirror,
-and C the horizon glass, and let the
 planes of those mirrors be produced to
 meet in D. Let G be a distant object,
 GB a ray from it falling on the index                               "r-AA
 mirror, and reflected from it to the ho
 rizon glass C ; and reflected there again
 to the eye at A, the point at which the
 reflected ray would meet the direct one
  G B produced.                                                  'D
      To an observer at A, the reflected
 image of G would appear at E a point in AC                ; and the angle
  GAE would measure         the  angular distance     of the   object and its
  reflected image ; or of the object and any         thing   with   which the
  reflected image appeared to coincide.       Now     from   the  elementary
  optical property already referred to, ABC is bisected by B D ;
  and A C F formed by A C and B C produced is bisected bv
  CD.     Whence C D B =      FC D   -C BD= i FCA- {ABC =f.
  ABC + BAC -±AB              C =   f BAC.       But B D C, the incli
  nation of the mirrors, is equal to the angle measured by the
  revolution of the index ; and that angle is therefore half that
   which it is required to determine.
      With a view to this method of investigating the principle of
   the instrument, as it is actually constructed and used, there is
   therefore nothing vague or insignificant in the description which
   those authors have given, who have stated in substance that
                                                                           "  in
   consequence of the double reflexion, the angle measured by the
   instrument is doubled to obtain the measure of the required an
   gle." — From the first reflexion the angle ABC is bisected, and
   from the second the angle ACF ; and it is in consequence of these
   two reflexions that the angle B A C is formed in the instrument.
       The caution with which Mr. Meikle represents the writers on
   navigation to have followed
                                    " the old beaten track," will not
    probably be diminished by the success of his
                                                            "  wanderings in
   search of improvement."
                                     Q4                                      Bjr

 248                    On finding the Longitude
      By the term parallax, astronomers understand the angular di
   stance between the places of the centre of a celestial body, as
  seen at the surface, and at the centre of the earth ; or, which
  amounts to the same thing, the angle under which the earth's
  semidiameter would appear when viewed from the centre of the
  celestial object.    This angular distance is the arch of a vertical
  circle, and consequently, to an observer on» the earth, parallax,
  in changing the apparent places of objects, operates only in a ver
  tical direction.
     The " common popular doctrine" to which Mr. M. alludes, is
 therefore a true doctrine; and little more is necessary to be said
• on the subject when it is evident he misunderstands the term.
     But though in changing the apparent places of objects paral
 lax operates only in a vertical direction, its effects on the appa
 rent distances of objects from each other are estimated in every
  direction.    If Mr. M. were elevated as high above London bridge,
 as in his own estimation he is elevated above the insignificant
  crowd of writers on navigation, — though the effect of that eleva
 tion on his distance from surrounding objects would be apparent
 In every direction, the elevation itself would be estimated in a
  vertical one ; and it would be in that direction chiefly that he
  would be solicitous to protect himself against the consequences of
 a fall.
      When parallax is understood in the sense in which it has been
  here explained, it obviously cannot, by operating only in a verti
  cal direction, have any such effect on the figure of the moon as
  Mr. M. affirms it would have. And though he says it would be
  very easy, he cannot show that the apparent figure of a spherical
  body would be at all affected by parallax operating only in a ver
 tical direction.
    But even taking the meaning of the term in the unusual sense
 in which he appears to understand
                                           it,not quite true, as he
                                                 is
                                 "
                                           it
 says in the next sentence, that   the difference of the parallaxes
 of any two diametrically opposite limbs constitutes what     called
                                                             is
 the augmentation of the diameter."
    To prove this, conceive the earth and
 moon to be cut    by   plane through their
                        a
 centres,B   and C.    Let    Abe  apoint in
 the great circle which bounds the section
 of the earth, and from      Aand    let the
                                       B
 tangents AD,
                 A                B
                 F,     B G,       be drawn
                                  E,
 to the circle which bounds the section of
 the moon.
               G
               B   E     the measure of the
                        is
 moon's diameter at the centre of the
 earth, and A D
            F A    its measure at the point
A j  and  D   F  — G B  E    the augmenta
                             is
                                                                  tion.

                          ly Lunar Olservations.                          249
 tion. Now    if the points G, D, and,    also F, E, coincided,the angles
 at those points would represent the parallaxes for the two opposite
 limbs; and in that case DAE + ADB = DHE =AEB + EBD.
 Whence AEB-ADB = DAE-EBD.                       Butthe points G andD,
 F  and  E, are necessarily different points ; and the angles formed
 by   A D andjBG produced, and by B E and A F produced, would
 not be the parallaxes of points upon the surface of the moon.
 The error indeed will be inconsiderable, but still it is an error ;
 and the augmentation can easily be computed on principles to
 which no theoretical exception can be taken.
     Dr. Mackay concludes, that the change of parallax at any al
 titude answering to a change of altitude equal to the moon's
 semidiameter will be the augmentation answering to that alti
 tude.    This is theoretically true. Mr. Meikle perhaps imagines
 that it is the same principle as that which he has delivered.
     He next animadverts on the method of finding the latitude
 by a table of
                  " difference of altitude of the pole-star and pole,"
 and he declares that it " claims strong reprobation." — " It is
 always erroneous," he says, " except the latitude be nearly 0,
or when the star is in the meridian."
    The authors who have inserted that table in their work?, knew,
 I hope, as well as Mr. Meikle, that the latitude found by it was
 only approximate ; and they probably knew also that under cir
 cumstances in which the altitude of the pole-star could be ob
served at sea, the maximum error of the approximation was too
insignificant to be regarded.         In high latitudes where the error
becomes worth notice, the pole-star cannot be seen during sum
 mer ; and ships do not frequent very high                     in winter.
     The  " liberality" of the supposition that       "
                                                    latitudes
                                                         the altitude of the
pole-star when six hours distant from the meridian is equal to
that of the pole," is not to be attributed to ignorance.             It is as
sumed as a hypothesis nearly true, and from which a useful prac
 tical rule may be deduced. By the aid of that table, a common
watch and a quadrant, an observer but indifferently skilled in
 computation may ascertain his latitude in a favourable uight,
 as often as he pleases, and to a degree of exactness sufficient for
all practical purposes at sea.       It is on this account only that the
table is given ; not because the latitude determined on the hypo
thesis on which the table is constructed, is strictly correct.
     He remarks further that no provision is made for the effect of
"   the rapid change of polar distance to which the star is sub
ject."    This remark is not generally correct.             In Nerie's Epi
 tome, any error of this kind is guarded against in his remarks on
 the use of the table.       And in the valuable tables of Mendoza
 Rios, where the same method is given in a slightly different form,
                                                                           any

250              On Capl. Ross's Reply      to Capt. Saline.
any such error is also provided against by directing the polar
distance to be taken out for the time of observation.
     Mr. Meikle lastly mentions a table of this kind, in which the
star's polar distance at the time of the publication of the table is
erroneous by 4"6'.        The table is in Mackay's Navigation, and
the error is about what Mr. M. has stated it to be.
     But in disingenuously endeavouring to convert this circum
stance into an argument against putting confidence in any tables
of the kind, he betrays an aberration from rectitude of intention,
which shows that he is not more apt to suspect others, than to
give, in his own conduct, cause for suspicion.
     I have now gone through the whole of this gentleman's ob
jections, and at greater iength than I originally proposed to my
self ; and I hope I have made it apparent that the " errors and
             " which he has so
 delusions                        liberally, so confidently, and so un
 ceremoniously ascribed to the writers on navigation, have no ex
 istence but in his own imagination.
                      Your obedient servant,
                                                    Edward Riddle.
     P.S. — This   does not appear an improper occasion to make a
 few remarks on some observations in page 3 1st of the pamphlet
 which Captain Ross has published in reply to that of Captain
  Sabine.
     Speaking of Captain S. and himself, he says, " but, as we dif
 fered on the method of applying the refraction minus parallax,
 I made no use of his observations — he judging it proper to cor
 rect the observed altitude of the sun's limb for thesemidiameter,
 before he took out the refraction ; and I, being accustomed to
  apply that correction to the altitude of the sun's limb, before the
  semidiameter was applied. In the Alexander, printed forms were
  found according to the former method, which having confirmed
  Captain Sabine in his first opinion, he continued in this error
  during the voyage, and therefore neither his latitudes, longitudes,       ~
  or variation were correct ; and whenever I had occasion to make
  use of his altitudes, I took them as corrected only for the index
  error and the dip of the horizon."       And he adds in a note, " the
  printed forms for the present expedition have been altered in con
  sequence."
      There is in this statement an apparent inconsistency — Captain
  Ross says in one place that, for a certain reason, he made no use
  of Captain S.'s observations ; and in another place he says,
  " when 1 had occasion to use his" (Captain                " altitudes, I
                                                      S.'s)
   took them," &c.      It is not, however, on this circumstance that
  I  wish to remark.
                                                                         ft

                On Capl. Ross's Reply   to Capt.   Saline.            251
   It appears  from what I have said in the foregoing letter, that
if Captain S.  applied the contracted semidiameter to the observed
altitude, and  then the refraction, &c. corresponding to the alti
tude of the centre so found, both the true and apparent altitudes
of the centre would be obtained ; the true altitude in fact would
be the same as that obtained in the way in which Captain Ross
says he has been accustomed to apply the corrections.        And it
appears also, that even if the semidiameters which Captain S. ap
plied were not corrected for the effect of refraction, the circum
stance was of little or no importance in lunars, if the corrections
were taken out for the approximate altitude of the centre which
the semidiameters so applied would produce.        In problems in
deed where the true altitude only was wanted, the deduction
from the semidiameter ought to have been made ; and if Cap
tain S. did make    it, Captain Ross's objections are unfounded        ;
as the method was then only in appearance different from his
own. — If Captain S. did not in such cases make the requisite de
duction, his results would be in theory slightly incorrect.     But
if Captain Ross has been accustomed to consider the correction
for parallax and refraction corresponding to the altitude of the
limb, as the deviation in altitude which ought to be used in the
computation for clearing the distance,  I  need not here tell those
who may honour the preceding letter with      aperusal, that, consi
dered even in the most unfavourable light, Captain S.'s method
of correcting the altitudes must produce results much nearer the
truth than that of Captain Ross.       No considerable mistake in
the longitude ean have arisen from the way in which Captain S.
is  said to have applied the corrections.     Rut    if
                                                     I   understand
Captain Ross rightly, this cannot be said for the method of ap
plying them in the forms which have been furnished for the pre
sent expedition, or for the similar method which he says he has
been accustomed to pursue.
    But before forming any conclusion on the subject,       appears
                                                             it
desirable that more precise information should be afforded than
that which is  contained in the above extract from Captain Ross's
pamphlet.
   If both the forms which were used     by
                                         Captain Ross and Cap
tain Sabine in the late voyage were laid before the public    and ;
if the work, at length, of an observation as      was taken, and
                                                   it
worked,   by each gentleman, during the voyage     and further,
                                                    ;                  if
the printed forms which were found on board the Alexander, and
those which have been furnished for the new expedition, were
given, —we should determine with more certainty the merits or
defects of either method, than we are likely to do from any ac
count which we may have of them otherwise.
                                                                       If

252                     Essay      on    Dreaming, including
      If any of your    correspondents could furnish you with these do
cuments, I feel assured that you would most readily make room
for their insertion in the pages of your Magazine.
XLII. An Essay               on   Dreaming, including Conjectures           on    the
     proximate Cause              of   Sleep.        By Andrew Carmichael,
     M.R.I.A*
Dreams       have perplexed every individual who has attempted to
account for them ; but it will scarcely be credited that a philo
sopher of the eighteenth century, who was acquainted with the
opinions of Locke and had controverted with ability the theory
of Berkeley, should find no other mode of explaining these phe
nomena, than by maintaining that "our dreams are prompted
                                            f
by separate immaterial beings ;" and in illustration of the na
ture of uneasy dreams during illness, could argue that " these
beings wait for and catch the opportunity of the indisposition of
the body, to represent at the same time something terrifying also
to the mind J."
    But to arrive at a more rational explication, we must revert to
this author's predecessors.                 "
                                   Dreaming (says Locke) is the
having of ideas (whilst the outward senses are stopped, so that
they receive not outward objects with their usual quickness) in
the mind, not suggested by any external objects or known occa
sion, nor under any choice or conduct of the understanding at
all §    and again, " this I would willingly be satisfied in, whether
the soul when it thinks thus apart, and as it were separate from
the body, acts less rationally than when conjointly with        or no?it,
If its separate thoughts be less rational, then these men must say
that the soul owes the perfection of rational thinking to the lody                    :
if    does not,
     it            it   wonder that our dreams should be for the
                        is   a
most part so frivolous and irrational, and that the soul should
retain none of its more rational soliloquies and meditations         ."          ||
We might almost imagine that this passage was composed in
support of the Organic Theory since developed           Gall. Some
                                                               by
feeble anticipation of such     system  seems
                                        a      to have  been  floating
in the mind of Locke.
     * From the Transactions of the King's and Queen's College of Physicians
in Ireland.
f      An Inquiry into the Nature of the human Soul, wherein the Immate
riality of the Soul isevinced from the Principles of Reason and Philosophy.
Anon. — no date — p. 215.
  X   Id. 257.I  have lately found that this     the first edition of Baxter's ce
                                                     is
lebrated Essay.
  §    Locke's Essay, 21st edition, vol.     p. 213.
                                                1,              ||  Id.
                                                                      p.  87-
                                                                        Hartley

             Conjectures on the proximate Cause            of Sleep.        253
      Hartley seems also but little inclined to attribute these phe
nomena alone to the soul.           His views, as far as they go, are clear
 and satisfactory.        " Dreams (he says) are nothing more but the
 imaginations, fancies or reveries of a sleeping man ; and they
 are deducible from the three following causes : 1 st, The impres
sions and ideas lately received, and particularly those of the pre
 ceding day.       2d, The state of the body, particularly the stomach
 and brain. Jid, Association *."             " The scenes which present
 themselves are taken to be real, we do not consider them as the
 work of the fancy ; but suppose ourselves present and actually
 seeing and hearing what passes.           Now this happens, because we
have no other reality to oppose to the ideas which offer them
 selves : whereas, in the common fictions of the fancy, while we
 are awake, there is always a set of'' real external objects striking
 some of our senses, and precluding a like mistake there : or, if
 we come quite inattentive to external objects, the reverie does so
 far put on the nature of a dream as to appear a reality-}-."
      Beattie appears to have entertained a very confused idea of the
 nature of the soul, and even to have conceived that some of her
 faculties fall asleep while others remain awake.                 He does not,
however, exclude the influence altogether of the corporeal organs.
"    The imagination or fancy (he remarks) seems to be almost the
only one of our mental powers which is never suspended in its
 operations by sleep ; of the other faculties, some are more and
others less affected, and some appear to be for a time wholly ex
tinguished X-"        " Persons (he continues) who think much and
take little bodily exercise, will, perhaps, be found to be the
greatest dreamers ; especially, if their imagination be active, and
 their nervous system very delicate §."
     Darwin's doctrine is also connected with corporeal relations,
 as may be found in his observation, that the " perpetual flow of
the trains of ideas which constitute our dreams, and which are
caused by painful or pleasurable sensation, might at first view be
conceived to be an useless expenditure of sensorial power ||."
We at least learn that, in his opinion, they really occur during
an accumulation of this power, when he adds, that " our dreams
in the morning have greater variety and vivacity, as our sensibility
increases, than at night when we first lie down            I."     But this hy
pothesis is not less vague, though apparently more philosophic,
than the exploded systems of the nervous fluid and animal spirits.
The sensorial power is in fact the nervous fluid stripped of its
substance and reality, and reduced to a quality or attribute.
    *
       Hartley on Man, quarto, p. 226.             f  Id. p. 227.
    X  Beattie's Dissertations, moral and critical, vol. 1, p. 272.
   § Id. p. 274.            || Zoonomia, London 1801, vol. 1, p. 287-
   IT Id. p. 302.
                                                                      Professor

254               An Essay  on Dreaming, including
    Professor Stewart's explanation is altogether psychological, but,
however ingenious, is not even satisfactory to himself.      He main—
tains   " that all our mental operations which are independent of
our will, may continue during sleep ; and that the phenomena
of dreaming may perhaps be produced by these, diversified in
their apparent effects in, consequence of the suspension of our
voluntary powers *."
                           " That the same laws of association,
which regulate the train of our thoughts while we are awake, con
tinue to operate during sleep ; but the influence of the will being
suspended, all our voluntary operations, such as recollection,
reasoning, &c. must also be suspended       f."
    To this hypothesis he tells us that Mr. Thomas Browne and
Mr. Prevost offered one and the same objection, viz. That un
less the will were active, there could be no effort of attention,
and without such an effort, there could be no recollection : yet
we recollect our dreams, although the hypothesis supposes that
in sleep the will does not operate.      Professor Stewart expresses
himself sensible of the force of this objection, and acknowledges
that he is far from being satisfied that it is in his power to recon
cile completely the apparent inconsistency.        He, however, adopts
a solution offered by Mr. Prevost, viz. that in perfect sleep there
is no recollection ; and that when we remember our dreams, our
sleep has not been perfect.     And he adds, that in bodily indis
position, the disturbed state of our rest may prevent the total
cessation of the power of attention, which may enable us after
wards to retrace our dreams, or some accidental association may
renew the train of ideas ; and if we arc satisfied that they once
passed through our mind, yet not during our waking moments,
we have no other alternative but to regard them as a dream %.
   This last observation can scarcely be controverted.       On awak
ing in the morning, we naturally advert to the occupations which
are to employ us during the day, and the persons with whom we
wish or expect to communicate. The moment they occur in our
reflections, we perhaps recollect that we have been dreaming of
them.      But surely this is only an argument that our sleeping
thoughts are recalled, like our waking, by the association of our
ideas.     It neither proves nor disproves his hypothesis. If the
influence of the will, and the exercise of attention, may be sus
pended during the course of those thoughts which pass through
our mind while asleep, and which yet may be recalled by the
force of association, so may they be suspended also during our
waking thoughts, and with a similar result. But, if they be neces
sary to our recollection in one case, they must in the other.
   * Philosophy of the human Mind,
                                   octavo, p. 333.         t  Id. ib.
   \  Id. note O.
                                                                    With

          Conjectures on the proximate       Cause   of Sleep.     255
   With respect to the former solution of the difficulty, viz. that
the disturbed state of our rest may prevent the total cessation of
the power of attention, or, in other words, that we are not quite
asleep during dreams, (which by the^way appears the most pre
valent opinion entertained at present on the subject,) it is only
necessary to consider the difference between sleeping and waking,
and reflect on our daily experience, to subvert the position.        So
long as we sleep, we are, with some singular exceptions, either
totally insensible, or sensible only of internal sensations.     In the
transition from sleeping to waking, we are perhaps passively and
involuntarily sensible of external impressions. And when these
force themselves on our attention, or when we can voluntarily
attend to them, from that moment we are fully awake. Nor are
we conscious of being awake until we perceive those impressions,
whether by compulsion, or with our will.         Sometimes we notice
the very moment this occurrence takes place ; but in general, if
we are not suddenly awakened, we perceive our sleep gradually
retiring — we are reluctant to resign its embraces ; we cling to it
as long as we can ; thoughts pass in crowded trains through our
minds ; yet these thoughts are not dreams.            They assume no
bodily shape or visionary semblance — we regard them as we do
the current of our waking reflections, we direct their course as
we please, and we know that we can break through the dubious
remnant of our sleep, the moment that we will.          It is otherwise
when we actually sleep.        The generality of our thoughts assume
a corporeal appearance, and pass in fantastic procession before
us. If our dream be terrific, we struggle to escape from the ob
ject of horror, and that struggle awakes us. Once to a certain
extent awake, we banish with an effort the little residue of sleep ;
that effort is an act of the will ; but whether our previous visionary
struggle can also be ascribed to its power, is a question too in
volved for me to disentangle.
   Yet I am tempted to venture a reflection which, upon the prin
ciples of the new philosophy, may lead to a solution of the diffi
culty;     If a single organ be awake, and a single- motive be pre
           it,
sented to  it       acts in obedience to that motive without choice,
without judgement, without      a    decision, and, of course, without
any   intervention   of the will.  But  iftwo motives offer themselves
to the faculty in question, and     it   chooses between them, or    if
two organs are awake, and judge between the claims of two op
posite motives, one applicable to this, and the other to that pro
pensity or sentiment, and that      a  decisionis  the result, whether
to act or to forbear, to pursue or to fly, this decision, though in
a dream, appears to be an act of the will.          It would be called
so without hesitation,  if   these operations happened to take place
                                                                 during

  256              An Essay   on Dreaming, including
  during our waking moments.         Are we then to conclude, in op
 position   to so respectable an opinion as that of Professor Stewart,
 that our voluntary powers are not always suspended when we
  dream ?
     But these are not the difficulties which appear to me to weigh
 most against his hypothesis.
     In supposing that the influence of the will is suspended, it also
 supposes, as this revered philosopher expresses himself, that all
 our voluntary operations, such as recollection, reasoning, &c.
 must also be suspended. — If there be in nature pure mental ope
 rations, recollection and reasoning are entitled to the rank ; yet
 we learn from this hypothesis that a simple essence, such as the
 soul is considered, can be at the same moment, with respect to
 its different powers, awake and asleep — all its operations which
 are independent of the will may continue, but its recollection and
 reasoning must be absolutely suspended.        Dr. Beattie's explana
 tion involves the same incongruity.      All  the faculties, according
to him, are more or less affected, and some for a time wholly ex
tinguished, while the operations of imagination or fancy are alone
unsuspended by sleep. The elucidations of Hartley are exempt
from this inconsistency, and remove every difficulty but one-
why sometimes we dream, and sometimes do not.                Darwin re
peats   an  exploded hypothesis   in  a more  plausible  form.    Locke
simply discusses the phenomena of dreaming in proof of his po
sition, that men think not always ; he does not attempt to ac
count for them ; yet from the questions detailed in the passage
I have quoted above, it is manifest that he was inclined to refer
the explanation to organic rather than to spiritual operation.
    If we but do so likewise, all these difficulties vanish ; we are
not driven to the absurdity of supposing that sleep is necessary
to a pure spirit, and that its simple essence may be half asleep
and half awake — a moiety of its powers suspended or extin
guished, and another moiety active and busy.         We may look for
the solution in the corporeal organs of the soul, and not in the
soul itself; there is nothing incongruous in supposing that some
of these organs may be in a state of activity while others are at
rest. " Watching (says Dr. Spurzheim) is called the state wherein
the will can put in action the organs of the intellectual faculties,
of the five senses, and of voluntary motion ; but it is impossible
to define watching as the state wherein all these organs are ac
tive, for it cannot happen that all the faculties should be active
at the same time; all organs, being fatigued, take rest, and this
state of rest is sleep ; but any particular organ, or even several
organs, may be active while the other organs rest ; then the pe
culiar sensations or ideas which result from this particular activity
                                                              constitute

              Conjectures on the proximate Cause        of Sleep.     257
constitute that which is called dreams, which are more or less
complicated according to the number of the active organs*."
    This, on a comparison with the preceding opinions, appears
to be a probable and satisfactory explanation, as far as it goes ;
but our curiosity requires a more detailed elucidation of the na
ture of sleep.       It may properly be said, that it is rest after fa
tigue; but we know that it is something more. We can rest when
it is necessary, without that intense and predominant change
which locks up our senses and intellect, and envelops us with in
advertence and oblivion of the past, present, and future.             We
cannot reflect on the nature of this state, without being satisfied
that it involves some important vital process, so indispensable as
to be of daily recurrence, and of such general influence as to en
gage every part of the frame, but particularly the organs of think
ing, sensation, and voluntary motion.           If we ask ourselves what
process   is  of prime necessity to those organs, we can answer with
out difficulty, that which repairs their waste, and preserves their
consistence and vigour — the process of assimilation.            Whatever
 may be the result of its operation in the bones and muscles and
 other coarser parts of the body, we can scarcely reflect on its ac
tion upon the delicate texture of the brain and nerves, without
perceiving that it must be accompanied by powerful and over-
.whelming effects. These are the fragile instruments of thought,
 feeling, and motion ; and no wonder that a change which affects
their very structure should be attended with a cessation of their
 functions, and the actual paralysis of sleep.
    Yet this is but a conjecture; and so obscure and inaccessible is
the subject, that, however we may wish for certainty, we must be
contented with mere plausibility.         There is no decisive fact to
 support the position ; and, like first principles, if its own reason
 ableness does not carry with it conviction, it must, for the pre
 sent, re/nain destitute of proof. - Still we ought not to disregard
 any phenomenon that may lead to clearer views of the subject.
 Most animals sleep shortly after their meals ; and there are few
 climates in which men do not allow themselves the same indul
 gence.      In these countries, this is not so generally the practice;
 and it may be a question, whether it is not by an effort that we
 at first acquire a habit not natural to us, and overcome one which
 we originally found to be almost irresistible, and to which, per
haps, we should be compelled to submit, if we were not able to
 interrupt or suspend the process of assimilation in the nervous
 system. It is true that we can have no direct influence over this
 process in the grosser parts of the frame ; but our power may be
 more extensive in the seat of the intellect.         By an effort we can
              *                            1st edition, p. 216.
                 Spurzheim's Physiognomy,
    Vol. 54. No. 258. Oct. 1819.                    R             continue

258               An Essay     on   Dreaming, including
 continue to think — by. thinking we exercise the organ of thought
— by exercising the organ we may possibly interrupt or defer
this process, whose invasion, when effectual, subdues every faculty
of the mind. Young children are destitute of this power—they
sleep almost incessantly; but nutrition and assimilation are com
paratively more necessary to them than to adults, and are carried
on in a more than proportionate measure in their system. Old
persons are drowsy, and find it difficult to keep themselves awake
after food, yet court sleep in vain during the hours they have beep
accustomed in the earlier part of their life to expect it.               This
may be because their debilitated powers do not enable them            to sus
pend the process of assimilation, and they are compelled to sub
mit to its influence as soon as it operates ; while the decay of
nature, at the same time, evinces that the function in question is
less constantly, regularly, or effectually performed : nor is the
fact to be forgotten, that disturbed sleep and frightful dreams
have frequently been ascribed to disorder of the digestive organs,
whose preparatory office is indispensable to nutrition and assimi
lation.
    It is true, that sleep after meals is most irresistible while the
food is still in the stomach, after digestion has commenced, and
long before assimilation has taken its turn.          But we are ignorant
how far the arrival of new matter in the blood-vessels may in
stantly contribute to the deposition of the old ; as an additional
number of balls put into a tube, at one extremity, will force out
some of their predecessors at the other.
    I enter into no argument on the subject. I repose on the ra
 tional presumption that sleep is something more than rest after
fatigue — that it is probably the consequence of an important vital
process in the delicate and fragile instruments of the mind —
and that no process can be more requisite to those instruments,
nor more likely to produce the effect, than the process of assimi
lation.                  /
    That this process   is the proximate     cause of sleep, receives the
strongest   confirmation   from  the  facts detailed  in the article sleep,
in Rees's Cyclopcedia, probably the last         and  best treatise on the
subject, and which evidently points throughout to*this cause,
though the able writer of the article inadvertently suffered it to
escape his attention.        He appears to be satisfied with the com
mon explanation, and adopts the unsatisfactory opinion that
"   the exhaustion of the powers of the animal organs, by exer
cise, is the determining cause of sleep *." Yet he adverts to two
facts, of a general nature and decisive importance, which subvert
this opinion.                            "
                  " Some," says he, have c&UedJcetal existence a
               * Rees's Cyclopcedia, 23d vol. article sleep.
                                                                   perpetual

              Conjectures on the proximate Cause          of Sleep.          259
  perpetual sleep ; but the animal organs, never having yet"
                                                                            been
  exercised, can hardly be said to be in a state of repose *."               The
  state  of torpidity,"   he  continues,   " in which     many   animals     pass
  the winter months,      cannot   properly  be called  sleep  ;  it  is not  the
  repose of the animal organs consequent         on  fatigue produced, by
  their exercise, but is a peculiar condition of the whole frame,
  affecting the internal as well as the external organs, and caused
  directly by the action of the cold f."
      These two causes are alike in one particular, the sleep is not
  repose after fatigue.        In the former, the proeess of assimilation
  is proceeding in every part of the frame, and in the brain as well
  as elsewhere — its operation, therefore, cannot be excluded from
  such participation in the phenomenou as it may be reasonable
  to assign it.    In the latter case it is well known that the bear,
  the marmot, and other hybernatiug animals retire to their win
  ter's repose in a state of corpulence and obesity, which they lose
  before they shake off their slumber in spring.            They use little or
  no food in their retreat, yet the absorption of their superfluous
  flesh and fat may be applied by the assimilating process to the
  nourishment of the superior organs, including the brain.                 If the
  cold alone reduced them to a state of torpidity, by paralysing
  this organ, their emaciation would still remain to be accounted
  for ; but the action of the absorbents and the process of assimi
  lation remove every difficulty and explain every fact.
      In complete sleep, hunger and thirst are not felt, as remarked
  by the same writer,
                           " yet great hunger prevents sleep ; and cold,
  affecting Apart of the body, has the same effect.              These causes
  operated   on  the  unfortunate     woman   and  her    family, who lived
  thirty-four days   in a  small  room   overwhelmed      by the snow, with
 the slightest sustenance: they hardly slept the whole time                   J."
  It does not clearly appear why the cold should have affected only
 a part of the body, and it is declared by this writer, " that in
 tense cold, affecting the whole body, exhausts the animal powers
 and brings on sleep, which is speedily fatal §."              The only facts
 certain in this account are, that they lived for thirty-four days
 with the slightest sustenance, and hardly slept the whole time.
  The process of assimilation might therefore have been only in
 proportion to the nourishment, and the want of sleep seems to
 be accounted for by the absence of this process.             If the cold had
 affected only a part of the body, and was not intense, it might
 have kept the thoughts active, and the exercise of the brain might,
 for a time, have interrupted the process of assimilation, even if
 there had been the usual supply of nutriment; but if the cold had
.invaded the entire frame, and was in the highest state of inten-
        P Rees's Cyc. Ib.            t H.          \  Id.            § Id.
                                    R  2                                     sity,

260             An Essay     on Dreaming, including
sity, its mode of action would probably have been, not to exhaust
the animal powers, but to paralyse the brain itself.           The sleep
it would induce must therefore be speedily fatal.
   But in the instance of this woman and her' family, it may still
be said, that the absence of sleep is sufficiently accounted for by
the unintermitting pain of cold and hunger.             But more violent
pain   than that  of  either could not    postpone sleep for any consi
derable duration.      " Even stripes and tortures cannot keep off
sleep beyond a certain time *,."
    If a great exhaustion of the animal powers— or possibly, to
advance a step nearer to the actual fact — if a great exhaustion
of the substance of the brain and nerves should be the conse
quence of torture or over-exertion, such a state of those organs
must be favourable to the occurrence of the assimilating process ;
and if there is a supply of nourishment in the frame, it naturally
takes place, and the disturbance it necessarily creates in renewing
those delicate substances, may be the occasion of sleep : if there
is no nourishment to renew them, the consequence is not sleep,
but death : if there is nourishment, and that the torture or the
labour is beyond the strength of the individual to endure, the brain,
as already mentioned in the case of excessive cold, becomes torpid
and paralysed, and death, under these circumstances, also follows
of course.
    It is well worth inquiry, whether those various vegetable sub
stances, which, being taken into the stomach, " bring on a con
dition of the brain favourable to sleep f," do not operate in the
same manner; and in place of producing the process of assimila
tion, affect the brain with a temporary paralysis. — If they bring
on this process, they must be useful auxiliaries — if 720/, and this
is the more probable part of the dilemma, whatever be their ap
parent effects, they can only be prejudicial, unless where they are
administered, not as soporifics but as anodynes.
   The several circumstances just under review, afford an easy
explication of the numerous facts detailed by the same writer.
There is no reason to suppose that the process of assimilation had
not materials to carry on its operations in " those boys who were
completely exhausted by exertion, and fell asleep amid all the
tumult of the battle of the Nile     J,"   nor in the soldiers " sleeping
amid discharges of artillery, and all the tumult of war," " nor the
couriers sleeping on horseback, nor coachmen on their coaches."
This last is a very common phenomenon in this country; but I
fear we must ascribe the peculiarity in question rather to the
paralysing effects of vegetable products taken into the stomach,
than to the more wholesome accession of the assimilating pro
cess.
             * Rees's Cyc.
                                   t  Id.          % Id.
                                                                     Most

                 Conjectures on the proximate Cause     of Sleep.         261
       Most of the other circumstances mentioned by this writer have
    already been adverted to, and they are all of easy and obvious ex
    planation upon the proposed hypothesis; for example,
                                                             " indiges
    tion and various bodily affections produce sleeplessness *," From
    preceding observations, it may readily be understood, that in di
    gestion the nutritious matter continues in the stomach, instead
    of being carried into the system, and deposited in its due propor
    tion in the brain and nerves. " All mental occupations attended
    with intense thought and great interest prevent sleep, and any
    great affections of the mind have the same effect f." The solu
    tion of this phenoinenon has already been given ; but it is here
    to be noticed, that the very intensity of these meditations and
    passions in a certain time induces sleep.    They exercise and ex
    haust the brain, and this exhaustion renders a renewal necessary
    by assimilation ; and according to the hypothesis, this process
    cannot act on the substance of the brain, without occasioning
    sleep.
       "A    full repast is often followed by sleep, even in animals, as
    dogs.     The distention of the stomach excites the circulation, and
    this brings on a condition of the brain favourable to sleep %."
    Thiscondition, under the circumstances here noticed, can scarcely
    be any other than the activity of the assimilating process. " After
    the sleep has lasted long enough to restore the animal powers*               .
    we awake without any change or occurrence which can be shown,
    to affect particularly the brain or other parts, of which the ac>~
    tion was suspended by sleep §." In other words, after the ex
    hausted substance of the brain and nerves has been renewed bv
,   the assimilating process, we awake from the sleep which was the
    concomitant of its action.       It would not be easy by any experi«
    ment to show that any change had taken place in those parts ;
    but the fresh vigour with which we think and act
                                                             is,
                                                             in  some de
    gree,    aproof of this change, and which  is   indeed implied in the
                                           "
    very phraseology of this writer— the restoration of the ani
    onal  powers."
       He adds, " There are rare examples of individuals who have
    gone on sleeping for days, weeks, and months         ;  but these his
    tories are not accompanied with such particulars as would en
    able us to judge of the cause ||."    It    would be well worthy the
    attention of future inquirers to ascertain whether there are such
    facts in those cases, as would decide whether the cause of this,
    state of torpor  is  not the protracted duration of the assimilating
    process: such, for instance, as the patient being overburthened
    with the obesity of bear or marmot in the commencement of
                          a       a
    his slumbers, and, like them, emaciated at their termination, with
    out any other assignable cause for the change.       It   is,
                                                               however, a
           * Rees'» Cyc.      t   W-   t     W-     §   W.         »•
                                                                    II
                                   R  3                                  well-

 262              An Essay    on Dreaming, including
 Well-known fact, that corpulency predisposes to sleep, and
                                                                 sleep
 to corpulency.     Does this happen because during sleep the pro
 cess of assimilation is most active in
                                           every part of the frame?
hV»ving produced an exuberance of flesh and fat, these produc
tions may become in their turn the cause of somnolency, by con
ducing to the more partial activity of the process in the brain ;
or at least the superfluous accumulation may form a kind of re
servoir for the essential purpose of renovating the superior vital
organs, when the usual measure of nutrition is no longer sup
plied.
    Thus we may clearly comprehend the different, yet strangely
analogous modes of action of vegetable poisons, intense cold, ex
ternal injuries, and the assimilating process, on the brain. They
all render it comatose, torpid, and paralysed ; but none of them,
except the last, are endowed with any but destructive powers.
The assimilating process alone can renovate and restore the
 drained and exhausted organ : and even though the effect of its
activity is to sink us in stupefaction, that very stupefaction is na
tural, refreshing, revivifying sleep.
    A very formidable objection to this theory has, however, oc
 curred to me.     If the deposition of new matter by the blood
vessels creates such a disturbance in the brain, as to occasion the
paralysis of sleep, why should not the action of the absorbents
produce a similar effect, and, in removing the old matter, also
bring on the same state of torpor and insensibility ? That it does
 not, must be distinctly admitted ; for the action of those vessels
 cannot but exist as well in the brain as elsewhere during our
 waking moments, and is probably most powerful during the in
 tensity of thinking, as well as of bodily exercise.    Rut if the hy
 pothesis be true, this difficulty must admit of a solution.      Can
 we then discover such a difference between the operation of these
 two actions on the brain, as will sufficiently account for circum
 stances  so opposite  ?
    In absorption, those particles which are removed, may leave
 the remaining cerebral mass in the very act of thinking, or at
 least not unfitted for the function.  Every particle of the mass has
 already formed a part of the instrument destined to this office,
 and subservient to the exercise of one or other of the mental fa
 culties.   The new particles have never been exercised in any
 mode of thinking. They can differ but little, on their first arrival,
 from so many foreign bodies of equal dimensions ; and is it sur
 prising, that the oppression occasioned by their deposition should
be felt throughout the delicate volume of the brain, until they are
 perfectly assimilated with the other particles, and fitted like them
 for mental operations? — a result which may, perhaps, in some
 measure be effected by the very sleep which they induce.

             Conjectures on the proximate        Cause   of Sleep.       263
    The nervous fluid and animal spirits have long since been ex-
  luded from all agency in the system.           It is, therefore, scarcely
necessary to advert to the antiquated theory of Haller, who, in
seeking for the proximate cause of sleep, conjectures that this
phamomenon
                  " arises either from a simple absence, deficiency,
and immobility of the spirits, or from compression of the
nerves, and always from the motion of the spirits through the
brain being impeded *." " But that, if while the rest of the
emporium of the senses and muscular motion is at rest, some part
remains open, is pervaded by the spirits, and watches," then,
that our dreams occur ; and also somnambulism, " if certain vo
luntary motions are conjoined with the perceptions of the mindf."
Yet, it is satisfactory to perceive, that all the explanation that
this great physiologist endeavoured to derive from these imagi
nary essences, to satisfy his rational thirst of inquiry, may be
found in the substantial reality of the brain and nerves — their
partial exhaustion by exercise, and their indispensable renewal
by the process of assimilation.                                         •
    This diurnal operation may begin later, or cease earlier, in some
portions of the brain and nerves than in others. Those portions,
while exempt from its influence, may be as active as the entire
system would be, were the individual awake.                  The thoughts
which originate in these vigilant organs, not being compared by
means of the senses with external objects, assume the substantial
forms of reality, and constitute our dreams.             Volition, as far as
it is inherent in any organ, may exert itself to the extent of its
power.      But it can have no power to stimulate the neighbouring
organs which continue asleep, or to put the limbs in motion,
whose nerves remain subjected to the assimilating process which
renders them torpid.         But if those nerves have recovered from
its effects, they will naturally submit to any volition accustomed
to govern them; — and this circumstance will account for all the
perplexing mysteries of somnambulism.               This phenomenon is
of rare occurrence ; and the nerves of motion are so seldom ex
erted in sleep, that hitherto the will has then been supposed in a
state of abeyance.        But we can much more rationally account
for the various phenomena of dreams, night-mare and somnam
bulism, by supposing that the will may be active in any of the
cerebral organs which happen to be awake, yet destitute of power
to put the limbs in motion as long as the nerves of those limbs
are involved in the stupor of sleep, and invested with this power
from the moment that the stupor in question is removed from
those nerves.       But it is not to be forgotten, that if the brain be
altogether paralysed by sleep, so must the whole body.                 Som-
      * Halter's First Lines of Physiology, p. 285.   Edinburgh, 1801.
     t  Id. p. 283.
                                      R 4                       nambulism,

264                     An Essay    on      Dreaming, &c.
nambulism, therefore, can only take place when part of the brain
is awake, and in communication with the nerves of locomotion.
These considerations, with others detailed above, will also suffice
to account for the fact recorded by the excellent writer so often
referred to, " that many soldiers, in the retreat of Sir John Moore,
fell asleep on the march, and still continued to walk with their
comrades*."
  But whatever         may be thought of these speculations, there is
no difficulty in comprehending Dr. Spurzheim's development of
the nature of dreaming : and if we are acquainted with the in
adequate theories of his predecessors, to comprehend his expla
nation is but an easy step to its unqualified adoption.           It ac
counts for every phenomenon connected with the subject, hitherto
unexplained.        If the whole brain is locked up in sleep, there is
no dream.        If a portion of it is emancipated, thoughts peculiar
to that portion arise, and those thoughts are dreams.           The me
chanic's imagination may rove among machinery, the mathema
tician may solve a problem, the orator pour forth unstudied elo
quence, the poet unpremeditated verse, the wit delectable jests,
the musician unprecedented harmony; yet this does not always
occur, but occasionally.          If the peculiar organ happens to be
 asleep, there is no music, no wit, no poetry, no oratory, no ma
thematics, no mechanics— a different faculty may be active, and
 these individuals may wander through inextricable difficulties, or
 fly before wild beast*, or combat with enraged assailants, or dis
solve in a eold sweat at the frightful visit of some spectre from
the grave.   It    is  not because the organ may have been frequently
or recently exercised, that       it   employed in
                                       is             dream
                                                          a    ;    sim
                                                                   it   is
ply because  it    has escaped from the trammels of sleep which still
 envelop the remainder of the brain, or at least the senses, which
 open  a  communication with the external world, and supply the
 only  means  by    which we are informed whether similar objects of
 thought     are  realities  or illusions.  This theory, therefore, ex
 plains why     we   sometimes have dreams and are sometimes with
 out them — why we sometimes dream on the subject most familiar
 to our reflections, and sometimes ramble into the most unaccount
 able fancies — and lastly, why happiness and misery are occa
 sionally the companions of our sleep, according as peculiar or
 gans are gently affected or rudely agitated         by
                                                     the thoughts which
 engage     them  —   pleasure frequently losing  itself in pain, as the
 mental disturbance increases, till at length the accumulating un
 easiness trespasses on the sensorium, or the very organs of sense,
 when, suddenly awaking, we find an unexpected relief from our
 .griefs, vexations, and terrors.
                               [To be oontinued.]
                             Rees's Cyc. article sleep.
                         *
                                                              XLIII. Prin

                    >'. . ,
                                    [       265    ]
XLIII.     Principles of folding            the   Longitude.    By A Corre-
   ,   ,                            6PONDENT.
                               To   Mr. Tilloch.                                    >
Sir, — After       all the labour which has been bestowed to ren
der the present practice of ascertaining the longitude worthy of
general estimation, to institute another method by which the
complete solution of that problem can be attained, may seem un
warrantably bold ; but, while the iuithor's conviction of its truth
has urged him to seek for an opportunity of making it public, a
consciousness of his attainments being very limited in comparison
with the great acquirements of those who have already pursued
this interesting investigation, compels him to acknowledge that
to a fortuitous thought rather than to an extensive acquaintance
with science, are to be ascribed the researches which he thus
ventures to present. .                                . >
   That his suggestions may be candidly criticized, and any theo
retical errors or impracticable proposals pointed out by those
more conversant with astronomical pursuits, he requests with re
spectful deference.
                     Definition of the Subject.
    To discover the longitude of any place is to find out what me
 ridian passes through        it,
                            and to calculate how far that and the
first meridian are apart. And this should be done           process  by   a
as simple as the case allows, one that    often at command, and
                                                       is
which can be performed with     requisite dispatch to the certainty
                                        a
of the operation.
   From the nature of the question, the means       which       by
                                                                 de       it   is
terminable must have relation to the first meridian.
   Now, the relation which subsists between the fixed stars and
the first meridian   isdirect and constant    for once in every re
                                                            ;
volution of the earth, the same stars are vertical to the same
places on its surface and not only does the earth fulfil every re
                      ;
volution on its axis     the same time, hut also revolves with an
                         in
equable  motion   throughout    whereas its motion in the annual
                                        :
revolution varies as the progress from equinox to equinox.
   Hence, every star will describe equal arcs of its circle of ap
parent revolution   inequal times    and any arc of a star's circle
                                             ;
of revolution will be to the time in which the star describes that
arc, proportionately as the whole circle, or 360 degrees,     to the      is
time in which the star completes a revolution.
   Again the terraqueous globe and the apparent orb of the fixed
           :
stars are concentric  ; and they may be said to revolve      regard       in
of each other conversely} so that       a meridian of each sphere
                                                  if
                                                           coincide

266                 Principles of finding   the   Longitude.
coincide in one plane, those meridians will in the same time re
move — the earth's to the east, the stars to the west of the meri
dian previously opposite — in such sort as that the then and now
opposed meridians of each sphere will he an equal number of
their respective degrees apart.
    The duration of the earth's revolution around its axis          is,
                                                                    in
mean solar time, Hours 23 56' 4" 7" 13ivth' 13v"" 36Ti,hs                 ;
which lapse of time maybe measured by an index once tracing the
periphery of      dial circle, graduated, and also divided into parts
                    a
of 10° figured      to 36, to assist the eye whilst inspecting the
                        1
quantity of an arc.
   By this measurer of time in accord with the relative motions
of the fixed stars and the earth, let the instants of the culmina
tions of conspicuous stars be successively noted in the manner
of   a table — with this measurer and the table, an observer,
               ;
wherever situate on the globe, can quickly ascertain how much
westward or eastward of the first meridian our meridian        is
                                                                ; and
whether   it  bears east or west from the first.   For the index, the
stars, the globe really, all move in equable and known revolution,
i. e. the index, any star but those which are precisely vertical at
the poles, — any place on the globe's surface but the poles, — all
pass through 360 degrees in the same time, and consequently
through equal arcs of their respective circles of revolution in the
same portion of that time        ;wherefore, regarding what time one
of those conspicuous stars culminates to the place for which the
longitude      required, we have at once the information sought
               is                                                         ;
the arc contained between the part of the dial circle to which
the index of the measurer at that instant points, and that to
which    it points when the star culminates at the first meridian
(known     by the table), being equal to the longitudinal arc on
the globe between the first meridian and the meridian           of the
place ;  and the place       west or east, according as the present
                            is
instant   isin the succession of the parts of time nearer to the
moment when the star last culminated at the first meridian, or
to the moment when           will culminate there next.
                            it
   No objection on account of the variability of chronometers
from change of climate, or other causes, can hold good against
the means here proposed, that will not at the same time impugn
the methods now in use.           to be recollected also, that the
                                 It   is
high degree of accuracy to which time-keepers can now be
brought,     probably but
              is            trifle less than the utmost precision
                                 a
which the constitution of the materials best adapted for this pur
pose will allow the art of man to gain.
   Further, the advantage of the method now advanced, in leaving
to the mariner    short and plain practice,
                        a                        very considerable;
                                                     is
                                                                      for

                            Researches on Heat.                        267
  for the more numerous are the objects to which the attention
  must be directed, the more likely is the chance of error arising
  and increasing' from the intricacy of combination.         In short, the
  principles here set forth, if unacknowledged in the usual direc
  tions, must nevertheless be latent in any mode of approximating
  to the true answer of this great problem in navigation ; it only
  then remains to be desired, that the most compendious way of
  so far solving it as is possible, may be adopted.
      In what was said, the meridian of the place was supposed to
  have been already determined by one of the commonly practised
  methods: as, however, there are times when no other heavenly
  bodies but the stars are visible, it may not be deemed inapplicable,
  to show how that spangled canopy alone affords sufficient clue for
  finding the mid-heaven arch above any diameter of the compass.
      The subjoined rules depend upon the zenith point being cor
  rectly distinguished ; which is always the postulate of marine
  observations.
      1st. It being known that two (or more) stars have the same
  longitude, i. e. lie south and north of one another, when they are
  in a line with the zenith the meridian coincides therewith ; and
  when they are not in a line with the zenith, yet a line drawn
  through the zenith parallel to the line in which they are is iden-
• tical with the meridian.      When sufficiently elevated and clear to
  view, either pole and the zenith give the meridian line.
      2d. It being known that two (or more) stars have the same
  latitude, i. e. lie west and east of one another, when they are
   equally above the horizon, the line that joins them is to be equally
  bisected by a perpendicular to the same, — the bisecting line is
   in the plane of the true meridian.
      1819.                                                       W.W.
  XLIV.     Researches on some important Points of the Theory            of
               Heat.     By MM. Petit and Dulong*.
   Convinced that certain properties of matter would exhibit
   themselves under simpler forms, and might be expressed by more
   regular and less complex laws, could we but refer them to the ele
   ments on which they immediately depend, we have endeavoured
   to introduce into the study of some of the properties which ap
   pear more intimately connected with the individual action of the
   material molecules, the most certain results of the atomic theory.
   We are led to hope, from the success we have already met with,
   that the atomic theory will receive from our investigation a new
          . •   * From Annalet   de Chimie et 'Phys. tome x.
                                                                   degree

268              Researches on some important Points
degree of probability, and sure methods of determining the truth
among different, equally probable, hypotheses.
    By directing our observations in a suitable manner we have
discovered simple relations between phenomena, the connexion
 of which had not been previously attended to. The many points
of view under which these phenomena may be considered, pre
 clude our embracing the whole at one time ; but we have thought
 that it might be useful, in the interim, to make known the results
 we have obtained.
    These first results relate to specific heats. The determination
 of this has been the object of the labours of many philosophers.
 The attempts hitherto made to discover some laws in the specific
 heats of bodies have all been unsuccessful. It is not uncommon, for
 example, to meet with numbers, in the best tables, three or four
 times as great as they ought to be.
    Our first cure was directed to what could render the measure
 ments that we were to use as accurate as possible.         Among the
 methods of determining the capacities of bodies, those in which
 the melting of ice, or the mixing of bodies with water, are em
ployed, may doubtless, if properly conducted, lead to very exact
results ; but most of the substances on which it is indispensable to
operate, can seldom be obtained in sufficient volume to enable us
to applv these methods; and it was therefore necessary that we
should have recourse to a different one.         That which we have
 chosen appears to unite all the requisite conditions.    It is founded
upon    the law  of cooling.
    It is well known that there exist between the times of cooling
of different bodies placed in the same circumstances, and the
specific heats of the same bodies, relations in consequence of
which the ratio of the capacities may be deduced from that of the
times of cooling.     Mayer first applied this principle, and satisfied
himself that the capacities determined in this way differ little from
those obtained for the same bodies by the method of mixture.
Leslie, who adopted this method, pointed out an additional pre
caution, of which Mayer did not suspect the necessity; viz. to in
close the body operated on in an envelope, which must always be
the same, to prevent the error which would result from inequa
lity in the radiating power of the surfaces. The most important,
however, of all the causes of uncertainty, and to which neither of
these philosophers paid any attention, is that which results from
the unequal conductibility of the substances that are compared.
This cause has the less influence the smaller the volume of the
bodies on which we operate, and the slower the heat is permitted
to make its escape. The aim then should be to fulfil both of
these conditions ; but it is difficult to reconcile them, because,
when we diminish the volume of the body, we augment the velo

                        of the Theory   of Heat.                   269
city with which the heat    is dissipated.   However, by uniting the
different causes which contribute to retard the cooling of a given
mass, we are enabled, as our experiments have proved, to place
it in such circumstances that the differences in the conductibility
of the substances operated upon, have no sensible influence on
the measure of the capacities.
    To attain this end, the most obvious method is not to begin the
observation till the temperature of the body is only a few degrees
higher than that of the surrounding bodies. All our experiments,
therefore, were made in temperatures between 10° and 15° (cen
tigrade) above the surrounding medium.          The changes of tem
perature should be measured with the greatest care; for even a
slight error in the estimate might occasion a great one in the re
sult. By operating, as we have stated, at the same temperature
for all the bodies, we avoid errors resulting from the graduation
of the thermometer ; and by observing this instrument through
a lens, we can increase the size of the degrees so much as not
 to commit an error exceeding the 50th of a degree, — a quantity
so minute that it may be disregarded.         To obtain uniformity of
 temperature in the ambient medium during the whole time of
 every experiment, the body was always placed in a vessel whose
 sides were blackened interiorly, and covered on all parts with a
 thick coating of melting ice.
    To this first means for diminishing the rate of cooling we added
 another, the influence of which we could calculate from our
 knowledge of the laws of the communication of heat. From these
taws it results that the velocity of cooling of a body may, cceleris
paribus, be considerably diminished when its surface possesses
 but a very weak radiating power, and is immersed in an air very
 much dilated.     To accomplish this, we determined to operate
 on solid bodies only in a state of very fine powder.    In this state
 they were strongly pressed into a cylindrical vessel of silver, very
 thin, very small, and the axis of which was occupied by the bulb
 of the thermometer.      This silver cylinder was then placed in the
 centre of the vessel, the air contained in which was rarefied till
 its tension did not exceed two millimetres ; and care was taken
 to reproduce the same rarefaction in each experiment.
    We thus succeeded in making the cooling of very small bodies
 go on very slowly, and consequently easy to be observed with pre
 cision. It is sufficient to say, that when measuring the capacities
 of the densest bodies, as gold and platinum, the quantities on
 which we operated did not exceed 30 grammes ; and that the
 time of cooling was never less than 15 minutes.
    We ought now to give the formula which served for the cal
 culation, but the details would lead us into a discussion which
 we reserve for the publication of the definitive results of all the
                                                                direct

 270                 Researches on some important             Points
 direct experiments which we have made on the subject.                      We add
 only    a single      remark    ;  that   having    compared    the  specific heats
 thus obtained for the worst conductors with those given by the
 method of mixture, or by the calorimeter, their agreement has
 afforded the most convincing proof of the accuracy of our process.
 We shall now present in a table the specific heat of several sim
 ple bodies, restricting ourselves to those results concerning which
 we entertain no doubt.
                                         I Weight  of the Product of the Weight
                        Specific Heats,                    of each Atom, by the
                                            Atoms, that
                         that of Water
                                             of Oxygen      corresponding Ca
                            being 1.
                                              being 1.           pacity.
      Bismuth      . .     0-0288             13 300            0-3830
      Lead . .    . .      0-0293             12-950            0-3794
      Gold                 0-0298             12-430            0-3704
      Platinum       .     0-0314             11-160            0-3740
                           0-0514              7-350            0-3779
      Silver               0-0557              6-750            0-3759
                           0-0927              4-030            0-3736
     Tellurium       .     0-0912              4-030            0-3675
      Copper      . .      0-0949              3-957            0-3755
      Nickel     ...       0-1035              3-690            0-3819
                           0-1100              3-392            0-3731
      Cobalt   .  . .      0-1498              2-460            0-3685
      Sulphur     .  .     0-1880              2-011            0-3780
    To render the law which             we propose to make known intelli
gible,   we  have, in      the   preceding table, joined to the specific heats
of the different bodies the relative weights of their atoms. These,
as is known, are deduced from the ratios observed between the
weights of the elementary substances that unite together.                       The
pains taken for some years past to determine the proportions of
mast chemical compounds, leave but slight uncertainties respecting
the data which we have employed; but as no precise method ex
ists of discovering the real number of atoms of each kind which en
ter into a combination, there must always be something arbitrary
in the choice of the specific weight of the elementary molecules :
this uncertainty, however, can only be in the choice of two or
three numbers which have the most simple relation to each other.
The reasons which have directed our choice will be understood
from what follows.             There is none of the numbers on whieh we
have fixed which does not agree with the best established che
mical analogies.
    From the data contained in the preceding table we may now
easily calculate the ratio which exists between the capacity of
atoms of a different kind.                 In order to pass from the specific
                                                                               heats

    ~                  of the   Theory   of Heat.               271
heats furnished by the observations of those of the particles them
selves, it is sufficient to divide the former by the number of par
ticles contained in the same weight of the substances which we
compare : but it is obvious th.it the number of particles for equal
weights of matter are reciprocally proportional to the density of
the atoms. We shall, therefore, obtain the desired result by mul
tiplying each of the capacities deduced from experiment by the
weight of the corresponding atom.        These different products are
presented in the last column of the table.
   The approximation apparent on a bare inspection is too remark
able by its simplicity, not to indicate the existence of a physical
law capable of being generalized and extended to all elementary
substances. These products, which express the capacities of the
different atoms, approach so near equality, that the slight differ
ences must be owing to trifling errors either in the measurement
of the capacities or in the chemical analyses; especially if we
consider that, in certain cases, these errors, derived from these
two sources, may be on the same side, and, consequently, be
found multiplied in the result.      The number and variety of the
substances on which we operated not allowing us to consider the
relation thus indicated as merely accidental, we are authorized
to deduce from them the following law : — The atoms of all sim
ple bodies have precisely the same capacity for heat.
    By recollecting what has been stated respecting the kind of
uncertainty that exists in fixing the specific weight of the atoms,
it may be easily conceived that the law .which we have just esta
blished will change, if we adopt for the density of the particles a
supposition different from what we have chosen ; but, in every
case, the law will exhibit a simple ratio betweerrthe weights and
the specific heats of the elementary atoms ; and it is obvious that,
when we had to choose among hypotheses equally probable, we
should naturally be led to prefer that which established the most
simple relation between the elements which we compared. But
whatever opinion be adopted respecting this relation, it will en
able us afterwards to control the results of chemical analysis;
and, in certain cases, will give us the most exact method of ar
riving at the knowledge of the proportions of certain combina
tions : but if,   inour subsequent experiments, no fact occur to in
validate the probability of the opinion we now hold, we shall find,
in this method, the advantage of fixing in a certain and uniform
manner the specific weight of the atoms of all simple bodies that
can be submitted to direct observations.
    The law we have announced, seems to be independent of the
form which bodies assume, provided that we always consider them
under the same circumstances.         This, at least,
                                                    is
                                                    a    consequence
deducible from the experiments of MM, Laroche and Berard on
                                                                  the

272             Researches on some important Points             ,
the specific heat of the gases.     The numbers given by them for
oxygen    and azotic  gases do not differ from what they ought to be
to agree accurately    with our law, except by a quantity less than
the probable errors of such experiments.        The number for hy
drogen is rather too small ; but on examining, with attention, all
the corrections which the authors were obliged to make on the
immediate results of their observations, it may easily be seen that
the quickness with which hydrogen lowers to the temperature of
the surrounding bodies, compared with other elastic fluids, ought
necessarily to introduce into the determination relative to that
gas an inaccuracv from which they did not attempt to free it.
By taking into consideration this source of error, we are enabled
to explain the difference to which we have alluded, without being
 compelled to make any false supposition.
     Having thus established the law of specific heats for elementary
bodies, it became very important to examine, under the same
point of view, the specific heats of compound bodies. Our pro
cess applying indifferently to all substances, whatever their con-
ductibility or state of aggregation may be, we were enabled to
subject to experiment many bodies whose proportions maybe con
 sidered as fixed ; but when we attempt to ascend from these
 determinations to that of the specific heat of each compound
 atom, by a method analogous to that which we employed for the
 simple bodies, we find ourselves soon stopped by the number of
 equally probable suppositions among which we must make our
 election.    Since the method of fixing the weight of the atoms of
 simple  bodies  has not yet been subjected to any fixed rule, that
 of the atoms of compound bodies has been, a fortiori, deduced
 from suppositions purely arbitrary.       But instead of adding our
 own to the conjectures before advanced on the subject, we choose
 rather to wait till the new order of considerations which we have
 established can be applied to a sufficiently great number of bodies,
 and in circumstances sufficiently varied to place the opinions that
 maybe adopted, on decisive conclusions. For the present we shall
 only remark, that in abstracting each particular supposition, the
 observations we have hitherto made tend to establish this remark
 able law, — that there always exists a very simple ratio letween
  the capacity of the compound atoms and that of the elementary
 atoms.
     Another consequence very important for the general theory of
 chemical actions may likewise be deduced from our researches;
 namely, that the quantity of heat developed at the instant of
  the combination of bodies has no relation to the capacity of the
  elements : and that in the greater number of cases, this loss of
  heat is not followed by any diminution hi the capacity of t/ie
  compounds formed. Thus, for example, the combination of oxy
                                                                   gen

             ,-„..    of the Theory of Heat.
                                                   .
                                                                  2?3
gen aiid hydrogen, or of sulphur and lead, which produces so great
a quantity of heat, occasions no greater alteration in the capa
city of water, or of sulphuret of lead, than the combination of oxy
gen with copper, lead, silver, — or of sulphur with carbon, pro
duces in the capacity of the oxides of these metals, or of car
buret of sulphur.
   These facts cannot be easily reconciled with the generally re
ceived ideas respecting the production of heat in chemical phe
nomena; for, to do so, it would be necessary to admit the im
probable supposition that heat exists in bodies in two very dif
ferent states, and that the portion which we consider as united to
the particles of matter is entirely independent of the specific heats.
There  is,  besides, much vagueness and incoherence in the expla
nations relative to the kind of phenomena of which we speak.
The opinions entertained respecting them differ so widely that
they can neither be regularly discussed, nor exposed to complete
refutation. — It  may perhaps be useful to recall briefly the prin
cipal facts, and the inductions belonging to this important branch
of the science.
    Of all the chemical actions considered as sources of heat, none
were recognised till lately, except combustion.         To search for
a  plausible theory for this mode of producing heat, before the
epoch marked by the memorable discoveries of Lavoisier, would
be folly. This illustrious chemist, having more particularly con
sidered the action of oxygen    in  the state of gas, formed an opi
nion respecting the cause of this phenomenon, suggested         by  the
observations of Black on latent heat.         Hence the idea that the
heat liberated during combustion comes from the change of state
of the oxygen.      The determination which, in concert with La
place, he made, of the quantities of heat disengaged       by
                                                            the com
bustion of several substances, appeared to furnish     powerful argu
                                                       a
ment in favour of his conjectures    ;   for experiment showed that
when the same quantity of oxygen was united, successively, with
phosphorus, hydrogen, and carbon,         it disengaged more heat in
the first case than in the second, and more in the second than in
the third.    This might have been expected from the theory; the
result of the first combustion being solid, that of the second       li
quid, and that of the third gaseous   :   hut on considering that the
two elements which concur to produce water, lose both the
gaseous state, and that, notwithstanding, the heat developed          is
less than what results from the combustion of phosphorus na
turally solid, he was necessarily led to conclude that the latent
heat of oxygen must be superior to that of the other elastic fluids.
Another difficulty soon after presented itself nitric acid, in which
                                               :
the oxygen has already lost the gaseous form, and still more nitre,
which  is  ina  solid state, produce, when decomposed      bycombus-
   Vol.54.No.258. Oct. 18\9.                   S                tibles,

 274             Researches on some important Points^
tables, quantities   of heat very different from what would be pro
 duced by a weight of gaseous oxygen equal to that which they
 contain.    This fact, which ought to have excited doubts respect
ing the first explanation, only restricted its generality : it was
then supposed that the oxygen, in certain combinations, was ca
pable of retaining aldose of caloric almost as great as that which
it contains in the elastic state. Later observed facts could not be
explained according to the theory, without admitting that oxy
gen in certain combinations retained a quantity of heat even su
perior to what it contains when in the elastic state : such are the
detonations produced by mixtures of chlorate of potash with
certain combustibles, or the spontaneous explosions of Davy's
euchlorine, and of the chloroide and iodide of azote.
    This mode of explanation was afterwards extended to all com
binations. It was considered as a principle sufficiently established,
that a body, in combining with a certain number of others, might
abandon a greater or less portion of its heat, according as, in
each case, the different degrees of affinity of the elements in con
tact occasioned the molecules to approach more or less nearly to
each other.      It is the degree of this approach, essentially vari
able,   that has  been designated by the word condensation, so fre
quently employed by chemists.          This is the theory adopted al
most generally in France.      Several foreign chemists have pointed
out its inaccuracy, and modified it in several points, but without
producing any conclusive proof, either against the opinion which
they combat, or in support of that which they would substitute.
    It thus appears that the different explanations relative to the
development of heat, in chemical combinations, are reducible to
simple assertions derived from the first hypothesis of Lavoisier :
and it is wonderful that, since this doctrine was first proposed, it
has not been more closely examined ; and that, even from the re
sults already known, all the arguments which they are capable of
furnishing against it have not been drawn from them.         The re
lations which we have pointed out between the specific heats of
simple bodies and those of their compounds, preclude, we think,
the possibility of supposing that the heat developed by chemical
actions owes its origin merely to the heat produced by changes
of state, or to that supposed to be combined with the material
molecules. We have even a better reason for rejecting this purely
gratuitous hypothesis, as we can explain the phenomenon in a
manner more satisfactory. In fact, Davy has long ago shown that
when the two poles of a Voltaic pile are united by means of pieces
of charcoal placed in a gas incapable of supporting combustion,
the charcoal may be kept in a state of strong ignition as long as
the pile remains in activity, and without the charcoal undergoing
any chemical change.        On the other hand, we are warranted to
                                                            conclude,

                        of the    Theory   of Heat.                         275
conclude, from many Galvanic experiments made by Hissinger
and Berzelius, and by Davy, that all bodies which combine are,
with respect to each other, at the moment of combination, pre
cisely in the same electric conditions as the two poles of the pile.
 Is it Hot then probable that the cause which produces the incan
descence of the charcoal in the beautiful experiment just men
tioned, is likewise the cause of the greater or less elevation of
temperature of a body during the act of combustion ? At least
this conclusion is founded on the strongest analogies, and ought
to be followed through all its consequences. We by no means con
tend that the changes of constitution which result from chemical
combinations have no part in the development of heat with which
they are accompanied : we only mean to say that, in very ener
getic combinations, this cause produces, in general, but a very
small part of the total effect.
    In closing this memoir, we cannot pass in silence another very
important application, to which the exact knowledge of the spe
cific weight of the atoms will lead.          If,  as we have reason to
think,  we   have by  the foregoing considerations succeeded in deter
mining this element with accuracy, we may, setting out from the
 proper densities of bodies, calculate the ratios which exist be
tween the distances of their atoms: and        it   iseasy to see how im
portant   it  will be, in many physical theories, to be able to esta
 blisha   comparison between the distances of the particles, and.
certain phenomena which may naturally be supposed to stand
connected with the new element. For example,              it   is   by
                                                                    examin
ing the question of the dilatations under this new point of view,
 that we may expect to arrive at simple laws, at present quite un
 known. Some essays made on the observations of different phi
 losophers, and on some of our own, (made with                different ob
                                                              a
ject,) lead us to consider   it  very probable    that  there  exists a sim
ple   relation   between   the  dilatability of liquids  and  the  distances
 of their particles.     The fine observations of Gay-Lussac on the
 identity of the contractions of carburet of sulphur and alcohol,
 setting out from their respective boiling poiuts, support our opi
 nion for these two liquids present this remarkable particular,
     ;
 that, at the temperatures at which they were compared, the di
 stances between their particles are nearly identical. Before, how
 ever, pursuing the researches on this subject,           will be necessary
                                                         it
 to elucidate, as much as possible, the question of specific heats,
 and to deduce from     it  all the consequences to which          may lead
                                                                    it
•relative to the knowledge of the constitution of bodies.
                                  S2                                 XLV.    On

                                  [   276   ]
XLV. On Irreg?darities observed in the Direction of the Corn-
 pass Needles qf'H.M. SS. Isabf.lla and Alexander,?^ their
  late Voyage        of'
                 Discovery, and caused    the Attraction of the
                                                     by
  Iron contained           in
                    the Ships.  By Captain Edward Sabine,
  of the Royal Regiment     Artillery, F.R.S. &c*
                                 of
It  is   proposed in this paper to show in what respects the effects
of local attraction,    in the abovementioned ships, were conform
 able* to the observations which had been made in preceding
                                                                  voy
 ages;   and how far the errors, which were found to take place on
 different courses, and under different dips of the magnetic needle,
 corresponded with the rules for calculating corrections, which
 Captain Flinders had found useful in his own experience, and
which he had recommended for more extensive trial.
                                       a
  It   may be desirable to premise, that the irregularities here            al
 luded to, are not those accidental disturbances which may be
 caused     byiron placed inadvertently too near the compasses     but ;
the permanent and constant effect of the mass of iron contained
 in ship, affecting its compasses at all times, and in greater or
   a                                                          a
 less degree, according as its influence    more or less powerful, in
                                                is
 comparison to the directive force of the earth's magnetism. That
 errors have always existed from this cause, may be inferred, from
 the uncertainty which experience has attached to the results
 of azimuths observed in ships. The cause, however, appears to
have been very long unsuspected, whilst its effects had produced
a general impresssion, that the azimuth compass was in itself an
imperfect instrument, and only to be relied on within certain un
defined and variable limits.
  It    was reserved to the accurate observation, and the habit of
recording and comparing apparently trivial and accidental diffe
rences in results, which distinguished the late Mr. Wales,
                                                               (astro
nomer in the second voyage of Captain Cook,) to enable him to
lead the way to a knowledge of the nature and causes of these
errors :   he remarks, " that in the passage of the Resolution and
Adventure to the Cape of Good Hope, and subsequently, the
greatest west variations had happened when the ship's head was
north and easterly, and the least when       was south and westerly,
                                                it
differing very materially    from one  another with the ship's head
in different positions, and still more when observed        different
                                                                  in
ships  ;"   thus manifesting that they were something more than
accidental.
    This voyage was the last in which Mr. Wales embarked, and
the investigation does not appear to have been pursued in this
country until the voyage of discovery to Terra Australis, in the
           * From the
                      Philosophical Transactions for 1819, Part   I.
                                                                           first

              On Irregularities in the Compass Needles.           277
 first years of the present century.       The survey of the coast of
 New Holland being carried on in a considerable measure by the
 intersection of compass bearings taken from the deck of the
  Investigator, so much embarrassment and perplexity were found
 to arise from the effects of local attraction, that much of Captain
  Flinders's attention and thoughts were necessarily devoted to a
 consideration of some means of remedying the inconvenience.
     On his return to England, he obtained permission from, the
 Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty to make a course of ex
 periments in ships under their direction at the principal sea-ports,
 with a view to ascertain if compasses were similarly affected in
 other ships, and to try the general applicability of rules which he
 had found useful in correcting the errors in the Investigator.
 These rules, with the observations and reasonings on which they
 were founded, were published in a short paper in the Philosophical
 Transactions, and in a more detailed form in Appendix No. II.
 in the Voyage to Terra Australis.     There are three points in these
 statements chiefly worthy of attention, from their practical im
 portance ; and on which it seems desirable, therefore, to notice
 how far his observations have been confirmed by those made in
 the Isabella and Alexander.
     First ; he found that in every ship a compass would differ very
 materially from itself, on being removed from one part of the ship
  to another.     Experience of this source of irregularity had in
 duced him, early in his voyage, to confine the use of the compass,
 with which his survey was carried on, to one particular spot.
 The place he selected was determined by convenience in other
 respects ; it was on the binnacle, and exactly amidships.
     The Isabella and Alexander had not completed half their voy
 age across the Atlantic, before it was found that the binnacle
 compasses of the one ship differed very materially, in indicating
 the course steered, from those of the other : namely, one point,
 or           No dependance whatsoever could be placed on the
 agreement of compasses in different parts of the ship, or of the
 same compass with itself, if removed but a few inches : even in
 the neighbourhood of the binnacles the variation, as observed
 amidships, was from 8° to 10° greater than the result of azimuths
taken by a compass placed between two or three feet on the lar
board side ; and an almost equal difference in a contrary direc
 tion took place on removing the compass to the starboard side,
 rendering it a matter of some trouble and difficulty, to make the
azimuth compass agree with those in the binnacle by which the
ship was steered, and for which it was therefore necessary to de
termine the variation.
    As the ships ascended Davis's Strait, these latter compasses be
gan to traverse so sluggishly, that it was necessary to shake the
                                  S 3                       binnacles

278                   On Irregularities ol served in
 binnacles continually to assist their motion.         The cards of these*
 had   a  metal  rim  round  their  circumference, weighing one ounce
 eleven drachms avoirdupois, which, as the directive power of
 magnetism diminished, became too heavy for the needle to carry
 round: they were also frequently found to disagree with each other
 from    I to \ of a point ; the consequence, most probably, of the
 different local attraction to which they were exposed. These com
 passes ceased therefore to be attended to, except as an occasional
 assistance to the helmsman, and a position was selected in each
 ship, in which a compass on a more suitable construction was
 permanently fixed ; by this' the ship's course was directed, azi
 muths taken, and bearings of land, &c. noted, during the voy
 age.
    This standard compass,       as  it may   be called, was placed in the
 Isabella exactly amidships, between the main and mizen mast, on
a stout cross beam elevated nine or ten feet above the deck ; this
beam was the usual walk of the Greenland pilot, or of the quar
ter master, as affording a better view of the ice among which
the ships were frequently steered, than from the deck.           The ele
vation was an advantage to the compass in such high magnetic
latitudes, by rendering it less liable to accidental disturbance, on
the removal of such implements of iron as were required to be
kept on deck for use. The Alexander not having a similar cross
beam, her compass was fixed amidships on a box of sand placed
on the companion, between five and six feet above the deck.
    Secondly; Captain Flinders found that in his compass per
manently fixed as described, no error took place when the ship's
head was on the magnetic north or south points ; showing, that
at such times the attraction of the ship, and of magnetism, were
in the same line of direction.         The maximum of error also took
place     when  the  ship's  head  was  at right-angles to these points ;
namely,     at east  or west  ; being   however    in opposite directions,
in excess of the true variation on the one side, and in defect on
the other; so that the extreme difference occasioned by altering
the course from east to west, or the reverse, would be twice the
error at either.
    On the intermediate points, the ratio of the error to its maxi
mum, was as the " sine of the angle between the ship's head and
the magnetic meridian to the sine of eight points, or radius," or
sufficiently near to admit of corrections being calculated for every
course, when the error on a single one was known by observa
tion.
    Thus far the experiments which Captain Flinders tried in every
ship corresponded, excepting only that the maximum of error in
different ships at the same plate would differ materially.
                     * Burt's patent binnacle
                                               compasses.
                                                                      The

               the Direction   of the   Compass Needles,              &c.        279
     The accordance in so many ships gave him reason to believe
  that in compasses placed near the binnacle, and amidships, the
  points of no error would be most commonly those of the mag
  netic meridian.      Considering, however, that this must depend
  altogether on the distribution of iron, and may be therefore liable
  to great diversity, he recommends that in every ship, as soon as
  a fixed position has been selected for a compass, the points of no
  error should be determined by repeated observation.            The me
  thod that was adopted for this purpose in the late voyage appear
  ing both simple and effectual, it may be useful to exemplify it by
  an instance or two.
      The Isabella being at anchor in Brassa Sound, Shetland, her
  head was placed, by means of warps, on each point of the com
  pass successively, and the bearing of a pile of stones on the sum
  mit of a distant hill noted by her compass at each point : at the
  same time that hese observations were made on hoard, her bear
  ing from the hill was also observed by a compass placed on the
  pile of stones: the agreement in bearing showed the points of
  no error, and the differences the errors in each point, without
  the calculation which azimuths involve. — [See PI. IV. fig.                    1.]
      The Alexander being along side        afloe of ice in Baffin's Bay,
  the true magnetic bearing from the ship, of            very distant and
                                                             a
  well defined object on the main land, was found                      by
                                                                carrying a
  compass on the ice in an opposite direction, to a distance which
  ensured its being perfectly free from local influence.        The ship's
  head being then warped round to each point of the compass suc
   cessively, the errors in each were determined             by
                                                         the difference in
  bearing,   as in the last  instance. — [See PI. IV. fig. 2.]
      The regularity in the above results        the best testimony that
                                                is                                     \
  the method        a satisfactory one.
                   is                      Certain precautions must be
  attended to thus, the object must be sufficiently distant, that the
               :
  space occupied in warping the ship round may not subtend any
  sensible parallax.     The direction of the ship's head should be
  noted   by  the compass  by   which the bearings are taken.         short A
  time must be allowed to elapse after the ship            steady on any
                                                                 is
  point, to ensure the traversing of the cards this      :     particularly
                                                                      is
  necessary in high latitudes when the compasses move very slug
  gishly.    And lastly, the observations should be repeated.
     It  will be observed   by   the above results, in the Isabella and
  Alexander,    that the points of no error were not coincident      either in
   ship with those of the magnetic meridian          ; the Alexander es
                                                         in
  pecially, they were more nearly at right angles to it. That this
  ship should have differed so materially from all the instances on
  record, may be attributed to her compass being so near the level
   of the deck, and therefore being more affected                 by
                                                            the influence
   of considerable quantity of iron articles (such as ice anchors,
     a
...
 ;                                  S   4                                ice

280                 On Irregularities  observed  in
ice saws, &c.) which were carried on the after part of the deck
for convenience in use, than it would have been, had it been raised
higher.     This was proved by placing a compass on a plank ele
vated for experiment in front of the companion, to the same height
as in the Isabella, namely, nine or ten feet.       The points of no
error were found, in this position, to be about north and south,
and the amount of error at eight points, nearly twenty degrees ;
the same as in the Isabella: the greatest error at the same time,
by the Alexander's standard compass, viz. the one nearer the
decks, being 8° 20' at N.N.E. The dip was 84° 0^.
   The propriety of Captain Flinders's recommendation, to deter
mine the points of no error in a fixed compass by actual observa
tion in every ship as soon as the distribution of iron is completed,
may therefore be considered as confirmed by the observations in
the Isabella and Alexander ; whilst his rule of proportion may
receive a verbal alteration to render it more suitable for general
application : so corrected, it would be as follows — the expres
sions substituted being marked in italics, and the original words
entered in the margin.
                       " The error produced in any direction of the
Ea3t or west.       ship's head, will be to the error at the point of
                    the greatest irregularity, as the sine of the
Magnetic meridian, angle between the ship's head and the points of
                    no error to the sine of eight points, or radius."
    Thirdly; Capt. Flinders's experience in the Investigator showed
that the maximum of error in the same compass would be dif
ferent in different parts of the world, although the use of the com
pass was confined to one particular spot in the ship, and every
precaution taken to avoid an interference with the distribution
of the ship's iron.
    It is worthy of remark, that by multiplying observations and
by comparing the series one with another, he was thus practically
led to trace a connection between the amount of the errors and
 the dip of the needle ; a knowledge of the fact preceding, in his
mind, any theoretical suggestion that such might be the case.
    It does not appear indeed that the principal cause of this con
nection was even subsequently known to him ; he perceived that
the influence of local attraction on the compass needle increased
 as the dip became greater.      He endeavoured to account for this
circumstance, on a supposition that all iron might receive an ab
solute increase in the intensity of its attractive power by ap
proaching the magnetic pole.
    The increase,however, which was the subject of his observation,
was a relative one, being in comparison to the directive power
of magnetism.      A diminution in the latter would therefore pro
duce the effect equally with an absolute augmentation in the for
                                                                 mer;

             the Direction  of the  Compass Needles,    &c.       281
mer ; and that such a diminution does take place, and in a de
gree which is sufficient to account for all the effects observed, will
be evident to every person, who reflects that although the mag
netic force is greatest at the pole, its directive power must then
have wholly ceased, having become less on the horizontal tra
versing of the needle in proportion as the point of attraction has
been brought beneath the compass ; indicated by the angle which
the dipping needle makes with the horizon. This is doubtless
the principal cause of the connection which Captain Flinders was
the first to trace.
    It is not designed to say that this cause may not be aided by
the increased magnetism of portions of the ship's iron, such as
bars and stanchions; which being fixed in an upright position,
may receive an addition to their attractive power where the po
sition of the dipping needle is always coincident with theirs ; but
merely to observe, that a cause is known to exist for the connec
tion, independently of supposition ; which cause, conjointly with
experience, shows the inadequacy of the rule proposed by Cap
tain Flinders, whereby the amount of error, under any known
dip, being ascertained, the amount may be calculated for any other
dip, by using as a multiplier, the decimal expression of the pro
portion which the error, in the one ascertained instance, may
have borne to the dip.
    In the observations made in the Isabella at Shetland, where
the dip is 74° 21|', the maximum of error was 5° 34' easterly of
the true variation, with the ship's head at E.S.E. and 5° 46'
westerly at W.N.W. making an extreme difference of 11° 20'.
    By Captain Flinders's rule, the common multiplier for this com
pass would have been about one twelfth, or "083, which at a dip
of 86° 09', which was the greatest observed during the late voy
age, would have given an error of between 7° and 8°, making the
extreme difference 1 5° ; whereas repeated observation showed it
to be at that time more nearly 50-', if not exceeding that amount.
    The inadequacy of the rule will also appear by reference to the
observations made by the Alexander in Baffin's Bay.         The error
at eight points being 6° 46', at a dip of 84° 30'; it ought
scarcely to have exceeded 7° at the greatest possible dip, making
an extreme difference of less than 15°' No opportunity occurred
indeed of making accurate observations at a greater dip than the
above ; but the difference in the bearing of objects before and
after tacking indicated with sufficient certainty, that the error
had increased to an amount very far beyond 15°; frequent in
stances of an extreme difference of from 3 to 4 points being re
marked, as the ship approached the furthest western longitude to
which she attained in a high latitude ; this was in Lancaster's
                                                               Sound

282             On  the Anomaly in     the  Variation  of the
Sound of Baffin, into which inlet the expedition sailed beyondSl"-
of west longitude in the parallel of 74g and a few minutes.
    It is much to be regretted that the service did not admit an
opportunity to he afforded, of making observations on the va
rious magnetic phenomena, with the excellent instruments sup
plied to the expedition, at this very interesting place ; where a
nearer approach was made to one of the magnetic poles than had
ever been known before.
    But in the absence of any actual observation on the dip of the
needle, this fact of the error of the compasses having increased
from local attraction so greatly beyond the amount which had
been before observed, is worthy of notice, as affording an indica
tion that the dip had also increased, and not inconsiderably. The
greatest which was observed, was 86° 09' ; and after this obser
vation, the ships continued to sail for six days in the direction in
which the dip had hitherto been found to increase.
    In concluding this paper, it may be permitted to remark, that
it is to the voyages of discovery undertaken during the reign of
his present Majesty, that a knowledge of the extent and causes
of the errors to which a compass is subject in ships, is to be prin
cipally attributed ; as well as the steps that have been taken to
wards the investigation and remedy of the inconvenience they
occasion to practical navigation.
    The care and exertions of Captain Flinders in collecting ob
servations for this purpose, give his opinions and rules a peculiar
claim to attentive consideration.        No one could have been more
fully persuaded    than  he  was,  that  a rule, founded on the effects
experienced in a few ships, would require a far more extensive
trial, before it could be depended on for general application.
    To carry this on, therefore, is to follow his useful example, and
to effect what he was desirous to have done himself, had his life
been spared.
XLVI.     On the Anomaly in the Variation of the Magnetic Needle
    as observed   on Ship-board.      By William Scoresby Jun.,
    Esq. Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks,
    Bart.G.C.B. P.R.S.*
The      anomalies discovered in magnetical observations conducted
on ship-board, were usually attributed to the imperfection of the
azimuth compass, until Captain Flinders, in his modest and en
lightened paper on this subject, published in the Philosophical
   * From                                                            Parti.
           Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society for 1819,
                                                            Transactions,

                  Magnetic Needle          as observed on   Ship-board.    283
    Transactions, suggested that they were probably owing to the
    concentration of the magnetic influence of the iron made use of
    in the construction of the ship. The truth of this suggestion, and
    the accuracy of his observations, have since met with full con
    firmation, and his practical rules founded thereon have received
    additional support, from the " Essay" of Mr. Bain " on the Va
    riation of the Compass," published last year.
        As I have been materially anticipated by Mr. Bain in a series
    of observations on the variation of the compass *, which 1 con
    ducted on the coast of Spitzbergen, in the years 1815 and 1817,
    it will be unnecessary here to enter into the detail of these ob
    servations, or enlarge upon the probable cause of the anomalies
    observed ; it may be sufficient to give a table of the most accu
    rate of my observations, and annex to it the few general infe
    rences which were drawn from               it,
                                            during the voyage in which
    most of the observations were made, together with such remarks
    on each inference as seemed to rae calculated for its elucidation.
I      shall however just premise, that       am not unconscious of the
                                                I
    great liability to error  in observations  of this kind, and of the va
    riety of causes (arising   out of the unequal distribution of iron in
•
    different ships, wherebv numerous local attractions are formed)
    which contribute to the multiplication of those errors:       is, there
                                                                     it
    fore, with the greatest deference that       submit these deductions,
                                                     I
    particularly as  I conceive     will require observations to be made
                                      it
    under     vast variety of circumstances, and in many different ves
              a
    sels, before correct and satisfactory conclusions can be drawn.
    It    only then as
         is              a  step towards facilitating such general con
    clusions, the importance of which to our maritime concerns            so
                                                                           is
    obvious, that presume to offer these observations and remarks.
                   I
       * The azimuths contained in the following table were taken, either by the
    needle of atheodolite, or by compass fitted up at sea, for the purpose, with
                                  a
    a card made extremely light, and    bar fastened edgewise to
                                           a                       it,
                                                                    by two brass
    screws, a a, as in the annexed sketch. The compass being small, the card
                                                                           f,
    light, and the needle very powerful, owing to the thickness' of its ends    it
    performed considerablybetter than an expensive azimuth compass of larger
    dimensions, which indeed was so sluggish and erroneous in its indications,
    that could make no good use of it.
      I
    t     See Plate IV. fig. 3.
                                                                          Table

284                         On the Anomaly in the Variation                             of   the
Table    of Magnetical Olservations made on board of the Ship Esk, in
     view to investigate the Laws by which the Anomalies, or 'Errors,
     loard are regulated.
                                                                        Sun's Azimuth.                         Variation.
                                       a»
                                                    Time.
6
                           %i          9         [CA. Chrono
Z        Date.             9                           meter.]                                                                     .o
                                      'So                                                                                          cu
                                       a         [Ap. Appa
                                                                                                                      observed.
                                                                                                                                   o »u
                                                                                                           Apparent
                            m         o                                  >                   »u
                           <U+25BA>4         hj            rent.]                                   5                                     a,    {3
                                                                                             H                 or
                                                                        1                                                          3
                                                                        o                                                          »/2
                                                                                                                      1
I.        II.              hi.        IV.                   V.          VI.              VII.              VIII.                   IX.
          1815.
        June 30 77°19'N. 12° 15' E.               yip. Noon.       S.    7°W.           South.             7" W. 21*                     W.
 2 1                                                                    38              South.            38                      21
a                                                                       21              South.            21                      21
         1.817.
 4      June    6    77    56     0   15    W. CA.6'54'P.M. N. 36 W. N. 73° W.                            37                      32-30
 '5                                                     7     28        35$             64 30             28-45                   32-30
 6       ....             ....        ....              7     28        45              64 30             19-30                   32 30
         ....             ....        ....                    54                        73       0        45-30                   32-80
                                                        7 6
 7
                                                                        274
 •8                                                           32        33              63 SO             SO-30                   32-30
 9                                                      7     33        31              65 15    3215                             32-30
1.0     June    19   77    36     2   35 W.      Ap.ll        38   S. 25      W.   S.   5  30 E. 30-30                            36-    0
11                        ....                         11     20        27              10       0        37-    0                36'    0
          4
12                                                     12                          S.        45      W.   34-   0                 36-
                                                                                                                                         0 0
                                                              3         344             0
13      —11'28       76 24        4   45    W.   Ch.    7     34   N. 46 W. N.68 11W.                     22.11                   37-
    i
14                                                                                      67 11                                     37-
                            V
                                                              38                                          50-41
15      July    16   76.          o'so'w.        Ch.    6 7   33
                                                                        165
                                                                        60              79 54             19 54                   33-
                                                                                                                                         0 0
16                                    ....              6     36        33              79       9        46-         9           33-    0
17                         ....       ....                    31        46              80        24      34-24                   33'
                                                                                                                                         0 0
18        ::::                                          6 6   44        53              77        9       24-     9               33-
    :
 19        • 1
           4               ....       ....              6     43        41              77    24          36-24                   33-    0
 20.      ....                        ....        .     6     41        70              77   54            7-54                   33-    0
                                                                                                                                              I

                  Magnetic Needle              as observed on           Ship-loard.               285
Voyages to the Greenland or Spitzlergen Whale Fishery; with a
discovered in the Indications of the Mariner's Compass on Ship-
   Errors produced in the observed
  variation by the attraction of the                 c
                                                     c
                                                    u
         ship on compass needle.
Errors attri      Differences     Differences
                                                               Situation of the compass by which
 buted to the   produced      by produced     by
                 a change in a change in            -O C         the Sun's azimuth was observed,
  position of
                 the position the position           2 o          [col. VI.]
   the ship's
 head. [Din-,    of the ship's , of the com.         m
  of col. vin.  head.    [Fromjpass.     [From      "a.
    and ix.]       col. vm.]       col. vm.]
                       XI.            XII.          XIII.
    14° 0' >
                                    31°
                                                 S.  by E. Starboard side of the main deck.
    1?    0 J                                    S.  by E. Larboard ditto.
                                    17    0
     0    0   (                                  S.  byE.      Centre of main hatches.
     4 30     I                                  W.iS.l        On the binnacle      amidships  of the
     3 45     J     8° 15'
                                                  East.    J    quarter-deck,    10 ft. from taffrail.
                                      9 15
    13    0   |                                     East. ( Compass on a stand on the middle
                                                                of the quarter-deck, 6 feet abaft
                   26     0                                     capstern spindle.
    13    0   |                               {
     2    0                                      E.   i S.    IStarboard    side of the main deck.
     0   IS                           1 45
                                                               Larboard side of the main deck.
              £
     5 30                                        E. by     S.  On the binnacle, 10 ft. from taffrail
      '
          '}          6 30
                                                      H.       Ditto.
                      3   0
     2    0   [                                  NE. 4 E. Ditto.
        14 49                                      NNE. Starboard          side of the main deck.
                                    28   30
    13   41                                       NN.E.        Larboard ditto.
    13    6                                       South.       Starboard side of the main deck.
                                    26
    13    9   |                                   South.       Larboard ditto.
                                    11
     1 24
     8 51
              \                                   South.       Centre of main hatches.
                                                               Centre of fore-hatches.
                                                  South.
                                     12  15
     3 24                                         Souih.       Larboard side fore-castle near the
                                                                windlass end.
                                    £8 30
    25     6                                        South.     Starboard ditto.
                                                                                                 From

 286           On the Anomaly in the Variation     of the
      From these observations, and from the asssistance afforded by
 the lucid remarks of Captain Flinders, the inferences which fol
 low are deduced.
      1. In the construction of every ship, a large quantity of iron
 being used, the portions thereof which have a perpendicular po
  sition, such as standard and hanging knees, the nails and bolts
 in the deck, the capstern spindle, flukes of the anchors (when at
 sea), chain-plates, iron stanchions and riders; the eye bolts,
 transom bolts, joint bolts, &c. of gun carriages, and possibly the
 upper surfaces of the guns themselves, &c. &c. have a tendency
 to become magnetical, the upper ends being south poles and the
 lower north poles, in this hemisphere, where the north end of
 the needle dips, but the contrary in the southern hemisphere,
 where the south end of the needle dips.
     2. The combined influence of the iron distributed through all
 parts of the ship, seems to be concentred into a kind of magnetic
focus of attraction, the principal south pole of which being up
 ward in the northern hemisphere, is probably situated, in ge
 neral, near the middle of the upper deck, but nearer to the stem
 than the stern.
     Wrought iron having a much greater attraction for the mag
 netic needle than cast-iron, the anchors, which usually lie about
 the bows, possess much more influence than guns ; hence, the
 focus of attraction lies nearer to the bows than to the stern.
     3. This focus of attraction so influences the compass needle,
 that it is subject to an anomaly, or variation from the true meri
 dian, different from what is observed by a compass on shore ; the
 north point of the compass being constantly drawn towards the
 focus of attraction, which appears to be a south pole in north dip ;
 and the south point being attracted in south dip, where the focus
 of attraction probably becomes a north pole.
     The phenomenon of a ship appearing to lie nearer the wind
 when beating to the northward, with the wind at north, than
 when beating to the southward, with a southerly wind, was ob
 served by my father at least 20 years ago, which phenomenon
 he attributed to the   " attraction of the ship upon the compass ;"
 and ever since the year 1805, I have been in the habit of allow
 ing only 2 to 2| points variation on the passage outward to
 Greenland, with a northerly or north-easterly course, but generally
 three points variation on the homeward passage when the course
 steered was S.W. or S.W. b. W.         Without this difference of al
 lowance, a Greenland ship outward bound will be generally found
 to be to the eastward of the reckoning, and homeward bound
 will be even 4 or 5 degrees to the eastward of it.
     4. This anomaly in the variation of the compass, occasioned
 by the attraction of the iron in the ship, is liable to change with
                                                                every

           Magnetic Needle     as olserved on    Ship-loard.         287
every alteration in the dip of the needle, in the position of the
compass, or in the direction of the ship's head.
    If the intensity of the terrestrial magnetism be not equal in all
parts of the globe, then the anomaly in the variation of the com
pass will be also liable to change with every alteration in the
magnetic influence of the earth.       This is a point of such impor
tance, I conceive, in the science of magnetism, that I was very
anxious to procure a dipping needle on my last voyage to Green
land, to ascertain whether the magnetism of the earth, by which
the dipping needle is influenced, be not greater near the mag
netic pole than it is in England.       If it be equal, the oscillations
of the same dipping needle would be performed, circumstances
as to temperature and " local attraction
                                                 "
                                                   being the same, in
equal spaces of time in both places ; but if the magnetic power
in either place be greater, the oscillations of the needle would
there be quicker.      The number of vibrations of a horizontal
needle, performed in a certain space of time in Greenland, is to
the number performed in an equal space of time in England as
5 to 6, each longer vibration in England being performed in five
seconds, and in Greenland in six.         No alteration was observed
in the time required for each vibration, whether the temperature
was high or low, but I think in a low temperature the vibrations
performed by the needle before it stopped were fewer.
    5. The anomaly of variation bears a certain proportion to the
dip of the needle, being greatest where the dip is greatest, di
minishing as the dip decreases, and disappearing altogether on
the magnetic equator.
    Captain Flinders ascertained, that the medium error or ano
maly for 8 points deviation of the Investigator's head, on either
side of the magnetic meridian, was very nearly       ^   of the dip, '05
the decimal expression of which he considered to be the com
mon multiplier to the dip, for obtaining the radius of error at any
situation in the southern hemisphere ; and -053 to be the com
mon multiplier, from England to the magnetic equator. This, how
ever, can only be correct within certain limits, as on the magnetic
pole, where the anomaly would probably be equal to the dip, or
90°, the decimal multiplier would require to be increased to 1.0.
 Hence it has been suggested, by an officer on board one of the
vessels now in search of a north- west passage, that in those parts
of the globe where the dip is 90", the compass needle would pro
bably always stand N. and S., by the attraction of the ship. This
position clearly follows from the inference above, provided the
 compass be placed near the ship's stern in midships; but if placed
 as described in inference No. 8, the ship's head by the compass
 on the starboard side of the main deck would always appear to
 be east, and on the larboard side luest.
                                                                    6. A

 288            On the Anomaly in the Variation      of the
    6. A compass placed near the stern, amidships of the quarter
 deck, is subject to the greatest anomaly or deflection from the
 magnetical meridian, when the ship's course is about west or east;
because the focus of attraction then operates at right angles to
 the position of the compass needle ; but the anomaly disappears
when the course is about north or south, because the focus of at
traction is then in a line with, or parallel to, the compass needle,
 and consequently has no power to deflect it from its direct po
sition*    [See Observations No. 4, 10, 1 1, and 12 of the prefixed
 table.]
    This situation for the binnacle   is deemed one of the best in the
 ship,  and  is  very properly preferred.    Being abaft the focus of
 attraction, the   north point  of the  compass, in this magnetic he
 misphere, is always attracted forward, and the errors at equal
 distances from the magnetic meridian, in the same dip, are alike
 in quantity both on easterly and westerly courses, and always to
 wards the north ; the correction, when applied to the apparent
 course, must therefore be towards the south, to give the true course
 steered.    Thus in high northern latitudes, where the anomaly is
 great, (say 209, or 10 degrees on each side of the magnetic me
ridian,) a ship steering west by the compass 100 leagues, and
 then east 100 leagues, instead of coming to the place from whence
 she started, will be 104 miles to the southward of it.
    7. The greatest anomaly with the compass in the position last
 described, being ascertained by observation, the error on every
other point of the compass may be easily calculated; the ano
malies produced by the attraction of the iron in the ship, being
found to be proportionate to the sines of the angles between the
ship's head and the magnetic meridian.
    Captain Flinders's rule is — As the sine of eight points (or ra
dius) is to the sine of the angle between the ship's head and the
magnetic meridian (or sine of the course reckoned from south or
north), so is the anomaly found at east or west by observation, to
the anomaly on the course steered ; or, the anomaly on any other
course being found by observation, the error on that position of
the ship's head 4t would be to the error at east or west, at the
same dip, as the sine of the angle between the ship's head and
the magnetic meridian, to the sine of eight points, or radius."
    S. A compass placed on either side of the ship's deck, directly
opposite to, or abreast of, the focus of attraction, gives a correct
indication on an east or west course, but is subject to the greatest
anomaly when the ship's head is north or south ; and being here
nearer the focus of attraction, the anomaly is much greater than
that observed on an east or west course with the compass placed
in the binnacle near the ship's stern.
    This inference is founded on Observations No. 1, 2, 3, S, 9,
                                                                   13,

              Magnetic Needle     as observed on     Ship-loard.          289
 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17, of the prefixed table. The latter part of
the inference, namely, that the greatest anomaly occurs here
when the ship's head is north or south, is fully and uniformly
established ; but the former part rests only on the authority of
Observations No. 8 and 9, though it derived additional support
from several observations which I have excluded; because neither
the sun, nor any other distant object, calculated for proving the
accuracy of the observations and determining           the clear effect of
     "
the local attraction," was visible.
                                          -   '
                                               me.
    9.   A compass placed within six or eight feet of           acapstern
spindle,  or  anchor,  or other  large  mass  of wrought   iron,  forgoes,
in  a  great measure, the influence of the focus of attraction, and
submits to that of the nearer body of iron.
    The effect of this  is various, according to the relative position
of the compass and the iron. When the compass                  placed
                                                               is         di
rectly aloft the body of iron, the influence             similar to, but
                                                        a is
greater than, that of the focus of attraction on         compass placed
near the stern, as described in inference No. 6. [See Table of ob
servations prefixed, No.     6 and 7.]     When placed directly before
it, the anomaly    is similar in quantity, but has its sign reversed       ;
 and when placed on either side of the mass of iron, the influence
•corresponds more nearly with that of the focus of attraction on
a compass placed in the sides of the ship opposite to               it,
                                                                    as de
 scribed in inference No.    8.       A
                                      compass    placed  upon  the   drum
.head of the capstern, any where out of the centre, will have its
north point so forcibly attracted         bythe upper end or south pole
 of the spindle, that the ship's head may be made to appear to be
directed to any point whatever, at the pleasure of the experi
menter.       Ihave sometimes excited the astonishment of my offi
cers     bytaking the binnacle compass and so placing              on the
                                                                    it
 capstern head, that the ship has appeared to be steering           course
                                                                    a
 directly contrary   to that  intended!
    10. When the iron in          a ship   is pretty equally distributed
throughout both sides, so that the focus of attraction occurs in
 midships,    compass placed on the midship line of the deck (drawn
              a
 longitudinally) will be free from any anomaly from one end of the
 ship to the other, when the course             north or south
                                                is                 but on
                                                                    ;
.every  other  course  an  anomaly   will   generally appear,  increasing
 as the angle between the ship's head and the magnetic meridian
 increases, until the error  is  at   amaximum, when the course            is
  east or west.
    The unequal distribution of iron in the ship, on board of which
I   made all my experiments, prevented the above effect from be
 ing realized.    A blacksmith's shop was situated between decks,
 on the larboard side of the fore hatchway.             Itwas lined with
    Vol.54. No. 258.      Oct,   1819.                T              sheet

290                 Further Remarks on    the Mode
sheet iron; and besides the armourer's forge, vice,&c. contained
a large quantity of other iron.     The effect of this, together with
the anchors, windlass necks, and other iron, was very remarkable
on a compass placed in different parts of the deck near the fore
mast. [See Observations 18, 19, and 20 of the prefixed Table.]
    11. As a compass placed on the midship line of the deck is
subject to no anomaly fore and aft, in certain ships, on a north
or south course [Inference No. 10], and as a compass in either
side of the ship, opposite to the focus of attraction, shows no'
anomaly on a west or east course [Inference No. 8], the inter
section of the line joining the two situations in opposite sides of
the ship with the midship line traced fore and aft, will probably
point out a situation directly over the top of the focus of attrac
tion, where no anomaly on any course whatever will appear.
    The Esk, in which I made my magnetical observations, had,,
as above stated, an armourer's forge near the larboard bow, which
with the varying position of large quantities of iron work, com
posing our whale-fishing apparatus, contributed to vary this point
where no anomaly is supposed to exist, and prevented me from
ascertaining satisfactorily, at any time, its precise situation.     I
made indeed but very few observations with this view, and these
 I find neither establish nor refute the inference.
     12. The anomaly of variation is probably the greatest in men
 of war, and in ships which contain large quantities of iron ; but
 it exists in a very considerable degree also in merchantmen, where
 iron forms no part of the cargo, especially in high latitudes, where
 the dip of the needle is great.
    Whitby, 3d Nov. 1818.                  WlLIIAM SCORESBY Jun.
 XLVII.      Further Remarks     on the  Mode of taking Lunar     Ob
                servations.   By Mr. Henry Meikle.
                            To  Mr.  Tilloch.
  Sir, — In    my paper on the lunar observations, a property of the
 ellipsis was referred to, which I suspect is hardly to be met with
 in an elementary treatise, if indeed in any other work, and shall
  therefore now give a demonstration of it in a more general pro
 position.
     Theorem —The normal drawn from the transverse axis of an
 ellipsis is less than the semiaxis minor, when they do not coin
  cide; but the normal produced to meet the conjugate axis is
 greater than the semiaxis major not coinciding with it; and the
 normal and normal so produced are in the duplicate ratio of the
 axes.
                                                                  Let

                                                                             291
                       of taking Lunar Olservations.
                                                             or perpendicular
    Let  AHB      be an ellipsis, and GH the normal
                                                  curve in H. From F and
to the tangent KP which touches the
L, the foci, draw FP,
LK perpendicular to
KP;      join     FHj LH.
Now it    is a known pro
perty     of the ellipsis,
that the angle FHP =
LHK,      or that the tri
angles PFH, KLH are
similar. Draw GQ,LR
parallel to KP, and the
triangles     GLR, FGQ
will also       be   similar.
Whence         PF-HG           :
 HG-KL          :: PH : HK
 : :    FP    :   KL,     and
 ,rr> 2FPxKL                  2CD«     _  ^   ,    TT    , t-.  ,
                                                           E do not coincide,
 H G = fp       + kl   =  fpTkl .                n
 KL + FP is greater than 2CD, because CD* is known                          to be
 equal KL x FP.           Consequently, HG is less than CD the              semi-
 axis minor.
     Again : Since FP, GH and LK are parallel, and the triangles
 FHP, LHK similar, we have FP + KL :              FP-   KL : : KP : HP HK  -
 : : FL : 2CG. Produce LR to meet FP in S, and HG to meet ED
 in M. Then the triangles LFS,MGC will also be similar ; for
 since MG is parallel to FS, the angle LFS = MGC, and the
 angles FSL, GCM are likewise equal, being right angles. Hence
 FP-KL        : FL : : CG : GM.            Consequently FP + KL : FL : :
           GM =      :4^L_=TT^T-;'               and  MH       =  MG + GH =
                      FP+KL         FP+KL
     — + 2CLS
  2CD«                 2 BO
 —                —        ,.    .  But when H and B do not coincide,»
     FP+KL           fP+KL
  FP + LK      is less than FH + HL = AB = 2BC,            because the side of
  a right-angled triangle is less than the hypothenuse.                    MH is
  therefore greater than BC.           It is hence evident that GH : HM
  : : CD2 : BC1 : : DE* : AB% which is a very elegant property of
  the ellipsis.
      When H       comes to      E, HG=CD, and-HM =            ^- the semipa-
  rameter    of the axis minor, which      is also the radius     of curvature at
  E:    and when     Hand B coincide, MH = BC, and GH = ^the
  semiparameter of the axis major, which is likewise the radius of
  curvature at B.
      It might likewise be shown conversely, that if a variable
                                            T 2                           straight

292'     Remarks on the Mode               of taking Lunar Observations.
straight line MH be divided               in G, so that HM may be to HG
                                                               in
a constant ratio, and revolve so as to keep M and G respectively
in DE and AB, two fixed straight lines crossing at right angles,
and also that MH be always perpendicular to the path H de
scribes: then shall the lecus of H be an ellipsis, whose axes are
in the ratio of V'HGto v'MH.
   The principle of the elliptical compasses is much simpler than
this; and differs from             it,
                            in that the bar to which the tracing
point    attached
        is           never perpendicular to the curve, but at the
                        is
vertices of the axes    and also that the distances of the sliding
                             ;
dovetails from the tracer are equal the semiaxes.
  A   correspondent to the Annals of Philosophy lately objected to
periodical mathematical works, for not admitting any thing unac
companied          by
                  demonstration    and in effect proposed that de
                                          ;
monstration be done away with in future.          This, no doubt, he
did for the same reason that smugglers wish to be disencumbered
of " those oppressive laws," hoping thereby to get off his con
traband doctrines with more facility.       cannot, however, second
                                                    I
his motion, on the ground that no new doctrine on which any
stress    laid can ever be safely let loose into the world without
         is
some evidence of its truth.         this which makes the grand
                                          It   is                                 di
stinction between true science and unmeaning jargon. Things,                      it
is true, which have often been demonstrated, may be quoted or
given without demonstration.      But many erroneous propositions
are copied from book to book, without the least suspicion of their
accuracy.        remarkable instance of this
                   A                             the " Construction
                                                        is
of the dialling lines," which, though admitted into our first-rate
works of science,      nevertheless grossly erroneous.
                        is                                   does not
                                                                   It
appear that an absurdity becomes more correct                by
                                                       frequent copy
ing, but     certainly becomes more dangerous.
              it
   Periodical mathematical works, however, are liable to a more
serious charge than the one above mentioned; in that they are
mostly made up of mere puzzling questions, totally useless and
unconnected with science. Persons who torment themselves with
such nonsense, might as well be assisting Sisyphus          rolling his
                                                                  in
stone, for any good they are doing either themselves or others,
 except   itbe to keep them out of mischief.    But even this lauda
ble end might be attained in solving questions serving some more
 useful purpose.      am, sir, your most obedient servant,
                        I
     Bernera Street, Oct.    1,   1819.                      HENRY MeiKXE.
     P.S. — In concluding the last paper on friction, made a re   I
mark on    position which
              a              then thought inconsistent with the
                                     I
case under consideration.    The truth however is, that      not        it   is
simply so, but impossible that bodies of different weights with
equal bases can make impressions proportional to their weights

                                   On Friction.                                   :293
in equal times  ; because the lighter body will always be found to
perform  its task in the shorter time, if the resistance increase as
kny single power of :the depth. This, if necessary, shall be de
monstrated afterward.      The statement referred to, therefore,
does not imply any possible law of resistance.              H; M.
XL VIII.   Illustrations and Corrections of two Papers on the
   Nature and Lews of Friction, with a Refutation of the
   Objections of Mr. Meikle.      By Mr. Thomas Tredgold.
                                   To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, — In       your last Number Mr. Meikle has made some ob
  jections to a theory of Friction, which you did me the favour to-
  publish in your Numbers for January and July.         I hope in this
  letter to show that those objections are groundless ; but though
   Mr. Meikle states that he has examined the steps of my inquiry,
   the real errors he has failed in detecting; and 1 am sorry to say
   that in two cases I have overlooked circumstances that ought to
   have been considered : therefore I take this opportunity of cor
   recting them.
      In your Number for January, page 5, it is stated that the
   indentation is as the extensibility; but it ought to have been
'
   directly as the extensibility, and inversely as the cohesive force :
 That   is,   the general Prop. (2) ought to have been               I
                                                                     :   -— — -.
                                                                              -
 And then, Prop. (4) becomes          PxE that is, the friction
                                         F :            ;                            is
directly as the pressure and extensibility and independent of the
cohesive force.    This correction     important, in as far as relates
                                             is
to the friction of different bodies, but does not affect the results
when the materials continue the same.          am sorry that the ef
                                                        I
fect of the cohesive force in resisting indentation was overlooked:
the only reparation     can now make
                               I          to candidly avow it.
                                                   is
  I  must now proceed to examine Mr. Meikle's objections. . In
the first place, he states that my law of friction in uniform mo
tions    in opposition to several experiments.
        is                                          Now     certainly    it
must have been            in
                     your correspondent's power, and therefore                       it
was a duty he had imposed upon himself, to refer to the experi
ments he alludes to      and to show that they were of an Unob
                               ;
jectionable nature. . As he has not done so,        can only say that
                                                                 I
such experiments are unknown to me.
   It has been supposed that the friction        the same in uniform
                                                            is
motions as      itin accelerated ones
                     is                  but, independent of mathe
                                               ;
matical reasoning, the incorrectness of this supposition must be
 apparent when the distinct laws of these motions are considered.
 In the description of experiments; and in the usual statements of
                                  T3                               the

   294                            072  Friction.
   the phenomena of friction, the kinds of motion are seldom, if
   ever, distinguished ; and we are left to conclude that it is indif
   ferent whether the motion be uniform or accelerated.             I hope I
  ,have been successful in showing that there is a material differ
   ence ; and it appears to me that the distinction will be of much
   use in many of the most important physico-mathematical                  re
   searches.
       Your correspondent further states, that the indentation cannot
   be as the square of the time ; I know it is not correctly so ; .but
   from the following investigation it will appear that it is a very
   near approximation to the truth.
       Let W=the weight or pressure producing the indentation ;
             d= the depth of indentation when the resistance of the
                 pressed surface is exactly equal to the weight Wj
       and x=any variable depth counted from the surface.
      -Then, as the indentation is always proportional to the pressure,
                            Wx
             d : x : : W : — =the resistance at the depth x.
                      Wx
                 W— -jt-
       Hence     ——— = 1          =the accelerative force.
                    W           d
    .  By the laws of variable forces      vo   =  2gfi=2g(\ — -j)*'
   Taking the fluents, v1=4g(x—x^ ; or v=*/^ x »J Idx— xi.
   When x = d, v = ,s/2gd. And it appears that at the depth d
   the accelerative force is nothing;        for then x=-d,    and 1—   jj=0.
   A   retarding    force  then commences, and the body will descend
   till this retarding force destroys the whole of the velocity gene
   rated in moving through the space d.             When the whole of the
.
   velocity   is  destroyed  the  body  will   ascend,  and after several vi
   brations    will ultimately rest at  the   depth  d.
                                                          '       x
  ' Let    t be the time  of descent, then    t=~ =      ,~ x .
                                                         hig
                                                  v
                                                             J2dx— x*.
                                                           d
       The fluent may be found by means of a circular arc, but for
   the present purpose it is perhaps better to express it in a series.
       In that case we have         ,,
             t>=4gxx                                            Hence  it ap-
    pears that the indentation increases very nearly as the square of
   the time ; and that the proportion x : tl which I have used is
   sufficiently near the truth for practical purposes.
       By taking the value of d such that the resistance is exactly
                                                                         equal

                              On Friction.                             295
equal to the pressure of the weight W, the resulting equations
show more clearly the circumstances which have place during the
descent, and also point out another correction.              For the depth
of descent, x, does not increase directly as the force, and inverse
ly as area and the modulus of elasticity.       Let a=the area, and
                                                                 w
jre=the weight of the modulus of elasticity}         then d    : — .  Now
when this value of d is substituted in the preceding equations, it
is clear that the friction is not as the pressure, nor inversely as
the area, except just when the body is first moved from rest.
Consequently, these principles again lead to results which Pro
fessor Vince had' ascertained by experiments * ; viz. that the fric
tion of a body in motion increases with the area of the body, and
in a less ratio than the pressure.
    Mr. Meikle next alludes to some experiments of Mr. Rennie's,
Taut I have not seen any of his experiments that have the least
connexion with the subject.
    When Mr. M. recollects that the time is a given quantity, or,
in other words, that the quantity of friction produced in a given
time is the thing to be estimated, his confused notion of the past
and present part of a given time will perhaps be removed.
    And lastly, I think it will appear very clear to your correspon
dent, that I have not committed an error in estimating the fric
tion at the axis of a wheel, when he considers that the space
moved through increases with the radius of the axle as well as
 the velocity of the moving parts ; therefore, enlarging or dimi
nishing the axis does not affect the resistance of the rubbing sur
faces, and in this respect my conclusion remains correct.
    It may be necessary to remark, that the results that I have ob
 tained are not contradictory ; they are deduced from the known
laws of the cohesive force and extensibility of bodies, and the more
minutely they are investigated the more correctly they agree with
 experiments.     It will also be recollected, that it was my object
to obtain simple practical rules ; and that I did not profess to
 give an accurate analysis of the laws of Friction. The method I
have adopted is simple, and may be easily followed by those who
 are acquainted with the mechanical properties of matter and
their laws of action ; but it is useless for any one to offer random
 objections to any thing they do not understand.
                                     I am, Sir, yours, &c.
                                              Thomas        Tredgold.
                * Philosophical Magazine, vol. xvii.  p. 47.
                                   T 4                        XLIX.   Some

                                   [   296   ]
 XLIX.   Some Observations on the Formation         of Mists in parti
   cular Situations.         By Sir H. Davy, Bart. F.R.S. V.P.R.L*
Alx.   persons..who have been accustomed to the observation               of
  Nature, must have frequently witnessed the formation of mists
  over the beds of rivers and lakes in calm and clear weather after
  sun-set ; and whoever has considered these phenomena in rela-
. tion .to the radiation and communication of heat and nature of
  vapour, since the publication of the researches of MM. Rumford,
  Leslie, Dalton, and Wells, can hardly have failed, to discover the
  true cause of them.    As, however, I am not aware that any work
has yet been published in which this cause is fully discussed, and
as it involves rather complicated principles, I shall make no apo
logy for offering a few remarks on the subject to the Royal So
ciety, .J                       ,  .                     . .    .   /
   As soon as the sun has disappeared from any part of the globe,
the surface begins to lose heat by radiation, and in greater pro
portions as the sky is clearer ; but the land and water are cooled
by, this operation, in a very different manner : the impression of
cooling on the land is limited to the surface, and very slowly
transmitted to the interior ; whereas in water above 45° Fahren
heit, as soon as the upper stratum is cooled, whether by radiation
or evaporation, it sinks in the mass of fluid, and its place is sup
plied by warmer water from below, and till the temperature of
the whole mass is reduced nearly to 40° F. the surface cannot be
the coolest part.     It follows, therefore, that wherever water exists
in considerable masses, and has a temperature nearly equal, to that
of the land, or only a few degrees below          and above 45° F. at
                                                   it,
sun-set, its surface during the night, to calm and clear weather,
will be warmer than that of the contiguous land and the air  ;
above the land will necessarily be cooler than that above the wa
ter; and when they both contain their due proportion of aqueous
vapour, and the situation of the ground          such as to permit the
                                                  is
coid air from the land to mix with the warmer air above the
water, mist or fog will be the result; which will be so much the
greater in quantity, as the land surrounding or inclosing the
water   is  higher, the water deeper, and the temperature of the
water, which will coincide with the quantity or strength of vapour
in the air above       it,
                       greater. . -
  I   shall detail some observations which appear to me to show
the correctness, of .this view.      June th, 10th, 1th, the tempe
                                             9           1
rature of the atmosphere and of the Danube was repeatedly ex
amined during       voyage that
                    a                 made upon this river from Ratis-
                                       I
bonne to Vienna, and on each of these days, the sky being per-
             *   From Philosophical Transactions for 1819, Part   I.
                                                                       fectly

       On the Formation      of Mists in particular Situations.        297
fectly clear, the appearance of mist above the river in thV evening
uniformly coincided with the diminution, of the temperatijre of the
air from three, to six degrees below that of the river, and the dis
appearance of fog in .'the morning with the elevation of the tem
perature of the air above that of the river.          From Ratisbonne to
Passau,the temperature of the Danube was pretty uniform through
out the 24 hours, being highest, 62° F. or 62^° F., between 12
and 2 o'clock, and about one degree less before sun-rise, and the
teniperature of the air from 61° F. to 73° F. during the day, and
from G 1° to 54° F. during the night.         Below Passau, the Inn. and
the Ilz flow into the Danube*.           On examining the temperature
of these rivers at 6 o'clock ! A.M.' June 1 1 , that of the Danube
was found to be 62° F., that of the Inn 56f° F., and that of rile
Ilz 56° F. : the temperature of the atrndsphere on the banks
where their streams mixed, was 54°.            The whole surface of the
Danube was covered with          a  thick fog ; on the Inn there was a
slight mist, and on the Ilz barely a haziness, indicating the de
position of a very small quantity of water. About 100 yards'be-
low the place where the three rivers joined, the temperature of
the central part of the Danube was 59° F., and here the quantity
of mist was less than on the bed of the Danube before the junc
tion ; but about half a mile belqw^ the warmer water had again
found its place at the surface, and the mist was as copious as before
the union of the three rivers. June 12th, the evening was cloudy,
and the temperature of the atmosphere remained till after dark
higher than that of the river, being, when the last observation
was made, 63° F. when there was hot the slightest appearance of
mist.    The sky was clearer before sun-rise on the 13 th j and the
thermometer immediately after sun-rise, in the air above the river,
stood at 55y° F. the temperature of the Danube being 61° F. ;
a thin mist was seen immediately above the river; but there be
ing no mass of vapour to exclude the sun-beams, it rapidly'dis-
appeared, and was not visible a few feet from the surface £ and
in half an hour the whole atmosphere was perfectly transparent.
    In passing along the Rhine from Cologne to Coblentz, May
31st and June 2d and 3d, the nights being very clear, the same
phenomenon of the formation of mists was observed, precisely
under the same circumstances ; but as I could examine the tem
perature, of the air and of the river only close    '
                                                         to the banks, and
in two or three situations, my observations were less precise and
less numerous ; the mist formed later in the evening, and disap
peared sooner in the morning, than on the Danube; which was
evidently owing to the circumstances of the atmosphere being
'  * The Danube was greenish^ the Inn had a milky blueness, the Ilz was
perfectly pellucid ; but from the rapidity with which the Inn descended, its
waters at this spot give their tint to the whole surface.
     "
       .                                                           warmer

    298    .       Some Observations on the Formation          of Mists
.   warmer and the river colder, the temperature of the one being
    from 66° F. to 75 F. during the day, and that of the river, where
                           0
    I examined         from 59° to 60° F.
        July 1th.
               1        I it,
                         examined the temperature of the Raab near Ker-
,   mond in Hungary, at          o'clock P.M. and found
                                    7                            65° F. that
                                                                     it
    of the atmosphere being 72° F. During the whole evening there
    were some thin fleecy clouds in the western sky, which being
    lighted up         by
                     the setting sun, greatly interfered with the cooling
    by radiation from the earth, and at half past nine the thermome
    ter, in the atmosphere, was still 69° F. and at half past ten 67° F.
,   when there was not the slightest appearance of mist.               In the
    morning, before sun- rise, the temperature of the atmosphere on
    the banks was 61 F., that of the river 64° F., and now the bed
                                0
    of the river was filled with a white thin mist, which entirely dis
    appeared half an hour after sun-rise.
     I    made similar observations on the Save in Carniola, in the end
    of August on the Izonzo in the Friul, in the middle of Septem
                   ;
    ber;   on the Po near Ferrara, in the end of September            and re
                                                                          ;
    peatedly on the Tiber and on the small lakes in the Campagna
    of Rome in the beginning of October; and have never in any in
                                                       I
    stance observed the formation of mist on river or lake, when the
                                                       a
»   temperature of the water has been lower than that of the atmo
    sphere, even when the atmosphere was saturated with vapour.
      It   might at first view be supposed, that whether the cooling
     cause existed in the water or the land, the same consequences
    ought to result       but the peculiar properties of water, to which
                            ;
I      referred in the beginning of the paper, render this impossible.
    Water in abstracting heat from the atmosphere becomes lighter,
    and the warmer stratum rests on the surface, and its operation in
    cooling the atmosphere          extremely slow
                                        is             besides, the cooled
                                                           :
    atmospheric stratum remains in contact with                it,
                                                           and water can
    not be deposited from vapour, when that vapour             rising into an
                                                                     is
    atmosphere of         higher temperature than its own
                            a                                    and the law
                                                                      ;
    holds good, however great the difference of temperature.            Thus,
.   August 26,    at  sun-set, the day after   heavy
                                                   a fall of rain,  and  when
,   the atmosphere was exceedingly moist,            ascertained the tem
                                                       I
    perature of theDrave near Spital inCarinthia, and though               wasit
     14° F. below that of the air, yet the atmosphere above the river
    was perfectly transparent.
      It   may be imagined, that without any reference to the cooling
    agencies of air from the land, mist may form upon rivers and lakes,
    merely from the loss of heat              by
                                        radiation from the air, or the va^
    pour itself immediately above the water; and that the phenome
    non   is merely one of the formation of vapour, the source of heat
    being in the water-; and its deposition, the source of cold, being
    in the atmosphere but       ;    extremely improbable, that air- or in-
                                    it   is
                                                                        visible

                         in particular Situations.    •-
                                                           ...      299
   visible vapour, at common temperatures, can lose any consider
   able quantity of heat by radiation ; and, if mist could be formed
   from such a source, it must always be produced to a great extent
   qpon the ocean in calm weather during the night, particularly
   under the line, and between the tropics, which the journals of
   voyages sufficiently prove is not the case.    I have myself had an
   opportunity of making some observations which coincide with
   this view. During a voyage to and from Pola, I passed the nights
   of September 3, 5, and 6, off the coast of Istria ; there was very
   little wind on either of the nights, and from sun-set till nearly
   midnight it was perfectly calm in all of them. On the 3d it was
   cloudy, and the lightning was perceived from a distant thunder
  storm, and the vessel was never far from the shore : but on the
  5th and 6th the sky was perfectly clear, and the zodiacal light,
  after sun-set, wonderfully distinct and brilliant, particularly on
  the 5th, and we passed by the help of oars from two to eight miles
  from the shore. The temperature of the sea at sun-set was 76° F.
  on the 5th, 77° F. on the 6th, that of the atmosphere imme
   diately above it 78° F. and 79° F. On the 5th, at midnight, about
  five miles from the shore, the temperature of the seawas74° F.and
  that of the atmosphere 75° F., and on the 6th, at the same hour,
  at about four miles from the shore, the temperature of the sea
           0                                      0
  was 73 F. and that of the atmosphere 75 F.             There was not
  the slightest appearance of mist on either of these nights on the
  open sea, or at any distance from the land : but close under the
  hills of Istria there was a slight line of haze visible before sun
  rise, which was thickest under the highest land; and as we ap
  proached at sun-rise, on the 7th, the mountains of the Friul, the
  tops of those nearest to Trieste were seen rising out of a thick
  white mist, which did not reach a quarter of a mile from the
 shore.                                 •
      After mists have formed above rivers and lakes, their increase
 seems not only to depend upon the constant operation of the cause
  which originally produced them, but likewise upon the radiation
  of heat from the superficial particles of water composing the mist;
 which produces a descending current of cold air in the very body
 of the mist, whilst the warm water continually sends up vapour :
 it is to these circumstances that the phenomena must be ascribed
.of mists from a river or lake, sometimes arising considerably above -
 the surrounding hills.      I have often witnessed this appearance
 during the month of October, after very still and very clear nights,
 in the Campagna of Rome above the Tiber, and on Monte Al-
 bano over the lakes existing in the ancient craters of this extin
 guished volcano; and in one instance, on the 17th of October,
 before sun-rise, there not being a breath of wind, a dense white
                                                                 cloud

    300       On the Formation'         of Mists in particular Situations.
    cloud of a pyramidal form was seen on the site of AlbanTake, and
    rising far above the highest peak of the mountain, its form gra
    dually changed after siin-riSe, its apex first disappeared, arid its
    body, as it were, melted atvay in the sun-beams.
        Where rivers rise from great sources in the interior of rocks or
    strata, as they have the mean temperature of the climate, mists
                                                   '
    can rarely form upon them except in winter, or fate in autumn,
    or early in spring. In passing across the Apennines, October 1st,
    2d, and 3d, 1818, there having been much rain for some idays
    preceding, and the mghts being very clear, I observed the bras
    of all the riverain the valleys filledwith mist, morning and even
    ing, except that of the Clitumnus' near its source, in which there
    Was' no mist, and this river rises at once from a lime-stone bed,
    and when I examined           it, at "half past six o'clock A. Mi October   3,
    was 71° lower than the atmosphere.
        Great dryness in the air, or            current of dry air passing across
                                                a
    a  river, will prevent the formation of mist, even When the tem
    perature        of
                   the water       much higher than that of the atmosphere
                                  is                                            :
    thus on the 14th of June, near Mautern, though the Danube at
    five in the morning Was 61° F. and the air only '54°, yet there
    Was no mist         bin> a strong easterly wind blew, and from the ra
                         ;
    pidity with Which water evaporated              it,   it was evident that this
    wind was        in  state 6f extreme dryness.
'
                         a
        The Tiber has furnished me with             a   number of still more strik
    ing examples.          October     13th,   the   night having been very 'Hear,
    oh arriving     at  the Poute Molle, at half-past six in the morning,
I      found no mist on the river, yet the temperature of the air im
    mediately above          it was 48° F. and that of the river 56° F.,
                                                               by               a a
    strong north wind blew, which indicated,                     the hygrometer,
'
    degree   of  dryness     of  55°,'  and   this   part of the  river was exposed
    to  it;  but the valley above, where the river was sheltered from
    the wind, was full of mist, and the mist iii rising to the' exposed
    level might be seen, as             were, dissolving, presenting thin strie
                                       it
    which never reached above certain elevation, and many of which
                                            a
    disappeared        few seconds after they rose.
                         a                                    From the 13th to the
             I of
    25th      October, during which time the tramontane or north wind
    blew,      witnessed repeatedly the same phtendmenon; and iri the
    whole of this time there was only one morning when there was
    no mist ill the sheltered valleys, and the cause was perfectly ob
    vious    ;the night had been very cloudy, and the therrhometer, be
    fore sun-rise, indicated           difference of only one degree in the at
                                       a
    mosphere      below     that  of the   river.
        It    not my intention to discuss the general subject of the de
             is
    position of water from the atmosphere, in this paper            ;    but merely
    to describe local cause of considerable extent and variety in its
                         a
                                                                      modifications
                                                                                 :

                                     On the Krajken.                                           30.1
modification? : and, which is not without an effect in the oecpnomy
of nature; for verdure and fertility, in hot climates, generally                                fol
low the courses of rivers, and,               by
                                   the operation of this cause, are
extended   to the hills, and  even to  the plains surrounding,,their
banks.
  Rome, Dec.        8,   1818.
L.      Further Evidence to prove the Existence     the Kraken in      of
     the Ocean, and tending to show that this huge Creature     a                              is
     Species of Sepia or  Squid. Being  three several Communica
     tions of Fads, made to Dr. Mitchill,     William Lee, Esq.,
                                                             by
     Captain Riley, and Captain Neville, in September 1817.
     Communicated        Dr. Mitchill.
                              by
      Copy of   a   Letter   addressed   to   Dr. Mitchill    by   William Lee, Esq.
                                                         Washington,        Sept.    2,   1817.
My Dear Sir, — The         description given in our newspapers pf a
sea serpent, lately seen for several days in and about Cape
Anne Harbour, has brought to my recollection one of this spe
cies.
    On   a passage   made from Quebec, in 1787,
                         I                                  schooner of in   a
about 80 tons burden, while standing in for the Gut of Canso,
the Island of Cape Breton being about four leagues distant, one
of the crew cried out "      shoal a-head
                                   A            The helm was imme
                                                         !"
diately put down to tack ship, when, to our great astonishment,
this shoal, as we thought       to be, moved off; and as
                                      it                         passed              it
athwart the bow of our vessel, we discovered            to be an enorit
mous sea-serpent, four times as long as the schooner.          Its back
was of dark green colour, forming above the water
         a                                                   number of       a
little hillocks, resembling    .chain of hogsheads.
                                       a                  was then but  I
a lad, and being much terrified, ran below until the monster was
at some distance from us.        did not see his head distinctly
                                         I                          but                    ;
those who did, after      had hid myself in the cabin, said
                                 I                                  was                   it
as large as the small boat of the schooner.          recollect the tre
                                                                   I
mendous ripple and noise he made in the water, as he went off
from us, which      compared at the time to that occasioned
                        I                                           the                    by
launching of ship.  a
    My venerable friend Mr.              of your city, was passenger
                                                   ,                             a
with me at the time.        He will corroborate this statement, and
probably furnish you with        better description of this monster
                                         a                                                        ;
 for well recollect his taking his stand at the bow of the vessel,
     I
 with great courage, to examine                    it,
                                          while the other passengers
were intent only on their own. safety.
   At Halifax, and on my return to Boston, when frequently describ
ing this monster, was laughed at so immoderately, that found
                          I                                                          I
                                                                                                  it

302                                On the Kraken.
it necessary to remain silent on the subject, to                escape the im
putation of using       a traveller's privilege      of dealing in the marvel
lous.
   On the evening of September 9, Captain James Riley was at
my house, and said he knew Captain Folger of Nantucket, who
was occupied on a whaling voyage in the Southern Atlantic
Ocean about 20 years ago.   On the cruise, he saw an animal of
uncommon size floating on the sea, off the coast of Brazil. Cap
tain Folger then commanded a very large French-built ship, and
the floating carcase was four or five times as long as his vessel.
 It attracted the spermaceti whales, who came to feed upon and             it,
 had eaten away great portions of the flesh.       He visited the huge
 body of the creature, and satisfied himself        was an enormous
                                                           it
 kraken. He hauled all his boats upon                it,
                                               and his men ascended
 and lived upon     as
                   it    ifhad been
                              it       rock or island. They remained
                                           a
 on   itfor the purpose of killing the whales that came to devour
 it. In this they were so successful, that            by
                                                continuing there they
 took whales enough to load their vessel and complete her cargo.
 The back of the kraken was high and dry enough for them to
inhabit temporarily, and to look out for their game. And when
from this point of observation they discovered       whale coming to
                                                            a
make       meal, they launched their boats from the top of the dead
           a
kraken, and made an easy prey of him. The substance of the
monster's body was skinny, membranous and gelatinous, and
destitute of the fat and blubber for which the whale           remarkis
able.
    Captain Neville being on a voyage from London to Archangel,
in the year 1803, saw floating on the ocean, in about the latitude
of 68,     amass of solid matter of a dirty whitish colour, which,
when he descried        it,
                        and for some time after, was believed to be
an island of ice.    On approaching            it,
                                           however, he ascertained               it
to be an animal substance of an irregular figure, as         lacerated,
                                                                    if
decayed, and eaten away. The remnant of the carcase was never
theless full as large as the brig in which he sailed      whose capa
                                                                ;
city was one hundred and eighty-nine tons, and length seventy
feet.    This enormous body was the food of animals both of the
air and of the water; for as he sailed within       few rods of
                                                           a         he    it,
saw great numbers of gulls and other sea fowl sitting on            and   it
flying over it; those which were full retiring, and the hungry
winging their way to         for
                              it    repast.
                                       a      He also beheld several
cetaceous creatures swimming round it; some of them were
whales of prodigious magnitude, exceeding the vessel in length.
               a
Others were smaller, and seemed to belong to the grampus and
porpoise tribe.     He considered them all as regaling themselves
with its flesh.
    Near one extremity of this carcase, he distinguished an ap
                                                                         pendage

                          On     the   Boa Constrictor.                       303'
pendage or arm hanging down into the water, which, from his ac
quaintance with the sepia, he concluded to be that of the squid ;
being probably the only one left after the rest had putrified or
been devoured.      Such was likewise the opinion of a navigator,
of much experience and long observation in the scenery of the
north Atlantic, then on board ; who remarked that the corrupting
lump was intolerably fetid, and offensive to man ; and would, if
the brig was suffered to run against     impregnate her with foul
                                                   it,
ness and stench for the whole voyage.     She was accordingly kept
to windward for the purpose of avoiding          but the smell was
                                                          it ;
notwithstanding extremely nauseous and disgusting.
    On conversing with mariners in the White Sea, such occur
rences were spoken of            by
                             them, as too common to excite much
attention or any doubt.
    Afterwards while at Drontheim, in Norway, Captain Neville
 discoursed with practical men concerning things of this kind.
The prevailing idea was, that such drifting lumps were by no
means uncommon        ;that they were bodies or fragments of huge
squids ;   that these were sometimes borne away         the Mael-   by
 stroom current, and ingulfed and dashed to pieces       its whirl   by
pools ;   and  that these broken trunks and  limbs were sometimes
cast on shore, and sometimes tossed about on the sea.
  It   is supposed that squids and whales inhabit the same tracts
of ocean; because the former furnish food for the latter, at
least for the cachalats, orco, and other toothed and voracious
species.
LI.    On   the   solid     Excrement         of   the   Boa Constrictor.      By
  Edmund Davy, Professor                 of   Chemistry      and Secretary to the
   Cork Institution.
A     serpent of the genus Boa, the Boa Constrictor,      was lately
exhibited for some days in Cork.       had no opportunity of seeing
                                              I
it; but have been informed,
        I                          was about 12 feet in length, very
                                         it
 handsome,  and  quite domesticated.      was so gentle as to allow
                                                    It
persons to touch      it,
                       and when permitted,       would twine itself
                                                           it
round them and seem to enjoy the agreeable warmth of their
clothes.  In general, was very inactive, except when stimulated
                            it
by hunger, when      became more animated. Live rabbits were its
                     it
usual food, one or more of which were given at intervals varying
from about 10 to 21 days. When the serpent showed            disposi     a
tion to eat, a rabbit was presented, which       first crushed, and
                                                             it
then gradually swallowed without any previous mastication.                      It
 voided excrement about once      fortnight.
                                         a
    George Montague, esq. who had several opportunities of see
ing this serpent, procured from its owner      portion of its excre
                                                         a
                                                                             ment;

304                     On    the     Boa Constrictor.
ment, part of which he very obligingly gave me. Not being aware
that this substance had been analysed, I submitted it to such a
chemical examination as the very limited quantity in mypossession
would allow.     And as I presume there is some little novelty of
result in my experiments, I beg leave to give you an account of
tti^m, wjth, a view to their insertion in your valuable Magazine.
      Properties and Composition of the solid Excrement.
   1. This excrement when voided was soft, but it became hard
                           In the state in which I saw
                                                                        it,
by exposure to the air.                                      was        it
rather larger than   pigeon's egg, of an amorphous form, and ex
                        a
hibited on its surface    number of irregular elevations and de
                                  a
pressions.         was grayish white, and resembled chalk in colour
                  It
and fracture       but  itwas more easily frangible than chalk, and its
                  a ;                        had slight odour, which was
powder had slight greasy feel.               It      a
rather fragrant aiid agreeable.          Its specific gravity could not dif
fer much from that of chalk, for five grains of each in an impal
pable powder occupied about the same space.
   2.   When heated          by
                            a spirit lamp on       slip of platinum, the ex
                                                     a
crement    first became    brown,   and    then black     ;  exhaled an am-
                                                              it
moniaeal smell, and the odour of decomposing animal matter.
By keeping         at
                  it    red heat for
                        a                 few minutes,
                                            a                consumed with
                                                              it
out flame, leaving only         very minute grayish residuum, which
                                  a
deliquesced in the air, rendered turmeric brown, and dissolved
with effervescence in muriatic acid. The muriatic solution was
rendered blue by prussiate of potash, and gave with ammonia a
little light coloured flocculent precipitate.            These experiments
seem to show that the minute portion of grayish residuum was
composed of subcarbonate of soda, phosphate of lime, and oxide
of iron.
    3. The excrement was insoluble in water, in alcohol, and in
muriatic acid, at boiling heat.
                        a                     dissolved slowly in sulphuric
                                                It
acid, with the evolution of minute globules of gas.
    4.  It readily dissolved with effervescence in strong nitric acid,
the air disengaged appeared to be nitrous gas, as               produced red
                                                                   it
fumes on coming          contact with the atmosphere.
                        in                                      Diluted ftitric
acid also dissolved the excrement, and               little gas was evolved.
                                                     a
The nitric solution, when evaporated to dryness, assumed                 a fine
pink colour       and
                  ;    on adding      little water, the fluid
                                        a                        became   of  a
carmine hue, and presently reddish substance precipitated, leav
                                       a
ing the fluid colourless.      These experiments prove the existence
of uric acid in the excrement, and the pink or reddish substance
appeared to be the compound of purpuric acid and ammonia de
scribed      byDr. Prout *.
    5. In an instance when five grains of the excrement were dis-
                        * Philosophical Transactions     1818.
                                                                          solved

                       On the Boa Constrictor.                           305-
solved in diluted nitric acid, and the heat continued for a short
time after the solution had been boiled to dryness , besides the
pink substance which lined the sides of the glass, there remained
a yellow substance in appearance like bees wax.            By submitting
the excrement to destructive      distillation, a yellow substance    some
what similar to the preceding sublimed in          the neck  of the  retort.     .
The yellow substance obtained by sublimation had           at first   an  un
pleasant smell, which it lost by exposure to the air for a few hours,
and which arose from the presence of a little foetid oily matter.
 Its taste was pungent and peculiar.          It was soft and easily fran
gible.    It was  volatile.    It was   soluble  in water, in alcohol, in
acids and in alkalies, by the agency         of heat, but it was not pre
cipitated from its alkaline solutions by muriatic acid.           This yel
low substance in a dry state did not affect moistened litmus pa
per, but when dissolved in warm water it reddened litmus.                    In
most of its properties, this substance seemed to resemble Scheele's
sublimate from the uric acid, described by Dr. Henry in his me
moir on this acid*.
    6. The fixed alkalies, in a concentrated state by the agency of
heat, are capable of dissolving the excrement, and during the so
lution the odour of ammonia is exhaled.            The alkaline solutions,
when treated with muriatic or sulphuric acid, afford a white or
yellowish white precipitate, which is either in small shining la
mine (in appearance like the benzoic acid), or in minute pris
matic crystals.     This precipitate has a soft greasy feel, is very
slightly soluble in hot water, and dissolves readily and with effer
vescence in nitric acid.      The nitric solution, when evaporated
to dryness, leaves a yellow residuum, which when treated with a
drop of ammonia instantly assumes a fine pink colour.               Hence,
the precipitate in question appears to be the uric acid. And in
one experiment, in which I dissolved 10 grains of the excrement
in pure potash, I obtained, by the agency of muriatic acid, one
grain of uric acid.
    7. The excrement by destructive distillation furnished a variety
of products.     The following results we obtained from 10 grains
heated to redness for about a quarter of an hour, in a little re
tort over mercury, viz. about 6 cubic inches of gas ; 1$ grain of
yellow sublimate (51) ; 1§ grain of brownish sublimate impreg»
nated with a foetid oily matter, and 3 grains of black coaly mat
ter. The gas was not accurately analysed ; but from a slight ex
amination it appeared to be a mixture of nitrogen, ammonia, and
carburetted hydrogen.        It had a foetid ammoniacal odour, about
one-sixth of it was readily absorbed by water, a small part of the
residuum was inflammable, and the remainder extinguished a
* Memoirs of  the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester,    ve-1. ii.
    Vol. 54. No. 258. Oct. 1819.                   U                lighted

306                        Notices respecting New Books.
lighted taper.    The 3 grains of coaly matter, on being kept at a
red heat in a silver crucible for some time, slowly consumed, leav-
jng only a residuum of        of grain, -which on examination ap
                                  -jJj       a
peared  to be subcarbonate    of soda, phosphate of lime, and oxide
of on.
  ir
   The preceding experiments seem to show that the excrement
of the Boa    not very simple in its constitution.
              is                                   The uric acid
appears to enter largely into its composition    and the facts, that
                                                               ;
ammonia       evolved from
             is                   the fixed alkalies, and that the
                                     it      by
nitric solution of the excrement yields       evaporation the pur-
                                                          by
purate  of ammonia, favour the idea that the volatile alkali also
forms one of its ingredients.      also appears to contain
                                             It              minute    a
portion of subcarbonate of soda, phosphate of lime, and oxide of
iron. From the limited quantities of the excrement examined,                it
would be rather premature, to decide upon the products obtained
from its destructive distillation as    great part of them must ne
                                             ;     a
cessarily arise from the decomposition of the uric acid in the pro
cess.
  My cousin Dr. Davy, in his paper " On the urinary Organs and
Secretions of some of the Amphibia*," states the solid urine of
serpents to consist of nearly pure uric acid      and this solid urine
                                                              ;
seems closely to resemble the excrement of the Boa in its physi
cal and chemical properties. But         my experiments are correct,
                                                   if
the constitution of the latter substance does not appear to be so
simple as that of the former and am at   ;    loss to account for the
                                                  I       a
differences in our results, unless they may be referred to differences
in the food of the serpents.         not, presume, yet known, what
                                         It   is      I
changes may be effected in the excrementitious matters of ani
mals,   bysuch changes in their diet as may be compatible with
their healthy existence.
  Cork Institution, Oct.       18, 1819.
                   LI
                    I.     Notices respecting New Books.
The Entomologist's useful Compendium; or, An Introduction to
  the Knowledge      British Insects comprising the best Means
                          of                          ;
  of obtaining and preserving them, and          Description of the
                                                               a
  Apparatus generally used     together with the Genera of Linne,
                                         ;
  and the modern Method of arranging the Classes Crustacea,
  Myriapoda, Spiders, Mites and Insects, from their Affinities and
  Structure, according to the Views of Dr. Leach. Also an Ex
  planation of the Terms used in Entomology,        Calendar of thea
  Times of Appearance and usual Situations of nearly 3000 Species
  of British Insects with Instructions for collecting and fitting up
                          ;
                        * Philosophical Transactions       1818.
                                                                       Objects

                      Samouelle's Entomology.                       307
     Objects for the Microscope.      Illustrated with Twelve Plates.
    By George Samouelle, Associate of theLinuaean Society of
     London. &vo. pp. 496.
 -We     have been much pleased with the inspection of this new.
 and truly original contribution to the history of British Entomo
 logy.    It bears manifest marks of bejng the fruits of much la
 borious and scientific research into a very interesting department
 of knowledge, and is presented to the public in a style of minute
 elegance and accuracy highly worthy of the interest of the sub
ject which it illustrates.                      i
    Our readers will not be surprised at the terms,in which we com
 mence our notice of this work, when they learn that the author
 (Mr. Samouelle) has been indebted (see Dedication and Preface)
 "  for the most valuable parts of its contents to the kindness and.
 liberality" of Dr. Leach, F.R.S., who gave the author " the free
 use of his books and manuscripts."     "It   was an offer," says Mr. S.
 "  which I could not withstand, and which no lover of science
 will regret." We are quite sure that no lover of science will re
 gret it; every one must, on the contrary, feel inexpressibly grati
 fied that the treasures of so able and indefatigable a cultivator of
 the science of Entomology as Dr. Leach, should be opened to
 general participation, and equally so that the task of unfolding;
 them to the world should have devolved on an individual so
 faithful, ingenuous, and discriminating, as the author of the pre
 sent volume has shown himself to be.
    Mr. S. commences his work with giving a sufficiently ample
 and minute account of those characteristic parts of insects to
which the attention of the student should be chiefly directed, and
follows it up by some acute observations intended to show the su
 periority, we might almost venture to say the absolute necessity,
of the modern System of Classification.
    The object of all system is to reduce a science to its simplest
terms, by reducing the propositions it comprehends to the greatest
 degree of generality of which they are susceptible.        A good me
thod in comparative anatomy must, therefore, be such as will en
able us to assign to each class,and to each of its subdivisions, some
qualities common to the greater part of the organs.         This object
is to be attained by two different means, which may serve to prove
 or verify one another.    The first, and that to which all men will
                                   proceed from the observations of
 species  to uniting them  in  genera, and to collecting them into a
 superior order, according    as we find ourselves conducted to that
classification by a view of the whole of their attributes.      The se
 cond, and that which the greater part of modern naturalists have
 employed, is to fix beforehand upon certain bases of divisions,
                                  U  2                         agreeably

308                Notices respecting Neiv Books.
agreeably to which, beings, when observed, are arranged in their
proper places.
    The first mode cannot mislead us; but it is applicable only to
those beings of which we have a perfect knowledge : the second
                                                                       '
is more generally practised, but must be allowed to be subject
to error.    When the bases tbat have been adopted remain con
sistent with the combinations which observation discovers, and
when the same foundations are again pointed out by the results
deduced from observation, the two means are then in unison, and
we may be certain that the method is good.
    In systematizing the anatomy of animals, science is most deeply
indebted to the learned, acute, and indefatigable Cuvier, who has
contributed \more than all others (save Hunter) to our accurate
knowledge of the characters on which the classes are founded.
   The whole animal kingdom is by Cuvier divided into four
great types : Vertelrosa, Mollusca, Annulata, and Radiata. The
animals which come under the observations of the author of the
present work belong to the type Annulosa, which are divided
into five classes : Crustacea, Arachrwidea, Acari, Myriapoda,
and Insecta.
    Mr. S. has under each of these heads given a review of the sci
ence as particularly connected with     it,added to each genus its
various synonyms, and particularly pointed out the species which
serve as the types under the modern system. The characters on
which the genera are founded, appear to us very simple and na
tural, and are rendered perfectly intelligible      by
                                                   the copious ex
planation which Mr. S. annexes of the terms used in Entomology.
   The author gives towards the conclusion of his work an Ento
mologist's Calendar for each month of the year, pointing out
the particular seasons and places where certain insects are to be
found from 'January to December.          Persons who reside at a
distance from the metropolis must derive great advantage from
this calendar, as,    by
                       carefully examining such places as are re
ferred to in the calendar, they will not only meet with the species
enumerated, but are likely to capture many new insects which
have not yet found    aplace in the hitherto neglected Entomology
of Britain.
  The work    isconcluded     by
                              an explanation of the plates, which
contain very beautifully delineated figures of between 200 and
300 insects.
  We need scarcely add our opinion that, on the whole, the work            «
is one which does much honour to the industry and science of
Mr. Samouelle, and will repay in knowledge much more than
itcan possibly receive from the necessarily limited sphere of sci
entific patronage.
                                                         A   portion

      MacLeay's Horce Entomologicce. — Percy Anecdotes.                         309
  A portion of the following Entomological                      work   is ready for
                                      publication      :
Horce Entomologicce             : or, Essays on the Annulose            Animals: by
  W. S.Macleay, Esq. A.M. of Trinity College, Cambridge.
Vol. I. Part I. containing general Observations on the Geography,
Manners, and Natural Affinities of the Insects which compose the
Genus Scaralceus of Linneus; to which are added afew incidental
Remarks on the Genera Lucanus and Hister of the same author.
    A most entertaining work is now in the press, consisting of a
-valuable series of Anecdotes collected and arranged under sepa
 rate heads, by Shslto and Reuben Percy, brothers of the Bene
 dictine Monastery, Mont Benger.          The collection   we under    is,
 stand, the fruit of much curious reading during many years of
 monastic seclusion and, while
                           ;           embraces vast fund of entirely
                                           it              a
 original matter, will omit nothing particularly worthy of preserva
 tion in the anecdotal treasures either ofancient or of modern times.
 The first four parts will consist of Anecdotes of Humanity, embel
 lished with   a portrait of William Wilberforce, Esq. M.P.; Anec
 dotes of Eloquence, with       portrait of Lord Erskine; Anecdotes
                                     a
 of Enterprise, with      portrait of the lamented Mungo Park; and
                            a
 Anecdotes of Youth, with a portrait of Robert Charles Dallas,
 son of Sir George Dallas. These will be followed        Anecdotes of
                                                                   by
 Science, of Genius, of Liberty, of Heroism, &c.
 De   VIndustrie Francaise, par             M. Le        Comte Chaptal,      Mem-
                           bre de   I'Instilut.    2   vols. 8vo.
        [From the French of M. Ch. Dupin, in Revue Encyclopedique.
     Count Chaptal, after being ten years engaged in the internal
 administration      of
                      France, in protecting the arts, sciences and
 letters, by creating for French industry establishments and insti
 tutions whose utility has saved them from subversion, now pre
 sents the world with the existing picture of that industry to the
 prosperity of which he has so highly contributed.       The execution
 of such a task could have devolved on no person with more pro
priety.
   The work     divided into four parts; which treat of commerce,
               is
of agricultural industry, of manufacturing industry, and of the
administration of industry.
   The part which partakes most of that sort of talent and in
formation peculiar to M. Chaptal,     that which relates to manu
                                                  is
 facturing industry.
    France has within the last forty years,                by
                                               the aid of science,
                   It by
 and impelled      the spur of necessity, made vast strides in this
 department.        now enjoys the fruits of the many and great
                                          U   3           sacrifices

310                 Notices respecting New Books.
sacrifices which this conquest of knowledge and of industry has
 cost.
    All the world knows the immense services rendered by the men
of science in France, in extracting from the soil of France those
means of defence which it required, when the other nations of
Europe precipitated themselves with all their power upon her.
The efforts which it was necessary to make for this purpose gave
an impulse to the useful arts, which is still felt and will long con
 tinue to be felt.
    Among the oeconomical arts which have experienced the most
remarkable extension, and which • new or more improved pro
cesses have regenerated, are the manufactures of cotton thread
and cotton cloth.
    In 1789 the average value of the cotton goods imported into
France, amounted to nearly 26,000,000 of francs; in 1812 it did
not exceed a million and a half.
    In IS 12 a million of wheels were in activity, and spun
 10,000,000 kilogrammes of cotton annually.
    The art of manufacturing cloth is a branch of industry in
which the French have always excelled.
    Among their most beautiful fabrics the cachemires of M. Ter-
naux may be distinguished, as yielding not even to those of India,
and as likely to become the first in the world, if the goats which
this ingenious and enterprising speculator has imported should
come to be naturalized in France.
    At the head of the improvers of an important and difficult
branch of art — that of watch-making — stands M.Breguet. —
MM. Janvier, Pons, Lepaute Robin, follow in his steps. Fortin
and Lenoir have carried to a high pitch of perfection the con
struction of philosophical instruments.
    The chemical present results even more astonishing than the
mechanical arts.
    The chemical manufactories of France are the'finest'in Eu
rope.     M. Chaptal was the first to organize and perfect these
scientific establishments.    Every one knows how much the prepa
ration of wines owes to his genius. The distillation of brandy and
of spirits of all sorts has been also greatly improved by the united
labours of MM. Chaptal, Argand, and especially Edward Adam.
    The distillation of wood for the purpose of extracting vinegar,
tar, &c. is an art of French invention, which dates its origin
from the revolution.
    The art of rendering waters salubrious by chemical filtration
is also among the benefits rendered to 'humanity.
    Metallurgy in all its branches has assumed a new aspect. Our
iron-foundries     have been improved, and our cutlery may now
stand a competition with the best productions of England.
                                                                  Our

  Chaptal. — Statistiquede la Suisse. — Revue Encyclop$dique.         311
     Our porcelain and our pottery have likewise risen into high
  esteem.     In this respect, as in many others, we have ceased to
  be tributary to England.
     Lithography, which owes so much to the ingenious perseverance
 of M. deLasteyrie, is daily improving; and must increase prodi
  giously the commerce in engravings, besides rendering nume
  rous branches of instruction more eeconomical.
     In the manufacture of crystal we equal the English in quality,
  and surpass them in the elegance of our forms.
     M. Chaptal presents afterwards a statistical view of our ma
 nufacturing industry in its present state : but it would take up
 too much room to analyse this chapter, which necessarily abounds
 in tables, and is therefore little susceptible of a concise yet suffi
 ciently detailed abstract.
  Statistiqtie de la Suisse, &c. — Statistical Description of Switzer
    land, and the Twenty-two Cantops of which it is composed.
     By Professor Picot, of Geneva. 1 vol. 12mo. pp. 574.
     Professor Picot has rendered an important service to statistics
 and geography by the present publication.
     It would give us much pleasure to see similar works on each
of the other states of Europe, drawn up with equal care and with
 equal choice in the details.       The collection which would be thus
 produced would be invaluable to statesmen, to travellers, and to
 readers of all classes.      The cheap form in which this work ap
 pears   is deserving   of  especial notice and praise. — Works of to
pography,      which  ought to be placed within the reach of every
 body, are generally with us brought out on so expensive a scale,
 as to be the least accessible of all modern publications.            The
work-of M. Picot is deficient in .one important particular.             It
wants a good map of Switzerland with the present divisions and
subdivisions of the twenty-two cantons.
Remie Encyclopedique,ou Analyse Raisonnce des Productions
    les plus remarquab les dans la Literature, les Sciences, et les
    Arts. Paris, 1819.
    This is a new monthly publication begun at Paris at the com
mencement of the present year.           It has already attained a great
reputation.     The   list of  regular contributors   to it comprehends
some of the most eminent names in France: MM. Chaptal, Al.
dela Borde, Dupin, David, De Lacepede, Langles, Lemercier,
Magendie, Orfila, Sismondi, &c.           It is scarcely necessary to add
that it is distinguished for the value of its intelligence and the
ability'of its criticisms.
                                       U4                     LIII.  Pro-

                               [ 312 ]
            LIII.     Proceedings    of Learned     Societies.
                    ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, PARIS.
On     the 16th of June the following New Observations on oxy
genated Water, by M.Thenard, were read before the Academy.
    In the observations on oxygenated water which I last had the
honour of submitting to the Academy, I endeavoured to prove
that water saturated with oxygen contains exactly twice as much
oxygen as pure water ; or, in other words, that pure water at a
temperature of zero, and under a pressure of 076 metre, can ab
sorb 616 times its volume of this gas. At the same time I stated
the physical properties of this new liquid, and the phenomena
produced by its contact with various mineral bodies. Since then
I have examined its action on almost all mineral substances, and
also on many vegetable and animal bodies.         1 will not now state
all the results, but will mention one which seems worthy of at
tention ; namely, that several animal substances are, like plati
num, gold, silver, &c, capable of disengaging the oxygen from
oxygenated water, without undergoing any alteration, at least
when the liquid is diluted with distilled water.
    I diluted pure oxygenated water in such a manner that it con
tained eight times its volume of oxygen.          Of this I passed 22
measures into a tube filled with quicksilver ; and then I intro
duced a little fibrin, quite white, and recently extracted from the
blood. Instantly the oxygen began to separate from the water,
and the quicksilver in the tube sunk.       At the end of six minutes
the water was completely de-oxygenated, and would no longer
effervesce with oxide of silver.       The gas disengaged was 176
measures; that      is,as much as the liquid contained     and was en
                                                              ;
tirely free from carbonic acid and azote.           It
                                                     was pure oxygen.
When the same fibrin was placed            contact with fresh portions
                                          in
of oxygenated water,      itacted in the same manner.
    Oxygen  is   not disengaged from water, even much oxygenated,
by urea,   by liquid or solid albumen, or      by
                                               gelatin   but the tissue
                                                         ;
 of the lungs, in thin slices and well washed, that of the kidneys
 and of the spleen, expel the oxygen with as much facility as         fi
brin. The skin and veins have the same property, but in           a less
degree.
   As the tissue of the lungs, the spleen, the kidney, like gold,
platinum, silver, &c. possess the property of expelling the oxy
gen from oxygenated water,      it very probable that all these ef
                                     is
fects are attributable to the same force. Would     then be unrea
                                                         it
sonable to ascribe all animal and vegetable secretions to the same
force? I  think not.    In this way we. may conceive how an or
gan, without absorbing any thing— without giving off any thing
                                                                  •—may

              Hints respecting the Nautical Almanack.                 313
— may     act constantly on a liquid, and transform it into new pro
ducts.     This way of viewing the subject agrees with some ideas
lately suggested, and which, in some measure, become obvious
from the experiments just recited.
           LIV. Intelligence    and Miscellaneous Articles.
                             To Mr.   Tilloch.
          A
                                                       October 11, 1819.
             s the Nautical Almanack      is of the first importance to
the safety of navigation and commerce, I trust you will be able
to afford the following remarks a place in the Philosophical Ma
gazine, as they are written purposely to call the attention of the
Commissioners of Longitude, if possible, to adopt a more certain
method of supplying the demand for that invaluable work, than
hitherto experienced.
    It is notorious that the Nautical Almanack has been frequently
out of print for ten, fourteen, or twenty days, when a single copy
could not be obtained for any price, nor until a new edition issued
from the press : — commanders of ships, proceeding on distant
voyages at such times, have been known to offer ten and even
twenty guineas for a Nautical Almanack, without effect.
    To prevent a similar recurrence of such serious importance to
commerce and navigation, a letter was sent in 1811 to one of the
Commissioners of Longitude, pointing out the great danger that
would probably ensue to British maritime commerce by a limited
supply of the Nautical Almanack ; and recommending that the
Secretary of the Board of Longitude, or some other competent
person, ought to superintend the disposal of that work, by waiting
on the publisher monthly, and examining the quantity sold, and
stock on hand ; which would enable such person to provide re
gularly for the demand, by comparing the monthly or quarterly
sales of each year, and regulating the press accordingly ; which
ought either to be kept open, or larger editions thrown off than
hitherto.
    Since the above-mentioned letter was written, the Nautical Al
manack has been several times out of print. and very recently the
edition for 1 820 was destroyed by fire at Mr. Bensley's, the printer
to the Commissioners of Longitude; by which misfortune, an in
 terval occurred, when ships departing on distant voyages could
not procure a Nautical Almanack for that year. But fortunately a
new edition appeared before the departure of Sir Thomas Hardy's
squadron for the South Sea, or that valuable expedition might
have been obliged to navigate nearly round the world, destitute
 of one of the first requisites of safety, a Nautical Almanack for the
 ensuing year.
                                                                  A work

  314                Spo&utnene. — Fluor Spar.
    A work of such consequence, when printed, should not be placed
  under one roof, but sheet by sheet, as they are worked off, ought
  to be separated in two or three divisions, and placed in different
  buildings, in order to preclude a total loss by fire, and conse
  quently not deprive the public of the temporary use of that valu
  able guide.
     Four days ago I had occasion to inspect the Nautical Almanack
  for the present year, previous to observing the transit of the sun,
  in-order to erect a sun-dial in my garden; but, to my surprise, I
  was told that the last edition of the Nautical Almanack lor 1819
 was all sold, and not a copy to be procured, nor would 'another
  edition be printed, as the year would soon end ! — For the safety
 of lives and property, and for the honour of our country, I trust this
 is not the case, although I have made several applications for an
 Almanack, and received similar replies.         Perhaps the publisher
 may    consider it of  little or no  benefit to him, to print another
 edition of the Nautical Almanack so late in the year; but as there
 are two months and twenty-two days (or eighty-three days) of the
 year unexpired from the time thafthe last edition of the Almanack
 was sold off, and consequently out of print, it becomes a matter
 of serious importance and regret, that all the British shipping de
 stined on foreign voyages, which sail between the 7th of October
  1819 and the 1st of January 1820,must for the greater part-grope
 their way by dead reckoning, (as in the infant state! of naviga
 tion,) if they cannot procure the Connoissance des Temps from
 France, or some other equivalent from the Continent ! — A remedy
 ought certainly to be provided by the Commissioners of Longi
 tude for these irregularities in the publication of a work so ne
 cessary to the safety of navigation as the Nautical Almanack.
                                   I am, sir, yours obediently,
                                                      An Observer.
                     SPODUMENE.     — FLUOR SPAR.
    We understand that spodumene was discovered last year by
Dr. MacCulloch on the west coast of Scotland.            It occurs em
bedded in granite, and may now be added to the list of British
minerals, which has of late received such large accessions by
his exertions, and by that of other mineralogists in this country.
    We are also informed that he has discovered fhior spar in se
veral parts of Aberdeenshire.       It is almost always found in veins
traversing granite ; generally accompanied by quartz, and some
times by galena.       At Abergeldie it occurs crystallized in the
most common fornvof cubes, and of various colours, blue-pur
ple, crimson-purple, green, and white.            The green varieties
present a remarkable property, which has not yet called forth
the attention of mineralogists j becoming white, or colourless,
                                                                    by

                  Primary Sandstone. — Quartz Rock.                  315
 by exposure to air, and this effect penetrating to an inch or more
 in depth.      It will be an interesting object for chemists versant
 in the analysis of minerals, to inquire respecting the nature of
 this colouring matter ; a circumstance as yet very obscure in all
 the varieties of fluor spar.     It presents an analogy to the topaz,
of which the yellow colour is dissipated by a low heat without
 altering the transparency of the mineral ; and, instead of arising
from chemical composition, may possibly be of an optical nature;
 as by the loss of water, Or other causes, the arrangement of the
particles that determine the reflection of the green rays may be
 changed.
                          PRIMARY SANDSTONE.
    We are iudebted to Dr. MacCul loch for the first discovery of
this impdrtant rock, which had been either unobserved, or con
founded with' the Secondary red sandstone; the old red sandstone
of the Wemerian system. The first account of it -was contained
in his papers on the Isle of Sky, published in the Geological
Transactions, and, in these, its geological characters, and its
 claims to a place, in the class of primary rocks, were satisfacto
rily proved. We understand that a fuller account of it will be
contained in his work on the Western Islands of Scotland, now
on the eve of publication ; where he has shown that it occupies
an extensive district on the western coast. We are sorry, how
ever, to see that the map which he has given, in which that rock
appears, (of which we have seen the proofs in the publisher's
hands,) does not contain the whole of that coast, as well as the
islands ; having been curtailed to accommodate the size of the
volume.       We wait with impatience for these details, as the dis
covery   of a sandstone and a conglomerate alternating with gneiss,
must form     an  important revolution both in the theories of our
geologists, and in the science of geology.
                               dUARTZ ROCK.
    It is to the same industrious      geologist that we are indebted
for having first ascertained the true characters of this rock in all
its varieties, and the several connexions under which it appears
among the primary strata, to which it belongs. His predecessors
were at a loss what to do with it in their systems ; nor had they
observed the extent of its range, or the nature and variety of its
connexions.        His papers on this subject were printed in the
Geological     Transactions,   apparently, just as the several facts had
occurred    to  him  in  succession.    As he has there described it
forming the     island  of Jura, we expect to find a fuller detailof it
in the Work above mentioned, where that island is described.
    It appears, from those accounts which'we have read, to oc
cupy a considerable space in Scotland; occurring in alternation
                                                                    with

316     Glass.  — Earthquakes. — Extraordinary Visitation.
with gneiss, primary sandstone, micaceous schist, and,       if we do
not misapprehend the statements, clay slate.
           METHOD OF RENDERING GLASS LESS BRITTLE.
   Let the glass   vessel be put into a vessel of cold water, and let
this water be heated boiling hot, and then allowed to cool slowly
of itself, without taking out the glass. Glasses treated in this
way may, while cold, be suddenly filled with boiling hot water
without any risk of their cracking.     The gentleman who commu
nicates the method, says that he has often cooled such glasses to
the temperature of 10°, and poured boiling water into them with
out experiencing any inconvenience from the suddenness of the
change.      If the glasses are to be exposed to a higher tempera
ture than that of boiling water, boil them in oil. — Annales de
Chim. et de Phys. ix.
                            EARTHQUAKES.
   Three dreadful earthquakes took place at Copiapo on the 3d,
4th, and 1 1th of April. The whole city is said to have been de
stroyed by these awful visitations.      More than three thousand
persons were traversing the neighbouring plains, flying from the
desolation which had been produced.         It appears, according to
all the accounts, that the inhabitants had time to save their lives,
but only their lives.     Copiapo is a sea port of Chili, and stands
on the south side of a river of the same name, about 490 miles
N. by E. of Valparaiso.
   Another severe shock of an earthquake was felt in Trinidad
on the 12th of August at half past 2 A. M. A rushing noise as of
a violent wind was first heard, which was instantly succeeded by
an undulatory motion from east to west, very severe, and which
lasted four or five seconds. It was a clear moonlight night, and
nothing particular was discernible in the state of the atmosphere.
   On the 15th of August, a shock, accompanied with an explo
sion as loud as that of a cannon, was felt at the village of St.
Andrews, in Lower Canada.
                    EXTRAORDINARY VISITATION.
   A   letter from Green Bay, Mich. Territory, United States,
dated July 19, 1819, gives the following very curious account of
the visitation of that country by clouds of insects, which will bear
a comparison with the swarms which heretofore darkened the air
of Egypt in their flight :
    " Within the last four or five days the fly has appeared — a
 non-descript perhaps in natural history — and covered the face of
 the whole earth, obscuring the sun, moon, and stars. I write li
terally, and without the least exaggeration.        The heavens are
                                                            darkened

    Poisonous   Confectionary. — Herculaneum Manuscripts.         317
darkened by them, as in a densely cloudy day ; as far as the eye
can discern, they fill the air, in every direction, as closely as a
thick swarm of bees.      Cornfields, &c. are prostrated with the
clouds that settle upon them ; trees are covered, and the branches
bent and broken down. The barracks and buildings in the vici
nity, at the ends and sides not exposed to the sun, are entirely
black, the insects piled one upon another.         These creatures,
with their feelers that protrude from head and tail, are about
three inches in length, slough their skins daily, it is said by the
inhabitants here ; and in performing this operation, and in dying
by millions every hour, infect the atmosphere so that it becomes
unfit to breathe. Cattle, swine, and Indians, are said to feed and
fatten upon them.      The Frenchmen call them musquito hawks,
because they make their appearance when musquitoes are most
numerous, and, as is supposed, prey upon and drive them away.
The flies themselves remain but six or seven days."
                    POISONOUS    CONFECTIONARY.
                           To  Mr.  Tilloch.
                                             Hackney, Oct. 10, 1819.
   Sir, — I have observed in the Philosophical Magazine for Sep
tember an article on poisonous Tea Leaves, which calls to my
mind a highly blameable practice of contaminating sugar drops
with a substance very injurious to health. — Some time ago, while
residing in the house of a confectioner, I noticed the colouring
of the green fancy sweetmeats being done by dissolving sap-green
in brandy. Now sap-green itself, as prepared from the juice of
the buckthorn berries, is no doubt a harmless substance ; but
the manufacturers of this colour have for many years past pro
 duced various tints, some extremely bright, which there can be
no doubt are effected by adding preparations of copper.
   The sweetmeats which accompany these lines you will find
have evident vestiges of being contaminated with copper. — The
practice should therefore be banished of colouring these articles
of confectionary, the proprietors of which are not aware of the
deleterious quality of the substances employed by them.
                                 I am yours respectfully,
                                                 George Miles.
                  herculaneum      manuscripts.
                                                    Rome, Aug. 10.
   A third volume of the MSS. of Herculaneum          is in the press,
and will soon    be published.   Sir Humphry Davy is expected in
September to     make experiments with the chemical composition
which he has    invented to unrol the ancient Latin MSS. of this
collection.  It has been observed that the Latin MSS. in papyrus
                                                                    are

  318                 Grecian University. — Patents.
  are covered with a peculiar varnish which increases the difficulty
  of unrolling them, and which the Greek MSS. have not.
                           GRECIAN UNIVERSITY.
      A  university  has  been established at Corfu, by Lord Guildford,
  tinder   the  direction  and auspices of the British Government. His
  Lordship has appointed to the different chairs, Greeks of the
  first abilities ; and his intentions have been seconded with much
  effect.by Count Capo-d'Istria, a native of Corfu, who being ap
  prized that M.Politi, a young Leucadian possessed of knowledge
  and talents, desired to profess cheniistry in the Ionian islands,
  remitted to him funds sufficient to procure the apparatus neces
  sary for the laboratory, &c.
                LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
      To John Thompson, manufacturer, of iron and coal miner, for
  a new method of extracting iron from ore. — 20th Sept. 1819.
      To Baron Charles Philip de Thierry, of Bath-Hampton in the
  county of Somerset, for a bitt for coach and bridle, called The
  humane safety-bitt. — 20th Sept.
      To John Baynes, of Leeds, cutler, for certain machinery to be
  attached to carriages for giving them motion by manual labour,
  or other suitable power. — 27th Sept.
      To William Bainbridge, of Holborn, musician, for certain im
  provements in the double and single flageolet or English flute. —
  4 th Oct.
      To Jacob Perkins, late of Philadelphia, now of Austin Friars, en
  gineer, for certain machinery and improvements applicable to orna
  mental turning and engraving, and to the transferring of engraved
  or other work from the surface of one piece of metal to another
  piece of metal, and to the forming of metallic dies and matrices,
  and also improvements in the construction and method for using
  plates and presses for printing bank notes and other papers,
  whereby the producing and combining various species of work is
  effected upon the same plates and surfaces, the difficulty of imita
  tion increased, and the process of printing facilitated; and also an
  improved method of making and using dies and presses for coining
~
  money, -    stamping medals, and other useful purposes. — 11th
  Oct.
      To Christopher Hilton, of Darwen, near Blackburn, Lanca
  shire, bleacher, for his process for the purpose of improving and
  finishing manufactured piece goods. — 18th Oct.
      To Anthony Radford Strutt, of Makeney, Derbyshire, cotton
  spinner, for certain improvements in the construction of locks
  and latches. — 18th Oct.
                                                              METEORO-

                             Meteorology.                             319
          METEOROLOGICAL        JOURNAL KEPT AT         BOSTON,
                            LINCOLNSHIRE.
     [The time of observation, unless otherwise stated, is at 1 P.M.]
          Age oi
  1819.     the   Thermo  Baro     State of the Weather and Modification
          Moon     meter. meter.              of the Clouds.
          DATS.
Sept. 15    26      74.    29.50   Fine — heavy rain in the evening
       16   27      52'5   29.60   Cloudy— ditto this morning
       17   28      60.    29.83   Ditto
       18   29      65'    29.83   Fine — brisk wind
       19 new       58.    29.93   Ditto       ditto
      20      1     59-    30.29   Ditto
      21      2     60-5   30.23   Cloudy
      22      3     60.   30.23    Fine
      23      4    63.     29.96   Ditto
      24      5    62.     29.56   Ditto
      25      6    67,     29.26   Ditto
      26      7    59.    29.30    Ditto — rain in the afternoon
      27      8    64.    29.30    Cloudy
      28     9     66.    29.25    Fine
      29    10     57-    29.30    Rain
      30    11     68-5   29.33    Cloudy
 Oct.   1   12      71-   29.33    Ditto — brisk wind
        2  13      70-    29"40    Fine
        3  full    66.    29.30    Ditto
        4  15      57.    29.26    Cloudy
        5  16      49-5   29'86    Fine
        6  17   ,  55-    29.70    Cloudy
        7  18      58-    29.57    Rain
      - 8  19      64.    29.76    Cloudy
        9  20      63-5   29'58    Fine — rain   P.M.
      10   21      70-    29.50    Ditto
      11   22      70.5   29.40    Ditto
      12   23      64.    29.70    Cloudy
      13   24      67'5   29.60    Ditto
      14   25      62.    29.80    Ditto — rain   P.M.
                                                                METEORO

320                          Meteorology.
                    meteorological table,
                 By Mr. Cary, of the Strand,
                        For October 1819.
               Thermometer.
                                Height of
  Days of                                      QMS
                                               >n ^ —       Weather.
                               the Barom
   Month.     U*i=                             9! 5* 3
                                  Inches.      s- j> bo
                    •A
               56   62    56     29.65            30    Showery
  Sept. 26
               57   65    57        •74             0   Rain
        28     62   60    60        •73             0   Rain
               60   64    5S        •72             0   Rain
        29
        30     68   66    62        •90           36    Showery
    Oct.   1   66   70    62        •85           46    Fair
           2   66   69    59        •83           46    Fair
           3   65   68    56         •76          22    Showery
           4   60   59    47         •66          34    Cloudy
           5   42   53    43     30-08            52    Fair
           6   45   55    53         •04          28    Cloudy
            7  55   62    57     29- 96           29    Cloudy
            8  60   67    60     30- 13           36    Cloudy
                60   66   60     29- 90           34    Fair
            9
         10     63   72   63         •90          36     Fair
         1 1    64   72   62         •96          48     Fair
          12    62   78    58    30- 08           42    Fair
          13    61   68    53        •05           36    Fair
          14    56   63    53        •19           30    Cloudy
          15    53   62    51         •39          29    Fair
          16    51   55    46         •30          26    Cloudy
          17    43   51    41        •24           38    Fair
          18    42   51    43        •30           39    Fair
          19    38   53    53         •10          34    Cloudy
          20    55   54    46     29-64              0   Rain
          21    38   37     37        .61            0   Snow showers and
                                                         a heavy fall of snow
          22    32   45     40        •50          18    Fair [in the night
          23     37  51    41         •36          19    Cloudy
          24    40   47     40        •42          19    Cloudy
           25   36   43     38        •55          24    Fair
                40   47     36        •73                Fair
                N.B The Barometer's height is taken at one o'clock.

                                [   321     J
    LV. Some further Remarks on Swallows.             By Mr, Gavin
                                  Inglis.
                              To  Mr. Tilloch.
 Dear Sir,       H   aving already intruded so much on the patience
 of your readers with my remarks on the sagacity and habits of
 the swallow, I feel rather inclined to apologize for troubling you
 with any thing further regarding these wonderfully wise little crea
 tures.    Still, however, I must encroach, to state a few circum
 stances which may amuse some of your friends, being corrobora
 tive of what was formerly stated. I shall, however, endeavour to
 be  as brief as may be consistent with perspicuity.
    In my former communications          I stated minutely the circum
 stances attending the departure of the White Martin, or what is
 known in this part of the country by the name of the White-tailed
 Swallow, at an unusually early period of last year. These returned
 this year as formerly, the same morning, and in company with the
 Chimney Swallow, on the 15th of April, and brought forth two
 successive incubations.     The first was on wing by the end of June,
 and the second early in September.           About the middle of that
 month the whole Martin tribe disappeared ; but the Chimney
 Swallows remained in considerable numbers till the 3d instant,
 when they also took their departure.
    The hibernal departure of this colony of Chimney Swallows
may this year have been protracted in consequence of a few tiles
having been blown from the roof of the boiling-house in a gale
 of wind, by which means some of the bleach-field cats had on a
 Sunday, when no person was near to protect the swallows, made
their way through these openings, and reached two nests when
the young brood was in a pretty advanced state.              These were
immediately devoured by ravenous puss. The tiles were replaced
on the Monday morning ; on which the old swallows resumed
possession of the nests, and in due time produced another hatch
ing of young birds.
    From the time lost by the destruction of the former, this hatch
ing was considerably later than the collateral young of the se
cond incubation, and seemed, after their kindred brood from the
other nests were on wing, and able to provide for themselves,
to become the adopted children of the colony.              The feeding,
training,   and   protecting them   alike  devolved on all, and became
one common concern.
    After these nestlings were able to roost on the house-top, I have
frequently seen, toward evening, dozens of the old swallows al-
    Vol. 54. No. 259. Nov. 1819.                    X          ternately

322              Some further Remarks on Swallows.
ternately feeding these young ones till they were completely
gorged, and then returning to rest for the night.
   The circumstance of the cat's devouring the intermediate hatch
ing rendered the old swallows doubly suspicious of the me-
anderings and movements of tabby.
   One morning, soon after this catastrophe, I had gone out of
doors to examine the state of my ley cisterns, and was attentively
observing a curious motion in the alkaline lixivium that had been
left at rest over-night. 1 was soon induced to relinquish my
musing, by the noisy shrieks of a group of swallows that were
flying round and hovering about me, and directing not their at
tacks, but their movements, in such a manner as seemed to claim
my attention. I had no sooner raised my eyes from looking at the
liquor in the cisterns, and turned myself towards them, than they
seemed satisfied I had listened to their complaint; they then made
a circuit round me, and in a body darted into an open house
with great velocity and noise. Finding I did not follow them, they
immediately returned and flew round and round me so close as to
make me feel the wind from their wings, and again darted into
the house, returning instantly with augmented celerity and cla
mour, repeating the same movements and indications of distress,
quickening their motions as the danger had become more appa
rent. It then struck me that the extreme distress of the swal
lows must proceed from some cause of alarm within the house,
and that by these movements they were using all their art to de
 coy me into that place, and anxiously importuning my protection
against some common foe. On conceiving this, I immediately fol
lowed them, and was fully confirmed in my conjecture, on finding
 a cat perched upon a plank that had been incautiously left, as      if
 to enable some of the tribe to reach a nest, and in the very act of
placing herself in a position to take the leap. Puss, on seeing that
the swallows had procured this timely assistance, betook herself
to flight ; when the swallows ceased their clamour, perched, and
began trimming their feathers while I stood by them, as if no
thing offensive or alarming had occurred.
    A very striking instance of their discriminating discernment
 occurred about this time, which showed their courage in attack
 ing their foes, their disposition to resent an injury, their determi
 nation to inflict punishment on the aggressor, and that neither time
nor change of circumstances could divert them from their pur
pose of keeping up a continued warfare against the offender, till
 the day of their final departure for the season. One of the men-
 servants, standing on a steeping vessel, reached up his hand and
 took a young swallow from a nest immediately above him, in pre
 sence of one of the parent swallows ; who, being previously ac
                                                              quainted

                 Some further Remarks on Swallows.                  323
<juainted   with the individual, showed no symptoms of uneasiness
at what passed, till he, to try if the young one could fly, threw
5t a little up from his hand.     The young bird spread its wings,
but, being insufficiently fledged to support itself, fell to the ground,
 and was killed in sight of its afflicted dain, who immediately
shrieked the war alarm: the same call was instantly repeated,
echoed, and re-echoed from without, and crowds of swallows
came flocking from all directions into the boiling-house.          Upon
ascertaining the state of matters, this man was singled out, and
 the marked displeasure of the whole group declared by their at
once commencing open hostilities against him by all their varied
modes of annoyance and attack, without deigning to take the least
notice of any other individual present.
    This continued day after day, at every time and in every place
they could meet him, attacking him whenever he appeared out
•of doors, following him into the house, and darting at him in
 the midst of his companions, without the dread of being repelled.
One instance of this particularly marked their thorough knowledge
of the individual, and determination to be revenged : He had gone
to a neighbouring farm in company with another man (also be
longing to the bleach-field) to examine some flax, and on their way
had to pass a plantation at the distance of nearly half a mile from
the original scene of action, where a considerable number of
swallows were busily catching flies under cover of the trees.       The
two men had no sooner turned a corner, and come in view of the
feathered tribe, than one of them singled out the object of their dire
resentment by darting full in his face, and at the same time shrieked
the battle call. The group left off- fly-catching, and gathered in an
instant rdund the men, never all the while taking the least notice of
the guiltless individual, but directing all their vengeance against the
transgressor.    In the most determined and resolute manner they
kept up their annoyance the whole breadth of a large grass field,
vexing him to such a pitch that, to relieve himself of these trouble
some attendants, on coming to some fallow land, he was obliged to
collect clods and gravel and throw amongst them with all his
force : — upon this they retreated, and betook themselves to the
wood. There they remained under close cover till his return,
 allowing him to pass nearly half the breadth of the grass field,
where there were neither clods, stones, nor gravel to repel them,
and commenced their attacks anew, with increased vigour and
impetuosity, to the great amusement of his companion, till he
reached the bleach-field, where he was glad to take shelter in one
of the houses, declaring " Tho' thae Swallas sid big aboot the
field thaes thousand year, bae my certy I's nae mair fyle my fin
gers wi them. — Hech ! ! ! sic a stcur as I hae hain wi the bratts I
wha wad a dree'd thaer kennin a body sae far afield?"               The
                                 X 2                                case

324               An Essay    on  Dreaming, including
case   of Mr. Thomas Diamond, of Brenchley, as stated in the Kent
Herald, also strongly marks their faculty of discrimination, re
collection,    and disposition to retaliate.
                                          Yours trulv,
                                                     .
    Oct. 9, 1819.                                      Gavin Inglis.
    P. S. —This morning the water from the lake shows something,
like an internal commotion, although darker in the colour than
on former occasions. Upwards of 3000 eels were taken last night
in their way from the lake to the sea. — 12th Oct.
LVI.       An Essay on Dreaming, including Conjectures on the
    proximate Cause of Sleep.            By Andrew Carmichael,
    M.R.LA.
                         [Concluded from p. 264.]
IMany       inquirers have been perplexed to account for the lively
conversations we hold in our sleep, involving rational replies, sar
castic retorts, and alternating arguments.          This, however, can
t>e explained without      any  recurrence   to the plurality of organs.
Whatever we are capable of thinking without an effort, we are
susceptible of dreaming ; and during our waking reflections, we
frequently imagine what kind of reply an adversary might make
to an observation we had dropped — we immediately enter into the
warmth of argument, by coining an answer of our own in return ;
and when we have said all that occurs on that side of the ques
 tion, a reply naturally suggests itself on the other, all the merit
 of which we ascribe to our antagonist ; and thus the disputation
goes on, as if two different minds were engaged in the contest,
 the words by a strange illusion tingling in our ears, and the ar
dent looks and forcible gestures flitting before our eyes, till some
real object, breaking on our attention, recalls us to the perception
of the external world, and the nature of the reverie, which, till
now, we thought real. In sleep there is no such intrusion ; but
the dream and the reverie do not differ from each other as long
 as they last.
     A dream must, therefore, be the necessary consequence of any
 portion of the brain being awake, while the senses are asleep;
 and the question naturally occurs — Are the senses ever awake while
 the brain is asleep ? and if so, what is the consequence? Certainly,
 not the perception of external things, because the sensorium be
 ing involved with the remainder of the brain in sleep, the rays of
 light would merely fall upon the retina, and the vibrations of the
 air on the auditory apparatus, without conveying any further the
 impressions of colour or sound.       But if those sensories, and other
                                                                  limited

               Conjectures on the proximate Cause      of Sleep.     325
  limited    portions  of the brain,    were  awake with the organs of
  sense, the obvious and natural consequence is actually one      of very
  common occurrence.        The active organs continue to think ; but
  their thoughts do not appear to be dreams, because, our com
  munication with the external world, by means of our senses, pre
  vents this phenomenon ; but at the same time we are sensible
   that we are, to use a common expression, half awake and half
   asleep; and there are few individuals who have not frequently
   indulged themselves in the luxury of observing the gradual de
   parture of their slumbers, and the renewal of their active and
  proper existence.      Yet, jiossibly, if the organ of a single sense is
  awake,   —  as for example, that of hearing or feeling, — its effects
   may not be altogether complete, but so far merely as to satisfy us
   of the illusory nature of our internal perceptions; and thus we are
   enabled to account for the extraordinary circumstance of dream
   ing that we are dreaming.
      These several predicaments, therefore, present no less than
   seven different states of sleeping and waking : — 1. When the en
   tire Irain and nervous system are buried in sleep; and then there
   is a total exemption from dreaming.
      2. When some of the mental organs are awake, and all the
   senses are asleep ; then dreams occur, and seem to be realities.
   If among these busy organs should be one or two, whose pecu
   liar powers and affections will readily occur to the admirers of
   the organic theory, their disturbance, whether occasioned by dis-
'
   order of the digestive functions, or any other cause, will suffi
   ciently account for uneasy dreams, frightful visions, and oppres
   sive night-mares.
      3. When the above-mentioned conditions exist, and the nerves
   of voluntary motion are also in a state of wakefulness, then may
  occur the rare phenomenon of somnambulism.
      4. When one of the senses is awake with some of the mental
   organs, then we may be conscious during our dream of its illu
   sory nature ; and if the nerves -of voluntary motion concur, som
   nambulism may also accompany these circumstances.
      5. When some of the mental organs are asleep and two or
   more senses awake, then we can attend to external impressions,
 . and notice the gradual departure of our slumbers ; a state in
   which we consider ourselves neither awake nor asleep.
      6. When we are totally awake and in the full enjoyment of all
   our faculties and powers.
      7. When ufider these circumstances we are so intimately oc
   cupied by our mental operations, as that we do not attend to the
                                                                           "
    impressions of external objects; and then our reverie deludes us
   like a dream.
       Thus, as the process of assimilation ceases to operate, one por-
                                    X  3                              tion

326                       An Essay      on Dreaming,              including
tioii after another of the brain and nervous system is restored to
a state of vigilance and energy: and thus the verification of this
conjecture, in conjunction with the explanations afforded by the
organic theory, will be fully adequate to remove all that has been
obscure and inexplicable in these mysterious phenomena.
    These views may also furnish a hint to physicians on the pro
bable causes of one or two common affections of the head.                                          If
the process of assimilation is continued in the brain after a due
interval of rest, and that a portion of this viscus is asleep, while
the remainder and the organs of the senses are awake, the con
comitant stupor and tlulness may well be identified with the most
frequent species of head-ache, which scarcely amounts to pain,,
and is little more than a lethargic and sluggish inertness accom
panied by mental confusion and ineptitude : but                  on the con       if,
trary, the assimilating process          defective, and that the substance
                                                 is
of the brain       not sufficiently renewed,
                     is                           different species of head
                                                             a
ache may be the result           but
                                   ;       always attributed to
                                                 it   is             concur              a
rent effect — the absence of sleep.                         It
                                                     however,    is,
                                                                obvious  that
neither this nor the former affection can be confounded with
that acuteness of pain which             connected with the over-disten-
                                                 is
tion and pressure of the vessels on the brain.
  It      also to be inquired, whether more serious disorders may
          is
not be the consequence of disturbance or partial suspension of the
process in question.        How often        mania preceded
                                                       is         protracted        by
.watchfulness       and
                     ?       not
                              is    full allowance of nourishment con
                                        a
sidered,       the most respectable modern practitioners, as one of
                by
the most indispensable requisites in the treatment of insanity?
and   is not the return of intellect in general preceded              the re             by
storative action of sleep             may
                                        ?    indeed
                                            It        be maintained        an                 by
 advocate of the organic theory, that madness                sufficiently ac is
counted for         the protracted over-excitement of a particular or
                        by
gan but this very over-excitement, according to the hypothesis,
      ;
causes the absorption and waste of some portion of the brain and                              ;
its protracted duration may interrupt the healthy action of that
very process, which alone can renew the exhausted substance
whose instrumentality           necessary to the operations of the mind.
                                   is
 If the health'y action of this process can be restored,              accom         it   is
panied         by
              refreshing reinvigoratmg sleep and in numerous cases,
                                                                 ;
if  the natural consequence          the returning health and sanity of
                                            is
 the patient, in others we may be disappointed, should the ma
lady have proceeded so far as to injure or destroy the organiza
tion oti which the intellect depends.                      no means, how
                                                                 It    is   by
ever, contended that the cause assigned will account for every
species of mental derangement             and    may, in none of them, be
                                                 ;          it
more than         concomitant of some more operative, but unknown
                    a
cause.
                                                                                                   If

             Conjectures on the proximate    Cause  of Sleep.       327
    If this theory will account for some disorders, it may also be
serviceable in indicating remedies, and it may possibly instruct us
that in may cases, and perhaps in most, the best bpiate that can
be administered is natural and comfortable nutriment, which, by
instigating the process of assimilation, may bring on the most
profound and healthful slumbers. In some cases, a great loss of
blood is followed by restlessness and total deprivation of sleep,
accompanied by delirium.         It is evident that these symptoms
originate   in the want  of a sufficient quantity of blood to deposit
the nutritive particles Where most required in the frame, and
particularly in the encephalon.       To lessen that quantity, with a
view of diminishing the apparent feverishness, would, under such
 circumstances, be death to the patient ; but the opposite system
of administering the comforts of wine and animal juices, and thus
 contributing to the increase of the blood, must have the most
 beneficial operation, by inducing the assimilating process, the
 consequent sleep, and all the cordial and concurrent effects of
their powerful agency.
     I should not have hazarded these latter observations, so little
within my province, but that they were suggested by facts har
 monizing with and supporting the hypothesis of sleep which             I
 have ventured to propose — and if that hypothesis shall ever be
verified, the application I have made of these facts cannot fail to
be useful.     I am therefore unwilling that these views should be
 lost, and I am not so confident of their importance as to imagine
 they will speedily occur to another.      With respect to the theory
of dreaming advanced by Doctors Gall and Spurzheim, it is but
one instance out of numberless others, in which their system will
be found on investigation to correspond at every point with na
 ture and truth ; and if we are Satisfied that they are right «ven-
in this one instance, we shall not be eager to reject the remain
 der of their singular doctrines, without affording them at least
the advantage of an equitable, candid, and dispassionate examina
 tion.
    The preceding arguments       have been   by some thought incon
 clusive, because no proof has    been advanced, that during dreams
the brain is paTtly asleep and partly awake.         It is true this has
 not been directly attempted, for in the nature of things such an
enterprise could not prove very successful.       All that I considered
 requisite in the question, I trust I have accomplished, in showing
the inadequacy and imperfection of the several theories which
were most highly approved of, before the promulgation of Doctors
 Gall and Spurzheim's opinions ; and that these philosophers have
succeeded where their predecessors had failed, in explaining with
precision and clearness all that Was difficult or obscure in these
perplexing phenomena.         It was scarcely to be expected that I
                                   X 4                            should

    328             An Essay on Dreaming, including
    should introduce, by way of episode, into an
                                                      essay like this, the
    volume of facts and observations by which they have endeavoured
    to establish the plurality of organs.    It is enough if my reader is
    satisfied that this fact, or let us be contented to call it this
                                                                      sup
    position, in accounting for every circumstance, affords a sufficient
   foundation for a rational and satisfactory theory of dreaming.
       It has also been asserted that there are no grounds to suppose,
   that the assimilating process does not occur in the brain
                                                                    except
   during sleep. Neither, it may be replied, is there any evidence
   of the affirmative — so far both sides of the argument are equally
   balanced ; but it seems rather more probable that this
                                                                process is
   In operation, not only in the brain but in every part of the frame
   at intervals of inactivity and repose.       The athletic arm accus
   tomed to laborious exertion, becomes every day more muscular
   and powerful ; but if it were allowed no intermission from toil —
  nay, if it did not enjoy a due portion of quiet, does any one doubt
  but its vigour would diminish and its bulk waste
                                                          away ? It can
  not, therefore, be the labour that increases its size — its influence
  can only extend to render it more fit to receive the deposition of
  the nutritive particles ; and if that deposition be supposed to take
  effect on the cessation of exercise only, every circumstance in-
  eluded in these phenomena finds a distinct and
*                                                        easy solution.
      What exercise is to the limbs, thinking is to the brain ; and
  the latter, like the former, may be exerted to intensity, or relaxed
  to lassitude and listlessness.     As motion, whether slothful or vi
  gorous, so thought, whether feeble or powerful, seems an indis
  pensable cond'.tion of being awake ; it is caught from organ to
  organ, as t'jis or that association stirs up their energy : but al
  though .only one be active at a time, the unity of the man and
  the concord of his volitions, appear to require that every faculty
  he possesses should exert an attention subservient to that peculiar
  power of the mind which happens to domineer for the moment;
   this passive vigilance and active intellection would, therefore, take
   their turn till the majority of the organs, in a state of fatigue or
   exhaustion, forgo all employment, and receive, at rest, a renewal
   of their substance from the process of assimilation.
      But it may still be objected, that the nerves of organic life are
   always in action. — How therefore can they be renewed, if the
   process in question only takes place in an interval of rest?. This
   is indeed a formidable difficulty, though perhaps not an invinci-
  hle one, notwithstanding the obscurity of the subject.        Of all the
   organs of the human frame, the heart is the most incessant in
   its motions ; we may therefore confine our inquiries to the phe
   nomena it displays.      It has its systole and diastole, its contrac
   tion and expansion     —  during the former the nerves may be con
   sidered in a state of exertion, and iu the latter in a state of re
                                                                  laxation

               Conjectures on (he proximate Cause          of Sleep.         329
    taxation and rest ; neither lasts long ; the alteration is most ra
     pid : — yet if the designs of Providence require that assimilation
    should in general take place during an interval of rest, the pre
    sent instance affords no exception ; and we may as readily con
                                                                                 "
    ceive that the coronary vessels may repeatedly pour out the
    nervous secretion, at the moment the nerves remit their action,
    as that the condensing valve of the steam-engine should permit
    the escape of a due portion of water, at the requisite juncture.
    Thus the phenomena of organic life will present no anomaly in
    the arrangements of nature ; and the law which governs these
    circumstances, will be found not less general than any other of
    the laws established by the Creator.
        It has next been objected, that the effects of the process of
    assimilation on the brain and nervous system, cannot be consi
    dered as the cause of sleep, inasmuch as sleep is incident to plants
    and many animals which are altogether destitute of brain and
    nerves.    With respect to plants, the phenomenon is manifested
    by the drooping or folding together of their leaves or leaflets ; and
    this change is said to be occasioned by the withdrawing              of'
                                                                          t  fie
    stimulus of light, and        merely presumed to be
                                      is                    a  state of rest to
    their vital functions*.      But this circumstance, whatever may be
    its nature,   isnot     by
                            any means so general in the vegetable king
    dom, as sleep in the animal         and therefore its proximate cause
                                           ;
    cannot possibly be regarded as so indispensable an agent as the
    assimilating process, or whatever else       is the proximate cause vof
    the latter — but the vital functions of plants have so little resem
              :
    blance to the vital functions of animals, and are so utterly dissi
    milar to those superior functions which depend ona brain and
    nervous system, (which are exclusively concerned in the hypo
    thesis,) that no accurate analogy can well be instituted between
    them — much less between the conjectural rest of the one, and
    the unequivocal repose of the other — and the naturalist, who
                                               ;
    •would seriously attempt to establish the comparison, might as
    rationally pretend to ascribe both effects to one and the same
    cause, and decide that the sleep of animals, as well as plants,            is
    occasioned     by" the withdrawing of the stimulus of light."
        But with .jespect to those inferior creatures which are destitute
    of brain and nerves,         itmaintained
                                      is           by
                                                    physiologists, that the
'
    nervous substance         irregularly diffused through the entire of
                             is
    their structure     there
                        :         therefore no necessity to seek for
                                      is                                 a  pe
    culiar explanation of their sleep. Whatever be their mode of
    imbibing nourishment, they must necessarily be in              a  state of
    wakefulness while employed in the act          ; but after  they have di
    gested their food,      must, as in superior animals, be conveyed
                            it
    through their system, however little analogous the instruments of
               * See Rees's Cyclopcedia, article sleep of plants.
                                                                 transmission,

330             An Essay on Dreaming, including
transmission, and deposited, as in them, in every part of their
mass. This deposition taking place on the nervous substance in
termingled with their texture, may be accompanied with the same
result as when it affects more perfect systems ; the difference
between their sleeping and waking, it is true, is not so obvious,
as where a larger portion of intelligence is suspended by the pa
ralysing effects of the process ; and indeed the whole of their ex
istence seems little better than a perpetual sleep.
    A fourth objection insists, that if the process of assimilation be
supposed the cause of sleep in hibernating animals, all their su
perfluous store of fat, converted into nervous matter, and depo
sited in their head, would swell their brain to so unconscionable
a size, as to render the theory altogether incredible ; and also,
that the perspiration of those creatures sufficiently accounts for
their meagerness at the end of their retirement, without suppos
ing their previous obesity to be exhausted in the manner presumed
in the hypothesis.     In these objections, the action of the absor
bents has been entirely overlooked.       There is no reason to sup
pose that they discontinue their office ; and if not, it is natural
to think that they will scarcely suffer the brain to increase to any
very unusual dimensions.        And with regard to the phenomenon
of perspiration, it will hardly be maintained that the fat will exude
like oil through the pores of the skin, before it has been taken up
in the usual way by the absorbents, and conveyed by them into
the blood-vessels, and by their extremities deposited somewhere
within or without the body.       If within the body, the deposition
of nutritious particles, being general, must, as well as elsewhere,
take place upon the brain itself, in support of the litigated hy
pothesis ; where having performed their duty for a time, they
may be carried away as before, and detruded from the cuticular
pores in the form of perspiration, though so lately employed in
the ministry of the intellect,and perhaps not altogether inactively,
if these animals dream.
    The only remaining objection which has been advanced, notices
the Common occurrence of our dreaming on the subject which has
most occupied our thoughts during the day — and contends, that
if the peculiar organ has been exhausted by this exercise, it must
be in a condition favourable to its renewal by the process of assi
milation ; and this process, wherever it is active, precludes the
possibility of dreaming.       The truth of this reasoning must be
admitted ; without admitting, however, as a fact, that we dream
more frequently on the subjects which have occupied us during
the day, than on other subjects : but when this circumstance oc
casionally occurs, is it inconceivable that the organ should receive
a portion of refreshment during the night, and, from the very
urgency and importance of the thoughts which occupied it during

         Conjectures on the proximate Cause        of Sleep.        331
the day, return to them again in resistance and interruption of
the process in question?     Js it even' impossible that the subject
of reflection may have occupied it, without an interval, from the
moment of retiring to rest, even though all the other organs may
have sunk into repose ? May not this incessant activity continue,
for several days, to the detriment of the health ? may it not even
involve the entire brain, and, by preventing the accession of sleep,
terminate at last in mental derangement ?
    Thus, however weighty and formidable these objections ap
peared, instead of subverting, they all contribute their aid to sup
port the hypothesis.
    But is it in the contemplation of those who dissent from these
opinions to maintain that sleep is nothing more than repose after
fatigue — that there is no other difference between waking and
sleeping, than between labouring and abstaining frorn labour; and
 that there is no important vital process operating on the instru
ments of sensation, voluntary moti6n, and intelligence ? If they
allow that there is some such process, I should be glad they would
point it out ; and if it better accounts for these various pheno
mena than that of assimilation, I shall willingly relinquish my
hypothesis in favour of theirs.
    Will it be contended that the whole brain and nervous system
 may sleep during dreams?       Then why are not dreams the con
 stant attendants on sleep ? Why are not ill our visions accom
panied by night-mare ? and why is somnambulism so rare an oc
 currence ? Will  it, on the other hand, be averred that the whole
 of the brain may be awake while the residue of the man asleep is     ?
 Let this be admitted—but,    if  so,. why are not the nerves of the
 senses and voluntary motion, which bear so strong an analogy to
 the brain, in substance and office, equally wakeful   ?    Why are we
not always in communication with the external World; or,fn other
words, Why are we not always awake       ?   The process of assimila
tion relieves us from these difficulties, and shall We still be inclined
to reject it?    Perhaps, on these considerations, my hypothesis
may happen to find favour, and that of Gall and Spurzheim be
 discountenanced — perhaps
                  :            it will he asserted that the assimilat
 ing process may lock up in sleep those parts of the brain allotted
 to reflection, judgement, and will, but leave to the active enjoy
 ment of its inmates the local habitation of the imagination and
 fancy. Even this would be    a  more plausible conjecture, than the
 incongruous theory which insists that at the same moment the
 soul can be partially awake mid asleep but there
                                         ;            is as little foun
 dation, in nature, for the one as the other.     Gall sought with in
 defatigable perseverance and adequate sagacity, for some external
indication of the seats of those faculties, but none could be found;
yet his labour did not go unrewarded.        It  led him to-more for
                                                                  tunate

332                  An Essay     on   Dreaming, including
tunate observations ; and, by the same rational process of inquiry
which guided his illustrious contemporaries Herschel and Davy
to such brilliant and stable discoveries, he and his celebrated co
adjutor have established in the brain the probable — I will not
say, the certain, existence, until other philosophers have verified
their results, as other philosophers have verified those of Davy and
Herschel — they have established, I repeat, the probable existence
of upwards of thirty material organs of the mind, each of which
5s endowed with its own peculiar desire, memory, and imagina
tion.   Admitting, therefore, the mere hypothetical existence of
such organs, we try their verity by the indisputable test of some
well-known phenomena; for instance, the phenomena of dream
ing : and if it appears from incontrovertible reasons, that the va
rious circumstances attendant on our dreams are utterly inexpli
cable on any other principles current at present than those of the
organic theory, tnose principles have the strongest claims to be
regarded as true. These two kindred hypotheses of dreaming and
sleep afford each other a reciprocal support; and I shall be but
too much honoured, if the philosophic authors of the one do not
consider the other unworthy of such an alliance.
  I flattered myself that I had answered every argument by which
my essay could be assailed ; but I understand that another ob
jection   has been advanced against              it,
                                            which ought earlier or never
to have made its appearance — the charge of materialism.                  It   is
necessary to ascertain the meaning of this word, which has so
often, and for the most disingenuous purposes, been used without
any.       Ithas   threefold signification, and in two of its senses
                     a                                                     it
conveys    a  manifest  imputation of culpable absurdity or perverse-
ness, fatal to virtue and subversive of society.      In its third sense,
whether        be guilty or innocent,
                it                         am not called upon here to
                                            I
discuss    ;for in none of its meanings, and        shall .examine them
                                                       I
all,  is   imputable to my essay.
           it
    In its first and most reprehensible sense, materialism infers that              1
the universe created itself— that the creation        without a Creator
                                                           is
— that the mighty fabrick, evincing design in all that             minute
                                                                     is
as well as all that       magnificent, rose into being undesigned
                         is                                                    by
infinite intelligence, unbidden             by
                                         infinite power.        Itscarcely
                                                                     is
possible to conceive, that opinions such as these can find an asy
lum in any rational mind — even the last remnant of reason that
                                ;
sticks to maniac would intuitively reject them.
                a                                             wiil not be
                                                                It
said that my essay countenances this doctrine, when every line
of breathes with an effort to discover and display the hidden ar
  it
rangements of God, in what          to us the most curious of his works,
                                       is
 the mechanism of man         and in the noblest part of that mecha
                              ;
 nism, the instruments of the mind.
                                                                               In

           Conjectures on the proximate         Cause of Sleep.     333
   In its second sense, materialism implies the double proposition
that the human frame is^iintenanted by a soul, and that there is
no future state of rewards and punishments.            This opinion, as
pernicious   to society  as  the former,  is  not so much  as glanced at
in the essay.    But  if it be inferred, as  a necessary deduction from
the theory of Gall and Spurzheim (whose sentiments, so far as
they embrace distinct and numerous organs of the mind, it is mv
pride to avow, and my ambition to vindicate), the inference could
only be made by individuals who have not the good fortune to
be intimately acquainted with their principles.            The opinion
which these philosophers universally maintain is, that the brain is
the instrument by which the soul performs her intellectual ope
rations ; and I fancy that few will be hardy enough to maintain
that the soul, in this life, ever performs those operations without
one.    Is there a physiologist to be found who will assert the
fact, or a logician that will advance the argument, that the en-
cephalon is a useless appendage to the soul ; and that she could
exercise all her powers as commodiously and effectually in the
empty cavern of the skull ?         Even the best brain which Divine
Wisdom could bestow upon her would, in this view of things, be
an absurd and superfluous donation.
   The third and least obnoxious sense in which materialism may
be employed, is that which would consider man as a simple be
ing, whose intellectual powers depend on the peculiar organiza
tion in which God has invested them, and regards the resurrec
tion from death as the sole but sure foundation of a future state
of existence. This doctrine must be acknowledged by every theo
logian to derive the most unambiguous support from Scripture ; —
the physical evidence in its favour is strong and peculiar; — in mo-
ralseit stands upon the self-same rock whereon we build our hopes
of a life to come, come in what manner it may; and possibly it
may be slandered in its nature when nick -named materialism.
   This opinion 1 have examined at large in another treatise, which
has not yet been submitted to the public ; but it is unnecessary
here to anticipate the discussions it embraces, particularly as in
the essay now under consideration the question does not once oc
 cur ; and the argument, whether metaphysical or physiological,
is pursued with so little bias to or from this opinion, or any other
not necessarily involved in the subject, that the disciples of Locke
 and Berkeley, Priestley and Stewart, may arise from the perusal
in perfect amity and good will to the author, satisfied that he has
not meant to undermine a single principle, or offend a single pre
judice peculiar to any of their schools; unless, indeed, Berkeleyans
 will complain that the existence of the body, and Priestleyans,
that the existence of the soul, is assumed in the argument.
    It was, therefore, as unnecessary as unjust to brand mv essay
                                                                    with

334               An Essay          on    Dreaming, including
witn the stigma of materialism.          So many look to the name and
 so few to the meaning, that an appellation, supposed to indicate
 every thing that is contradictory of good sense, inimical to morals,
 and injurious to society, affixed without discrimination by persons
 who, in the opinion of the world, never act without exercising
 their judgement, is sufficient to blast the fortune and fame of the
 most deserving individual who happens to become the subject of
 their unwise precipitation. But it is not the individual only who
 suffers, but the whole body of which these persons are members.
 What man, capable of an original thought or a bold discovery,
will venture to submit his labours to their animadversion,                in
                                                                        if,
 proportion    to  their novelty, importance    and  interest, they  are  to
 be visited with disregard and opprobrium, in place of the honour
 they may have earned      ?
    Let me not, however, be understood as casting the slightest re
flection on my learned opponents.             am persuaded they acted
                                                     I
 with conscientiousness, and to the best of their judgement, but
from weak and illusory motives.           These learned individuals no
 doubt convinced themselves that            was their duty to oppose to
                                                it
the utmost, the tendency of opinions which their apprehensions
conjured into a dangerous heresy, and which they embodied to
 their imaginations under the frightful appellation of materialism.
 If they had lived in the days of Copernicus, and were to pass                a
judgement on his discoveries, with their good will, the rotation
 of the earth would never have found its way into day-light — rank
 heresy!    it contradicts the Book of Joshua stifle      !   in its birth
                                                                   it         !
 your duty to God requires the suppression of those truths which
 most honour him     !
    No, they reply, these are not truths — for truths must be known
by their utility, and utility       not an attribute of heresy and ma
                                     is
 terialism.     Such is  their argument; but,          a dexterous use of
                                                              by
 these terms, there   is  not   atruth     physics or morals that might
                                                in
 not be easily transmuted into falsehood and crime.           unreservedly
                                                          "
                                                                   I
 subscribe to the dictum of Warburton, that          we may as certainly
 conclude that general utility         always founded on truth, as that
                                          is
 truth is  always productive    of general utility*." But short-sighted
 and ignorant as we are,       is  for us to pervade the vast and com
                                    it
 plicated system of Providence, and decide with formal precision
 what  is  to be infallibly useful or pernicious in the administration
 of the universe? Our business           to discover truth wherever we
                                           is
 may    have  skill enough   to find       it,
                                         and leave     to God to confirm
                                                              it
 its utility. ef In matters (says Hooker) which concern the actions of
 God, the most dutiful way on our part,         to search what God hath
                                                     is
 done and, with meekness, to admire that, rather than to dispute
      ;
             * Warburton's works, 3d vol. p. 225. London, 1811.         *
                                                                         what

            Conjectures on the proximate Cause      of Sleep.      335
wb.at he,  in congruity of reason, ought to do*;" in other words,
what we, in our wisdom, shall prescribe to the wisdom of God.
    If there is a circumstance upon earth of value in the eyes of
Omnipotence, it is the search after truth.        Every fresh instance
discovered of his ineffable arrangements cannot fail to add a new
 measure to his glory.      If the praises of men are acceptable to
 him, to unfold the resplendent truths that kindle those praises
 must be also acceptable.      Yet the presumption of pedantry, the
ignorance of learning, will officiously thrust themselves forward,
 and, in hopes of finding favour with God, trample under their
audacious feet whatever can do honour to his name.
    I have not the miserable arrogance to suppose that the truths
 I have endeavoured to bring to light are truths such as these ;
yet the affectation of humility would just be as miserable if I
pretended that I did not consider them of some little value.         If
 I was not satisfied in my conscience that they might fairly claim
some small portion of attention, they should never have trespassed
 on moments too precious to be lavished on vanities and trifles.
 But I trust I shall not be considered singularly over-zealous in
 the performance of a duty so important as the vindication of
 truths neither trivial nor common ; and if it was my duty, it was
 not less my inclination — I might almost say my passion. — rWere
 I at liberty to change my heraldry and choose anew, this should
 be my motto — " Whither Truth leads, thither I follow."
    Postscript. — I    have  lately read an ingenious discussion On
 the proximate Cause of Sleep, in an Essay by Dr. Park, published
in the Quarterly Journal of Literature, Science, and the Arts, for
July 1819; and I should perhaps have set a more adequate value
on his theory, if I had not been already provided with one which,
to my own partial judgement, appears somewhat more satisfac-.
tory. He designates sleep, as I do, a paralysis ; but he describes
it as resulting from a full and slow circulation of blood in the
brain. But I am persuaded Dr. Park will admit that, if this slow
and full circulation operates by pressure on the brain, pain, or
apoplexy, and not sleep, would be the necessary result.            The
facts, however, which suggested his theory harmonize perfectly
with mine; and the full and slow circulation which he establishes,
is the very state of the blood in which a deposit of new particles of
matter on the brain would be most abundant.           The assimilating
process, thus in a state of activity, would, according to the fore
going considerations, occasion a paralysis — but a paralysis not
bearing any relation to apoplexy, yet sufficiently manifested in
the gentler symptoms of sleep.
   * Hooker, 1st vol.    429. Oxford, 1807, quoted by Warburton, 3d vol.
                      p.
p. 33a
                                                             LVII.  On

                               [   336       ]
LVII.   On Hypotheses proposed for explaining the Origin of
   Meteoric Stones ; with Remarks on Mr. Murray's Letter
   on Aerolites inserted in Phil. Mag. for last July. By Mr.
   H. Atkinson.
                          To   Mr.       Tilloch.
Sir, — Among        the various natural phenomena recorded in the
pages of your interesting Magazine, few, perhaps none, have ex
cited a greater degree of surprise in the beholders, or raised the
curiosity of philosophers to a higher pitch, than that of stones
 having been observed to fall, apparently, from the clouds.          A
 phenomenon so strange, and in appearance so completely at va
 riance with all the known laws of nature, could not fail, on being
 sufficiently attested, most forcibly to arrest the attention of in
 quiring minds. Long indeed did philosophers deem it to be a
 mere popular error. At last, however, such a mass of evidence was
 accumulated, as commanded the attention of the most prejudiced,
 and overcame the doubts of the most sceptical. And that stones
 have really fallen to the earth, apparently from the heavens, how
 ever unaccountable it may still appear, is now ranked among es
 tablished facts.    Where they come from, or to what they owe
 their origin, are questions that have not yet been satisfactorily-
 answered, but which have given rise to much discussion ; and, as
might be expected in the absence of all direct evidence, various
hypotheses have been brought forward to account for so singular
a phenomenon. This indirect method of prying into the secrets of
 Nature by means of an assumed hypothesis, is so very convenient
to the majority of mankind, who in general are not very anxious
about the correctness of their conclusions, that we cannot won
der at their adopting it.     The facility with which it can be ap
plied suits the indolent ; — the scope it gives to the imagination-
pleases the fanciful ;
                       — and the opportunities it so liberally affords
of attracting public attention, render it a favourite with the vain
pretender to a scientific name : but the danger of its leading to
error, is a serious objection in the estimation of the inquirer whose
aim is truth.     Frequently, however, it is the only mode which
can be adopted with any prospect of success; and under proper re
gulations, the risk of its leading to erroneous conclusions may,
in many cases, be greatly lessened, if not wholly avoided; so that,
in the hands of the judicious philosopher, this indirect method of
conducting his inquiries becomes a valuable instrument; a key,-
that opens to him many of the secret recesses of nature, which,
without its aid, must have remained shut up in impenetrable
darkness.
    When we thus contrast the great advantages that may be ob
tained by a legitimate use of      it,
                                     with the gross abuses to which
                                                                   the

                On the Origin          of Meteoric    Stones.              337
 the method is liable, it appears surprising that no one should ever
 have distinctly stated the maxims or rules to be observed in its
 application to the explanation of natural phenomena.      Had this
 been done, and the rules proper to be observed been generally
 acknowledged, by restraining the wilder flights of the imagination
 of the visionary, and by repressing the. impertinent intrusions of
 the vain or the ignorant upon public attention, it would probably
 have greatly lessened the number of those chimerical or absurd
 hypotheses, which have such a tendency to bring disgrace upon a
 useful instrument of investigation, and which are a grievous tax
 upon the time and patience of the1 reader.
     The more immediate cause of these observations is the vague
 and inconclusive mode of reasoning adopted by many, when at
tempting to discover the origin and to account for the pheno
 mena attending the fall of meteoric stones; and in this respect,
 few, if-any, of their predecessors have exceeded some of your late
 correspondents on this subject. Curious as it undoubtedly        andis,
 therefore interesting as  the  subject must be to many,     does not
                                                                it
 however appear to be    a  matter of any very great importance to
 mankind in general, whether these bodies are supposed to be oc
 casional visitants from celestial regions, or are imagined to be
 " children of the air," or whether, we ascribe* to them still more
                                                                a
 humble hirth, and acknowledge them to be of terrestrial origin             ;
 hut it   isalways of great consequence to society to preserve any
 useful mode of investigation from such gross abuses as would bring
it  into disrepute, and the frequent repetition of which must have
 a strong tendency to introduce       vague and sophistical manner
                                       a
 of reasoning. It   is on this account that   am induced to offer
                                                I                           a
few remarks on a letter from Mr.         Murray, on Aerolites, pub
                                           J.
lished in the Phil. Mag. for July last, in which that gentleman
tells us, that he " read with some degree of astonishment Mr.
Brande's opinion on the origin of meteoric stones," because he
"  believed their supposed lunar origin had been generally aban
doned, and that the opinion which confined them to our atmo
sphere had ceased to be problematical."         Now from this, one
would naturally expect that Mr. Murray had some mode of ac
counting for the formation of meteoric stones, which was, at least,
plausible; — how far this    isthe case shall take the liberty of in
                                           I
quiring.
     His first assumptionis,   that hydrogen and oxygen gases are
capable of dissolving or combining with all the ten different sub
stances which are occasionally found in meteoric stones. And
the reasoning, if    suchit   may be called,     which he supports
                                                     by
this assumption, is  as follows: " Hydrogen dissolves iron and sul
phur.     It  may perhaps be capable of dissolving other two, viz.
silica and nickel, although        has never vet been found to have
                                  it
    Vol.54.No.259. iVw. 1S19.                   Y              such

338               On Hypotheses proposed
                                                    for   explaining
 such a power." And he then very
                                           sagely concludes, that we have
tio right to limit its solvent powers. With respect to the remain
 ing substances, he disposes of them in a very laconic manner;
 thus, " As for oxygen, &c." says he, " for any thing I know, they
 may have .very exalted solvent powers." And for any thing I
 know, Mr. Murray may possibly, nay probably does, believe this
 to be quite sufficient to establish his assumption on so firm a basis
 that it shall cease " to be problematical ;" for he advances no
 thing further in its support. Such proof, however, does not ap
pear to require any comment.
     His next assumption        is,that there are two immense aerial vo
 lumes, loaded with the requisite materials, floating either in or on
 the atmosphere         one he supposes to be oxygen, and the other
                          he says, " would be differently electrified
                   :
 hydrogen.      These,                                                  for;
  oxygen   with  its  contained    materials,  and  hydrogen  with  its ac
  companiments, would certainly be so :" but how he arrives at this
 certainty he does not deign to tell us. Can Mr. Murray have dis
  covered the secret of determining what effects two bodies will
  have upon each other, without knowing the properties of either               ?
 for unless he can do so,       it     not very easy to conceive how he
                                      is
  could arrive    at   this  certainty    as neither he nor any one else
  knows any thing about the properties either of the " oxygen with
                                           ;
  its contained materials," or yet of the " hydrogen with its ac
  companiments." We do indeed know some of the properties of
  oxygen and hydrogen gas            but we have every reason to believe
  that the " contained materials" of the one, and the " accompani
                                 ;
  ments" of the other, which Mr. Murray alludes to, would change
  these properties  ;     and what that change would be, we have no
  means of determining; nay, we do not even-know that they would
  continue in a   gaseous state. Neither does he inform us how these
  two immense aerial volumes are collected.           He does indeed say
  that"   hydrogen variously       combined     continually escaping from
                                                is
  all parts of the surface of the globe :" and again,           "
                                                             the combined
  hydrogen might in virtue of its great levity, and expanding as               it
  ascended, finally brave the outer circle of the atmosphere and set
  tle upon its waves." But here we may be allowed to inquire how
  Mr. Murray knows that hydrogen thus combined                of such ex
                                                                is
  treme levity: — does he draw this conclusion from its combination
  with sulphur ?     Waiving this objection at present, let us suppose
  that the hydrogen and all its accompaniments are mounted as he
  imagines     still, however, we are far from being done, our task            is
                           for we have yet to obtain the " oxygen with
          ;
  not half finished ;
  its contained materials," to collect         into one immense volume,
                                               it
  and to transport     it to the outer circle of the atmosphere, there to
  settle upon its waves     :   or else we must drag down the          "
                                                                    hydro
  gen with its accompaniments" from its lofty throne, and obtain
                                                                       separate

                    the   Origin       of Meteoric   Stones.              339
separate lodgings for them in the atmosphere.             But by what
vagary   of the imagination  these  things  can  be  supposed to be ac
complished Mr. M. has not      told  us; he has not given us so much
as a single hint how to proceed, but has left us entirely to our
own resources ; and, considering the creative powers of this gen
tleman's fertile imagination, and the difficulty of the undertaking
which he has imposed upon us, it does not appear verv handsome
thus to leave us in total darkness.
    However, lest it should be imagined that we object to trifles,
let us suppose that all these difficulties are overcome; yet even in
this case our labours are far from being ended ; for after we have
got the two gaseous solvents collected, and mounted far beyond
the clouds, or accommodated with separate chambers in the air,
we have stilt an arduous task left; they must be kept from mixing
with the atmosphere, till some favourable circumstances bring
them into contact.      But how this is to be done is not so easily
perceived : for it is well known that all kinds of gases, yet dis
covered, diffuse themselves through atmospherical air whenever
they come in contact with       even when kept perfectly still; — how
                               it,
much more quickly then must they be mkced in an agitated at
mosphere   !   And as the quantity of either oxygen or hydrogen
which has ever been known to issue from the earth,                  is
                                                                 so very
trifling when compared with the surrounding atmosphere, they
must, in every case, be completely diffused in          nay, even in the
                                                         it
                                                          :
extreme case of a volcano sending forth          quantity of hydrogen
                                                     a
gas,  it would ina   few days be so diffused, that         very doubtful
                                                          it   is
whether    it would amount to such       quantity
                                            a       at any one place as
to be appreciable    bythe most accurate methods yet known. This
is  a circumstance which Mr. Murray ought to have been very
careful in guarding against, as an oversight here must prove fatal
to his hypothesis: for the gases get mixed with the atmosphere,
                          if
the mixture would be far too weak to be capable of ignition, even
if we suppose the different states of electricity still to remain, and
the electric explosion to take place.
    As Mr. Murray says that in hypothetical cases " we are at              li
berty to suppose what we will," shall avail myself of this liberty,
                                        I
 by  supposing, however improbable or absurd the supposition may
be, that all the foregoing objections and difficulties are not worth
noticing, and that his hypothesis        still admissible and entitled
                                            is
to our serious consideration      yet even this gigantic effort in its
                                   :
favour will avail but little for the consequences which he asserts
                               :
would follow, could not possibly flow from his premises. He says,
"   The two electricities rushing into contact would produce ex
 plosion-; the gases would be ignited, the stony materials -undergo
 fusion, — and in that moment the formed aerolite would take its
                                       Y  2                              flight

 340            On Hypotheses proposed for explaining    -
  flight to the earth." Now, according to his own statement, the
  gases  could never be ignited : for if the hydrogen and oxygen
 gases were in separate volumes, the passage of the electric spark
 from one to the other could inflame neither, each being incapable
 of ignition when alone; and if they were either mixed or in con
 tact, no electric spark could be exhibited, as the electric fluid
 would then pass silently from one to the other, and consequently
 there could be nothing to inflame the mixture ; so that this alone
 would be sufficient to overturn the hypothesis.
      But let us again have recourse to our liberty of making what
 suppositions we please, and suppose that the gases would really
 be ignited : does it from thence necessarily follow that the stony
 materials must undergo fusion? or, if they do, that they must
 therefore be aggregated into one solid mass? These are certainly
 far from being self-evident consequences; so -far, indeed, that
 they appear altogether improbable : for instance, if sulphuretted
 hydrogen and oxygen gases be brought into contact and inflamed,
 so long as the quantity of the latter is either considerably less
 than that of the former, or supplied slowly, a great portion of
 the sulphur will be deposited, unchanged, in the form pf a fine
 diffused powder. And if such an inflammable body as sulphur be
 not ignited, how very improbable it is, that such stubborn ma
 terials as iron, alumine, and silica should undergo fusion ! Should
 it, however, be alleged that the sulphur is actually fused in this
 experiment, but, on account of the greater affinity of.hydrogen
 for oxygen, it could not become ignited for want of the latter; it
 must then undoubtedly follow, that fusion does not necessarily
 lead to the aggregation of the different parts even of the same
 substance, much less then of heterogeneous materials.        Hence
 it is very improbable that the stony or metallic parts would un
 dergo fusion; and even if they did, it would be altogether in
 adequate to account for the aggregation of such different mate
 rials into one mass : for we know that all chemical depositions
from the explosion of gases are in the form of fine powders.
     One circumstance attending the fall of meteoric stones seems
to have been overlooked not only by Mr. M. but by almost every
one who contends for their atmospherical origin ; and yet it is a
difficulty of no common magnitude ; — indeed the obliquity with
which they fall seems altogether unaccountable on any known
principles, if they be generated in the atmosphere.     The electric
fluid has by some been supposed to be the moving power in this
case ; but it appears to be incapable of communicating such a ve
locity. In the most tremendous thunder-storms it never removes
any thing from its place more than a few yards ; it therefore can
not be this power which communicates their horizontal velocity to
                                                            meteoric

                        the Origin  of Meteoric  Stones.             341
  meteoric stones after they are formed in the atmosphere. Neithe
   are we acquainted with any power which could give such a hori
   zontal velocity to the different materials while in their diffused
   state, or while held in solution by some gaseous fluid.       Electric
   attraction might indeed give a slow motion to them ; but it is
   quite incapable of giving such a velocity as to account for the
   phenomenon in question; it may perhaps, in very favourable cir
  cumstances, be able to produce a horizontal velocity of about thirty
  or forty feet per second ; but this is very far short of what meteoric
   stones must have at the moment they are formed. The only power
   in nature, with which we are at present acquainted, besides elec
   tricity, that app'ears to be able to give any considerable horizontal
   velocity to a solid mass formed in the atmosphere, is the expan
   sive force of inflammable gases when exploded. We know that the
   rapidity with which several mixtures of this kind expand at the
   moment of explosion is very great ; some of them probably at the
   rate of several thousand feet per second. Let us therefore inquire
   whether this can be the source of the horizontal motion of me
   teoric stones.
       It is well known that some of these stones have fallen so ob
   liquely, and with such force, that their horizontal velocity could
  liot be less than 200 feet per second, when they struck the ground.
   But it is evident that the original horizontal velocity of any me
   teoric stone must be very much reduced by the resistance of the
   air before it reaches the earth : thus, for example, if we suppose
   a stone to be spherical, to weigh lOOlbs. and to have been formed
   at the height of four miles ; it will be found by calculation that
   it would require to be projected with a velocity of considerably
   more than 2000 feet per second, that its horizontal velocity when
   it reached the ground might be 200 feet per second. Again: air
   at the height of four miles is about 1870 times lighter than water,
   and the stone being 3£ times heavier, it follows that the stone
-
   must be above 6500 times the weight of an equal bulk of air at
   that elevation.     Now every meteoric stone must be formed very
   near to that point which is acted on equally in all directions, by the
   expansive force produced by the explosion : and when we consi
   der that the horizontal velocity can only arise from the excess of
    the force applied on one side over that which is applied on the
   others, how enormously great indeed must the rapidity be, with
   which this elastic gas or vapour expands, itself, if only a small por
   tion of its force can communciate a velocity of more than 2000
   feet per second, to a body 6500 times as dense as itself, and that
   too in a situation completely unconfined ! It will not be sufficient
   that it expand itself with a velocity of 7 or 8000 feet per second;
    no, pot even fifty times 7000 would be enough.          Hence it ap-
                                      Y 3                          pears,

342                 On   the   Origin     of Meteoric    Stones.
pears, that any hypothesis which ascribes an atmospherical origin
to meteoric stones, necessarily implies, that the horizontal velo
city is either communicated to them by something of which we
cannot at present form even a conception ; or else, that there ex
ists in the atmosphere a projectile power of enormous, nay of
almost inconceivable force ; so great, indeed, that the power re
quired in the lunar hypothesis is a mere trifle to it : and yet Mr.
Murray describes the latter as being
                                           " of the most extraordinary
description," and one      "  not merely of enormous, but of almost
inconceivable impetus ;" while he seems to think " that the opi
nion which confines them to our atmosphere," although it really
requires a projectile power at least fifty times as great, is attended
with so little difficulty that he believes it has " ceased to be pro
 blematical!''' and seems quite astonished that Mr. Brande should
be of opinion that the lunar hypothesis "               is,
                                                  when impartially con-*
sidered," — what? not at all problematical? no; merely this, that
it  is—" neither absurd nor impossible."
    This letter has already extended to a much greater length than
I  intended yet cannot close
           ;        I                 without observing, that the rea
                                          it
soning which       Mr. M.   has employed in opposition to the lunar
hypothesis,    is almost as strange as that which he has used                      in
support of the atmospherical theory; but at present             have not I
time for  a  full examination of        the essence of
                                           it  :          may however
                                                                   it
 be given in  a  few words; and the bare exhibition of       as    really
                                                                        it   it
is, when stripped of its gaudy trappings, will probably be suffi
cient to show its absurdity.
     He thinks  it unphilosophical merely to suppose       thing to be,
                                                                    a
which most philosophers believe really to exist; viz. lunar vol-
canos.
    Because terrestrial volcanos have not power sufficient to pro
ject  a body with the enormous velocity of more than 100,000 feet
 per second, he thinks       unreasonable to suppose that lunar vol
                               it
 canos may be able to propel      body with a velocity of about 7000
feet per second, although this          is a
                                   little any thing more than what
                                                   if                              a
sufficient quantity of our gunpowder would produce at the moon.
And lastly, because he chooses to ascribe consequences to the
 lunar hypothesis, which do not belong to                 it,
                                                    we must therefore
 abandon it.   I    am, sir,
                           Your most obedient servant,
Newcastle-upon-Tyne,      Oct. 16, 1819.                           H. Atkinson.
                                                                         LVIII.   Re-

                                 [  343    3
 LVI1I. Reply to Mr. Edward Riddle's Remarks on Mr.
     Meikxe's Paper " On finding the Longitude by Lunar Ob
    servations." By Mr. Meikle.
                             To  Mr.  Tilloch.
 Sir, —    In  your last Number, Mr. Riddle complains grievously
 of  a paper of mine containing miscellaneous remarks on the lunar
observations, which you were kind enough to insert in your Num
ber for July.    He with no small labour pretends to give an entire
 refutation of it; but in no instance has he succeeded in treading
 down any material point, by his very unfair and disingenuous ex
 amination of the whole.
     One thing in particular which seems to have alarmed his jea
 lousy, is the apparent levity of the style in which I delivered my
 self : but every person is not blessed with a style possessing all
 the gravity and worth of Mr. Riddle's. Another defect is my
 want of candour and moderation; but apparent candour and mo
 deration are often veils to loathsome flattery, while truth and ho
 nesty are wanting. And it even sometimes happens in our golden
 age, that persons are loud in their praises of" candour and mode
 ration," when they are about to commit an outrage against both.
     I have of late, it is true, given my opinion on various subjects
 in the public journals, without attending to Mr. Riddle's precau
 tion of presenting a peace-offering at the commencement. No, I
 deem it more honest and honourable, nay, even more respectful,
just to make known my real intention at once without dissimula
 tion. I rejoice at all times to see errors, even mine own, corrected;
 nay, in that very paper itself, so unjustly censured, I have readily
 acknowledged my liability to err, but have not- yet found that it
 contains any thing amiss.
     Mr. R. further observes, " that a perusal of that letter will
 show those unacquainted with the subject, the spirit in which it
 is written."    Now this is just the thing.       It is only such as are
 unacquainted    with  the subject  who  will take  offence. Others have
 no reason to be alarmed    —  they are not accused.      Imentioned no
 names, but left the guilty to apply it to themselves.
     But that the reader may see that I am not alone, nor yet the
 first, to make free remarks on writers of navigation as well as on
 the deplorable state of mathematical knowledge in general; I beg
 leave to refer him to Dr. Mackay's preface to his " Navigation,"
 where many of these worthies are made black enough. — See also
 Dr.Gregory's preface to his " Mechanics." In short, there are few
 scientific authors who do not make similar complaints; and gene
 rally they will be found to make use of much severer censure than
 I have ever done. It is the sad reproach of our nation, as well as
 of neighbouring states, that my animadversions are too true. The
                                    Y 4                            order

344        Reply         to   Mr. Riddle's   Remarks on   Mr.   Meikle's Paper
  order of the day is not science, but gambling and infidelity, twin-
  sisters of ignorance, with all their kindred consequences.
      I readily grant that we have some sterling writers on Naviga
  tion; but it is also too well known that sorry pretenders, totally
  unacquainted with the elements of science, take upon them to
  compile books of navigation.     Nay, it has been the dismal lot of
 respectable works to fall into the hands of proficients in igno
 rance, who have republished them " revised and corrected" in a
 form every way worthy of themselves. One thing which made me
 more severe on such authors was, that they are so much in the
 habit of giving distant approximations without the least intima
 tion that they are not theoretically correct. , Indeed, so very ge
 nerally is this the case, that I have often met with persons who,
 like Mr. Riddle, would hoot and sneer at my ignorance, if I only
 hinted such a thing. This therefore makes me less ceremonious
in delivering my sentiments.
     At present I do not intend to follow Mr. R. through all tlie
 shifts and stratagems to which he has been forced, in order to
put down truths which rest securely on their own bases ; but shall
merely point out some of the most glaring, reserving the rest till
another opportunity.
     After giving an example of correcting the moon's altitude, on
page 244, Mr. R. gravely consoles himself, saying, " This I hope
will be satisfactory." Now, I say it is most unsatisfactory, as well
as unfair and unjust : for I did not deny that with plenty of need
less labour, which Mr. R. has kindly concealed, the altitude of
the centre might be had true in that way.        But the peculiar su
periority and unrivalled excellence of my method (as he calls                    it)
is, that       bythe true altitude may be had correct with the least
                    it
possible labour, two corrections being thereby entirely avoided.
It   is on this account that the latter method      always employed
                                                            is
in reducing the moon's place, for the construction as well as for
the correction of the lunar tables. But for all this, and " though
sanctioned           by
                  the authority of such names as Maskelyne, Pond,
and Brinkley;" yet persons like Mr. Riddle, who are faithfully
wedded to their old established habits, cannot be induced to
adopt it.
  To the scentific reader, my remarks on the quadrant must
appear perfectly reasonable and correct. Mr. R. has not been
able to show the contrary, when he has favoured us with the ex
planation which      to be found every where. Indeed, so scanty
                              is                                                 is
the mathematical knowledge of most persons into whose hands
quadrants are put, that we can never be too simple in our expla
nation    and
          ;       must be admitted on all hands, the most simple
                     it
explanation       always the most scientific.
                     is                        Was Mr. R. afraid
that      by
         simplifying the explanation, persons might make them
                                                            selves

       " On finding        the Longitude by         Lunar Observations."      345
  selves masters of the whole mystery, so that by and by there would
  be no use in going to school, and neglect to attend school ?
      Dr. Hooke's quadrant with one reflector was quite correct in
  theory, and had precisely the same property of halving the angle.
  Indeed we would not necessarily in theory alter that property, by
  increasing the number of fixed reflectors; for this very good rea
  son, that it has no dependence upon them at all.
      Mr. R. afterwards accuses me of ignorance of the true defini
  tion of parallax, and out of his great goodness and compassion
  informs me what it is.      But in order to show which of us has the
  most correct idea of      it,beg leave to adduce Professor Playfair's
                               I
  definition, as certainly of higher authority than any pedantic de
 finition invented for particular purpose.
                           a                           as follows: " The
                                                          It   is
 parallax of any object in the heavens         the difference of its an
                                                     is
 gular position as    itwould be seen from the centre of the earth,
 and as it   isseen from    apoint on the surface." (Nat. Philosophy,
 vol. ii. art. 74.) We are therefore at liberty to take any point of
 a heavenly body for our object of observation           as for instance,
                                                                ;
a    point in the boundary of the lunar disk, as have done. Your
                                                           I
 readers will readily see that Professor Playfair understood parallax
 precisely in the same "unusual sense" as          do; since he makes
                                                          I
 no mention of the centre of a heavenly body having more to do
 with parallax than any other point. Tndeed the very circumstance
 of the impracticability of applying an instrument to the centre,
 puts that out of the question        ;and besides, our most eminent
 practical astronomers always apply the correction for parallax to
 the limb, and not the centre.        Of this certainly stand fully as
                                                     I
 much in the way of being correctly informed as Mr. Riddle can;
 had he thought of that in time, he certainly would never have
 coined his counterfeit definition, the currency of which cannot go
 beyond the walls of his own school.
  I    formerly stated that the difference of the parallaxes for any
 two diametrically opposite limbs constitutes the augmentation of
 the diameter     ;and by any two such limbs or extremities of a
 diameter, I    am still disposed to abide*.     In order to refute that
 statement, Mr. R. with great ingenuity has done for me what                   I
 could not ;   he has invented the learned absurdity of         case witha
                      E,
four    limbs  D,     F  and      G
                                 (page  248); and   then  shows   his very
 superior skill in refuting his own favourite delusion.          Does he
 suppose I    shall remain silent whilst he would father his own
   * In order to show the truth of this,  it  only necessary to consider, that
                                               is
by applying the correction for parallax to each extremity of the diamgter, we
bring that diameter into its proper place, and of course reduce      to its pro
                                                                         it
per length.    But since the change of length      manifestly the difference of
                                                     is
the parallaxes reckoned in the direction of that diameter,      follows neces
                                                                    it
sarily that the difference of the parallaxes   the augmentation of their dia
                                                is
meter,                                                                     four

346        On fading            the   Longitude      ly Lunar       Observations.
four-footed progeny on me ? If it be true of two limbs, it is no
concern of mine though it were false of fifty.
   Indeed the only shadow of objection that can be brought against
my statement         is,
                     that the bounding circle of the lunar disk                           is
rather nearer the observer than the moon's centre is. But such
an objection, which he was not likely ever to think of, would be
perfectly ridiculous.    We might next talk of the effect of lunar                a
volcano.    Laying then that frivolous objection out of the way,                          I
am fully warranted to repeat, that the difference of the parallaxes
of any two diametrically opposite points           the augmentation of
                                                               is
that diameter.      say, that diameter itself; because the augmen
                     I
tation is not the same for every diameter.         For must take the     I
liberty of informing one who arrogates to himself so much supe
riority over me, that although, as said before, the apparent disk
                                                 I
of the moon      not rendered elliptical
                is                             parallax  by
                                                          yet when every ;
bounding point    of  that  disk  has been   corrected  for parallax, the
resulting figure      an ellipsis whose transverse axis
                     is                                       parallel to    is
the horizon.     This will be clear to every unprejudiced person,
when he considers that the bounding circle of the apparent disk
as seen from the earth's surface,         an ellipsis when viewed ob
                                                  is
liquely from  the earth's  centre    and    :  with this one circle that
                                                     it   is
we have to do.
   The correction called the augmentation             therefore greatest
                                                                    is
in vertical direction, that even existing at the horizon in cer
  a                                                                                 a
tain sense  ; and on this principle, perhaps, might the augmenta
tion be computed, more free from theoretical objection than any
other equally simple. Mr. R.          not likely to relish this doctrine.
                                            is
He will certainly dismiss        with  itsneer of sovereign contempt,
                                                 a
as he kindly did the " angular point of the triangle          because he     ;"
could not offer one mouthful of rational argument against it.
   He would be thought, no doubt, to construct the figure on
page 248, as    ifhe had viewed the moon from the earth's centre.
But will any one who looks at that most absurd diagram, believe
that Mr. Riddle was any lower than the bottom of               Newcastle      a
coal-mine, where he would be infinitely less in danger of              fall           a
than  if hovering in the air
                                " over London-bridge "?
   With regard to Dr. Mackay, and some others, not having no
ticed the first-mentioned defect of the correction of latitude, we
have no evidence to the contrary. But in order to show that even
Mackay himself, whom            nevertheless highly esteem, was liable
                                      I
to similar mistakes, (and who         not?) is   beg to refer the reader
                                                           I
to page 353, vol.       of his Treatise on the Longitude, where he
                           i.
will find a very erroneous rule for         correction of the azimuth,
                                                     a
arising from the change of declination during the time elapsed
between observed equal altitudes. The very same thing, illustrated
by an example, occurs in his Navigation.           Others perhaps have
                                                                   copied

            A   Description    of a new   Mililary Bridge.              347
copied it into their works in its original inaccurate state.              It
should be — To log. secant latitude, add log. cosecant hor. angle
and log. change of declination ; the sum will be be the log. of
correction of azimuth, &c.
   I may perhaps give the investigation afterwards. We can
never be too much on our guard against error.
                               I am, sir,
                                    Your most obedient servant,
Berners-street, Nov. 2, 1819.                          HeNRY MeiKLE.
   P. S. — Mr. Tredgold has by no means refuted my objections;
but I cannot now attend to his case.
LIX. A       Description    of a vew Military Bridge, that may le
   made    of  short Pieces    of Timber, and easily put together in
   any  Situation.      The  same   Method is applicable to other Uses.
   By A Correspondent.
                              To  Mr.  Tilloch.
          I
Sir, -— have called the combination of timbers now to be
described a military bridge, not because it is peculiarly adapted
to that purpose, and that purpose only, for it is equally applica
ble to any other portable bridge, or other erection of a temporary
nature, but because as a military bridge it would be most useful;
and whoever ponsiders the difficulty which the passage of a river
or canal sometimes offers to an army, will allow me, without cen
sure, to offer a hint that may be of use on such an occasion.
   There are some who will object to the introduction of such a
subject at the present time : to these it will only be necessary to
state, that the education of- engineers must not be neglected, even
in peaceful times, unless indeed we should intend to become an
easy prey to some other nation, or to call in the assistance of a
more warlike race. Britain, I hope, will never be reduced to such
a state, through the neglect of cultivating those sciences and habits
which constitute the strength of nations.
   Lately, the construction of militarv bridges has been very ably
treated in an Essav by Col. Sir H. Douglas, who has in that work
described a simple combination of much merit, which may be
extended to a 26 feet span *. In order to span either a 50 feet
opening, or any smaller one, I offer the following method.
  Let two or more frames be put together, as is shown by the sketch
in 348. When these frames are placed across a river, or other
opening,, with cross-bearers notched upon them, and planks for
          * Essay  on the Construction  of Military Bridges, p. 164.
                                                                     a road

348          A Description   of a new  Military Bridge,
a road-way laid upon the cross-bearers, the assemblage would
constitute a bridge sufficiently strong for many temporary pur
poses.
    Let us suppose the span to be 50 feet, then the longest piece
of timber required would be about 1 8 feet, or a little more than
 l-3d of the opening, and the sketch shows the method of dis
posing the pieces.
    For a 50 feet span, the end pieces a a, a' a' ought to be about
 9 inches deep and 6 inches in breadth, and 18 feet long.          The
other pieces of the same length, but only 6 inches square.
    C is a projected sketch of one of the iron straps
at 1,1,1,1,1, in the preceding sketch. When these
straps are put to their proper situations, they are
tightened by a screw-wrench applied to the screw c.
    In fig. AB, the letters d,d,d,d,d,d, show where
pieces of hard wood should be let into the joints to
prevent any sliding of the parts when the bridge is
loaded.
    A bridge consisting of two frames, such as A B,
over a river 50 feet wide, would bear the weight of
infantry marching under a front of two men, files
close ; four frames a front of four men ; and so on.
    If-Riga or Memel timber be used, the heaviest pieces will not
weigh more than about 140 lbs. each ; so that two men may carry
one of them with ease ; and from the nature of the fastenings
proposed, a frame may be put together or taken asunder with the
utmost facility, without injury to the materials.
    In cases where the proper materials have not been provided,
ropes might be employed instead of straps of iron ; these ropes
might be drawn perfectly tight by means of short staves for twist
ing them ; and such timber might be employed as the place af
forded.
    With the assistance of floats, and the force of the current in a
river, it would be easy to get the frames to their intended situa
tion ; but with expedients necessary for accomplishing this ob
ject, military men are in general likely to be familiar : — if not, the
 excellent work of Sir H. Douglas will supply the necessary in
                                                           formation.

                that may              le made of short Pieces of Timber.                      349
formation.      For other uses, where expedition is of less importance,
it wilt    be easy to place the frames in the position desired.
     It   may not be amiss to point out a case or two in civil life
where the combination may be useful.           In scaffolding, where in
termediate supports cannot be applied from the nature of the si
tuation ; in temporary bridges ; also to roofs and other parts of
temporary buildings, or erections.          Let us suppose that a large
room is to be erected for any purpese. If it were 60 feet wide, it
might be covered, with the help of the method now pointed out,
in a very short time, and almost without waste of materials ; be
sides the advantage of employing short pieces, almost without
preparation,      merely being necessary that there should be some
                        i,t
pieces of the same depth.
    In conclusion      shall make few observations on the principles
                              I
                              :                      a
which were kept in view in contriving this combination of tim
bers.    In the first place,       well known to those who have con
                                           it   is
sidered the nature of beams of equal resistance, that when solid                          a
beam, supported at its ends,          acted upon
                                                                    is by
                                                     isa moving load, its
vertical section in the direction of its length       an ellipse, when                         it
is equally strong at every point.         The combination above de
scribed was intended to approach as nearly to that form. as a
necessary attention to other circumstances would admit.              Those
who have not had occasion to study this part of mathematical
science, may most likely have observed that a beam may be much
reduced towards the points of support without impairing its
strength.
    Secondly.    When a beam, resting upon distant supports,                                   is
strained by     load upon any part of
                        a                                 it,
                                                the fibres at the middle
of its depth are not strained in- a sensible degree         the strain be   ;
ing greatest   at the  upper   and  lower  sides, and   decreasing to no
thing in the middle.        Hence the middle part may be removed
without materially lessening the strength, at the same time the
load upon the beam        much lessened.
                                      is      Thus, combining strength
and lightness, the stems of the reed and many other plants owe
their strength to tire same principle. And            still more striking
                                                                a
example        exhibited   in the  bones   and   wings of the feathered
                is is
              one of those remarkable cases, where through science
tribe.     It
we seem to look into the process of nature but how clumsy are   :
our attempts to imitate her works! — Nevertheless                   always      it   is
possible to gain much             due attention to phenomena which
                                           by
                                           a
are daily before us and as our knowledge increases, the more we
                                  ;
find to admire — to imitate — even our own want of skill must of
ten increase our veneration for Him, whose works fill our minds
with awe and astonishment.
                                                                                 ClVILIS.
                                                                                 LX. Me-

                                   [ 350 ]
LX. Memoir on a new and certain Method of ascertaining the
  Figure of the Earth by means of Occidtations of the fixed
   Stars.     By A. Cagnoli.           With Notes and an Appendix by
   Francis Baily*.
                             advertisement,
The following memoir originally     appeared in the Transactions of the Italian
  Society (Memorie di Matematica e di Fisica delta Societu Jtatiana, Tom. vi.
   Verona 1792) : but, although it has been so many years before the public,
  I do not find that the subject of it has been taken up by any persons either
  here, or on the continent.    In fact, I believe that it is not generally known
  in this country : and it is with a view of drawing the attention of astrono
  mers more closely to it, that I now present them with this translation.
  The acknowledged talents and abilities of the author must at all times en
   sure it an attentive perusal : but particularly at this period, when a more
  than ordinary degree of interest is excited towards the subject of the true
  figure of the earth.    I am aware that there are some apparent difficulties
   in the method pointed out in the memoir, yet 1 am not without hope and
   expectation that they may be eventually overcome: and that the mode
   herein proposed may at least be brought in aid of the other methods at
   present adopted for determining that difficult problem.
To the memoir itself I have subjoined some notes connected with the sub
  ject ; which, however, may be distinguished from those of the author by
   the addition of the letter B. And to the whole I have added an Appendix,
   wherein I have attempted to illustrate the views of the author; and ven
   tured to propose such methods as may best tend to carry his object into
   execution.
     Gray's Inn, May 20, 1819.                                 Francis Baily,
                               Memoir, &c.
§ 1.   The     truth of the Newtonian theory of universal gravita
tion  is proved by the wonderful agreement in all the celestial
phenomena, which have hitherto been submitted to the tests of
calculation and of observation. There probably is not any astro
nomer of the present day who is not convinced that our planet is
compressed, or flattened, at the poles, and protuberant at the
equator.    In fact, if we combine this theory of Newton with the
hypothesis of the elliptical form of the earth, we shall find that
the precession of the equinoxes and the nutation of the earth's
axis are sufficiently accounted for.   Other arguments indeed, in
favour of the elliptical form, may be derived from the rotation of
the earth, which is now generally admitted: and others again
from the differences in the length of the pendulum vibrating se
conds in different latitudes. Still, however, we want some theory
of the internal density of the earth ; which, it is feared, will ever
remain hid from human investigation.        But       to the want of
                                                          if,
  * The                                                                     It
          present memoir has been already printed, but not for sale.             is
now reprinted with the polite permission of the author.
                                                                            this

 On a new Method             of ascertaining   the Figure   of the Earth.     351
this essential knowledge, we add the irregularity of the figure of
the earth, as shown by the measurements of the degrees on its
surface ;      to the doubts which some persons may still entertain
              if,
of the truth of the compression of the poles*, we add the discor
dant opinions as to the quantity of that compression        we may    ;
surely  assert  that   will
                        it  be  no small  advantage  to point out a
method (independent of all hypothesis) for determining, with fa
cility and with the greatest precision, the differences between the
terrestrial radii at an indefinite number of points on the earth's
surface. — Such indeed       the object of the present memoir.
                                is
  §     2.   has always been said, when speaking of the compres
             It
sion or flattening of the poles of the earth, that the parallax                   of
the moon would afford the best means of ascertaining       providedit ;
the variations, arising therefrom, were of sufficient magnitude to
be observed with perfect accuracy.      But, since,          by
                                                      supposing this
compression not to exceed -j-^ of the semidiameter (which        the
                                                                           a is
most received opinion at the present day) there would be            dif
ference of not more than 9'' between the moon's parallax at the
equator, and her parallax at      high latitude, for instance 60° so
                                     a a
                                                                              ;
indeed   it  but too true that
              is                  difference so small might be easily
concealed under the possible errors of observation.             was onIt
this account that Manfredi and Maupertuis in vain suggested the
determination of the compression               by
                                           direct observations of the
moon's parallax     :nor has any advantage been hitherto obtained
by  this method.
  §   3. But this     not the only instance in which
                        is                               quantity, ex
                                                              a
tremely minute on one side, has been found to produce effects
that are quite discernible on the other.     The attention of the ob
server should be directed to those points where they are most
sensible.   This has been the object of my research and hope      ;       I
not entirely without success.       For, there are circumstances in
which scarcely     second in the parallax may cause
                    a                                     difference of
                                                               a
15, 20,"or 30 seconds of time, or even more, in the duration of
the occultation of     star by the moon.
                         a                   But, occultations, more
particularly when the immersions take place behind the dark limb
of the moon, can easily be observed without committing an error
of single second of time
  a                              so that opportunities exist not only
                                 f   :
of removing all doubt as to the reality of the compression of the
poles, but also of such frequent occurrence that the gradation of
the compression, (or variation of the curvature) at different lati-
   * See Lorgna " Principj di
                                Geografia fyc." §31.
  .j-The duration of an occultation cannot probably be so well observed when
the immersions take place behind the dark limb of the moon, as when they
take place behind the illuminated side   since the instant of emersion cannot
                                           ;
be so well ascertained. B.
                                                                           tudes,

   352    On   a new and certain   Method   of ascertaining   the Figure
    tudes, may be accurately distinguished.       The importance of the
    subject induces me to treat it more fully in detail.
       §4.1 shall not take up the time of the reader in demonstrat
   ing that no hypothesis is required to deduce the variation of cur
   vature from the observation of the parallax.        For, since the va
   riation of curvature is nothing more than the inequality of the
   terrestrial radii (and that is nothing else than the difference of the
   parallax), it is evident that finding by observation the variation of
   parallax at different latitudes is in fact finding the variation of
   curvature by immediate observation. One involves the other with
   out any intermediate help.      The only difficulty consists in freeing
   from uncertainty those observations which show the unequal pa
   rallax : and this is precisely the special character of the particular
   kind of occultations which I have in view. It is true that astro
   nomers, in calculating occultations, have made the parallax vary
   in conformity with that quantity of compression which they have
   adopted as the true theory. Moreover, these variations do not
   in general produce differences which are discernible in the rela
   tive duration of the occultations observed in different latitudes.
   Those differences, which are discernible, arise only in certain cir
   cumstances, to which hitherto no particular attention has been
  paid.     It is on this account. that occultations have not, as yet,
   served at all to determine the amount or quantity of the compres
  sion of the polar axis.
      § b. Before I proceed to describe what these favourable cir
  cumstances are, it will be proper, in order to appreciate their
  utility, to define the precise degree of accuracy of which the com
  putation and observation of occultations are capable. With re
  spect to the computation, it is evident that the apparent distance
  between the star and the moon cannot be accurately determined
  unless we know exactly not only the apparent place of the star,
  but also that of the moon and its diameter.       These elements are
  obtained by calculating the phenomena from observations made
  in a place (the longitude of which is known) under circumstances
  where the alteration of the parallax, on account of the variation
  in the curvature of the earth, does not produce a perceptible dif-
- ference in the duration of the occultation : conditions not un
  common, nor difficult to be obtained.
      § 6. Let us then suppose that the moon's diameter and the
  place of the star are well determined (in which elements the least
  uncertainty exists) ; and that any small errors, which may occur,
  be thrown on the place of the moon.        Let us, moreover, endea
  vour to discover (by comparing the calculation with the observa
  tion) the errors of the tables in the longitude and latitude of the
  moon, mixed (as we have already stated) with the preceding
                                                                  errors.

      of the Earth       by means     of Occullations of the fixed Stars. 353
 errors*.       In the present      state of astronomy I do not see any great
 danger to be apprehended from this union of the two errors, not
 withstanding the delicacy of the investigation in question. At any
 rate we may arrive at a sufficient degree of accuracy hy verifying
 the place of the star by a sufficient number of observations, and
 also the diameter of the moon by means of the telescope which
 is used for the occultations.
      § 7. Having corrected the errors of the lunar tables, we shall
 have accurate elements wherewith to represent the state of the
 heavens : and there can then be no doubt that we may arrive at
 great exactness in our calculation of the duration of an occupa
 tion (or of the moment of immersion and emersion) for the
-place in which we wish to ascertain the curvature of the earth :
 since the geographical longitude of the place has been determined
 by means of occultations under circumstances in which (and they
 are the greater part) the variation in the curvature is not percep
 tible.
     § 8. With respect to the accuracy of observations of this na
 ture, I have already said that the immersions behind the dark
 limb are not subject to the least error. Those on the illuminated
 side may be liable to some slight uncertainty if the star be not
 of the first or second magnitude, or if the power of the telescope
 be too small.          The emersions from the dark limb are in general
 to be depended upon : whilst those from the illuminated side are
 the most doubtful of all f.             But, even supposing that the error,
 in the last-mentioned case, may amount to 8 or even 10 seconds
 of time, will it be sufficient to conceal the variation of curvature
 altogether in the circumstances I have contemplated, and where
 the difference that it will produce may be ten or twenty times
 greater than the presumed error ? Can we, indeed, expect to
 obtain more certain observations % ? since a single observation
    *   See the Memoir which obtained the prize from the Academy of Copen
 hagen : " Mithode pour calculer let longitudes geographiques."         Virone : ches
 Ramanzini.
    f  It appears that, in some occultations, the immersions and emersions take
 place wholly on the dark side of the moon. See an account of the occaltation
 of £ Virginia observed by Mr. Troughton on May 22, 1801.                Connaissanee
 des Terns, Annie xiii. page 324. Sometimes an occultation may be observed
 when the moon itself is not visible : as in the occultation of Venus on May 13,
 1801, between 8 and 9 o'clock in the morning ; the moon being then only a
 few hours old. Ibid, page 41/. A favourable occultation may also occur
 during a total eclipse of the moon, when the immersions and emersions of
 stars of the 6th or / th magnitude may be distinctly observed. Ibid. Annie ix.
 page 335. B.
     \ I find it difficult here to give a faithful translation of the author's words :
 the original runs thus, " Senza che ci possiamo attenere alle osservazioni.
 piil sicure : ed una sola fase, &c. &c."        B.
     Vol. 54. No. 259. Nov. 1819.                            Z                      of

354       On a new and certain Method           of ascertaining the Figure
of this kind accurately made in the place, for which the varia
tion of curvature is sought, is sufficient to discover it by means
 of the comparison of the calculated with the observed mo
 ment.
     §9.1 shall now point out what are, in fact, the circumstances
in which the differences of the parallax between two latitudes
maybe shown in an undoubted manner: and, in order virtually
to embrace all the cases, I shall take mean quantities in the ele»
ments which enter into this investigation.               Let us therefore sup
pose, first, that the moon's apparent semidiameter is 15'. 45",
 its equatorial parallax 57'. 40", and its horary motion 32'. 56",5 z=
secondly, that the occultation is observed in north latitude 60°,
 in which parallel there are three celebrated observatories, viz.
Petersburg, Stockholm andUpsal:                   lastly, that the apparent
 height of the moon is 10°.              If there be no variation in the
 curvature of the earth's surface the parallax of height will be
56'. 47",4 * : but, if the polar compression amount to -j^-j- of the
 earth's radius, the same parallax will be 56'. 38",9f.               The pa
rallax would therefore under these circumstances experience an
alteration of 8",5 ; a quantity certainly too small to be verified
with accuracy by means of observations of the height of the moon.
 But, this slight alteration produces, in certain cases, effects that
 are very visible: a fact which escaped the observation of Mau-
pertuis; who, it is true, speaks of occultations as a mean of dis
covering the flattening of the earth J.              But, he speaks of them
generally;      and  so slightly  as to   class  them    with appulses, as be
                                            ,
ing equally fit to determine it. Now, as appulses are far from
being observable with such certainty, in regard to time, as the
instantaneous disappearance and reappearance of stars in occul-
tatiojis, it is evident that Maupertuis can never have had in view
the particular cases which I am about to point out, and which
differ materially from ordinary ones.
    * Let p = the horizontal parallax of the moon ; and h= the height of the
moon : then * = p. cos h = the parallax of height.         B.
    .f Let a = the polar compression of the earth, supposed = -y      ; x = the
latitude of the place ; and the radius of the equator equal to unity : then we
shall have the length of any other terrestrial radius = (1 — a. sin* x) nearly ;
.which, being multiplied by t, will give o,=» (1 — a. sin? x)= the parallax of
height on the supposition that the earth is an oblate spheroid. Whence we
also have — = the length of the terrestrial radius at any given latitude.
And if   S denote any given increase of the parallax, we shall have   — for the
corresponding increase in the length of the earth's radius.      B.
    X Preface an discours sur la parallaxe de la lune.
                                                                    §  10. Let

      of the Earthly     means    of Occultations of thefixed Stars.             355
      § 10.    Let  us suppose    AVB    a portion     of the circumference of
  the moon's disc opposite to the observer ; C the moon's centre ;
  and that the radius CV,
  which divides the arc
  AVB into two equal
  parts,     coincides with
  the vertical circle of the
  place of the observer.
  Let us further suppose
  that the line MV (or
  the ver-sine of the arc)
 is equal to 60"; and
  that, during the occul-
 tation, the chord AB of
 the moon is that which
 the star would appa
 rently describe if the
 earth were spherical. ;
 or the chord DE that
 which it would appa
 rently describe if the axis of the earth were compressed -r^s.
 Then ML will be equal to 8",5 as before mentioned : and, com
 puting from the mean rate of the horary motion of the moon, it
 will be found that the duration of the occultation behind AB will
 be 20'. 7" of time ; and, behind DE, 18'. 41"*. We therefore
 see how considerable is this difference of 1'. 26" of time ; and
how well such observations are adapted not only to convince those
who doubt the reality of the compression of the earth's axis, but
likewise to show with very great approximation to truth the re
lative length of the earth's radii in different latitudes.                  For, in
the case just mentioned, the variation of a twenty-thousandth
part of that length      f  will cause a difference of one second of time
in the duration of the occultation.
     § 11. Moreover, it is evident that the effect, of which I have
    * For, joining C,A, and C,B,    we shall have   CV=CA=CB=1S'.45", and
 CM=(15'.45"-60") = 14'.45";         consequently    AM=MB= ^CAC-CMj.
 (AC + CM)=5'. 31",4      ; which, being  multiplied by — S.       in order to re-
duce this distance into time, will give 10'. 3", 6 for the time of the star's pass
ing from A to M: therefore the time of the star's passing from A to B will
be equal to 2x (10'. 3",6)=20'. 7",2.     But, if the depression of the earth's
axis cause a variation in the apparent height of the moon equal to 8",5, then
will CL=14'.53",5, consequently (as CD=AC) DL=LE= V(AC— CL).
(AC+CL) =5'. 7",7; which, being also multiplied by 33,jg,, 5, will give
9'. 20",5 for the time of the star's passing from D to L: therefore the time
of the star's passing from D to E will be equal to 2 x (9'. 20",5) = 1 8'. 41". B.
    t  Or, about 1000 feet. The mean radius of the earth being 20,898,240
English feet. B.
                                    Z2                                         been

356       On a new and certain Method                  of ascertaining the Figure
been speaking, may be much greater.                      It increases greatly as the
line MV (or the ver-sine of the arc) becomes smaller:             for ex             if,
ample,      were 30", the duration of the occultatiou under AB
            it
would be 14'. 20"; and, under DE, 12'. 10", being a difference,
in the duration, of 2'. 10" of time          In such case, difference
                                                  *.                  a          a
of 500 feet in the length of the earth's radius might be rendered
evident    since such
           :              variation would produce difference of one
                               a                                       a
second of time in the duration of the occultationf.
    § 12.     am well aware that
               I                         scarcely ever happens that the
                                           it
apparent path    of the star    rectilinear, and at the same time per
                                    is
pendicular to the vertical circle which passes through             at the            it,
moment of the middle of the occultation, as in the case              have                I
supposed.      But such supposition may be readily conceded, as
                                a
being a mean between the possible cases. For,            the actual phe-
                                                                       if
nomena do in some cases deviate therefrom, so as to render the
effect of the compression less upon the duration of the occultation
than when calculated on the above hypothesis,           will on the other
                                                                       it
hand often occur that they are greater             Hence   %.have no he      L
sitation in asserting that the means, which            have pointed out,
                                                                    I
are not dependent on any hypothesis, and are the most certain
of any that have yet been suggested for determining the variation
in the curvature of the earth's surface.
    §  13. With respect to the pendulum, the differences in its
length are not only too minute and too difficult to be measured
with precision, but are also too much influenced            the unknown     by
internal density of the earth to be brought at all into comparison
                                              r
     * In this      case,   CM = (15'.45"-30") =          15'. 15";    consequently        AM =
3f. 56",2  :   which being multiplied by      ,32,^;,j5
                                                          X   2,   as in the preceding cases,
will give14'. 20",4 for the time of the star's passing from A to B. But, sup
posing the depression the same as in the former instance, we should have
CL=15'.23",5; consequently DL=LE=3'.20",4: which, multiplied also by
Slgrg X      will give 12'. 10",2 for
               2,                         the time of the star's passing from                D   to
E, as mentioned in the text. B.
f        According to my calculation, a difference            of only 400 feet in the length
of the earth's radius would produce a difference of one second of time in the
duration of the occultation.  But, the line MV were only 15", difference
                                         if                                          a
of less than 200 feet would produce difference of one second of time in the
                                          a
duration.   And, agreeably to these principles,   will be evident that the du
                                                           it
ration of such occultations will vary according to the elevation of the spot
(from which they are observed) above the level of the sea and will sensibly ;
differ when observed in valleys, or on the tops of high hills and mountains.
A  fact which perhaps has not been sufficiently attended to, either in obser
vations of occultations, or in calculations wherein the parallax of the moon
is involved. B.
     XI confess  do not see the accuracy of this conclusion
                    I                                          for    appears:       it
to me that the effect of the compression, on the duration of the occultation,
must be greatest when the apparent path of the star     perpendicular to the
                                                                      is
vertical circle. B.
                                                                                             with

   of the Earth ly means of Occultations of the fixed Stars. 357
 with the great differences,         above    mentioned,   in the duration of
 occultations.
     § 14. The different measurements of the degrees of the meri~
 dian are likewise so discordant amongst themselves, that the re
 spectable author (whom I am about to quote) asserts that the
 greater the number of degrees that are measured, the more uncer
 tain does the figure of the earth seem to be *.             Let us moreover
                                                                           bear
    * This indeed appears to be the case from some of the late measurements.
With respect to the meridian of France, M. Delambre states (Traiti d'Astro-
 nomie, vol. iii. page 567) that " it was hoped that the measurement of that
 arc (divided nearly into two equal parts by the parallel of Evaux) would have
 given the quantity of the compression of the earth's axis. The calculation,
 however, makes it = x-i-yi a quantity much too great. The whole arc, com.
 pared with that of Bouguer.at Peru, makes it =           ; which is too small."
And he goes on to observe that, from a revision of the calculations of Lacon-
 damine, and taking a mean between him and Bouguer, he has deduced the
 quantity        ; which he considers as the most probable one, and which he
 proposes to be adopted in all future calculations. Nevertheless he afterwards
 states (Ibid, page 572) that a " compression of -rffff represents very well the
 arcs between Greenwich and Paris, between Dunkirk and Paris, between
 Greenwich and Evaux, between Greenwich and Barcelona, and between Car
cassonne and Mount-Jouy.          It appears then (he adds) that, without much
variation, the arc of the meridian from Greenwich to Barcelona, indicates
 (in the whole and in its several parts) a compression which differs very little
from -njTr" And1 the conclusion, which he draws from the whole, is that
"  the arc of France indicates a compression more considerable than that of
the globe in general." It is worthy of observation that Maupertuis, who was
one of the astronomers that measured the arc of the meridian in Sweden i*
 1736, makes the compression = -ryjj, by comparing it with the arc then
 measured in France. But, M. Svanberg who, in 1805, remeasured the same
 arc, deduces the compression =              when compared with the arc recently
measured in France ; and =         xiVr   when compared with that of Bouguer
at Peru.     This is however on the presumption that the standard measure,
used in the survey, was equal to the double metre at zero of the thermo*
meter : but, if it was so only at the temperature of + 1 6^, the corresponding
compressions would be        irij> and T3"Jr'4-  Other results are obtained ac
cording to the different tables of refraction made use of in the calculations ;
so that, after all, considerable doubts exist as to the exact quantity of the
compression, as deduced from that survey. M. Delambre, from the mea
surements, giren by Major Lambton, of an arc in the East Indies, stated the
compression = -j-gV-7 : but, from the subsequent operations of the same
gentleman, he afterwards deduces it =             Major Lambton himself, how
ever, from a more recent measurement has stated the compression to be <=
.^rs> but, that on comparing the whole of his arc with the whole of the
French arc, the compression would be —          j ^.  A remarkable discordance
in the results.    The measurement of Lacaille, at the Cape of Good Hope,
compared with that at the equator, gives j-^. Lastly, I shall add that the
recent measurement of the arc, in England, seems to indicate a prolongation,
instead of a compression of the polar axis. These discordant conclusions
leave a very unsatisfactory impression on the mind, notwithstanding the ac-
                                     Z 3                            knowledged

358     On a new and certain Method                                       of.   ascertaining the Figure
bear in mind the enormous expense and labour required in mea
suring degree of the earth's surface.
        a                                 Let us recollect the great
uncertainty that may attend such     measurement from the devia  a
tion of the plumb-line made use of in the instruments employed
for the astronomical observations, occasioned          mountains and                     by
valleys, subterraneous cavities and other irregularities in the upper
strata of the earth and, of what great importance such anomalies
                              :
may be, we may learn in the celebrated work of Boscovich *.
  §   15.    may perhaps be objected that the two conditions ne
            It
cessary for my purpose may not frequently occur together                                                       ;
namely,, that the altitude of the moonf, and the chord of the
lunar disc which passes over the star, must be small. This       pro                                      is
bably the reason why this method of ascertaining the compression
of the earth's axis has not hitherto been practised.              true                               It   is
that the greater the altitude of the moon above the horizon, and
the nearer to its centre the apparent path of the star, so much
the smaller will be the difference of parallax caused          sphere                               by
                                                                                                     a
and an oblate spheroid      and consequently the more easily might
                                   J     :
                                                                   the
knowledged talents of the persons employed in those surveys         and prevent                 ;
us from placing too great reliance on method which produces results, dif
                                                               a
fering so widely from each other. The learned Boscovich might well ex
claim that " the greater the number of degrees that are measured, the more
uncertain does the figure of the earth seem to be." B.
   * De Expeditione Litteraria, Lib. v. 230, et
                                                    seq.         §
t     It does not appear that the altitude of the moon should be limited to
the quantity mentioned by the author in the text, since the variations, alluded
to, will be perceptible at the height of 20, and even 30 degrees.       Thus, in
the case mentioned in          appears that the variation in the parallax of the
                                 §
                                  9,
moon at the height of 10°       8",5 but,
                               is it          the moon were at the height of
                                                     :               if
20° above the horizon, the variation would be 8",1       and at 30°    would be     ;               it
7",4. B.
  X  The smaller the chord of the lunar disc {or the smaller the ver-sine of
the arc) the more perceptible will be the difference in the duration of the
occultation in such cases; as will appear from the following table; which
shows the duration of an occupation of the star on the supposition that the
place of the star, when     passed the vertical circle, would be 60", 30",
                                  it
10", and 8",5 within the moon's disc, provided the earth were a perfect
sphere: together with the corresponding durations provided the earth were
an oblate spheroid, having the axis compressed        = sil»' Latitude of the
place 60': height of the moon 10".
              Earth = Sphere.                                Earth = 7^o-       Difference
                                                                                     of
                  within                                     within
                                                    3> .Jf
             ?k
                                  Duration.                           Duration. Duration.
             5    's   disc.                             's   disc.
                                                                                    //        i>
                       6*0                   7 //
                                     /                                          /        /
                                    20.                      5&             18.41        1.26
                   30               14.20                    21,5           12.10        2.10
                   15               10.11                     6,5            6.43        3.28
                       10-           8.19                     1,5          . 3.14        5.   5
                        8,5            7.41                  0        Appulse.           7.41                  In

   of the Earth ly     means   of Occultations of the fixed Stars.          359
the errors of the elements made use of in the calculation be con
founded with that difference.           But these are precisely the occa
sions most favourable for the observations with which these par
ticular occultations may be compared ; and by which (as I have
said) the errors of the tables are corrected, and the geographical
longitude determined.
     § 16. It is true that the conditions here required, for ascer
taining the flattening of the poles, cannot be very frequently ob
tained : but, if we look out for them with the diligence that the
importance of the object demands, we shall perhaps meet with
them more frequently than we imagine.                 For, I may venture to
assert that there does not pass a month without the occurrence
of an occultation of some star whose position is well known: and
there is no occultation that will not afford, to some part or other
of the earth's surface, the conditions required *. If only once
out of twenty times they should occur, in a place where there is
 an astronomical observatory, the question as to the compression,
 and also as to its quantity, would be very soon determined.
     § 17. For the solution of such questions, for which immense
 sacrifices have hitherto been made (for instance, in the measure
 ment of the degrees of the meridian), it surely is not requiring too
 much that the trifling expense should be incurred of enabling as
 tronomers to travel to places more favourably situated for making
 observations of such occultations.          This would be an undertaking
 worthy of    a sovereign   who   wishes   to  distinguish himself as a pa
tron of science. We should, by such means, gradually arrive at
 a knowledge of the relative length of the terrestrial radii, in a
great number of places : and, it is most probable that we might
    In the Appendix I have given other tables, showing the differences that
 would arise from varying the latitude of the place, the height of the moon,
 and the quantity of the earth's compression : whereb}' the reader may be bet
 ter able to judge of the maximum of difference which would arise under the
 most favourable circumstances.      B.
    * Since this was written, the
                                    positions of most of the zodiacal stars have
 been determined with a degree of accuracy sufficient for the purposes de
 tailed in the memoir. The labours of Cagnoli himself, of Piazzi, Hard'mg,
 Zach, and Bcssell have contributed much to this end : so that we may now
 safely assert that scarcely a night passes " without the occurrence of an
 occultation of some star whose position is well known." Nearly forty years
 ago Mfcssier made the following remark, at the close of a numerous list of
 observed occultations : " We see by this collection of occultations how many
 new ones I have observed, in the first quarter of the moon, on the dark
 limb ; which are distinguished with the greatest precision. They are fre
 quent, and much preferable to the observations of Jupiter's satellites, or
 lunar eclipses, for determining the longitude. It were much to be wished
 that the conductors of our Ephemerides should announce, for the first part
 of each lunation, the immersions of stars of even the 7th, 8th and !)th mag
 nitude, which are as readily observed as those of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd mag
 nitude."    Connaissance das Terns, Annie viii. page 319.    B.
                                       Z 4                              thereby

360                     On the Figure     of the Earth.
thereby be enabled finally to deduce the true and exact figure of
the earth.
    § 18. Although it appears, from the different measurements of
the degrees of the meridian, that the figure of the earth is not
regular, still it is possible that the irregularities do not belong
so much to the figure, or the radii, as to the nature of the upper
strata, the different density of which may occasion the concealed
error in the perpendicularity of the instruments : an error which
 (as I have elsewhere shown) may be quite sufficient to reconcile
all the disagreements between the measurements hitherto taken*.
Consequently the variations in the parallax in different latitudes
might very well proceed with as much regularity as appears to exist
in the variation of gravity, and in the length of the pendulum.
    § 19. It is in the power of every principal Academy materially
to assist in such a discovery, by two methods.                  First, in regard
to times past, to collect together, from all quarters, the observa
tions of occultations stated to have been made in a given interval;
for instance, in the last ten years : and to employ some calculator
to select and compute all those which are proper for showing the
variation of curvature at different places. Secondly, with respect
to the future, to insert in the Ephemerides accurate notices of
those places or districts where it would be most important that
any occultation should be observed (particularly of the principal
stars), in order that it might serve to apprize, and excite the at
tention of such astronomers as might be favourably situated them
selves, or contiguous to more advantageous situations. It appears
to me that such notices would be more important and useful than
those of the phases of solar eclipses, about which the calculators
of Ephemerides are in the habit of taking so much trouble.
                             KND OF THE MEMOIH.
                   [Tlie Appendix will  be given in our nest..]
    *  Independent of the deviations arising from the causes here nlluded to,
the plumb-line has been sometimes known to be attracted towards the sides
of the glass vessel, containing the weight, as powerfully as gold-leaf towards
an electrical tube.     The remark            to have been made by M. Flauger-
gues.
          " Astronomers ought to appears
                                     avoid using a glass vessel for the water in
which the weight of the plumb-line is suspended ; for, I have observed twice,
in one year, a singular deviation in the plumb-line occasioned by the attrac
tion of the ball of the plumb-line towards the side of the vessel in which it
was suspended.        This ball was drawn towards the side with as mush rapi
dity as gold-leaf is attracted by an electrified tube : and I was obliged (in or
 der to destroy the effect of this spontaneous electricity, so as to enable me
to take equal altitudes) to put a coating of sealing-wax upon the ball. But,
since I have substituted a metal vessel, this singular phenomenon has not
again occurred."       Connaissance des Terns, Annie xiii. page 413.    Although
 such a powerful impulse as this may not often have occurred, yet it is pos
 sible that slight deviations from the perpendicular may frequently have arisen
from the cause here alluded to ; and which may account for some anomalies
 which have been remarked in the observations made in the course of the sur
veys. B.

                             [   361    ]
LXI.    Dissertation  on  Water Snakes, Sea Snakes, and Sea Ser
               pents.    By C. S. Rafinesque, Esq.
Whenever         a singular phenomenon, or an extraordinary na
tural occurrence, happens to be observed in the United States,
whether spots in the sun, huge fossil bones, or serpents, a crowd
of superficial writers hasten to offer us, instead of facts, their own
ideas and conjectures on the subject, which prove, sometimes,
more or less ingenious ; but often wild, incorrect, or ridiculous.
They are generally so much taken up by their own fancy, that
they forget entirely to consult former writers of eminence on the
same subjects, should they even happen to know of their existence.
What idea are we to entertain of their attempts to explain those
subjects, without availing themselves of the valuable writings of
 Herschel or La Place, Cuvier or Pinkerton, &c. ? in whose works
they had been previously and often completely illustrated.          Let
us listen to a group of children attempting to reason and argue
on the rising of the sun, an eclipse of the moon, on the ceconomy
 of bees, or on the structure of a whale, without asking any pre
vious questions of their parents, and we shall find a great si
milarity between their thoughts and those of many of our spe
culative writers.    They often contribute to render contemptible
 the subject of their inquiries, at least towards the vulgar, while
 it would otherwise become deeply interesting ; and should their
 crude speculations ever reach Europe, they will certainly afford
very unfavourable specimens of our knowledge and attainments in
science.    These reflections have naturally suggested themselves
to my   mind   on the present occasion.
    The ancients gave the name of Water Snakes and Sea Snakes
 to many fishes of the eel tribe, which bear an apparent likeness
 to land snakes, although they differ materially on examination,
by having fins and gills, and neither lungs nor scales.
    Many land snakes are in the habit of going into the water, in
 pursuit of their food, or to escape their enemies, and they have
been called Water Snakes when found in that element.
    Real Water and Sea Snakes had been noticed at a very early
period by navigators in the Atlantic Ocean and the Indian Seas;
but as they had not been destroyed, eminent naturalists had
doubted their existence, believing that eels, or similar fishes, had
 been mistaken for snakes.
    Russel was perhaps the first writer who established their ex
istence beyond a doubt, by describing and figuring many of them,
in his splendid work on the Snakes of the Coast of Coromandel.
Schneider established for them his genus Hydras, which wrong
name has been with much propriety changed into Hydrophis.
They have since been described in all the works on enpetology,
                                                                     h7

362                Dissertation on Water Snakes,
by Shaw, Latreille, Daudin, &c. ; and those last writers have di
vided thein into four genera, Enhydris, Platurus, Pelamis, and
Hydrophis ; which form a peculiar tribe or natural family in the
order of Snakes, to which I have given the name of Platuria
 (Platurians, Flat-tails or Water Snakes).      They are completely
distinguished   from  the land snakes, by  having  a compressed tail,
which serves them as an oar or rudder, enabling them to swim
with great swiftness ; and from the fishes of the eel tribe, by
having neither gills nor fins. They breathe through lungs, at re
mote periods, whence they generally live near the surface of the
.water, like the animals of the whale tribe.     They prey on fishes
and sea animals, and some of them have venomous fangs. Many
are known to come on land, like turtles, to deposit their eggs.
    About fourteen species of Water Snakes have been described by
the above authors ; ten more are noticed in the travels of Peron
to Australia or New Holland, one of which was ten feet long; and
lately several monstrous species have been seen near our shores.
Many others appear to have been perceived by former travellers;
and very probably a great variety are known to sailors.            The
knowledge    of these  animals is merely emerging     into notice, and
may be yet greatly improved.       I shall not pretend to assert that
they are as numerous as land snakes ; but it is very likely that one
hundred species at least of this tribe exist in the waters of the
ocean, lakes, and rivers. Intelligent travellers, seamen, and fisher
men, will gradually make us acquainted with them : meantime,
 I shall endeavour to give a concise account of those we know,
which may facilitate their future observations; and I shall arrange
my labour in a synoptical order, concluding by some remarks on
the Sea Serpents, which are merely Sea Snakes of a very large
size.
    Family Platuria. — VI Genus.         Ophinectes, Raf. Differing
from Pelamis by having a compressed body and a carinated or
angular abdomen.- I arrange in this new genus all the Sea Snakes
mentioned in Peron's Travels : they were all found on the western
and southern shores of Australia, or New Holland; such as may
have fangs ought to belong to the genus Natrix, and those with
cylindrical bodies to the genus Pelamis.
     1. Sp. Ophinectes cinerus, Raf.     Cinerous Ophinectes.      En
 tirely gray or ash  colour.
     2. Sp. Ophinectes viridis, Raf.   Green Ophinectes.       Entirely
 green.
    3. Sp. Ophinectes luteus, Raf.     Yellow Ophinectes. Entirely
 yellow.
    4. Sp. Ophinectes ccerulescens, Raf. Blueish Ophinectes. En^-
 tirely of a blueish colour.
     5. Sp. Ophinectes versicolor, Raf.       Versicolor Ophinectes.
                                                                 Varied

                      Sea Snakes, and Sea Serpents.                 363
  Varied with many transverse cones, blue, white, red, green, and
i black. Many species are probably meant here.
      6. Sp. Ophinectes rnaculatus, Raf. Spotted Ophinectes. Co
  vered with many irregular large spots.       Many species.
      7. Sp. Ophinectes punctatus, Raf.       Dotted Ophinectes. Co
  vered with numberless small dots.       Many species.
      8. Sp. Ophinectes erythrocephalus, Raf.       Red-headed Ophi
  nectes.     Head of a beautiful red; body * * * *.
      9. Sp. Ophinectes dorsalis, Raf.      Backed Ophinectes. Dark
  green with large spots of yellow and light green on the back ;
  length three or four feet; near Dewittrs Land.
      10. Sp. Ophinectes major, Raf.        Large Ophinectes.    Green
  spotted with red and brown.         Length from eight to ten feet;
  also from the shores of Dewitt's Island.
      This last species appears to be the largest real Sea Snake which
  has fallen under the personal observation of naturalists as yet.
  But larger species still have been noticed at different periods. If
  I -had the time and opportunity of perusing all the accounts of
  travellers and historians, I could probably bring many into notice j
  but this tedious labour must be postponed, and I must warn those
  who may be inclined to inquire into the subject, not to be de
  ceived by the imperfect and exaggerated accounts of ancient or
  unknown writers.      Whenever they mention neither the scales nor
  tail of their Sea Serpents, or when they assert they had no scales',
  or had gills or fins, you must in all those instances be certain that
  they are real fishes rather than serpents. There might, however,
  be found some Sea Snakes without scales, since there are such
  land snakes ; and there fishes with scales and yet without fins :
  but there are no fishes without gills, and no snakes or serpents
  with gills !— in that important character the classical distinction
  consists.
     Nearly all the writers whom I can remember, have been un
  acquainted with that obvious distinction ; and they have, in imi
  tation of the ancient Greek and Roman writers, given the name
  of Sea Snakes to the large eels or fishes they happened to ob
  serve. This I apprehend is the case with Pontoppidan, in his
  Natural History of Norway; with Mongitore, in his Remarkable
  Objects of Sicily; with Leguat, in hisTravels to Rodriguez Island,
  &c. Their observations, and the facts they record, are notwith
  standing equally valuable, since they relate to monstrous unknown
  fishes, which seldom fall under the observation of men.      The in
  dividuals of huge species are not numerous in nature, either on
  land or in water ; and it is probable they often become extinct
  for want of food or reproduction.
     Among the four different animals which have lately been ob
                                                                 served

364                Dissertation on Water Snakes,
served by Americans, and named Sea Serpents, only one (the Mas
sachusetts Serpent) appears to be such: another is evidently (a
fish, and two are doubtful. I shall offer a few remarks on each.
    1. The Massachusetts Sea Serpent.              From the various and
contradictory   accounts  given  of  this  monster   by witnesses, the fol
lowing description may    be collected.   —  It is about 100feet|long; the
body   is round  and  nearly  two  feet  in  diameter,   of a dark brown,
and covered with large scales in transverse rows; its head is scaly,
brown mixed with white, of the size of a horse's and nearly the
shape of a dog's ; the mouth is large, with teeth like a shark ;
its tail is compressed, obtuse, and shaped like an oar. This ani
mal came in August last into the bay of Massachusetts, in pur
suit of shoals of fishes, herrings, squids, &c. on which it feeds.
 Its motions are very quick: it was seen by a great many; but all
attempts to catch it have failed, although 5000 dollars have been
offered for its spoils.   It is evidently a real Sea Snake, belonging
probably to the genus Pelamis, and I propose to call it Pelamis
megophias, which means Great Sea Snake Pelamis.                   It might
however be a peculiar genus, which the long equal scales seem to
indicate, and which a closer examination might have decided : in
that case the name of Megophias monstrosus might have been
appropriated to it.
    2. Capt. Brown's Sea Serpent.            This fish was observed by
 Capt. Brown in a voyage from America to St. Petersburg, in July
 1818, near 60° N. latitude and S° W. longitude, or north of Ire
land.     In swimming, the head, neck, and fore part of the body
stood upright like a mast : it was surrounded by porpoises and
fishes.    It was smooth, without scales, and had eight gills under
the neck ; which decidedly evinces that it is not a snake, but a
new genus of fish ! belonging to the eighth order Tremapnea,
28th family Ophictia, and 3d sub-family Catremia, along with
the genera Sphagebranchus and Symbranchus of Bloch, which dif
fer by having only one or two round gills under the neck. I shall
call this new genus Octipos (meaning eight gills beneath) ; head
depressed, mouth transverse, large, eight transverse gills under
the neck.     And its specific name and definition will be Octipos
licolor. Dark brown above, muddy white beneath : head obtuse.
Capt. Brown adds, that the head was two feet long, the mouth
fifteen inches, and the eyes over the jaws similar to the horse's;
the whole length might be 58 feet.
    3. The Scarlet Sea Serpent.         This was observed in the At
lantic Ocean, by the captain and crew of an American vessel from
New- York, while reposing and coiled up, near the surface of the
water, in the summer of 1816.         It is very likely that it was a fish,
and perhaps might belong to the same genus with the foregoing;
                                                                     I shall

                             Sea Snakes, and Sea Serpents.                            365
I shall refer it thereto, with doubt, and name it Oclipos ? cocci-
neus. Entirely of a bright crimson: head acute. Nothing further
descriptive was added in the gazettes where the account was
given, except that its length was supposed to be about 40 feet.
   4. Lake Erie Serpent.         It appears that our large lakes have
huge serpents    or fishes,  as well as the sea.  On the 3d of July,
1817,   one was   seen  in  Lake  Erie, three miles from land, by the
crew of a schooner, which was 35 or 40 feet long, and one foot
in diameter ; its colour was a dark mahogany, nearly black. This
account is very imperfect, and does not even notice if it had scales;
therefore it must remain doubtful whether it was a snake or a fish.
I am inclined to believe it was a fish, until otherwise convinced :
it might be a gigantic species of eel, or a species of the above
genus Oclipos.      Until seen again, and better described, it may
be recorded under the name of Anguilla gigas, or Gigantic Eel.
                                            ADDITIONS.
     The Pelamis megophias, or Great Sea Snake, appears to
        1.
have left the shores of Massachusetts, and to have baffled the at
tempts to catch              it,
                       probably because those attempts were con
ducted with very little judgement.         But smaller snake, or fish,
                                                             a
nine feet long, and      strange shark, have been taken, of which
                                   a
the papers give no description        let us hope that they will be de
                                                 :
scribed           by
            the naturalists of Boston.
   2.    appears that another large species of Water Snake
             It                                                         no       is
ticed by D. Felix Azara, in his Travels in South America (Paris,
1809,     vols. 8vo), under the name of Curiyu, which may belong
             4
to the genus Pelamis, although this worthy traveller has omitted
to describe its tail and scales.       may be called and characterized
                                                 It
as follows: Pelamis curis. (Curiyu. Azara, Trav. vol.             p. 226.) i.
Spotted and variegated, of black and yellowish white.                mea        It
sures over 10 feet, and       of the size of the leg:
                                       is                     lives in the
                                                                      it
lakes and rivers of Paraguay, north of the 1st degree of latitude.
                                                             3
   goes sometimes on land (and among shrubs), but moves heavily:
it It
   has dreadful aspect, but does not bite
             a                                     lives on fishes, young
                                                         ;   it
otters, apereas, and copibaras.
   3. The Water Snake of Lake Erie has been seen again, and
described to be of     copper colour, with bright eyes, and 60 feet
                              a
long.         added, that at
              It   is             short distance balls had no effect on
                                            a
him: but         omitted to mention whether
                   it   is                           was owing to having
                                                             it
hard scales (in which case        might    be
                                            it  real  snake of the genus
                                                         a
 Enhydris   or  Pelamis),  or  to the  indexterity   of the marksman.
   4. Mr. W. Lee has brought to notice another Sea Snake, seen
  byhim many years ago near Cape Breton and Newfoundland,
which was over 200 feet long, with the back of             dark green:
                                                                  a                    it
                                                                      stood

 366.    On Water Snakes, Sea Snakes, and Sea Serpents.
 stood on the water in flexuous hillocks, and went through it with
 impetuous noise.     This appears to be the largest on record, and
 might well  be called Pelamis monstrosus ; but if there are other
 species of equal size, it must be called then Pelamis chloronotis,
 or Green-back Pelamis.
    5. Dr. Samuel Mitchill has exhibited to the Lyceum of Natural
 History, at the sitting of the 15th September, the specimen of a
 species of Sea Snake from his museum, sent him some years ago
from Guadaloupe, by Mr. Ricord de Mariana, which appears to
be another species belonging to the genus Enhydris, to which the
 name of Enhydris annularis may be given: we shall add its de
finition and description.
    Enhydris annularis. Ringed Enhydris. Whitish, ringed with
black, rings broader on the back, which is cinereous and rather >
 angular in the middle; tail broad, short, obtuse, with 70 pairs of
 scales underneath ; more than 200 pairs of abdominal scales.
This animal is about 1 8 inches long, covered with smooth and
roundish scales above: the head is depressed, obtuse, small, co
vered with similar scales, and nearly black ; the lips are white ;
a white half ring sets on the nape of the nack, and extends on
each side over the eyes ; a black line connects the eyes with the
nostrils; an oblong white band lies below the head, longitu
dinally; the nostrils are round; the mouth is small, and with
a few small teeth ; the body is cylindrical, but the back is slightly
carinated towards its centre, and of an ash colour ; the black
rings are narrow underneath.       The tail is only two inches long,
very compressed; the extremity is broader, obtuse, tipped with
white, and has a slight lateral angle on each side, or a protruding
lateral nerve ; a similar appearance is perceptible on the upper
and lower edges, which appear to be thickened; the whole tail
is covered with large scales of a transverse and broad shape. This
snake is found in the West Indies, in the sea, particularly on the
shores of the island of Guadaloupe.
    6. A fabulous account of a great Water Snake, that, according
to the Indian tradition, dwelt in ancient times in a lake near Phi
ladelphia, may, be seen in Dr. Barton's Medical and Physical
Journal, vol. ii. p. 168. As another Indian tradition, relating to
the mammoth, the megalona, &c. it may be partly founded on
truth.
   7. The great Sea Snake has been seen again towards the mid
dle of September, in the bay of Massachusetts, and three yellow
collars observed on his neck, which has led some to believe it
might be another individual and species ; but this circumstance
might have been overlooked before.       It is not stated whether it
had streaks of a lighter hue on the body, as the first was repre
                                                              sented

     Defence   of English Periodical Mathematical Works.          367
sented to have by some witnesses.          It is therefore likely that
the  two  characters  of " streaks of a lighter hue on the body, and
three yellow   collars on  the neck,"   may be added to its descrip
tion.    The collars are described as about two inches broad, and
one foot apart.
   8. Dr. Mitchill informs me that General Hawkins has written
a memoir on the Sea Serpents of Massachusetts, which he has
sent, with a drawing, to Sir Joseph Banks ; it is a paper of some
length, and much interest, as it relates facts, and all the circum
stances attending the appearance and natural history of those
huge animals, taken upon oaths of eye witnesses.          He attempts
to prove, with much probability, that several individuals have
been seen, and two at least, if not three species ; one with three
collars, another without any, and a smaller one.
LXII.    Defence   of English Periodical Mathematical Works, in
        Reply   to Mr. Meikle. By A Correspondent.
                       •    To Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, —    It  has been said that the great Newton owed every thing
to the native force of his genius, and scarcely any thing to his
reading ; and it would seem as though this were the case with
your learned correspondent, Mr. Meikle.          In your last Number
he advances, with an air of novelty, three distinct properties of
the ellipse, one of which has been long known, while the other
two are the simplest possible deductions from equally well-known
propositions; ivell-known, I mean, to a plain man like myself,
who dare never venture upon announcing a proposition as new ,
until I have pretty carefully examined a few of the best treatises
on the subject to which my supposed novelties belong.
   Mr. Meikle first demonstrates that H G is less than C D. (I
refer to the diagram at p. 291 of your last Number.) But this is
an immediate deduction from a well-known property.            Let C X
be drawn, a semidiameter parallel to the tangent P K ; then it
has been shown (see Robertson's Conic Sections, book ii. props.
 19, 21) that H G : C X : : C D : C B. But C X, the consequent
of the first ratio, is always less than C B, the consequent of the
second: therefore H G, the antecedent of the first ratio, is less
than C D, the antecedent of the second.
   Mr. Meikle's second proposition, namely, that M H is greater
than C B, is a simple deduction of the same kind ; as he may find
at his leisure.
   With regard to the third property announced by Mr. M. viz.
that G H : H M : : D E2 : A BJ, it is certainly      " very elegant
                                                                   but

    368   Defence     of English Periodical Mathematical Works.
    but there  are few propositions better known.      It is given in the
    treatises on Conic Sections by Emerson, Hutton, Robertson, and
    Adams ; in one or other of which Mr. Meikle would probably
    have found  it, had   not been that he rather chooses to investi
                         it
    gate for himself than to examine the investigations of others     ;   a
    very good habit, doubtless, with certain restrictions, which  I  fear
    your correspondent has neglected.
       Leaving, however, these matters to Mr. Meikle's consideration,
    my more serious objection    isto the terms of depreciation which
    he applies to those periodical publications in this country which
    are principally devoted to mathematics.     If Mr. Meikle did not
    " shut himself up in his own shell," or, which    is nearly as unfa
    vourable to the formation of habits of liberality, did not associate
    himself almost exclusively with some peculiar coterie,     (I  throw
    this out merely as a conjecture, knowing nothing of Mr. M. but
    from his papers in your valuable publication) he would know that
                                                  ,
    the mathematical sciences in this country owe the most solid
    obligations to those periodical publications.      He would know,
    that while the managers of some learned societies have for many
    years laboured hard to stifle mathematical knowledge, those pub
    lications,  by  presenting a strong and varied stimulus to young
    investigators, have done as much     if  not more than even Cam
    bridge and Oxford to keep    it alive — he would know that some
                                         :
    of the able philosophers from France, Germany, Denmark, and
    other countries, who have recently visited England, have so highly
    appreciated the value of three of those publications, viz. The
    Ladies' Diary, The Gentleman's Diary, and Leybourn's Mathe
    matical Repository, as to take back with them complete series of
    each, that they might introduce into their own respective coun
    tries works formed upon the models of ours; or, as Mr. M. would
    say, might "torment them with such nonsense." Lastly, he would
    know, that many of the most eminent mathematicians of former
    days, such as Halley, Emerson, Simpson, Stewart, Landen,
    Wildbore, Lawson, Crakelt, Maskelyne, and among living ma
    thematicians of established character, Bonnycastle, Barlow,
i   Brinkley (of Dublin), Dawson (of Sedberg), Gregory, Herschel,
    Hutton, Mudge, Robertson (of Oxford), Vince, and Wallace (of
    Edinburgh), commenced their mathematical career, and made
    considerable progress towards eminence,     by contributing to those
    publications,  or one or other of  them.
        Mr. Meikle affirms that those periodical publications are
    " mostly made up of mere puzzling questions, totally useless and
    unconnected with science." To refute this assertion, would en
                                                           I
    treat you to introduce at the end of this letter, the fifteen mathe
    matical questions which appear in The Ladies' Diary for 1820,
    being the 117th number of that work, just issued from the press.

      Defence    of English Veriodical Mathematical Works.          369
If Mr.    Meikle will attempt the solution of some of those questions,
 especially the last four, he will be much better employed than in
t: assisting                                      This gentleman should
                Sisyphus in rolling his stone."
 also recollect that an inquiry which, at first sight, appears merely
speculative, may ultimately be found of practical utility: of this
We have instances in the well-known application of Diaphantine
algebra? to the finding of fluents ; and still more recently in the
 celebrated Gauss's successful application of a function derived
from arithmetical and geometrical progressions to some of the
most intricate though interesting problems in physical astro
 nomy.      I am, sir,                                                 '
                             Yours respectfully,"
London, Nov. 16, 1819.                                MatHEMATICUS.
     Questions published in No. 117 o/- Ladies' Diary for 1820.
     1. What number is that which differs least from its common
logarithm ? and what number differs least from its hyperbolic
logarithm     ?
     2.  Given the segments of the base made by the perpendicular
from the vertical angle, to construct the plane triangle, when the
 tangent of one of the angles at the vertex made by the perpen
 dicular has a given ratio to the sine of the other.
     3. A cistern containing 5236 cubic inches, being filled with
 water, had dropped into it five heavy balls, whose diameters were
 ill arithmetical progression.       Required, the several diameters of
 the said balls ; it being known that half the water was expelled
 in consequence of their immersion, and that the common diffe
 rence of the terms of the progression was one inch.
     4. Find two integers, such that their sum shall be a square, and
 their difference a cube number ; but, if each of them he doubled,
 their sum shall be a cube, and difference a square number.
     5. The three edges of a triangular pyramid which terminate
 in the vertex, are 12, 14, and 15; its perpendicular altitude 9;
 and the edges of its base are as the numbers 2, 4, and 5. Now,
 the distance of the centre of gravity from thafangle of the base
 where the longest slant edge meets the two longest sides of the
 base being G, what is the solidity of the pyramid ?
     6. Find the sides and areas, in whole numbers, of three scalene
 triangles, such, that their perimeters shall be equal, and their
 areas as the numbers 2, 7, and 15.
     7. Give, by means of right lines and a circle, a general con
  struction for the indeterminate equation a1— 2a (x+y) -\-x1+y*
   +xy = o.
     8. A person    has to cross an elliptical common, the axes of which
  are eight and six miles, and has to call at a house situated in one
     Vol.54. No. 259. Nov. 1819.                      A a              of

370      Defence   of English Periodical Mathematical       Works.
 of the foci. On one side of the house he can walk at the rate
 of five miles an hour ; but, on the other, only four miles an hour.
 Required    the least time in which he can perform his rectilinear
journey   acro.ss the common.
    9. Demonstrate, synthetically, that an arc of any curve cannot
 be of finite curvature, unless the subtense ultimately vary as the
square of the arc.
    10. In order that the eclipses of Jupiter's satellites maybe vi
sible at any place, the planet must be at least 8° above, and the
 sun S° below, the horizon.       Now, on the 1st of February 1821,
there will be   an  eclipse of Jupiter's third satellite, the emersion
taking place at 6h 19m 3s P.M. Greenwich time: can that emer
sion be observed at Berlin, N. Iat.52u 32' 30", E. lon.130 26' 15"?
Sun's declin. S. 17° 6'. Jupiter's declin. S. 3° 31'.          Passage
merid. 2h 39m P.M.
    11. Suppose BC to be perpendicular to the horizontal line AC,
and both of them to be given in length, and that a string of a
given length (greater than      // (AC2 + BC2) is fastened at its two
extremities to the points or tacks A, B ; and that the said string,
as it is moved round A, is stretched tight by the continual mo
tion of a point along the horizontal plane.       Required, the curve
that will thus be described on the horizontal plane, by the said
stretching or tending point.
    12. What will be the ratio of the forces of gravity, at the sur
face of the earth, at the top of a slender cylinder a mile high, at
the upper surface of a sphere a mile in diameter (in contact with
the earth and of the same medium density), and on the top of an
extensive piece of table-land of the same density and a mile high,
taking the earth's radius at 3960 miles ?
    13. In the great solar eclipse which happens Sept. 7th, 1820,
the apparent time of the greatest obscuration at Greenwich is
 lh 52m 48s,2 P.M. when the angular distance about the centre
of the sun from its vertex to the centre of the moon is 17° 18' 22"
to the left hand ; and the visible distance of their centres to the
difference of their horizontal parallaxes as 0.5665946 to 1 . Hence
it is required to find the direction and distance from the above
place, which a person must travel for the shortest journey to ob
serve the sun centrally eclipsed ; and at the same time the angle
of elevation, and the direction he must ascend in a balloon for
the shortest voyage to be gratified with a sight of the same phe
nomenon ; supposing the earth a perfect sphere, and its diameter
7914 miles ?
    14. It is required to investigate a theorem, comprehending the
pressure on the base of a steam-engine piston, the course or stroke
of that piston and its velocity, on one part; and the velocity,
                                                                 mass,

                        On   the   Figure      of the Earth.                  371
mass, and diameter of a fly, on the other part ; so that one rota
tion of the fly, with its initial velocity, shall produce a dynamic
effect equal to that of the piston in n successive strokes.
   N. B. The mass of the           supposed equally distributed over
                                    fly   is
its rim, and the diameter of the crank handle equal to the course
of the piston.
    15. The major and minor axes of an elliptical billiard-table are
2a and 2b. Suppose an elastic ball to be propelled through one
of the foci perpendicularly to the major axis, what will be the
rectangular co-ordinates which indicate its position at the tenth
reflection? and will    after any finite number of reflections, move
                          it,
to and fro    in   the direction of the major axis             ?
 LXIII.     On the Figure           the
                                   of      Earth.     By M. De Laplace*.
It   has been proved         by
                           numerous experiments made with the pen
dulum, that the increase of gravity follows very regular progres
                                                          a
sion, and    isnearly as the square of the sine of the latitude. This
force being the result of attractions of all the terrestrial molecules,
 observations thereon, compared with the theory of the attraction
of spheroids, offer the only means that can enable us to penetrate
into the internal constitution of the earth; and the result             is,
                                                                      that
the earth   isformed of strata, of which the density increases from
the surface to the centre, round which they are regularly arranged.
In the Connoissance des Terns for 1821, published the follow
                                                     I
ing theorem, which demonstrated in vol. ii. of the Nouveaux
                          I
Memoires de I'Acadcmie des Sciences.
   "   Ifwe take the length of the seconds pendulum at the equa
tor as unity, and       to the length of this pendulum, observed at
                        if
any point  on  the  surface of the terrestrial spheroid, be added, half
the height   of this  point above the level of the sea, divided         by
                                                                      half
the polar axis,     aheight which     givenis    barometrical observa
                                                      by
tion, the increase of this length, thus corrected, will be, on the
hypothesis of      aconstant density below       small depth, equal to
                                                      a
the product of the square of the sine of the latitude        five-fourths
                                                                   by
of the ratio of the centrifugal force to the gravity at the equator,
or by 43 ten-thousandths."
   The above theorem        generally true, whatever may be the den
                              is
sity of the sea, and the manner in which        covers the earth. Ex
                                                     it
periments made with the pendulum in both hemispheres agree in
giving to the square of the sine of latitude,     coefficient somewhat
                                                          a
larger —  nearly equal  to 54 ten-thousandths.      These experiments,
therefore, prove sufficiently that the earth       not homogeneous in
                                                          is
                  * From Annales de Chimie et Phys. tome xi.
                                        Aa2                                   the

 372                 On the Figure           of the Earth.
  the interior, and that the density of the strata increases from the
  surface to the centre.
     But though the earth be, in a mathematical sense, heteroge
  neous, it may notwithstanding be chemically homogeneous, if the
 increase of density of its strata is caused only by the increased pres
 sure they suffer as they approach the centre.          It may easily be
 conceived that the immense weight of the superior strata may
 considerably increase their density, though they may not be fluid;
 for it is known that solid bodies are compressed by their own
 weight.     The law of the densities which result from these com
 pressions being unknown, we cannot tell how far the density of
 the terrestrial strata may be thus increased.         The pressure and
 the heat which we can produce are very small, compared to those
 which exist at the surface, and in the interior of the sun and
 stars. We cannot even form an idea of the effect of these forces,
 united in those immense bodies.          Every thing tends to make us
believe that they existed at one time in a high degree on the
earth, and that the phenomena which they have occasioned, mo
dified by their successive diminution, form the present state of
the surface of our globe ; a state which is nothing more than the
element of a curve, of which time is the abscissa, and of which
the ordinates will represent the changes that this surface has suf
fered without ceasing.       We are far from knowing the nature of
this curve, and we cannot therefore ascend with certainty to the
origin of what we observe on the earth ; and                 if,
                                                           to satisfy the
                                        ignorance of the cause of the
                                      a by
imagination, always     troubled
phenomena which interest us,             few conjectures are hazarded,
they should be offered with the utmost caution.
    The density of gas, the temperature remaining the same,
                    a                                                        is
proportional to its compression. But this law, though true within
those limits of density in which we have been able to prove                  it,
cannot be applied to liquids and solids, of which the density                is
very great, compared to that of gas, when the pressure             islittle
or nothing.    It  may naturally be supposed that these bodies re
sist compression the more they are compressed            so that the ra
                                                         ;
tio of the differential of the pressure to that of the density, in
stead of being constant, as with gases, increases with the density.
The most simple function which can represent the ratio,                the
                                                                        is
first power of the density, multiplied
                                                by
                                                constant quantity
                                                a                   :  and
this have adopted, because
   I                             it  unites to the advantage of repre
senting   in the simplest  manner    what   we know of the compression
of liquids and solids, a facility of calculation in researches on the
figure of the earth. Hitherto, mathematicians have not included
in this research the effect resulting from the compression of the
strata.    Dr. Young has called their attention to this object, by
the ingenious remark, which may be thus stated, the increase of
                                                                   density

                    On the Figure   of the Earth.                          373
 density of the strata of the terrestrial spheroid. I have supposed
 that some interest. may be excited by the following analysis, from
which it appears that it is possible to explain all the known phe
nomena depending on the law of the density of these strata.
These phenomena are the variation of the degrees of the meri
dian, and of gravity, the precession of the equinoxes, the nuta
tion of the terrestrial axis, the inequalities which the flattening
of the earth produces in the motion of the moon, and lastly, the
ratio of the mean density of the earth to that of water, which
 Cavendish has fixed by an admirable experiment at five and a
half. In proceeding from the law already announced of the com
pression of liquids and solids, I find that, if the earth be sup
posed to be formed of a substance chemically homogeneous, of
which the density is 2| that of common water, and which com
pressed by a vertical column of its own substance, equal to the
millionth part of half the polar axis, will augment in density
5.5345 millionths of its first density, it will account for all the
phenomena.        The existence of such a body may be easily ad
mitted, and is apparent from the surface of the earth.
    If our globe were entirely formed of water ; and in confor       if,
mity with Canton's experiments,     it  be supposed that the density
of water at 10' (50° Fahr.) and compressed            column of wa
                                                           by
                                                            a
ter 10 metres (32.81925 ft.) in height increases                by
                                                        44 millionths,
the flattening of the earth would be           the coefficient of the
                                                   ;
square of the sine of the latitude in the expression of the length
of the seconds pendulum would be 59 ten-thousandths, and the
mean density of the earth would be nine times that of water.
These results differ from observations        by
                                             more than the errors tov
which they are liable.
 I     have been supposing the temperature uniform throughout
the whole extent of the terrestrial spheroid      but  ;   very possi
                                                                it   is
ble that the heat   is greater towards   the centre,  and  that  would
be the case   ifthe earth, originally highly heated, were continu
ally cooling.    The ignorance in which we are with respect to the
internal constitution of this planet, prevents us from calculating
the law  by   which the heat decreases, and the resulting diminu
tion in the mean temperature of climates           but we can prove
                                                       ;
this diminution to have been insensible for these 2,000 years.
    Let us suppose space of a constant temperature, containing
                   a
a  sphere possessing a  rotary motion ;   and that, after    long timea
the temperature of the space diminishes one degree          the sphere
                                                                     ;
will finally take this new temperature its mass will not be at all
                                          ;
altered, but its dimensions will diminish          a by
                                                    quantity which         I
will suppose to be  a  hundred thousandth,      diminution which
                                                     a                      is
nearly that of glass.    In consequence of the principle of areas,
the sum of the areas which each molecule of the sphere will de-
                                A   a
                                    3                            scribe

    374                 On the Figure of the Earih.
     scribe round its axis of rotation will be the same in a given time,
     as before. It is easy to conclude from this, that the angular ve
     locity of rotation will be augmented by a fifty thousandth.          So
    that, supposing the time of a rotation to be one day, or a hun
    dred thousand decimal seconds, it will be diminished two seconds
    by the diminution of a degree in the temperature of the space.
    If we extend this consequence to the earth, and also consider
    that the duration of the day has not varied since the time of
    Hipparchus, by the hundredth of a second, as I have shown by
    the comparison of observations with the theory of the secular
    equation of the moon, we shall conclude, that since that time,
    the variation of the internal heat of the earth is insensible.         It
    is true that the dilatation, the specific heat, the degree of per
    meability by heat, and the density of the various strata of the
    earth being unknown, may cause a sensible difference between
    the results relative to the earth, and those of the sphere we have
    supposed ; according to which the diminution of the hundredth
'   of a second, in the length of the day, would correspond to a di
    minution of two hundredths of a degree of temperature.               But
    this difference could never extend from two hundredths of a de
    gree, to the tenth ; the loss of terrestrial heat corresponding to
    the diminution of a hundredth of a second in the length of the
    day. We may observe, even that the diminution of the hundredth
    of a degree, near the surface, supposes a much greater one in
    the internal strata; for it is known that ultimately the tempera
    ture of all the strata diminishes in the same geometric progres
    sion, sp that the diminution of a degree near the surface, cor
    responds to a much greater diminution in the strata nearer to
    the centre.    The dimensions of the earth, therefore, and its in-
    ertlal momentum would diminish more than in the case of the
    sphere we have supposed. Hence it follows, that         if,in the course
     of time, changes are observed in the mean height of the thermo
    meter placed at the bottom of the observatory caves,            must be
                                                                       it
    attributed not to    a  variation in the mean temperature of the
     earth, but to change in the climate of Paris, of which the tem
    perature may vary, with many accidental causes.               Itremark
                                                                       is
     able that the discovery of the true cause of the secular equation
     of the moon, should at the same time make known to us the in
    variability of the length of the day, and of the mean temperature
     of the earth since the time of the most ancient observations.
        This phenomenon induces a belief that the earth has arrived at
    that permanent temperature, which accords with tt? position in
                                                          by by
     space, and its relation to the sun.    It   isfound     analysis, that
     whatever be the specific heat, the permeability          heat, and the
     density of the strata of the terrestrial spheroid, the increase of the
     heat, ata  depth very small, compared to the radius of that sphe

                        On the Figure          of the Earth.                375
roid,  is equal to the product of that depth, by the elevation of
the temperature of the surface of the earth, above the state of
which I have just spoken, and by a factor independent of the di
mensions of the earth, and which depends only on the qualities
of its first stratum relative to heat. From what we know of these
qualities we find that if this elevation was many degrees, the in
crease of heat would be very sensible at depths to which we have
penetrated, and where nevertheless it has not been found.
        Note added      ly   the   Editor of Annales     de Chimie,   &c.
    Our readers, we think, will not be displeased to find here some
details of the method by which M. de Laplace has established
the invariability of the duration of the day : —
    A mean solar day is equal to the time occupied by one revo
lution of the earth on its own axis, increased by the mean appa
rent motion of the sun, in the same interval. Theory has proved
that the mean apparent motion of the sun, like that of all the
planets, is constant; the duration of a solar day, therefore, can
only vary by a change in the velocity of the rotation of the earth.
    The time in which the moon returns to the same position, re
lative to the sun, for example, its conjunction, is called a lunar
month. This interval is evidently independent of the velocity of
the earth's rotation.     Our globe might even cease to turn on its
centre, without the moon's advancement in its orbit suffering
any alteration. From hence results a very simple method of dis
covering if the duration of the solar day has changed.
    Suppose the duration of a lunar month to be now ascertained
by direct observation ; that        how many days, and fractions of
                                         is,
days, the moon occupies         returning to its conjunction with the
                                    in
sun.     It  evident that on repeating this observation at another
              is
time, a different result will be found,        the length of the day has
                                                    if
changed,      at
              if  the same time the velocity of the moon has not
changed.     The month will appear longer,            the length of the
                                                         if
day has diminished       and on the contrary, shorter,
                         ;                                   the day has
                                                               if
increased.    The constancy of the lunar month will indicate the
invariability of the length of the day.
    All observations combine to prove that from the time of the
Chaldeans, to our own days, the duration of the lunar month has
been gradually diminishing.          follows, therefore, from what has
                                         It
been stated, either that the velocity of the moon has increased,
or that the solar day has lengthened.           But M. de Laplace has
discovered         by
                 theory,   that there      in the
                                               is  motion of the moon,
 an inequality known          by
                            the name of secular equation, which de
 pends on the variation of the excentricity of the earth's orbit,
 and of which the value in each century may be deduced from
the change of this excentricity.       By the assistance of this equa-
 1
                                         A     a
                                               4                            tion,

376       Account   of some            remarkable   Facts observed in the
tiou, the increase of the forementioued velocity is perfectly ac
counted for.   There             is,
                         therefore, no reason to suppose that the
duration of the day    not sensibly constant.
                            is
   Let us for  amoment admit, with M. de Laplace, that this du
ration surpasses at present that of the time of Hipparchus,                                   by
the hundredth of    decimal second.
                        a              The duration of     century                    a
now, or of 36,525 solar days, would be longer than the duration
of century 2,000 years ago, (Hipparchus lived about 120 years
  a
before our era,) by 365."25. In this interval of time, the moon
describes an arc of 534".6     this quantity, therefore, expresses
                                            ;
the difference between two arcs traversed       the moon in    by
                                                              cen                         a
tury now, and in one of the time of Hipparchus        but as these        ;
arcs, determined            by
                        observation and corrected      the secular           by
equation,   do not differ    a quantityby
                                        so large, we may conclude
that in this long interval the duration of the day has not varied
one hundredth of a second.
LXIV.  Account          of       some         Facts observed in the
                                            remarkable
  Deoxidation       of   Metals, particularly Silver and Copper. By
   Samuel Lucas, Esq.*
               W hen
                                                              Sheffield, May 31, 1815.
                           had the pleasure of seeing you in Man
                                 I
chester,  I   mentioned having observed that pure silver, when
melted, and while in        fluid state, had the property of uniting
                                 a
•with a  small proportion of oxygen, not only from the atmosphere,
but also from other bodies which gave          out at suitable degree
                                                         it              a
of heat,-as some of the nitrates for instance and that the oxy   ;
gen thus absorbed remains united with the silver only so long as
it continues in fluid state, or, while fluid, until some substance
                   a
be applied having a more powerful attraction for the oxygen.
In proof of this, now send, for your inspection,
                    I                                   few specimens    a
of silver that has been in the different states, and which carry the
external marks      and also bottle of the gas collected from silver,
                    '
                   ;                    a
which had been exposed to the influence of the atmosphere                                     by
cupellation.            v
  If   silver in large quantities, after having been exposed in                               a
melted state to a current of oxygen gas or atmospheric air, be
allowed gradually to cool, the surface first becomes fixed or so
lid this soon bursts, ebullition ensues, and an elastic vapour in
  ;
considerable quantity escapes, driving before        a portion of the
                                                                    it
internal fluid metal, which, becoming solid as             brought to    it
the surface, produces the protuberances as shown           the accom          by is
panying specimen No.            This ebullition continues from to
                                       1.                                                 \   \
                    * From Manchester Memoirs, vol. iii.
                                                                                              an

    Deoxidation           of Metals, particularly Silver            and Copper. 377
an hour or more, according to the quantity of silver, and the ra
pidity with which it is cooled.
    If, instead of cooling gradually,           it be made to assume the solid
state suddenly            by
                        pouring     it into water, still the same phenomena
occur; an ebullition takes place, and oxygen gas                       evolved; but
                                                                         is
as the silver        so much divided, and passes so suddenly from the
                     is
fluid to   a   solid state, the protuberances are proportionably mi
nute, and are spread more equally over the whole surface, as
will be seen in specimen No. 2.
    No.   3 shows the arrangement of crystallization, which the sil
ver assumes when the gas             is  separated from        it, during the time
of its becoming solid.
 I     have before observed, that substances having                         powerful
                                                                              a
affinity   for  oxygen,     will  take    itfrom    the  silver,    even  while   in a
fluid state. Thus,          charcoal
                               if        be  spread, for     a few   moments    only,
on the surface of silver that has absorbed oxygen, the whole of
the oxygen will immediately be taken from it; no ebullition or
escape of gas occurs, whether              it be cooled gradually, as in spe
cimen No.           or when poured into water, as in No. 5. By com
                   4,
paring these two specimens with Nos.                  1 and        2,very great dif
                                                                        a
ference will     be   observed,     which       occasioned
                                               is                wholly           by
                                                                              the es
cape of gas from the latter, while no such circumstance attended
the former.
   The bottle of gas which you will receive herewith, was collect
ed in the following manner.              Some silver, after cupellation, till in
   state of perfect purity, was poured,                                         time,
                                                      by
a                                                     a   few pounds at                a
into vessel containing about 30 gallons of water and an inverted
      a                                                             ;
bottle previously filled with the water, and with a funnel in its
mouth, being instantly placed over the silver, as                     was each time
                                                                        it
poured into the water, the gas,, as             itwas given out and arose from
the silver, was thus collected            inthe bottle until          was filled.
                                                                        it
    Care       necessary,
              is             that    the  neck    of  the  bottle    be  kept below
the surface of the water         to   prevent   the  access    of  atmospheric air,
and  I   am not very certain that there              isnot     little admixture*.
                                                               a
    In addition to the above, have inclosed two samples of cop
                                     I
per,  in  two different states, both, however, equally pure, except
that the one           believed to be combined with oxygen, and the
                        is
other not.
    No.    1,   is  sample taken from
                     a                          afurnace-full of about          cwt.,  b
when in a melted state, and which had been exposed uncovered
to a current of atmospheric air for about two hours before and
during the time           was melting.
                             it                This when poured into water
exploded     most    violently,    as  will be  seen      bythe small, which was
attempted to be granulated.
      *
      I    found this gas to contain 86 or 87 per cent, of oxygen.                 J.   D.
                                                                                             The

378              Singular Anecdote      of ike Spider.
   The specimen No. 2,    is a sample from the same copper, after the
surface had been covered with charcoal for about half an hour.
This, you will perceive, is in a very different state from the other,
and, when poured into water, granulated without any explosion,
as the small bits  will show.     I remain, &c.
   To  Mr. John    Dalton.                          Samuel Lucas.
LXV. Singular      Anecdote    of  the Spider, with Observations       on
   the  Utility of Ants in destroying         venomous Insects.       By
   Captain   Bagnold*.
D esirous     of ascertaining the natural food of the scorpion, 1
inclosed one (which measured three quarters of an inch from the
head to the insertion of the tail) in a wide-mouthed phial, toge
ther with one of those large spiders so common in the West In
dies, and closed it with a cork perforated by a quill for the ad
mission of air : the insects seemed carefully to avoid each other,
retiring to opposite ends of the bottle, which was placed horizon
tally. By giving it a gradual inclination, the scorpion was forced
into contact with the spider, when a sharp encounter took place,
the latter receiving repeated stings from his venomous adversary,
apparently without the least injury, and, with his web, soon
lashed the scorpion's tail to his back, subsequently securing his
legs and claws with the same material.         In this state I left them
some time, in order to observe what effeet would be produced on
the spider by the wounds he had received.          On my return, how
ever, I was disappointed, the ants having entered and destroyed
them both.
   In the West Indies I have daily witnessed crowds of these little
insects destroying the spider or cockroach ; as soon as he is di
spatched, they carry him to their nest.         I have frequently seen
them drag their prey perpendicularly up the wall ; and although
the weight would overcome their united efforts, and fall to the
ground perhaps twenty times in succession, yet, by unremitting
perseverance, and the aid of reinforcement, they always succeeded.
   A struggle of this description once amused the officers of His
Majesty's ship Retribution for nearly half an hour : a large cen
tipede entered the gun-room, surrounded by an immense con
course of ants ; the deck for four or five feet round was covered
with them, his body and limbs were encrusted with his lilliputian
enemies, and although thousands were destroyed by his exertions
to escape, they ultimately carried him in triumph to their dwelling.
   In the woods near Sierra Leone I have several times seen the
                 * From the Quarterly Journal, No.   xv.
                                                                    entire

          Pinckard on Hydrophobia. — Rees's Cyclopaedia.            3~9
 entire skeletons of the snake beautifully dissected by these mi
 nute anatomists. .
     From these circumstances it would appear, that ants are a
 considerable check to the increase of those venomous reptiles,
 so troublesome in the torrid zone : their industry, perseverance,
 courage, and numerical force, seem to strengthen the conjec
 ture : in that case they amply remunerate us for their own de
 predations.
               LXVI.     Notices respecting New Books.
 Dr. Pinckard has just        published a small work, containing four
 Cases of violent Death following the Infliction of Wounds made
 by the Bite of Dogs.     He considered the diseases which followed
 as Hydrophobia, but     the  symptoms in all, according as they are
 related in the work, varied: in the first case, the greatest aver
sion to water prevailed; in the second, the patient drank freely
of that element by his own desire. But the most unsatisfactory
 circumstance, in all the four cases, is that there is no proof of
the dogs themselves being mad at all : — three of them ran away
 and were never heard of, and the fourth was almost immediately
killed. The impolicy of destroying dogs in such cases, instead of
tying them up to see if they turned out mad, is the most obvious
fact illustrated by the publication in question.      It is well known
that punctured wounds in certain constitutions have produced
tetanus and other sort of convulsions ending in death, without the
concurrence or aid of any specific virus ; and we must still lament
that no satisfactory account has ever been given of the mysterious
disease called Hydrophobia.
    The concluding part of Dr. Rees's Cyclopaedia is about to make
its appearance.     This elaborate and highly useful work has been
conducted with a degree of spirit and liberality highly creditable
to the Editor and Publishers ; and, which is not always the case
with such extensive undertakings, improving from its commence
ment to its termination.     To the spirited proprietors are the pub
lic indebted for setting an example which none will venture hence
forth to disregard in works of this nature, by giving the illustra
tive plates in a style of drawing and engraving which reflects great
credit on the contrivers and executers of this great national work.
We would suggest that at least one supplementary volume should
be added to the work, for the purpose of giving such additional
discoveries and improvements in the sciences and arts as have
been made at various times since the work was commenced, and
                                                                    for

                   Notices respecting New Books.
for which suitable places could not be found in the then unpub
lished volumes ; that the work may be in every respect complete.
The subscribers we are sure would receive this as a favour.
                       Preparing  for Publication.
    Paris  : consisting of 60 Engravings by Mr. Charles Heath, and
other artists, from views taken in Paris, and its vicinity, by Capt.
Batty, of the First or Grenadier Guards.       The work will be pub
lished in twelve numbers, each containing five plates.
     Views in Paris and its Environs, in    a Series of from 50 to 60
Engravings     from   Drawings by    Mr. Frederic  Nash. The work,
accompanied with appropriate letter-press, will be published in
 ten parts.
    Gideon Mantell, Esq. has in the press a work on the Fossils
of the South Downs, with Outlines of the Mineral Geography of
the environs of Lewis and Brighthelmston, in a quarto volume,
with Engravings.               .
    The Rev. Mr. Ward,       of  Serampore, Bengal, has in the press
the 3d and 4th- Volumes of his View of the History, Literature,
and Religion of the Hindoos ; including a minute Description of
their Manners and Customs, and, Translations from their principal
Works.
    The Third Volume of Messrs. Kirby and Spence's Introduction
to Entomology      is in considerable forwardness.
    "  A Journey in Carniola and Italy," by W. Cadell, Esq. two
vols. 8vo. with Engravings, is ready for publication.
    Mr. Crawford's History of the Indian Archipelago,        in three
volumes, Svo. with Engravings, is also nearly ready.
    Mr. Scoresby's Account of the Arctic Regions will soon appear.
It  includes the Natural History of Spitsbergen and the adjacent
Islands, the Polar Ice, and the Greenland Seas ; with a History,
&c. of the Northern Whale Fishery ; chiefly derived from Re
searches made during seventeen Voyages to the Polar Seas        : two
volumes, Sv'o., with Engravings.
   Williams's Travels in Italy, Greece, and the Ionian Islands, em
bracing Manners, Scenery, and the Fine Arts, with Engravings,
two volumes, Svo., will also speedily appear.
   Mr. J. P. Arrowsmith is printing "The Art of Instructing the
Infant Deaf and^Dumb;" with Copper-plates drawn and en
graved by the Author's brother, who was born deaf and dumb.
                                                             A Series

                  Royal College of Surgeons, London.             381
   A Series of Portraits of the British Poets from Chaucer to
Cowper and Beattie is now in considerable forwardness.        They
are to be engraved in the line manner by the first artists, from
authentic originals.   It is to be published in 25 parts, each con
taining six engravings, and will form two volumes.
   Professor Jameson, who has for many years been investigating
the mineralogical structure of Scotland, will soon present to the
public a Map of the mineralogy of that country.
   Mons. Delaunay, late Superintendant of the Manufactories of
the Prince of Monaco, encouraged by the recommendation of
MM. Chaptal, Bertholletr Darcet, and other principal chemists
of France, has translated the valuable Chemical Essays of Mr.
Parkes into the French language.     The first volume has been
announced for publication at Paris this month.
         LXVII.       Proceedings   of Learned Societies.
                 ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS, LONDON.
One    of the Jacksonian      prizes for the year   ISIS   not having
been awarded, the College has proposed two questions for 1820,
viz. " Diseases of the Skin," and " Diseases of the Rectum."
   The candidates to be members of the College, not on the Court
of Assistants.  Dissertations to be in English, and the number
and importance of facts will be considered principal points of ex
cellence.    Each dissertation to be distinguished by a motto or de
vice, and accompanied by a paper sealed up containing the name
and address of the author, and having on the outside a motto or
device corresponding with that on the dissertation.        No disser
tation, nor motto or device, to be in the hand-writing of the au
thor, nor sealed paper to have the impression of his seal.       Dis
sertations to be delivered to the Secretary, at the College, before
Christmas-day 1S20.       Those that are unapproved of, will be re
turned on authenticated application.
   The prize subject for the present year    is,
                                               the Treatment ofmor-
lid local Affections    ofNerves.    To promote the knowledge of
which, it   isrequired that minute dissection of the nerves of the
                             a
cervical portion of the Medulla spinalis, and of their communica
tions with other nerves, be made and;   it    expected that such dis
                                             is
sections be authenticated    bypreparations  of the dissected parts.
   Dissertations to be delivered at the College before Christmas-
day next.
                                                               ROYAL

                                [   382    ]
             ROYAL GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF CORNWALL.
                     Sixth Annual Report of the Council.
     The state of comparative         maturity to which the Society has
 now arrived,     affords less   interesting matter for remark than du
 ring its early progress: The Council, therefore, in discharging
 this their annual duty to the members, have little left them to do,
 but to call their attention to the respectable rank which the In
 stitution has attained, and to urge the necessity of their continued
 patronage to ensure its stability.
     Independently of the intrinsic advantages of an institution of
this kind in gradually adding, by the labours of its members, to
 the knowledge of the physical structure of Cornwall, it possesses
 a secondary value by attracting to this part of the county indivi
 duals eminent for their genius and scientific acquirements, whose
presence cannot fail to be useful to any place which they visit.
     Owing to expenses incidental to the completion of a new Mu
seum, the funds of the Society have not, as was expected, as yet
justified the addition, by purchase, of any new minerals to the
 Cabinet : neither have the donations been so numerous and splen
did as last year.       The Society has, however, been favoured with
not a few specimens, as well from members as others.
     The communications on Geology and the branches of science
connected with    it,    have been numerous and valuable, and the
 quantity of information contained in several of these respecting
the structure of the county and its mineral repositories, renders
it   the duty of the Council to lay them before the public as soon
as materials for a    second volume are accumulated, — period pro
                                                               a
bably    at no  great distance.
    The Council regret that the backwardness of many of the mem
bers who have   it    most in their power to forward some of the most
interesting objects of the institution, justifies, and indeed renders
necessary, the repetition of the following appeal to their liberality
and zeal
     "
         :
       The Council cannot avoid expressing their regret that so few
new specimens have been obtained from the county mines and               ;
that, consequently, the department of the Cabinet set apart for
the reception of indigenous ores, which ought to be particularly
rich and splendid, continues to be defective, and          is eclipsed by
many    other  collections,   as well public as private
                                                     ;  —  circumstance
                                                           a
uniformly exciting the surprise of strangers.
    " The Council earnestly request the attention of members to
the grand object of the institution, that, namely, of enlarging our
knowledge of the Geological structure of Cornwall.             It  impos
                                                                    is
sible for a    few members to undertake the investigation of the
whole county. —   It    is  therefore hoped, that, with    a view of en
                                                                         abling

            .Royal Geological Society of Cornwall.                 383
abling the Society to complete its long-promised but still very
defective Geological Map, members will, in their respective di
stricts, endeavour to ascertain the nature and relations of the
rocks, and transmit their observations made, and specimens col
lected, from time to time, to the Secretary, who will be very ready
to assist their inquiries by any advice or information in his power.
Any person, even although unacquainted with the principles of
Geological science, can, it is obvious, collect specimens of the
various rocks in his vicinity ; and members are requested to bear
this in mind, with the assurance that collections of this kind, with
the various localities of the specimens affixed, will very materially
promote the important object in view.       One grand desideratum,
and which might be very easily supplied by members resident in
the different parts of the county, — is, to ascertain the exact
limits of the different granite and killas districts. — The farmers
and miners, in any part of Cornwall, could give this information
to any gentleman that would take the trouble to record       it,   or to
trace the boundary lines in any of the county maps."
                       By order,
  Sept. 21, 1819.                      John Forbes,     Sectretary.
  The following Papers have leen read since      the last Report.
  I.   On the Throw of Veins.    By Frederic Hall, Esq. — II. On
the Importance of Mineralogical and Geological Knowledge to the
practical Miner.     By John Forbes, M.D. Secretary. — III. On
the Granite Veins of Cornwall.     By Joseph Carne, Esq. F.R.S.
Hon. M.G.S. Member of the Society. — IV. An Account of the
Alluvial Depositions at Sandrycock. By the late P. Rashleigh,
Esq. — V. Observations on the Alluvial Strata of Poth, Sandry
cock, and Pentuan.      By John Hawkins, Esq. F.R.S. M.G.S.
Honorary Member of the Society. — VI. On the Precipitation of
Copper. By Joseph Carne, Esq. F.R.S., &c. — VII. On the
Geology of Saint Michael's Mount.       By Dr. Forbes. — VIII. On
Elvan Courses.     By Davies Gilbert, Esq. Vice-President of the
Royal Society, President. — IX. On the Intersection of Lodes in
the Direction of their Dip or Underlie. By Jdhn Hawkins, Esq.
F.R.S., &c. — X. On the Geology of the West of Cornwall Part  ;
second.    By Dr. Forbes. — XI. Appendix to the above.         By
Professor Jameson. — XII. Observations and Experiments on the
Construction and Use of    a Safety Bar.   By John Ayrton Paris,
M.D. F.L.S. Honorary Member of the Society. — XIII. On the
different Processes employed in Blasting Rocks  ; being an Appen
dix to Dr. Paris's Paper.   By Dr. Forbes. — XIV. On the Tem
perature of the Mines of Cornwall.     By It. W. Fox, Esq. Mem
ber of the Society. — XV. On the Temperature of Mines.         By
Dr. Forbes. — XVI. Notice on the Geology of the Neighbourhood
                                                                of

384                       Bath Institution.
of Sidmouth.     By C. Worthington, Esq.— XVII. On the Origin
of the Cornish.    By the Rev. Samuel Greatheed. — XVIII. No
tice on the Cornish Minerals in the British Museum. — By C.
Konig,Esq. F.R.S. Honorary Member of the Society. — XIX. On
the Transmission of Heat through different Surfaces.      By R. W.
           —
Fox, Esq. XX. Notice on the Coal Field of Pontypool.             By
W. Llewellin, Esq. — XXI. On an Ebbing and Flowing Spring.
By Monsieur Tracelle. — XXII. Notice on the Employment of a
Mixture of Sawdust and Gunpowder in Blasting Rocks. By Sir
Christopher Hawkins, Bart. M.P. F.R.S. a Vice-President of the
Society. — XXIII. Notice of the Quantity of Tin and Copper
raised in Cornwall ; and of the Quantity of Copper raised in Great
Britain and Ireland in the year ending 30th June 1819. By Jo
seph Came, Esq. F.R.S., &e,
                        BATH INSTITUTION'.
   It is proposed to form in  Bath, an Institution for the cultiva
tion of Science, Literature, and the liberal Arts.
   " The Institution to consist of a house and establishment, com
prising the following accommodations: namely, a library and
reading-room, from which newspapers and political pamphlets
shall be excluded ; a botanic garden ; a museum of natural his
tory; a cabinet of mineralogy ; a cabinet of antiquities ; a cabi
net of coins and medals; a hall for lectures, with suitable appa
ratus for the courses on chemistry and the several branches of na
tural philosophy.
   " To these will be added an exhibition gallery, for the recep
tion and display of paintings and other works of the fine arts.
   " The funds to be raised by subscriptionsfor shares of 50/. each,
and the right of property to be vested in the subscribers.
   " The incorporation of the subscribers to take place under a
Legislative Charter.
   " The management of the Institution to be conducted by a
Board of Directors.
   " The Institution to be open to annual and life subscribers.
   " A capital sum of thirty thousand pounds will be required for
carrying the general purposes into effect. Twenty thousand
poutids to be disposable in the purchase of premises, erecting the
necessary buildings, and fitting up the Institution in a suitable
manner ; and ten thousand pounds to form a reserved fund, the
interest of which shall be applicable to defraying the annual ex
penses.
   " No active proceedings to be commenced, until there shall be
subscriptions for at least 300 shares.
   " The Provisional Constitution of the intended Establishment
may be inspected at the Treasurers', Messrs. Cavenagh and Co.,
                                                                  by

                         The Egyptian Society.                     3S5
by those who may wish for more full and precise information pre
viously to subscribing.
    " The amount of subscription will betaken by instalments of
sums not exceeding five pounds, and at intervals not shorter than
three months."
                       THE EGYPTIAN SOCIETY.
    The object which this Society has in view, and which is cer
tainly an important one, will be understood from the following
JProspectiis of a work to be entitled, Hieroglyphics collected by
the Egyptian Society. — The triple inscription of Rosetta having
afforded a prospect of the partial interpretation of the Egyptian
hieroglyphics in general, it becomes a matter of high importance,
for the advancement of literature and of the study of antiquities, to
collect and preserve all the remains of the Hieroglyphical Inscrip
tions and Manuscripts which have hitherto escaped the injuries
of time. For this purpose, the efforts of a single individual would
 probably be too feeble, and the duration of a single life might
possibly be too short : but it may be effected with much more
 ease, and with far greater certainty, by the continued co-opera
 tion of a select Society determined to keep it constantly in view.
    " The process of lithography affords a ready mode of obtaining
 a moderate number of copies of a drawing at a cheap rate. The
object of this collection being to exhibit perfectly correct repre
 sentations of the greatest possible extent of materials for a limited
 sum, the introduction of any unnecessary ornament would ob
viously be inconsistent with its complete attainment; and the
 delineation of all works of art, as such, must, for the same reason,
 be excluded.
    "  It will naturally be desirable to select, in the first instance,
in order for their permanent preservation, such inscriptions and
 manuscripts as have not yet been published ; but it is intended
 that the work should ultimately comprehend every thing of the kind
 that can be obtained ; not only because some of the most important
materials are thinly scattered through a variety of magnificent
 and expensive works, but also because such a collection would
afford a very great convenience, both for study and for reference,
 even to those who are already possessed of the original works
 which contain them.
    " In order to avoid the introduction of arbitrary hypotheses and
 erroneous conclusions, no commentaries, nor even any particular
 nomenclature, will be admitted into this series of hieroglyphics.
 It was indeed in contemplation to have begun the work with a
 copy of the Inscription of Rosetta, subdivided, and having the
 parallel passages of the three texts printed together, according to
 the arrangement of the anonymous translation published in the
 Archceologia ; but it has been thought more advisable to defer this
     Vol. 54. No. 259. Nov. 1819.            Bb            comparison

386                     The  Egyptian Society.
comparison, in the hope that some of the duplicates of the stone,
which have remained more entire, may speedily be obtained from
Egypt.
    " The general subjects of the hieroglyphical inscriptions which
                          ,
they contain, may be collected from an article on Egypt, which
is about to appear in the Supplement to the Encyclopedia Bri-
tannica. The first six exhibit s tolerably perfect specimen of the
manuscripts frequently found with mummies, and which always
contain a series of homages addressed to the different deities in
the name of the deceased.      The next subject consists of friezes
brought    from  Egypt,  and now  in the British Museum, compared
with   another   fragment of the same series found in the ruins of
Rome. The colossal head, which has lately been presented to the
 British Museum in the names of Mr. Salt and Mr. Burckhardt,
occupies the greater part of the 10th plate ; and the subjects deli
neated in the five following plates are more or less immediately
connected with this figure, exhibiting either the name, which is
still distinguishable in the inscription on the back, or that of
Memnon, whom the head has sometimes been supposed to repre
sent, or some other name approaching very near in its form to
one or the other of these two.
    " The execution of the work is so arranged as to afford the sub-»
scribers the greatest possible benefit for their contributions ; and
.not only the whole of the money collected will be employed for
defraying the expenses, but some further voluntary assistance
.may be expected from individuals-; a nobleman who has travelled
in Egypt having already set the example by taking upon him
self the expense of the drawings of a valuable hieroglyphical MS.
which he has lately received from the British Consul at Cairo.
    " Each subscriber will be required to pay one guinea in ad
vance at the time of subscribing, and two guineas annually upon
the Teceipt of each volume, which will probably contain from 20
to 50 folio plates.
   " No copies will be sold, except to those who may become sub
scribers at a future. time; and in such cases the amount of the
sale will be carried to the account of the Society, of which an
annual statement will be laid before the subscribers.    A copy will
be deposited in the British Museum, another in the King's Li
 brary at Paris, a third in the Vatican, and a fourth in the Acade
 mical Library of Gottingen. Other public libraries will be ad
missible as subscribers, it not being intended to limit in any man
ner the description of persons subscribing, nor the number of co
pies which they may wish to take.
    " The management of the work, and any further proceedings
of the Society, which may be thought advisable, will rest entirely
with the Directors, who wil\ also have the power of making,from
                                                                time

        Royal Academies    of Paris and Copenhagen.—     Dijon.       387
                                                           as they may
time to time, such additions to their own number
think proper.       For the present, Taylor Combe, Esq., William
                                                     Mountnorris, and
Hamilton, Esq., Lieut.-Col. Leake, the Earl of
                                              the responsibility   of this
Matthew Raper, Esq., have undertaken
office.
     " Subscriptions will be received by Mr.
                                                 Yeoman, Collector to
the Society, No. 3, Lincoln's Inn Fields."
 THE ROYAL ACADEMY         OF INSCRIPTIONS      AND BELLES LETTRES,
                                  PARIS,
     Has proposed the following prize subject for the year
                                                                 1821 :
     " To   compare the monuments which remain of
                                                            the ancient
                                                    basso-relievos, sta
 empire of Persia and Chaldea, either edifices,
  tues, or inscriptions, amulets, coins, engraved stones, cylinders,
 &c, with the religious doctrines and allegories contained in the
 Zend Avesta, and with the indications and data which have been
 preserved to us by Hebrew, Greek, Latin, and
                                                   Oriental writers, on
 the opinions and" customs of the Persians      and  Chaldeans, and to
 illustrate and explain them as much as possible by each other."
     The prize is a gold medal of 1,500 francs value.         The essays
 are to be'written in Latin or            arid sent in before the 1st of
                                                   ^ following.
                                 French,
 April 1821.      The prize will  be adjudged-
              THE    ROYAL  ACADEMY      OF  COPENHAGEN
                Proposes the following prize questions :
     Mathematics.    — "Num inclinatio et vis acus magnetice iisdenr,
 quibus declinatio diurnis variationibus sunt subjecte ? Nilm etiara
 longiores, ut declinatio, habent circuitus ? Num denique has va-
 riationes certis finihus circumscribere possumus?"
     "  Quibus nature legibus regatur primarra evolutio corporum
 animalium, ut formam sive regularem sive abnormem assumant."
     The prizes attached to these subjects are 50 Danish ducats.
                  "
     Geology. — Quae saxa ad inontes ordinis secundi, seu transi-
 torios, pertinentia in Norwegia reperiuntur ?"
     This prize, proposed by His Excellency S. G. Moltke, is of the
 value of 550 rubles.      The memoirs are to be written in Latin,
 French, English, German, Swedish, or Danish, and should be di
 rected to M. H. C. Orsted, Secretary to the Academy, by Decem '
 ber 1819.
   DIJON ACADEMY       OF SCIENCES, ARTS, AND BELLES LETTRES.
     This Academy has proposed the following question as the sub
ject for the prize to be awarded in 1820.
     « What may be the most effectual means of extirpating from
 the hearts of Frenchmen that moral disease, a remnant of the
barbarism of the middle ages, that false point of honour which
                                B  b 2                               leads

  388                       Aurora Borealis.
  leads them to shed blood in duels, in defiance of the                of
                                                             precepts
  religion and the laws of the state V
     The   same Academy     has proposed the following question for
  1821.
     "  How far is it possible, in the present state of philosophy,    to
 explain aqueous meteorological phenomena?"
          LXVlII.   Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
              AURORA BOREALIS, OR NORTHERN LIGHTS.
A.    SINGULAR and striking modification      of that very mysterious
phenomenon,      the  aurora  borealis, presented itself to the inhabi
tants of all the northern parts of England and the south of Scot
land, on the evening of Sunday the 17th October, of which we
have received some particulars from various places. The follow
ing is the account that has been transmitted to us from an inge
nious Mine-engineer, who happened at the time of its appearance
to be residing at Seatkwaite in Borrowdale, in Cumberland, at
the house of Mr. Dixon, the resident Agent of the black-lead
mine ; viz.
    Monday 18th Oct. The wind here yesterday morning blew
rather strong and cold from the north, but the same died away
as the sun advanced in its course, through a fair and nearly clear
day ; so that the evening after sun-set proved exceedingly still,
clear and starlight, with but a moderate degree of cold, com
pared with that of the morning.         In the evening, at about ten
minutes before nine by the clocks here, (which perhaps may dif
fer considerably from true time,) I was called out of the house by
Mr. Dixon, who a minute before had walked out, to witness a
singular appearance in the sky, which seemed just then beginning
to show itself.    On going out, I observed an unusual degree of
light shining over the tops of all the crags which surround this
very deep and sudden valley ; particularly over the high hills al
most due north from us, called Brunslow-How ; over which, full
as vivid a light shone as from the twilight of a midsummer's
night. This general glimmer of light in the horizon (which we
referred without hesitation to the aurora) occasioned the outlines
of all the crags and hills forming our visible horizon, to be al
most as well defined as by day-light some time before or after
sun-rising or setting, and enabled Mr. Dixon to observe and to
name the very particular parts of the eastern end of Bas-Brown
hill, to the westward, and those of Jenny-bank Crag to the east
ward, between which points of our horizon a narrow, and nearly
equally wide stripe of thin white and slightly luminous cloud was
stretched, not in a straight vertical plane, but apparently in a

                           Aurora Borealis.                       389
plane which inclined over to the southward at top several de
grees, perhaps 1 0 or 20 degrees ; through which luminous arch,
which had about the apparent breadth of the ordinary rainbow,
all the larger stars in its course were plainly visible, although the
Pleiades or seven stars but faintly appeared through it, at a small
elevation above the crag on the east : all the other parts of the
sky appeared perfectly free from clouds or haziness, and there
was no appearance of the streaks or flashes of reddish coloured
light, which usually distinguish remarkable displays of the aurora
borealis ; which to us showed itself only by this light in the vi
 sible horizon, but which no where extended far above the same.
On watching attentively this curious and singular arch, it visibly
 declined in intensity towards the eastern end, and this diminish
ing of its appearance extended gradually towards the western
end, until, only about one quarter of its course remaining distinct
ly visible, at nine o'clock we went into the house, considering
the whole appearance to be nearly ended.
    At 9h 15,n we however went out again, and, to our great sur
prise, observed the luminous arch to be renewed, broader than
before, but scarcely so well defined at the edges, or so dense; so
that smaller stars were visible through it now, than before ; and
instead of its former inclining position, its two ends had now
moved 12 or 13 degrees more northerly upon the hills bounding
our sight; and on holding up^ plumb line, the arch appeared
now to pass through our zenith, or to lie in a vertical plane, ex
actly in the magnetic east and west, as has appeared this morn
ing, by taking the bearing, with a good compass, of the parti
cular parts of the crags which Mr. Dixon was able to recognise
There was, as before, no other appearance of clouds in the sky;,
but on watching attentively the northern edge of the arch, near
to the zenith, it appeared to send off five or six short branches
of the luminous matter, not at right angles to its plane, but di
rected towards the NW. We again went into the house, until
9h3Qm, when, again observing, the two ends of the luminous arch
were now moved back, very nearly, to their former places on the
crags, and the upper part of the arch again inclined, (or haded,
to use a miner's term,) towards the S, apparently as much as be
fore; the breadth was now not greater than at first, but it was
on the whole fainter, and smaller stars were visible through it : by
degrees it now began to disappear, first at the western end ; and
at 9h 35 m, when our observations ended, only a small portion
thereof was visible at the eastern end.
    Mr. Dixon's son (John) being at Rosthwait, about two miles
lower down tke valley to the NE, where the same meets with
the larger valley of Stonethwaite running near S and N, he ob
served in the more open and distant visible northern horizon of
                                 B b 3                            that

390           Aurora Borealis — Dreadful Earthquake.
that place, strong marks of the aurora, moving and flashing
about.     He did not begin his observations until the luminous
arch was in its second or vertically E and W position, by the
needle ; but after that, his observations exactly corresponded
with ours, in tracing the arch from its vertical to its southwardly
inclined and more southern position, and until it finally vanished
in the east.
   The most curious and important part of the above observa
tions, are perhaps those which relate to the visible approach of
the arch towards the north, and then returning back to its former
position.                             :
                        [From another Correspondent.]
                              To  Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, — The    reappearance of the aurora borealis in Britain after so
long an interval, being an object of curiosity to many of your me
teorological readers, I submit the following short notice thereof,
for insertion at your pleasure.
   On Friday the 15th of October the northern lights were di
stinctly seen from Barton mills, Suffolk, by several persons of my
acquaintance ; among others by Mr. B. M. Forster, of Wal-
thamstow, while travelling into Norfolk by night.
   On Sunday the 1 7th of the same month he observed this phe
nomenon again, from Schole inn near Diss, about 8 P. M., and
describes it as exhibiting a very brilliant light of a pyramidal
figure.
   It appears that on the same evening the aurora borealis was
seen from Shoreditch and from Camberwell,             and in other parts
of the neighbourhood of London. Another correspondent has
noticed the phenomenon on the same evening at Carlisle.
   If any correct observations in different parts of the country
should have been made on the aurora, the communication of them
in the Philosophical Magazine would probably amuse many of
your readers.       As yet there have been but few observations on
this phenomenon accurately recorded. The reader may refer to
Dalton's Meteorological Essays, to Davy's Elements of Chemistry,
and particularly to a curious work by Mairan, sur 1'Aurore Bo-
reale, 4 to. Paris 1754, in which several new views of the possi
ble cause of this curious appearance are to be found, together
with an account of the observations made in France on the zo
diacal light.      I am Sir, yours,
   Nov. 10. 181!).                                       T. Forster.
          DREADFUL EARTHQUAKE IN THE EAST INDIES.
                    [From the Bombay Gazette of July 7-]
                                                " Camp Bhooj, June 19.
   " At seven   o'clock on the evening of the 16th of June, an earth
quake destroyed the whole district and country of Kutch.            Ac
                                                                 counts

                           Dreadful Earthquake.                       391
  counts that have been received mention, that from Luckput Bun
  der to Butchao, the whole of the towns and villages are more or
  less in ruins.   The towns of Mandavie, Moondria, and Anjar have
  suffered extensively and severely ; but the city of Bhooj and the
  fort of Bhoojia, between which our force is encamped, are re
  duced the former to ruins, and the latter so breached as to be
  useless as a fortification.   This, however, is the least part of the
  evil : at the moment of the crash, it is apprehended, and I fear
  not any way exaggerated, that 2000 of the inhabitants were buried
  in the mass.
      " Even now the effects of this horrible visitation are felt, though
*
  three days since the first shock, in constant and hourly vibrations
  of the earth. The inhabitants have been obliged to forsake what
  were once their halls, and encamp outside upon some small hills.
  Their distress cannot be well described — bruised, maimed, and
  agitated with fear, they go daily into the city to work upon their
  several houses, and try to extricate the mangled remains of wives,
  children, and relations, whilst in their pious labour the putrid
  stench nearly exhausts them; and cattle, which have fallen in
  numbers, add greatly to the noisome evil.         The walls, from the
  sandy nature of the stone, are crumbled in a mass, and the nar
  row streets of Bhooj entirely lost, thus adding to the difficulties
  of the sufferers.
      "The upper stones of the palace fell, and buried, amongst others,
  the mother of the deposed Rao ; what houses stand are so shat
  tered as to be liable to fall in the ruins ; and the very complete
  wreck of the wall on the southern side, as well as the demolition
  •of nearly all the towers and gateways, render it impossible for
  Bhooj to be a city again.
      " The loss of lives cannot be confined to the city. I fear, in all
  the towns aud villages mortality has been great.         I am inclined
  to think, from the circumstance of a volcano having opened on a
  hill thirty miles from Bhooj, that the country will experience a
  repetition of the evil.
      " From our camp being in a plain, no very material damage has
  been sustained : the tiles of a few temporary erected houses were
  knocked off, and the walls shattered.
      " I shall attempt to give you the sensation felt by those both in
  camp and city.       In the latter, I was informed by a gentleman,
  who nearly suffered by a house falling over him, that riding on,
  without an idea of what was to happen, upon the first notice, a
  heavy appalling deadened noise, the motion of the earth, walls of
  the houses on each side of the street tottering and falling outwards,
  impressed upon him an idea, and he called out, that a mine was
  sprung; whereas, another gentleman imagined the bank of the
  tank   was forced by the water   :  these ideas were accompanied    with
                                     B b 4                              an

392                         Earthquake. — Comets.
an unpleasant giddiness of the head, and sickness of the stomach,
from the heaving of the ground :
                      ' In one wild roar,
                                          expired !
                 The shatter'd town, the wall thrown down,
                 The waves a moment backward bent ;
                 The hills that shake, although unrent,
                 As if an earthquake pass'd !'
                                                    Byron's Siege of Corinth.
    <( In camp a similar sickness and giddiness was experienced ; and
in ignorance until the shock was over, which lasted a minute, of
the nature of the noise below the earth, some sat down instinc
tively, others threw themselves down.                One was paying work
people     in a circle, and upon seeing, him squat, the whole follow
ed the example, and sat round him — the very picture of despair.
 The sensation I felt was a giddiness and horror at perceiving a
 small hillock, close to which I was riding, a short distance from
 the camp, completely agitated, and. at the same time my horse
plunged, from the ground moving.                This was the case also with
 an officer I was riding with. I have, on inquiry, ascertained that
 many years ago, and in the remembrance of the. oldest. inhabi
 tants, an undulating motion, has been felt before in Kutch, but
 never, I hope, will again be attended with such a horrible cata
 strophe j the distress of which has been so great upon the inhabi
 tants, that I confess I fall short of ability to describe.it."
                                 EARTHQUAKE.
    On the 26th of May a violent shock of an earthquake was
 felt at Corneto in Italy, which damaged several houses, buthap-
 pily without any loss of lives. The celebrated ancient Gothic
 cupola of Castello was thrown down, and the church of the Minor
 Friars, of which it formed a part, was greatly damaged. This
 shock Was felt along a great part of the coast of the Mediterra
 nean.
                                      COMETS.
     It  is now ascertained       that one and the same comet returned
 to our system in 1786, 1795, 1801, 1805, and 18|f.                      It ap
 pears that it never ranges beyond the orbit of Jupiter. Its short
 period, of little more than 3| years, and its mean distance from
  the sun, which is not much greater than twice that of the earth,
  connect it in a particular manner with the part of the system in
  which we are placed : of course, it crosses the orbit of the earth
 more than sixty times in the course of a century.                Its elements
  as seen in            are  as under.
                18-fJ
  Passage of perihelion, mean time at Gotha, Jan. 27, 28977
 Longitude of perihelion                                         150' 59' 15"
  Longitude of node                 ;                            334 35       0
                                                                    Inclination

                  The P  anet Pallas. — Antiquities.              393
Inclination of orbit                                      13°  37' 0"
Angle of eccentricity                                     58    2 58
Logarithm of half the greater axis                            0.34500
Half the greater axis                                         2-2131
Period                                             ...  1202-54 days.
    From these elements it appears that this comet is at present
in opposition to the sun, and may perhaps be seen by very pow
 erful telescopes.
    According to the calculation of M. Olbers of Bremen, after a
lapse of 83,000 years, a comet will approach to the earth in the
same proximity as the moon ; after 4,000,000 years it will ap
proach to the distance of 7,700 geographical miles; and then, if
its attraction equals that of the earth, the waters of the ocean
 will be elevated 13,000 feet, and cause a second deluge. After
 220,000,000 years, it will clash with the earth.
                         THE PLANET PALLAS.
    According to Derksen^ the next opposition of this planet will
 take place in 1820, January 6, at 20h 16' 41" mean time at
 Gottingen : Longitude 106u 0' 16".2, Geocentric latitude 54°.
 28' 33".2 S.
                             ANTIQUITIES.
     Some time ago, in digging to make gas tanks at the Low Lights,
 near North Shields, in a place called Salt Marsh, in Pow Dean,
 at the distance of 12 feet 6 inches from the surface, the workmen
 came to a framing of large oak beams, black as ebony, pinned
 together with wooden pins or tree-nails: the whole resembling
 a wharf or pier, whither ships drawing 9 or 10 feet water had
 come.     Muscle shells lay under an artificial spread or coating of
 fine clay, as in the bed of a river.  Julius Agricola, about the 83d
 year of the Christian era, had his fleet in the Tyne ; but tradition
 says, he moored them in the brook Don, near where Jarrow
  Church now stands ; he may have also moored some of them in
 this place (opposite to the Roman station, near South Shields),
  as it has been a secure estuary at the mouth of the Pow Bourne,
  guarded from the sea by a peninsula of clavand sandy land, now
  called the Prior's Point, whefeon Clifford's Fort was built in 1672.
  Large oak trees were also found, hollowed out as if to convey
  water. Had there been found any scorie, or calcined stones,
  conjecture might have pointed to salt-works having been here ;
  but, on the contrary, few stones were found, only sandy black
  mud 12 or 13 feet deep, and one freestone, squared out in the
  middle to hold the foot of a wooden pillar: hammer marks Were
  visible hi the sides of the square hole.    On the side of the pen
  insula above referred to, next to the estuary, salt-pans were work

394                      Egyptian Antiquities.
ing in the time of the Priory at Tynemouth; probably as early
as the year 800, and so to the dissolution in 1539; and accord
ing to Brand, and other records belonging to the Duke of North
umberland, the Pow Pans were making salt in the reign of Eliza
beth; and in 1634, the Corporation of the Trinity-House, New
castle, bought land near Tolland's, Delaval's and Selby's Pans, to
erect their Low Lights upon.      Much of the oak moulders away
on being exposed to the open air : but some beams and planks
are preserved, out of which it is intended to make chairs, &e.
The Danes often moored fleets in the Tyne, during their excur
sions, in the ninth, tenth, and eleventh centuries. — {Durham
Advertiser.)
                     EGYPTIAN ANTIQUITIES.
   The following is an extract from a private letter from a gentle
man of talent and acquirement, who is at present engaged in
visiting the monuments and curiosities of Egypt.
                                             " Cairo, March 4, 1819.
  " Our Italian   expedition   has terminated in the most favourable
manner;    We arrived here yesterday from the Upper Cataracts,
after an absence of four months, without having experienced on
our way any kind of difficulty whatever.   I found Egypt equal to
its fame, and far surpassing in the importance of its architectural
and sculptural remains, in connection with the history of the two
Arts, any opinion I had collected from previous travellers. Volney
says judiciously
                 — ' Nos jugemens sont bien moins fondes sur les
qualites reelles des objets, que sur les affections que nous rece-
vons, ou que nous portons deja en les voyant ;' but this tacit
censure of all descriptions can scarcely apply to one of this coun
try, where the strongest tests of its greatness are the strong emo
tions produced by its ruins.       Our whole journey, to me at least,
was a series of successive pleasure ; and I am at a loss to say
whether I was the more astonished by the grandeur or numbers
of its monuments.
   " We left Cairo in November, and proceeded very rapidly up
the river to Dendera.       The Temple is one of great magnitude,
and   is,perhaps, in more perfect state than any other monument
                     a
in Egypt. We remained here four entire days, occupied from
morning till evening with the measurements and other details of
the architecture and sculpture. The northerly winds prevailing- at
this time of the year, and not being willing to lose any opportunity
which they offered us, we did not delay at Thebes, but passed          it
rapidly a few days after our departure from Kerouch, almost im
mediately opposite Dendera.          The first view of this extraordinary
city,  now  split into five distinct  villages,is  equal to the warmest
panegyrics of Denon, and no praise too large can be given to the
greatness and sublimity of the combinations, architectural and
                                                                  natural,

                           Egyptian Antiquities.                    395
   natural, which it presents. A few calm days, with oppressive
   south winds, detained us some time below Errouan, on the First
   Cataracts: we reached them in December.            The necessity of
   changing our boat, the large one in which we came up the Nile
   to Errouan being too heavy for the shallows above the First Ca
   taracts, at this time of the year particularly, we were obliged to
   remain at the small island of Phile, a few miles from Errouan,
   three or four days in succession.     This time was well occupied
   in making sketches, &c. of the various buildings of the island,
   arranging notes, &c. : Late in December we recommenced boating,
   and proceeded on our way through the ancient Ethiopia. The re
  mains here are still more perfect, perhaps, than those of Egypt, be
  ing, with the exception of the excavated temples, referable to a
   late period (the Ptolemaic dynasty), and not subject to the frequent
  injuries of successive occupiers.    Comparing the physiognomy of
  the present race with that usually adopted in all their paintings,
  of which great and well preserved specimens are to be found in
  almost every temple, it is almost apparent that very few changes,
  if indeed any, have occurred, and that the Nubians of the day are
  the descendants of the ancient Ethiopians. We made ourChrist-
, mas dinner in the capital of the country, Deim; but you are not
  to understand by these high-sounding appellations any thing more
  than a third or fourth rate kind of Irish village.   The inhabitants
  are worthy of their works — wretchedly dwarfed in ail the fair pro
  portions of mental and bodily strength, and as contemptible in
  character as in appearance.       I have generally found mind gra
  dually decreasing as I proceeded south, with all other high qua
  lities, beginning with England as the maximum ; but I am not
  altogether inclined to propose the assertion without some quali
  fications.    We met in our return some Seneer men, very far su
  perior in all particulars to the miserable population of this coun
  try.    On the 2d of January we attained the limits of our journey,
  and remained a few hours at the Upper Cataracts, beyond which
  all navigation ceases : we read the names of hamlets, looked once
  more south towards the blue mountains of Dongola, and returned
  across the Desert to our boat.
      " We had for a short time serious intentions of penetrating still
  further towards the equator ; but the unimportance of the very
  few ruins which remain, not more than three temples, and the
  difficulty of procuring camels for so large a party, deterred us, on
  more mature consideration.       We returned a day or two after, to
  Abouranbol, the principal temple in Ethiopia : it is excavated in
  the solid rock, and of a simplicity, magnitude of dimension, and
  solemnity, even eyes familiar with ordinary Egyptian works have
  not been accustomed to.       We found that the excavation made
  at the head of the door a year and a half ago, by Captains Man
                                                                    gles

396                  To prevent Smut in Wheat.
gles and Irby, Signor Belzoni, &c. who were the first who entered
it, had been already closed by the accumulation of the sand,
which pours down like a torrent from the Desert ; and we had
forty or fifty men, besides ourselves and servants, occupied for
two or three days in re-opening it. The entrance well repaid all
or any labours which could be undertaken for the purpose. Ima
gine the effect of six colossal figures, of a size beyond any thing
to be seen in Europe, attached to six huge pilasters on each side
of the first great apartment or portico of the temple. This cham
ber is succeeded by a varety of other smaller ones, connected
with or preceding the snnctuary, some supported with pilasters,
others without, but richly decorated with mysterious and original
sculpture and painting, illustrative   jti the religion or history of
the achiever. The front has no pillars, and hardly any other em
bellishment than four sitting statues reposing against its face,
the proportions of which may be loosely determined from the
measurement across the heart, 28 by 8.        These figures are per
fectly well executed ; and though the model chosen is certainly
not very consistent with our standard of real or ideal beauty, it
is very consistent with itself, and the general result productive
of a very noble impression.     It stands immediately on the Nile,
and is to be seen at a great distance.     In addition to this, as its
final praise, I may say that these are the only colossal statues
that do not lose on approach : those of the Memnnnium at
Thebes, and particularly the great sitting statues, disappointiug
both the eye and imagination as you advance.          We returned to
Errouan towards the end of January, and resumed our labour at
Phile. Denon places it so incorrectly, that you would hardly, re
cognise in the outlines or proportions the position or character
of these ruins.     We spent more than two days in planning the
whole island anew; on the accuracy of which you may safely rely,
as I imagine the artist who accompanies us, and is very in
telligent, has not omitted the measurement of a single angle or
distance in the whole circuit of the place."
                   TO PREVENT SMUT IN WHEAT.
    Liming the seed, by immersion, is recommended (in the Bi-
llio'theque Physko- veconomique) as the only preventive warranted
by science and sanctioned by experience ; and the following is
given as the method in which the process is best performed: —
we employ the English denominations. — To destroy the germ
of the blight in 4£ bushels, or 256 pounds of corn, about six or
seven gallons of water must be used, as the grain may be more
or less dry, and from 35 to 42 ounces avoirdupoise of quick-lime,
according as it maybe more or less caustic, and according as the
seed may have more or less of the blight.           Make part of the
                                                                water

                          To prevent Mildew in Wheal.                                       397
water to boil, slack the lime with                    it,
                                               and then add the rest of the
water.    When joined, the heat of the water should be such that
the hand could with difficulty bear it.           Pour the lime-water upon
the com placed             tub, stirring
                          in   a                incessantly, at first with
                                                      it                                      a
stick and    afterwards     with      shovel.
                                            a     The liquid should at first
cover the wheat three or four fingers breadth                    will soon be
                                                                          :    it
absorbed       the grain.
               by               In this state let remain, covered oyer,
                                                                 it
for 24 hours       but turning
                    ;                  over five or six times during the
                                            it
day.    Such  of  the  liquor   as will drain off     then to be separated
                                                                 is                           ;
when the corn, after standing a few hours, in order that                   may         it
run freely out of the hand, may be sown. — If not intended to be
used immediately, the limed wheat should be put in                  heap, and      a
moved once or twice           day till dry.
                                   a
   Experience has proved that limed grain germinates sooner than
unlimed    ;and as       carries with
                          it                moisture sufficient to develop
                                                 it
the embryo, the seed will not suffer for want of rain             insects. will;
not- attack     it,
                 the  acrid   taste  of the  lime  being  offensive  to them                  :
and as eyery grain germinates,             less quantity
                                                 a            requisite.  is In
fact, the grain being swelled, the sower, filling his hand as usual,
will, when he has sown 65 of limed corn, have in reality only
used 52.
   As blighted grains preserve, for           long time, the power of ger
                                                      a
minating; the careful farmer whose corn has been touched,
should carefully sweep out the crevices in the walls and cracks in
the floors of his barn, and take great pains to clean them tho
roughly: for the blight          so highly contagious, that from
                                       is                                single        a
grain  will grow    enough     to  blight an   ear,  which   in its  turn  may
infect a field, and at length cause the loss of the crop of whole                      a
countrv, as was the case [in France] in 17S4 and 7S8.                          1
                        TO     PREVENT MILDEW IN WHEAT.
    Salt one part, water eight parts.      With this mixture sprinkle
the diseased corn. Where the corn             sown in drills, this may
                                                            is
be done with      watering-pot; but the best and most expeditious
mode    is with     a a
                   flat brush, such as white- washers use, having                             a
tin collar made water-tight round the bottom, to prevent the
mixture dropping down the operator's arm, and running to waste.
The operator having pail of salt and water
                                   a                    one hand, and     in
dipping the brush into the mixture with the other, makes his re
gular casts, as when sowing corn broadcast          in this way he will
                                                                      ;
readily get  over  ten  acres in the day. About two hogsheads will
do one acre wherever the mixture touches, in three or four days
               :
the mildew will disappear        upon those parts that escape, the
                                            ;
sprinkling must be repeated.         If judiciously cast, the mixture
falls in drops as uniformly as rain.
                                                                                            LIST

                             [   398     ]
            LIST OF PATENTS    FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
   To William Archer Deacon, of Pilgrim's Hatch in the parish
of South Weald, Essex, gentleman, for certain improvements in
the manufacture of boots and shoes      and clogs, by the application
of certain materials hitherto unused for that purpose. — 1st No
vember 1819.
    To Sir William Congreve, of Cecil-street, Strand, in the county
of Middlesex, bart., for his improved mode of enlarging or com
bining different metals. or other hard substances applicable to
various useful purposes. — 1st November.
    To Israel Gundy, gent., Edward Neave and Jo'siah Neave,
shopkeepers, all of Gillingham, Dorsetshire, for their application
of various gases or vapours to certain useful purposes. — 1st No
vember.
    To William Hudson, of Cranbroke, Kent, for improvements in
the manufacture of boots and shoes. — 1st November.
   To Samuel Shorthouse, of Dudley, Gloucestershire, for a ma
chine to cut straw of any length required, thereby rendering straw
a better and more convenient winter food for cattle, and the ma
nure produced in farm-yards, &c. fit for immediate use ; also for
rendering dry straw a manageable manure; also for cutting straw
to mix with horses' corn ; also for cutting straw to any given length
for, any other purpose. — 1st November.
    To John Heard, of Birmingham, for his improvements on
cooking apparatus. — 4th November.
    To John Grafton, engineer to the Edinburgh Gas Light Com
pany, for his new and improved apparatus for purifying gas used
for illumination. — 18th November.
    To Louis Fauche Borel, of the Haymarket, in the parish of
 Saint Martin in the Fields, gent. for an invention called The
moveable and inodorous conveniencer. — 16th May.
   To John Sinclair, for a new method of introducing coloured
threads into flowers and other fancy figures in the process of
weaving, whether the said articles are made of silk, cotton,
worsted and hemp, or mixtures thereof. — 18th November.
    To Joseph Glenny, of Saint John's square Clerkenwell, and
John Darby of Gee-street, Middlesex,for a machine and apparatus
calculated to answer the purposes of a fire and burglary alarum.
— 23d   November.
   To George Lilley, of Briggin, Lincolnshire, for certain im
provements in the construction of engines or machinery (to be
wrought by steam or other elastic fluids) applicable to the driving
of mills, and other useful purposes. — 23d November.
                                                           METEOR0-

                               Meteorology.
            METEOROLOGICAL        JOURNAL KEPT AT BOSTON,
                               LINCOLNSHIRE.
      [The time of observation, unless otherwise stated, is at  1 P.M.]
            Age of
   1819.     the   Thermo    Baro   State of the Weather and Modification
            Moon.   meter.   meter.              of the Clouds.
            DAYS.
  Oct.  15   26      58'     30-10   Fine
       16    27      52'     30-    Ditto
       17    28      45-     30-10  Frequent squalls with rain
        18   29      51-     30-08   Cloudy
       19 new        5,5.    29'SO Ditto
       20       1    54-     29.30 Rain
       21      2     40-     29-48 Cloudy
       22      3     43-     29-20 Ditto — brisk wind — a considerable
                                        fall of snow early in the morning,
                           i
                                        which remained        on the ground
                                        till noon.
       £3      4     50'     29-10   Ditto
       24      5     47-     29-25   Stormy
       25       6   •46-     29-30   Rain
       26       7    47.     29-52   Cloudy
       27       8    46-     29-74   Fine — rain in the morning
       28       9    44-     29-70   Cloudy
       29     10     44-     29-52   Rain
       30     1 1    47.     29-60   Cloudy
       31     12     50-5    29-80   Ditto
  Nov. l      13     49-     29-64   Rain
         2   full    45-     29-50   Fine
         3    15     44-     29-77   Ditto
         4    16     54-     29-66   Cloudy
         b    17     56-     29-37   Ditto
          0   18     49-      29-14  Fine
          7   19     46-      29-30  Ditto
          8   20     43-5     29-46  Cloudy
          9   21     43-5     29-66  Ditto'
        10    22     46-     29-16   Rain
        1 1   23     47-5     29-70  Fine   — heavy rain P.M.
        12    24     47-      29-80  Ditto — rain in the morning
        13    25     47-      29-70  Ditto
        14    26     43-      29-69   Cloudy
                                                                  METEORO-
L

400                                                       Meteorology.
                                  meteorological table,
                            By Mr. Cary, of the Strand,
                                          For November                           181 9.
                        Thermometer.
                                                                                        UegreesofD
                       -3   ji>                                    Heiuht of
 Days of
                                                                                                          Hygrometer
                                                                                                                           Weather.
                                             11 o'CIock
                                                                   the Baroin.
  Month.               p'i                                Night.
                                                                                              by
                                  Noon.                                Inches.
                                                                                         ness     Lcsli
  Oct.   27            34         43          40                   29.84                                               Rain
                                                                                                0 0 0 0
         28            36         46          35                   •     -84                                           Cloudy
         29            36         44         40                          •52                                           Rain
         30            44         45         40                          •62                                           Rain
         31            48         48         46                         •90                   15                       Cloudy
      Nov.   1         46         48         40                         •85                 22                         Cloudy
                       40         47         40                          •77                26                         Fair
             5 4 3 2
                       38         48         41                    30.01                    32                         Fair
                       42         54         46                    29-99                     21                        Cloudy
                       47         54         46                          •72                 20                        Cloudy
              6        47         53         44                          •52                 26                        Fair
              7        42         52         40                          •52                 28                        Fair
             8         37         45         44                          •66                 24                        Cloudv
             9         32         45         44                          •87                 26                        Faii-
         10            46         50         40                          •37                  29                       Fair
         1
         1             45         44         42                          •79                     0                     Rain
             12        40         47         44                          •99                  24                       Fair
         13            44         46         45                          •82                   16                      Cloudy
         14            43         46         45                          •85                  12                       Cloudy
         15            45         47         44                          •77                  10                       Cloudv
                                                                                                                            .
         16            46         42          37                         •51                                           Rain
                                  44          42                                                 0 0                   Rain
         17            39                                                •85
         18            44         44           35                  30'10                     22                        Fair
         19            33         39           37                  29.95                      15                       Cloudy
         20            35         39          43                         •57                 23                        Fair
         21            39         44          35                         •20                  16                       Cloudy
         22            33         40          32                         •58                21                         Fair
         23            31         39          31                         •84                20                         Fair
         24            27         39          35                        '99                 19                         Fair
                       N.B. The           Barometer's                   height   is   taken at one o'clock.

                                  C   401        ]
 JLXIX.     Continuation   of the Reply     to   Mr. Riddle's        Remarks on
       Mr. Meikle's     Paper     " On   the     Lunar Observations."          By
       Mr. Meikxe.
                             To   Mr. Tilloch.
 Sir, —     In  your last Number I hope I have cleared my paper
 on the lunar observations from some of the groundless charges
 of Mr. Riddle. There still, however, remain several other things
 to be noticed.     For the most part Mr. R. has been at great pains
 to prove trifles which every body knows, and which I never de
 nied.    But passing over this at present, I come to consider the
 learned demonstration which he employs to prove that my me
 thod of finding the true altitude of the centre is not more accu
 rate than that method in which the reduced semidiameter is
 used *. With regard to this, I need only observe, that if he had
 given my paper a fair reading, he might have seen plainly that
 it is not the method with the reduced semidiameter " on which
 I animadvert with so much severity," (page 35, line 28,) but
 the common slovenly method almost in universal use, in which
 the reduction of the semidiameter is not used at all ; and. at the
 altitude of 7° this reduction on a mean amounts to 18", which
 is just the error complained of.    I there called it a needless error,
 and so I do still ; for the very accurate method which I recom
 mended, is attended with as little labour as the most slovenly me
 thod can be.
     Again: In giving his te vulgar test of arithmetical computa
 tion," he does very unfair to compare my method with what; he
 calls " the common method."        Now, in the common method, as
 every body knows,     the reduction of the semidiameter by refrac
 tion is neglected altogether ; and it was for this very neglect that
 I cc animadverted on it with so much severity." I must how
 ever remark, that I have never, throughout my whole paper, al
 though Mr. Riddle would fain insinuate                    it,
                                                    inculcated the ob
 servance of such nicety at sea; where, as            too well known,
                                                                is
 some seamen are tolerably content        they get
                                            if      the  altitude within
 half a degree of the truth and for such, the common method
                              ;                                                is
 certainly more than sufficiently correct.     But still, when at any
 time persons, who are not aware of its incorrectness, make a
 landing, and attempt to determine their geographical situation,
     must of course be erroneous.       was for this very reason that
I it
                                         It
    so deservedly censured the method of finding the latitude          theby
 pole star. In giving an approximation,           surely
                                                      it the
                                                           is  least thing
 an author can do, to mention that          not theoretically correct,
                                            it   is
    * That the
               apparent altitude of the centre may also he got correctly by
 this method,   what never once called in question.
               is   I
       Vol. 54. No. 260. Dec. 1819.                         Cc              and

402     Continuation    of the  Reply to Mr.  Riddle's Remarks
and within    what limits it may be used with safety.        It is un
doubtedly owing     to  some   such causes as the above, that one na
vigator finds water where another placed the land; or that
islands have been known to dive and swim alternately at plea
sure.
    It must, no doubt, be acknowledged that another person will
often discover what the author of a paper did not himself ob
serve ; and in this respect Mr. R. has shown much acuteness,
since most of the things he has discovered do not exist in my
paper at all.    In order to set me in as odious a light as possible,
he says, " It would indeed appear that I am not aware that the
central distance of the objects is what is required."         But it is
past his power to produce the
                                    " appearance " of any such thing ;
and after all the contempt he affects to throw on the " excen-
tric point," he is not able to show that it will ever produce any
"  error" whatever. The rule however which I gave on page 37,
is plainly meant as approximate, and not as strictly correct in
low altitudes.
    In perusing my paper in your last Number, which was written
in too great haste, I am really sorry to find that I have expressed
myself very incorrectly about the augmentation of the moon's
diameter. I was led into that mistake by adhering too closely to
                                                 "
Mackay's remark, which Mr. Riddle says is theoretically true;"
whereas it is no such thing, as he may soon find at his leisure.
What I have said about the augmentation being greatest in a
vertical direction is entirely a mistake ; but as the error, and in
deed the whole dispute, is merely about a small fraction of a se
cond, it is useless to say any thing further about a quantity that
can do neither good nor ill.
    With regard to what I formerly advanced respecting the prin
ciples of the quadrant, and on which Mr. R. animadverted with
so much groundless severity, I would beg to observe, that in ex
plaining the principles of any instrument, it is certainly of the
last importance to assign to each particular part its proper use or
effect ; otherwise, it does not deserve the name of an explana
tion at all ; and can at best convey vague or erroneous ideas of
the nature of the instrument.        Had Mr. Riddle himself been the
first to discover the popular mistake in question, that would have
altered the case.      But it would indeed have been too much for
any other person but himself to have had the merit of discovering
"  that a mistaken idea was generally entertained respecting the
theory of an instrument of such importance."
    I shall now proceed to demonstrate that the halving of the ob
served angle is completely effected by the first, the single reflec
tion ; and in so doing, I hope I shall not be taxed with produ
cing a demonstration of the principles of the instrument which is
                                                                    to

     on       Mr. Meikle's Paper              " On          the   Lunar Observations."           403
to be had in every corner, as Mr. R. has done with great ability
in your Number for October, although it did not in the least suit
his purpose.     For the original intention of that demonstration
was merely to show that the instrument only gives half the ob
served angle ; and on no account to prove, what is not tru£}__
that the halving is owing to the double reflexion.     To trj's of the
"  actual construction of the instrument
                                            " is
                                                 nothing to the pur
pose ; for that construction includes several other glasses which
are just as much concerned in halving the angle as the horizon
glass is.   Indeed we might on the same grounds ascribe that ef
fect to the frame's being constructed of wood or brass. But the
grand thing to be kept in mind         that the         is,
                                                   instrument as ac           "
tually  constructed and used,"  involves nothing  on  which the halv
ing  of the angle depends but the single reflexion of the index-
 mirror.
     Let M be the position of the index at zero, or when the
               I                                                                                  al
 titude of an object ©    =0; and let © M ray from the ob
                                        is                                     a
ject impinge against the mirror M,
and be reflected to                R,
                          making, by
the principles of optics, the angle
of incidence ©MP=PMR the
angle of reflexion.                                               p
   Suppose now that the object has
attained   certain altitude ©M©',
               a                                                  0
and that we turn the index till the      I
ray ©' M reflected to R, making
                is
as before ©' M P'= P' M R.
                                                                  R
    It  then evident that the angle
         is
PMP'=P'MR-PMR = f©'MR
-i©MR = i©'M©.
= 90°= P'M I'; from each take
PM    and M =
     I',           M P= ©' M
                   I'   I         P'
                                         ButPMI
                                                  §               ©   =
                                                                      \
                                                                                   h
                                                                              observed angle.
    The       same   thing may  be shown in several ways   but since the           ;
halving of         the observed angle    thus completely effected
                                                   is                the                    by
first, the single reflexion,        clear that the only use of the se
                                             it   is
cond mirror fixed at R,        to reflect the ray M
                                         is             in   direction            R    a
parallel to ©M       so that an observer at
                        ;                         might see the objectA
in contact with the horizon.
    Each mirror, therefore, serves as distinct      purpose from that      a
of the other, as        possible for any two mirrors to do in one in
                         it   is
strument      and to confound the use of the one with that of the
               ;
other,     to explain
          is             simple principle into a mystery, where no
                                  a
real mystery exists.
    Upon the whole, Mr. Riddle          certainly very bright on the
                                                       is
quadrant.     «       true," says he, " that
                        It   is
                                                     ' of light be re-
                                                   ray                if  a
                                              C   c
                                                  2                                        fleeted

 404      Continuation    of the Reply     to Mr. Riddle's     Remarks
fleeted from a revolving mirror, the angle described by the reflected
ray will be double of that described by the mirror," — a statement
meaning neither more nor less than that the halving of the ob
served angle is completed by the single reflexion of that one re
volving mirror.        And yet in a little after he would like to prove
the contrary ; but on account of the impossibility of the task, he
contents himself with trying to palm the popular error in ques
tion, on the demonstration he had copied from some elementary
work ; and, strange to relate, he at length brings out the extra
ordinary conclusion, that there is nothing
                                                       " vague or insignifi
 cant" in ascribing the above effect to the " double reflexion!"
     Mr. R. lastly admits, though reluctantly, that I had correctly
stated the error of certain tables *, but that I had " disingenu
 ously converted that into an argument against putting confidence
in any tables of the kind."          Now this accusation is totally un
founded ; since it is to his own candour and moderation that I
owe its extension to " any tables of the kind."                My own words
are :  —  "  It is not difficult to perceive what confidence ought to
 be put in such tables ;" — obviously meaning the tables only which
 contained the gross error, and by no means any tables of the
 kind. It is then Mr. R. himself who " has betrayed the aberra
 tion from rectitude of intention," by disingenuously laying so
 many erroneous things to my charge, which he might have been
 content to have attributed to his own misconstruction.
                          I  am, sir,
                                        Your most obedient servant,
 Berners street, Dec. 3, 1819.                            HENRY MeiKLE.
     P. S. — In your last Number,            Mathematicus,      among other
 things, accuses me      of advancing three distinct properties of the
 ellipsis
           "  with an air of novelty."        Now that this accusation, so
 far as " novelty" is concerned, must be very incorrect, is obvious
 to any one who merely looks at the uncertain mode in which I
 have announced that proposition.
     With regard to my other crime of not reading, I would beg to
 inform him, that I had turned over several very complete trea
 tises on Conic Sections, some of those he mentions not excepted;
 but then I was only in quest of the other two properties, without
 concerning myself at all about the third " long known
                                                                      " one,
 until writing out the demonstration, I merely marked it down as
 an obvious consequence of the other two ; and I had scarcely sent
 away that paper, when on turning over the second volume of Pro-
    * This error is of no trifling nature, since by it a ship may appear to
 change her latitude sixteen miles at the end of twelve hours, although she
 do not stir out of the spot, and that too in any part of the globe.
                                                                       fessor

   on   Mr. Meikle's Paper «         On the   Lunar Observations."   405
fessor Leslie's Mathematics, about to be published, I found the
property which has been soj" long known ;" and of course perceived
that I had laid myself open to an accusation so often chargeable
on correspondents to periodical mathematical works; viz. the
obliging the public with articles that are not new. However,
                                                                 as
this long-known property is immediately deduced from the     other
two without any additional harangue, I hope I shall obtain par
don from the reasonable part of your readers for the commission
of 6uch a weighty offence.
   My investigation of the other two properties has still   a decided
advantage over that proposed by your correspondent ; in that it
is founded on properties of the ellipsis to be found in every trea
tise, and familiar to such as know very little of Conic Sections.
This end I had in view, in giving it the present form.
    My remarks, however, on periodical mathematical works were
not, as he supposes, so much aimed at such works themselves ; nor
yet at their editors, who, I well know, have enough to mind be
sides ; but my strictures were chiefly intended for the proposers
 of useless puzzling questions so very detrimental to the reputa
 tion of such works, and so much complained of by many who are
not at the trouble of doing so publicly.
    I readily agree that every encouragement ought to be afforded
to periodical mathematical works, as of the utmost advantage to
 the progress of science ; while on the other hand, useless puzzling,
 questions cannot be too much condemned.
    Before proceeding, however, to solve his questions, I would beg
to ask, Why he has allotted me the four last, rather than any of
the others.    Was   it,  because one of them (the 12th) affords a
most striking instance of the truth of my former remarks, and of
 the little consideration with which such questions are too often
proposed  ?    The fact    is,
                             that question    altogether absurd and
                                                 is
 impossible, so long as the nature and diameter of the cylinder
as well as the exact dimensions of the table-land are not given.
Any one might see this at once who has ever heard of the law of
gravitation —
               " discovery of the great Newton which he did not
               a
 owe to reading."
    This therefore consider complete solution to the 12th ques
                 I               a
 tion, and hope the Editor of the Ladies' Diary will have the good
ness to insertit   for the amusement of the ladies.
                                                                 H. iM.
                                 Cc3                         LXX. Me-

                               [  406     ]
 LXX. Memoir on a new and certain Method of ascertaining the
    Figure of the Earth by means of Occultations of the fixed
    Stars.    By A. Cagnoli.       With Notes and an Appendix by
    Francis Baily.
                        [Concluded from p. 360.]
                              APPENDIX.
 Since the original publication of the preceding Memoir, I am
not aware that any attempts have been made to derive any prac
tical result from the theory of the learned author; notwithstand
ing the simplicity of the method which he has proposed.          Per
haps no practicable mode, which has been hitherto suggested for
determining the true figure of the earth, or the precise quantity
of the compression of the polar axis, is entirely free from errors :
but, as those errors probably arise from different sources, accord
ing to the methods adopted, it is desirable that the modes of in
vestigating it should be varied as much as possible, in order that
the existing discordances may be ultimately reconciled or re
moved.
    M. Lalande has sta.ted(BibliographieAstronomique, page613)
that in the Ephemeris of Vienna for 1791 there is " a dissertation
on the figure of the earth by M. Triesnecker ; who has deduced,
from sixteen occultations, the compression = t-jt-"         Whether
the occultations, which were used by M. Triesnecker in his cal
culations, were the peculiar sort of occultations alluded to by
M. Cagnoli, I am unable to ascertain ; as I have not been able
to procure a sight of M. Triesnecker's labours on this subject :
but, as that work was published two years before this Memoir, I
much doubt whether his method is precisely the same as that laid
down by M. Cagnoli.        However this may be, the design of the
present translation is not at all affected thereby; as my object is to
recall the attention of the public to the subject, in order that the
benefit and advantage of the method may not be wholly lost; and
that such scientific persons, as may be induced to co-operate
therein, may look out for those peculiar occultations which are
described in the preceding pages, and note down their observa
tions thereon accordingly.
    For this purpose, nothing more is requisite than a telescope
sufficiently powerful to see the star distinctly, when close to the
illuminated side of the moon's disc ; together with a good clock,
or watch, beating seconds.       And although it would be desirable,
in all observations of this kind, to have the exact mean lime of
the immersion and emersion of the star, yet, as it is the duration
only from which the consequences are to be deduced, it will be
sufficient (the latitude and longitude of the place being well as
                                                           certained)

                          On the Figure       of the Earth.                    407
certained) if the clock or watch can be depended upon for the
few minutes that the star is hid behind the moon : since the
duration will be the same whether the clock is set to mean time,
or not*.
      In observing occultations, similar to those which have been
the subject of the preceding Memoir, the observer should be care
ful not to withdraw his eye from the telescope before he is fully
satisfied that the star is completely hid by the body of the moon.
 For the star passes behind so small a segment of the moon's disc,
that it may undergo a partial occultation by the projecting moun
 tains of the moon, before it is wholly hid by that body ; as ap
 pears      from the following singular phenomenon,                 noticed by
 M. Koch        at Dantzic, when observing the occultation of Alde-
 baran on March 7, 1794.              " He was looking out for the immer
 sion of the star, near the upper crescent of the moon.                 It disap
 peared at first: but 10" afterwards it re-appeared suddenly in
 all its brilliancy. It was soon afterwards hid a second time. It
 re-appeared however again : but, presently after, its immersion
 took place for the third time at 8h 28' 21" apparent time. The
 observer then counted 30"; and, finding that the star did not
 make its appearance again, quitted the telescope in order to
 write down the observation.               He caine back immediately ; but
 the star had already emerged from behind the moon.                    It is to be
 regretted that he was not present at the instant of emersion, in
 order to complete an observation which had never been made be
 fore.       However, it was sufficient to show that the star did not
 pass a single second of a degree within the moon's disc.                      For,
 the semidiameter of the moon being 15'. 52", and its apparent
 motion 29" in a minute, it is found that, if the duration of the-
 occultation had been one minute, the line joining the centre of
 the moon and the middle of the chord (traversed by the star)
 ought to be 15'. 51"." Connaissance des Terns, Anneev'x. page 253.
 The writer of that article justly adds that " this is one of the
 very interesting but very rare cases that M. Cagnoli has proposed
 to select for the purpose of determining the true figure of the
  earth."
    -
       It is not necessary to inform the practical astronomer that in
  many occultations the star, immediately before its immersion, and
 immediately after its emersion, is observed to change its colour f,
                                                                               and
      * In calculating the exact time of the immersion or emersion of a star, in or
  der to deduce any practical and very accurate results therefrom, I do not find
  that any allowance is ever directed to be made for the time that light takes to
 travel from the moon to the earth ; which is about one second and a quarter.
        .[Messier, who observed the occultation of Aldebaran on Sept. 25, 1 755,
  states that just before the immersion, on the illuminated side of the .moon's
  disc, he saw the star sensibly diminish in light, change its colour and be-
                                             C c4                             come

  408     On   a new and certain    Method of ascertaining         the  Figure
  and for many seconds to appear not only adhering to the cir
  cumference, but oftentimes projected on the disc, of the moon.
  Whether this optical deception is caused by an atmosphere sur
  rounding the moon, or by the instrument used for the observa
  tion *, or by what other means, I shall not stop to discuss : but,
  as it is probable that its effects may be more discernible in those
  peculiar occultations which have been the subject of the preced
  ing Memoir, it is desirable that the particular circumstances of
  the case in each occultation should be noted down as they occur ;
  together with a description of the telescope used for the observa
  tion. Astronomers indeed now adopt the method of noting down
  the moment of apparent contact, as well as the moment of the
  disappearance of the star : and when it emerges again from be
  hind the moon, they likewise note down not only the moment of
  its reappearance, but also the moment of its separation from the
  moon's disc.       Indeed every remarkable phenomenon which may
  occur during any observation ought to be carefully registered: as
  it is only by a comparison of such cases that we can ultimately
  expect to discover the causes which influence or produce them.
       M. Cagnoli, in his Memoir, seems to have addressed his re
  marks chiefly to the principal observatories of Europe.                   But,
   however desirable it may be to have the co-operation of those
   scientific bodies, it is evident that many private individuals may
  do much towards accomplishing the object and design of the au
  thor.      In many cases, they may perhaps be able to do more than
   can be effected in any fixed observatory : since they may be more
  favourably situated, on the earth's surface, for the observation, or
  may enjoy the advantage of a more clear and favourable atmo
  sphere.      Indeed, the greater the number of observers attached
  to this duty, the greater will be the chance of an accurate result :
  for, independent of taking a mean of the observations made near
  the same spot, we might be enabled to detect the errors of the
  lunar tables by means of simultaneous observations made in a fa
   vourable situation in a distant part of the world ; agreeably to
'
  come white : and that for 10" before its actual immersion it appeared ad
  hering to the border of the moon.        Connaissance des Terns, Annie 1810,
  page 336. In a subsequent occultation of the same star, on July 1 1, 1 757,
  he states that, just before its immersion, also on the illuminated side of the
   moon's disc, it appeared adhering to the border of the moon for 7", and af
   terwards remained 2" on the moon's disc, previous to its total disappearance :
  and that the star was easily discernible on the face of the moon by a reddish
   colour which it had acquired on approaching thereto.       Ibid, page 339.
      * In the occultation of Aldebaran on July 5, 1755, Messier, with a
                                                                               4-J
  feet Newtonian reflector magnifying 140 times, saw the star for near 2" pit
  the moon's disc : Le Gent.il, with a refracting telescope of 6 or 7 feet, saw
  it adhering to the border of the moon, for 4" or 5" : whilst Cassini, with his
   18 feet telescope, saw it detached from the border, to the very moment of
  immersion. Ibid, page 335.
                                                                            what

     of the Earth    by means     of Occultations of the fixed Stars. 409
what the author has suggested in § 15 of his Memoir.                   In fact,
 by increasing the number of observers to an indefinite extent,
 over the whole surface of the globe, almost every occultation that
 occurs might be brought in aid of the method proposed by
 M.Cagnoli.
     In the present contracted state, however, of thescience of Astro
nomy, wemust confine our views to a more limited scale of assist
 ance. In this country, indeed, there are many persons scattered
 throughout the kingdom who have the means and opportunity of
 making observations of this kind : and, amongst the numerous
 occultations which they observe, if they should find only one that
 belongs to that peculiar class of occultations, which is alluded to
 in the preceding pages, it would be a valuable discovery; and
 ought to be noted down accordingly, with all the circumstances
 attending it, in order that it may be compared with others of a
 similar kind.
     It is much to be lamented, however, that in this country there
 is no association of scientific persons formed for the encourage
ment and improvement of Astronomy.                  In almost all the other
branches of the arts and sciences, institutions have been formed
for the purpose of promoting and diffusing a general knowledge
of those particular subjects ; such as Botany, Agriculture, Che
mistry, Anatomy, Geology, &c. &c. : the beneficial effects of which
 are too evident to be insisted upon in this place.            But, Astrono
my,    the  most   interesting and sublime of all the sciences (and, to
our country, certainly the most useful) cannot claim the fostering
aid of any society.         It is however well known that many indivi
duals, in various parts of the kingdom, have of late years erected
and furnished private observatories at a very considerable ex
pense.      Nevertheless the utility of those establishments must be
greatly    circumscribed      through the want of some mode of general
 communication amongst Observers, by means of which their la
bours might be collected and registered; and thus rendered
permanently useful.           The formation of an Astronomical So
 ciety would hot only afford this advantage, but would in other
respects be attended with the most beneficial consequences.                   It
would induce many intelligent persons (who are at present re
strained by want of due encouragement) to come forward as the
patrons and followers of the science ; and excite the more expe
rienced to further exertions aud new discoveries*.                   Although
    * The name of the
                        Royal Society will naturally occur to the reader on this
occasion : but that society was formed for the promotion and encouragement
of science in general; and the subject of Astronomy appears to form but a
small portion of its labours. Nevertheless the Astronomical Society would,
in common with the Linruean, Geological and other scientific societies, hope
for the co-operation  of its learned members.
                                                                         much

410      On a new and certain Method           of ascertaining    the  Figure
much has been already done towards perfecting our present sys
 tem of astronomy, much still remains to be effected, both in
theory and practice.         Not only would the interchange of senti
ments and remarks on the various celestial phenomena, which
such a Society would afford, lead to the advancement of the
science in general; but the comparison and discussion of the
merits of the several instruments used for astronomical purposes
would also tend either to their improvement or to the discovery of
 new ones.      By means also of a society of this kind an active com
 munication might be kept up with the principal astronomers in
different parts of the world ; and, thus, continual subjects of re
search or observation be submitted to public attention.                     The
funds of such a society might likewise be usefully employed in the
formation of an Astronomical Library, consisting of the most
 rare and valuable books on the science ; and in collecting and
 transcribing the observations of astronomers in various parts of
 the world *.      But even without any views or pretensions to new
 discoveries, or to the improvement of optical instruments and
time-keepers, or to the formation of such a library, an Astrono
mical Society might render very important benefits to Geography
and Navigation by simultaneous observations of lunar distances,
 eclipses, occultations, and various other phenomena; which are
 at present in a great measure neglected because the public atten
tion is not specially directed thereto. And the more numerous
 and widely diffused the members of such a society might be, the
greater the probability of obviating the baneful effects of our
cloudy atmosphere ; an occurrence which often renders the efforts
of the finest observatory totally unavailing.
    There is yet another source of assistance which we may hope
   * The observations and remarks of many eminent astronomers, both an
cient and modern, still exist only in manuscript, in the hands of private in
dividuals ; and ought, if possible, to be rescued from their present precarious
situation, and deposited in a place of safety and convenient ,reference. Btd-
liald made an immense collection of observations of this kind, many of which
came into the possession of Lemonnier; who put them into the hands of
Pingre', for the purpose of publication.      Pingre' had himself collected also
an astonishing number of rare and valuable manuscripts from all parts of
Europe, and had not only calculated and reduced their contents ; but had
likewise discussed and compared the observations, so as to render it a work
of the highest utility to astronomers.    It was the labour of thirty years ! and
the National Assembly in 1 / 9 1 issued a decree for printing it, under the title
of Annates Celestes du dix-ceptibne siecle. In the year 1794, about 360 pages
of this work were printed ; being one-third only of the intended publication.
The learned author died in 1 796 at the advanced age of 85 : since which
period I do not find that the progress of the work has been at all advanced.
Many valuable observations of the more recent astronomers, such as Halley,
De L'hle, Lemonnier, Godin and others, it is well known, exist also only in
manuscript ; and are now mouldering in the dust, a disgrace to the nine
teenth century.

    of  the  Earth   by means    of Occultations of     the fixed Stars.     411
for in this country. It is well known that, on the continent, great
advantage is rendered to astronomy by means of the Epheme-
rides, which are published under the authority of Government:
and those annual publications contain a vast fund of valuable in
formation on the subject of astronomy, which otherwise might be
for ever lost to the world. The Board of Longitude in this country
have now the power and the means* of affording similar assist
ance by enlarging the original plan and design of the Nautical
Almanac, and by assimilating it to those which are published at
Paris, Berlin, Vienna, and other places : a measure which would
tend to retrieve the character of the work, and redound to the
honour of the country        f.
     With the very ample funds (4000/. per annum) which Govern
ment has placed at the disposal of this new Board, for scientific
purposes, united to the known abilities and zeal of its several
members, we may confidently hope that a new impulse will soon
                                                                               be
    * Extract from the recent Act, 58 Geo. III. cap. 20, 6.
                                                           §
                                                                 " And whereas
it is expedient that the    said Commissioners should be enabled to expend
certain sums towards making experiments of instruments, modes or pro
posals, and for making and publishing observations, calculations, and tables
for ascertaining the longitude, or towards improving or correcting such as
 may have been already made, or for other purposes useful to navigation; be
it enacted that they may pay or expend any sum or sums of money, not ex
ceeding 1000/. in any one year, towards the making, correcting or publish
ing any such experiments, modes, observations, calculations, or tables.
    § 7.
          " And whereas it is expedient that the said Commissioners should be
 enabled to cause to be ascertained, as accurately as may be, the latitude
 and longitude of places, whereof the exact situation hath not been already
 sufficiently ascertained ; be it enacted that they may expend or cause to
 be expended any sum, not exceeding in the whole 1000/. in any one year,
 for that purpose.
          " And whereas it may happen that proposals, inventions and tables,
    § 8.
or corrections and amendments of former proposals, inventions or tables,
 ingenious in themselves and useful to science, and which may deserve encou
ragement, (though they do not come within the limits and conditions speci
 fied for the above-mentioned rewards) may be made to the said Commis
 sioners; and it is expedient that they should be enabled to bestow such
 moderate rewards upon the person or persons who may have made such
 proposal, invention, or correction ; be it therefore enacted that the said Com
 missioners may pay or cause to be paid such sum, not exceeding 500/. to
 any one pei'3on for any one proposal or invention, or 2000/. in one year, as
they may consider the said proposals, inventions, tables or corrections to de
 serve."
    f   Amongst the several amendments which might be made to that useful
 work, I would suggest the propriety and advantage of having the Right
 Ascension and Declination of the moon inserted to seconds of a degree; si
 milar to the method now adopted in the Connaissance des Terns. This would
 facilitate the finding of the apparent place of the moon, for the purpose of
comparing it with the place of any given star, the position of which is al
ways given in Right Ascension and Declination : and would moreover ob
                                                                             viate

 412      On a new and certain Method          of ascertaining   the  Figure
 be given to the progress of astronomy in this country : and that,
 by emulating our scientific neighbours on the continent, we may
 avoid the lamentable necessity of resorting to them for almost all
 our means of deducing the situation of the heavenly bodies, and
 of investigating the law9 which govern their motions *. Probably
 the object of the Legislature would be more effectually answered
 if the new Board of Longitude would undertake to lead and di
 rect the attention of the scientific world to such particular objects
 as they might think most worthy of encouragement ; rather than
 to ivait for proposals on every subject (useful or visionary) that
 may be laid before them.            The publication of specific rewards
 —for the formation of new Tables of the Sun, Moon, or any of
 the Planets ; — for the best Essays on any particular subject of
                f
 Practical or Theoretical astronomy ; — for any valuable improve
 ment in Time-pieces, Telescopes, Micrometers, or other astrono
 mical instruments; — for the best Engravings of any portion of
 the celestial sphere, and particularly of the Zodiacal stars ; — for  J
 reducing the Observations of any celebrated astronomer ; — for the
 Discovery of any New planet, comet, fixed star, or other re
 markable celestial phenomenon; — for the Translation of any
 valuable astronomical treatise into the English language; — and, in
 general, for any other object which may be
                                                     "
                                                       useful to science and
 which may deserve encouragement';" — would necessarily excite
 and fix the public attention to those subjects, and perhaps more
 effectually promote the views of a liberal and enlightened Govern
 ment.
    But to return to the subject of the present Memoir. — It has
been stated by M. Cagnoli, § 4, that the difference of parallax
viate the necessitj' of finding the position of the Nomgesbnai, — an unneces
sary and troublesome process. As the original calculations of the computer
must extend to seconds, there is no good reason for omitting them in the
publication.    I would likewise (as connected with the subject of this Me
moir)   take the  liberty of suggesting the propriety of publishing annually in
that work, an accurate list of all the Zodiacal stars (including even those of
the 9th magnitude) not only in Right Ascension and Declination, but also
in Longitude and Latitude, with their annual and secular variations, cor
rected from the latest observations. The expense would be trifling, com
pared with the advantage to be derived from the result.
   * It is too well known that all our astronomical Tables, uZ? our
                                                                     Catalogues
of stars, and most of our astronomical Formule, in present use, are the pro
duction of the continent.
   t  I believe there are no tables whatever of two of the newly discovered
planets.
   X Accurate engravings of the Zodiacal stars, upon a large scale, would
enable astronomers with greater certainty to look out for occultations of
fixed stars by the moon ; the observations of which are undoubtedly the best
method of determining the longitude of places.
                                                                          arises

    of the Earth by means of Occupations of the fixed Stars.         413
 arises frpm the inequality of the terrestrial radii ; and that the
 one is the measure or consequence of the other.            Therefore, in
 order to determine the parallax at any given point of the earth's
  surface, it is necessary to know the distance of that point from
 the centre of the earth.       But, that the reader may see the ano
 malies which arise on this subject, (from the actual measurement
 of the degrees of the meridian in different countries, and from
 different theories which have been assumed) I have calculated
  the following table, which shows the radius of the earth in the
 latitude of Greenwich (51°. 28'. 40''), according to the several
 hypotheses of the compression of the earth's axis therein stated.
               No.  Hypothesis.  Radius in feet. Difference.
                         t
                 1
                      TT9         20 827 239
                        '                           6609
                 2    1    0      20 833 848
                        1                         14376
                 3    TTo'        20 848 224
                                                    7U5
                 4    lio
                        1
                                  20 855 339
                        1                           8350
                 5    ins         20 863 689
                        i                           4455
                 6    TTo         20 868 144
                                                    S675
                 7    7 io'      20 876 819
                        I                           1101
                 8    ~36 9       20 877 920
                        I                           2640
                 9    mr         20 880 560
    The first value here given arises from the recent measure
 ment of the arc in France, by taking the middle arc at Evaux,
 which makes the compression of the earth's axis = -j-i-g- ; and the
 length of the earth's radius in the latitude of Greenwich equal to
 20 827 239 feet. By comparing this value with the last in the
 table, which is one of the hypotheses assumed by the Bureau des
Longitudes in the recent tables of the Moon by M. Burg, it will
be found that there is a difference of no less than 53 321 feet, or
more than 10 miles; a quantity sufficiently great to be detected
by the observation of the moon's parallax, and which would pro
duce a very sensible effect on the duration of such occultations as
have been the subject of the preceding Memoir : since we have
 seen that, in some cases, a difference of less than 200 feet will
produce a difference of one second in the duration.
    But, although such occultations may clearly show that the earth
 is compressed at the poles, and although they may be effected by
 quantities which differ so widely from each other as in the case
just mentioned ; yet it may be doubted whether they are capable
 of determining the precise quantity of that compression ; and
                                                              •
                                                                therefore

414     On  a new and certain     Method    of ascertaining the Figure
therefore whether they are more eligible for that purpose than
the methods at present in use.         In reply to which, it may be re
peated that this plan is at present proposed only in aid of the
modes hitherto adopted for determining the true figure of the
earth ; and by no means as supplying the place of other methods
for deciding that difficult problem.
    In order, however, that the reader may have a more compre
hensive view of this subject, and be enabled to see the differences
which would arise in various latitudes and under various circum
stances, according to two nearly similar hypotheses of the earth's
compression compared with the hypothesis of its being a perfect
sphere, I have inserted the three following tables ; which show
the alteration in the position of the star within the moon's disc,
and its consequent effect on the duration of the occultation, ac
cording to the three several hypotheses of the earth being consi
dered as a perfect sphere, and of its being compressed at the poles
.j-tar, and       ; at the several heights of 10°, 20° and 30° of the
moon above the horizon ; and at the several latitudes of 50°, 60°,
and 70°. The chord of the star's apparent path behind the moon
being,in all these cases, assumed to be perpendicular to the ver
tical circle of the place.
    Thus, by an inspection of Table II, it will be seen that in lati
tude 60°, when the moon is 10° high, and the star 60" within the
moon's disc, the duration of the occultation would be 2f/. "i", if
the earth were a perfect sphere. But, if the polar axis were com
pressed -j-i-j-, the star would then be only 5 1",5 within the moon's
disc, and the duration of the occultation only 18'. 41": which is
the case alluded to by M. Cagnoli § 10.            Or, if the polar axis
were compressed only             the star would then be 52", 3 within
the moon's disc, and the duration of the occultation would be
18'. 50"; being a difference of 9" between the results of the two
hypotheses. This difference would be the same, if the moon were
20° high y as may readily be seen by an inspection of the same
table: it would also be the same under corresponding circum
stances, if the observation were made in latitude 70°: as may be
seen by an inspection of Table III.
    This difference however may probably be considered as too
small to enable us to derive any satisfactory result as to the pre
cise quantity of the compression of the earth's axis.         But, if we
take the position     of the star within  the moon's disc equal to 10"
only, and the moon at the height of 10° as before, we shall have
the duration of the occultation 8'. 19" on the supposition that
the earth is a perfect sphere.        Then, supposing the axis to be
compressed -,-J-g-, the star would be only 2",3 within the moon's
disc, and the duration of the occultation only 4'. 0" : or, sup
posing the axis to be compressed -j^, the star would be only

  of the Earth ly      means    of Occultations of               the fixed    Stars. 415
1",5 within the moon's disc, and the duration only 3'. 14"; being
a difference of 46" in the result of the two hypotheses.                               If the
inoon were 20° high, the difference would be only 42".                               If how
ever the observation were made in latitude 70°, and the nioon at
10° high, the difference would be much greater : since, on the
supposition of the compression = -j-ttj tne duration would be
2'. 30" ; whereas, on the supposition of the compression = -jfa
the star would not undergo any occultation at all, but would
merely touch the moon's disc.                Nearly similar results might be
obtained, under particular circumstances, in lower latitudes ; as
may be seen from an inspection of the Tables.                           And it will thus
be evident that a very small difference in the ellipticity of the
earth, may, under some very favourable circumstances, be ren
 dered sensible to observation.
    It is unnecessary however to dwell further upon this subject at
present: a fair experiment does not appear to have ever yet been
made of the ingenious mode proposed by the illustrious author of
 the Memoir, for determining the true figure of the earth.                                  It
 seems to me to be highly deserving of encouragement: and my
 object will be fully answered if any practical good should result
 from the public attention which I may have excited in its favour.
                                                                                       F.B.
                                     Table I.
                                    Latitude    50°.
               Earth = Sphere.            Earth    ==   1             Earth   =    1
      Height                                          TTST                       3T5TT
      of the
      Moon.   * within                * within    !                * within   duration.
              J 's disc.
                         duration,
                                      5 's disc.
                                                    duration
                                                                   J's  disc.
                   ii         /  ii         //            /   //       ii           /   //
                60         20. 7         54,0         19.    7       53,4        19. 1
                30         1420          24.0          12.51         23,4        12.41
         10»    15         10.11           9,0          7.54           8,4         7.38
                10          8.19           4,0          5.16           3,4         4.52
                  6,6       6.46           0,6          2.   2         0      Appulse-
                  i»          / //          ii          /    //         ii           /   i»
                60         20. 7         54,3          19.10         53,7        19. 4
                30         14.20         24,3          12.56         23,7         12.46
        20»      15        10.11           9,3          8. 2           8,7         7.46
                 10         8.19           4,3          5.28           3,7         5. 4
                  6,3       6.37           0,6          27 2           0      Appulse.
                  it          /   ii         //             / ii        //           /  //
                60         20. 7          54,7         19.14          54,2       19.    9
                30         14.20          24,7         13.    2       24,2       12.54
        30°      15        10.11            9,7          8.12          9,2         7.59
                 10         8.19            4,7          5.43          4,2         5.24
                  5,8       6.21            0,5           1.52         0       Appulse.
                                                                                       Table

416                 On the Figure              of the Earth.
                                    Table II.
                                  Latitude     60°.
    Height  Earth = Sphere.             Earth =      -j^          Earth    =
                                                                             ?ihr
    of the
    Moon.  * within                  * within                   * within
                                     J
                      duration.                                            duration.
           5 's disc.                   's disc.
                                                    duration.
                                                                J 's disc.
                 ii         /   //         //            /  ii      it          /   u
             60         20. 7           52,3          18.50       51,5       18.41
             SO         14.20           22,3          12.23       21,5        12.10
     10"      15        10.11             7.3           7. 7        6,5        6.43
              10          8.19            2,3           4. 0        1,5        3.14
               8,5        7.41            0,8           2.22        0      Appulse.
                ii        /   //           ii             /  //       a         I    //
             60         20.    7        52,7          18.54       51,9        18.45
             30         14.20           22,7          12.30       21,9        12.17
     20°     15         10.11             7,7           7.19        6,9        6.55
             10           8.19            2,7           4.20        1.9        3.38
               8,1        7.30            0,8           2.22        0      Appulse.
             •II
             60     ^
                        J
                        20. 7
                              "
                                        53,2
                                            ii            /
                                                       18 59
                                                             //      n
                                                                  52,6
                                                                                /
                                                                             18.52
                                                                                    //
             30         14.20           23,2           12 38      22,6       12.29
     30°     15         10.11             8,2           7.33        7,6        7.16
             10           8.19            3,2           4.43        2,6        4.15
               7,4        7.10            0,6           2. 2        0      Appulse.
      *
                                   Table III.
                                    Latitude    70°.
                ii         Z II            ii             /  ii        ll       > ii
             60         20 7            50,9           18.34        50       18. 2
     10°      30        14.20           20,9           12. 0        20       11.44
              15        10.11             5,9           6.24           5       5.54
              10          8.19            0,9           2.30          0    Appulse.
                //         /   ii          ii            / //        ll         ,   //
              60        20. 7           51,3          18.39       50,5       18.30
              30        14.20           21,3          12.   7     20,5        11.53
     20°      15         10.11            6,3           6.37        5,5        6.11
              10          8.19            1,3           3. 0        0,5        1.52
               9,5        8. 7            0,8           2.22        0      Appulse.
                 II         /  //          ii             •  n       /,         /   ii
              60        20. 7           52            18.46       51,2       18.38
              30        14.20           22             12.18      21,2       12.   5
     SO"      15         10.11            7             6.58        6,2        6.34
              10          8.19            2             3.44        1,2        2.54
               8,8        7.49            0,8           2.22        0      Appulse.
                                                                           LXXI.        Re-

                              [   417    ]
LXXI.     Report  from   the Select Committee appointed to consider
    the  Validity  of the Doctrine of Contagion in    the Plague.
The Select Committee appointed to consider the validity of the
   doctrine of Contagion in the Plague; and to report their Obser
   vations thereupon, together with the Minutes of the Evidence
   taken before them, to the House ;— Have considered the
   matters to them referred, and have agreed upon the following
   Report:
Your      Committee being appointed to consider the validity of the
received doctrines concerning the nature of contagious and in
fectious diseases, as distinguished from other epidemics, have pro
ceeded to examine a number of medical gentlemen, whose prac
tical experience or general knowledge of the subject appeared to
your Committee mdst likely to furnish the means of acquiring the
most satisfactory information.       They have also had the evidence
of a number of persons whose residence in infected countries, or
whose commercial or official employments, enabled them to com
municate information as to facts, and on the principle and effi
cacy of the laws of quarantine.       All the opinions of the medical
men whom your Committee have examined, with the exception
of two,'are in favour of the received doctrine, that the plague is a
disease communicable by contact only, and different in that re
spect from epidemic fever ; nor do your Committee see any thing
in the rest of the evidence they have collected, which would in
duce them to dissent from that opinion.        It appears from some
of the evidence, that the extension and virulence of the disorder
is considerably modified by atmospheric influence ; and a doubt
has prevailed, whether under any circumstance the disease could
be received and propagated in the climate of Britain.         No fact
whatever has been stated to show, that any instance of the dis
order has occurred, or that it has ever been known to have been
brought into the lazarettos, for many years. But your Committee
do not think themselves warranted to infer from thence, that the
disease cannot exist in England ; because, in the first place, a dis
ease resembling in most respects the plague, is well known to
have prevailed here in many periods of our history, particularly in
 1665-6 ; and further, it appears that in many places, and in cli
mates of various nature, the plague has prevailed after intervals
of very considerable duration.
   Your Committee would also observe, down to the year 1500,
regulations were adopted, which must have had the effect of pre
venting goods infected with the plague from being shipped directly
for Britain ; and they abstain from giving any opinion on the na
ture and application of the quarantine regulations, as not falling
    Vol. 54. No. 260. Dec. 1819.                  D d          within

418 Report      from the Select Committee appointed     to consider
within the scope of inquiry to which they
                                        have been directed ; but
they see no reason to question the validity of the principles on
which such regulations appear to have been adopted.
    June 14, 1819.
                       Minutes of Evidence.
    Charles MacLean, M.D. — Employed himself in 1815 in in
vestigating the plague in the Greek Pest Hospital near the Seven
Towers at Constantinople, commonly called " The Plague of the
Levant :" Considers the plague as not contagious.          Never knew
an instance of a plague case imported into England — has reason
to believe such an occurrence has never happened during the ex
istence of quarantine or before. — Does not consider the plague of
 1665 to have been the Levant plague.          Is of opinion that the
plague   is capable of being cured in the proportion of four cases
out of five by particular treatment. — Has heard of inoculation
for the plague — of a gentleman (Dr. White, who died in Egypt)
inoculating himself three times and not taking the disease the two
first times ; but being seized the third time with the malady in
consequence of a coincidence which in Dr. M.'s opinion would
have equally happened whether he had been inoculated or not.
Knows it to have been Dr. White's opinion that the plague was
not contagious.        Considers the establishment of our own qua
rantine laws not to be of the smallest use — that      is,   if
                                                              itbe true
that there never has arrived any person from the Levant, or any
other place, actually labouring under the plague      ;    and    if beit
true (according to the advocates for contagion) that goods, wares,
and merchandize can retain infection for seven, fourteen, or twenty
years,it    must be apparent that, with respect to goods as well as
with respect to persons,        quarantine of forty days can in such
                                a
case be of no sort of use. Knows that the regulations of the Laza
retto system adopted in Italy have not been effectual for prevent
ing contagion.       Recently at the town of Noya, which was sur
rounded    by lines of circumvallation, ditches, and cordons of troops,
 and every mode of restriction imposed on the inhabitants, the
disease continued, as  it   has done at other places subject to plague
police, its usual course, and ended at the usual time.         Persons
employed as expurgators of goods at the Lazaretto are more ex
 empt from the disease than the community at large.           Feels as
sured that from mere contact he could not take the disease.
Does not believe, as has been represented, that in the towns of the
East the Turks suffer in a greater proportion than the Chris
tian population.       The Turks do not desert their friends when
 seized with the disease, not feeling that dread of the malady which
 Christians do  ;   and
                      it   is admittedby   the advocates of contagion,
that dread operates more severely than what they call the true
                                                              contagion

    the Validity  of the Doctrine of Contagion      in the Plague.   419
.contagion itself ; it therefore must operate equally severely under
the belief of contagion, whether it does or does not exist.          And
it must operate more severely upon those who entertain that be
lief, as the Greeks and Armenians of the Levant, than upon the
Turks, who do not entertain it. This also has been confirmed by
facts ; and it is stated by various travellers, that the Turks reco
ver in a much greater number from- the plague than the Chris
tians who are attacked by it.       Considers the date of the Council
•of Trent to have been the period at which a belief of contagion
in epidemic diseases was first accredited and acted upon by any
public authority, with the view then of effecting the removal of
that Council to Bologna.         It was disputed by the Cardinals
whether it was the plague or scarlet fever.          Fracastorius said it
was the true plague.        Has no doubt that the disease which pre
vailed in Florence in 1348 was the true plague. — [Being asked
to state more particularly the grounds on which he rests his opi
nion that the plague is not contagious,] — Thinks the plague not
contagious for many reasons.         In the first place, the plague and
all other epidemic diseases appear at certain periods, generally
speaking, and disappear at other certain periods, different in dif
ferent countries ; they also cease generally at the time at which
the greatest. number of persons are affected, as happened in the
plague of London in 1665, in the plague of Marseilles in 1720, and
it is believed in most other pestilences — facts which seem wholly
incompatible with the existence of contagion.           Besides, they are
capable of affecting the same persons repeatedly, which there is
no proof that contagious general diseases are capable of doing.
Conceives the principal causes of epidemic diseases to be — the
 epidemic constitution of the air, sudden or extreme vicissitudes
of temperature, deficiencyof nourishment, and depressionof mind.
The earliest epidemic season in the year is at Smyrna, where it
 occurs from February and March to June or July ; considered
generally to terminate about the 24 th of June.            At Constanti
 nople it commences in July or August, and terminates in Novem
ber or December.        It commences at Cairo much about the same
 time as at Smyrna ; seems to correspond with the rising and fall
ing of the Nile. The epidemic season does not appear at all
connected with the change from heat to cold, except in as far as
 sudden transitions are concerned; it commences in England and
other countries in hot weather, and terminates in cold ; in.
 Egypt and Syria it commences in cold weather, and terminates
in hot. Conceives the clothes sold out of the Pest-hospitals could
 not fail to produce the plague, if the plague were contagious.
 It is customary for the relations of those who die of the plague
 in Turkey, to wear the clothes of the deceased, or to sell them
                             •
                                D  d 2                                  in

   420     Report  from the Select Committee appointed to consider
   in the public bazaar or market-place ; they are in constant cir
   culation. Used to walk into the city of Constantinople every day,
   sometimes even, after he had the disease, and go through the
   thickest of the people along with his interpreter, visiting the cof
   fee-houses and other frequented places.         The people knew they
   were making experiments       in  the plague hospital, and none of the
   Mahometans ever avoided them on that account, nor was the dis
   ease by that means propagated.         The purveyor and other agents
   of the hospital walked every day to the open market to buy their
   supply of victuals for the hospital ; they came openly among the
   people without any precaution.
       Thomas Foster, M.D. — Conceives the plague under certain
   circumstances is contagious; for instance, wherever there is close
   confinement in a chamber in which atmospheric air is not freely
   admitted; but if atmospheric air be freely admitted into the cham
   ber of the patient, the attendant will be, generally speaking, free
   from contagion.       Considers that we have had no cases of the
   Levant plague in England. Does not think the plague of 1665
                                                                        '
  was the Levant plague.          Could never fittd any evidence of a
   plague case existing any where in England.           Believes that con
   tagious diseases can attack persons more than once.           Considers
   contagious   diseases  such  as  are capable  of being   communicated
   by contact and inoculation ; infectious diseases, such as arise
   from the infecting state of the atmosphere.        Has considered the
   quarantine establishments as they related to the medical ques
   tion, in what manner the plague is capable of being communi
   cated ; and the result of his inquiries has been satisfactory to
  himself, that the free admission of atmospheric air into chambers
  was, in general, a preventive against the propagation of the dis
  ease.    Thinks that if bale goods be capable of receiving the in
  fection in the Levant, so as to convey it all the way to London,
  the short time limited for quarantine would be insufficient to pre
  vent the danger; that the cause of pestilential diseases consists in
  the infectious qualities of the air, which are capable of exciting the
  disease on predisposed constitutions ; that those peculiar qualities
  of the air operate in some instances locally and continually in
  particular regions : moreover, that unhealthy qualities bf the air
  occur in all places casually, and excite prevailing epidemics and
'
  influenzas in particular seasons, which the predisposed soonest
  fall a prey to.
      Dr. James Johnson. — Has not personally seen the plague, but
  has^erved in the Mediterranean, where he has had opportunities
  of acquiring information.        Has not the least doubt of its being
  contagious through the medium of contact, near approxima
  tion, or exhalation, and fomites.        Considers articles of cargo not
                                                                         so

  the Validity   of the Doctrine of   Contagion in the Plague. 421
so likely to  be infected as clothes ; considers packages not to be
near so likely to transmit or bring contagion, as articles of dirty
apparel.     In woollen clothes the fomites of contagions is more
generally retained than in any other substances. — Supposing one
of the most likely articles to communicate the plague to be in
fected, such as wool, silk, or cotton ; considers that in order to
purify those articles, nothing more is necessary than ventila
tion ; free ventilation, and opening them out to the action of the
sun and air.     Thinks it is extremely seldom that contagion is
brought in goods; but that the purification is more frequently a
process of safe precaution than of actual dispersion of the con
tagion. Considers the quarantine laws too rigid ; the time is too
long, and probably the process too complicated. Would not consi
der the fact of there not having occurred a plague case at any la
zaretto for 50 or 100 years, sufficient to inspire confidence to con
template the doing away quarantine establishments, because he
knows that the contagion of plague is very considerably under
atmospheric influence ; and consequently, that a very long period
may occur in which that peculiar constitution of the air is absent
which gives activity to the matter of contagion.           Adduces as
particular circumstances    in proof  that  the plague  is  contagious
or infectious; First, the authority of those who have written with
out bias on the subject ; for instance Russel, and most of those
who have seen it.       Secondly, its being an eruptive disease ; be
cause we know that all eruptive diseases arise from specific con
tagions, or poisons as they are called ; buboes and carbuncles are
as commonly seen in the plague, as pustules in the small- pox.
Considers the malignant fevers incident to Trincomalee, Batavia,
and Diamond Harbour, to be a class totally different to the plague,
as it exists in Turkey, Egypt, and in the African states, both in
their nature and causes.      Believes these violent epidemics in In
dia depend principally for their origin upon the miasmata ex
haling from the marshy soils of these regions, which miasmata are
influenced by the state of the atmosphere, and that the diseases
are not in their own nature contagious ; but that under particular
states, as from accumulation of filth and want of ventilation, they
do occasionally assume a contagious character.         Considers that  ,
all fevers, whether originally contagious or not, may become so
by the patients being too much crowded, by want of cleanliness,
or want of ventilation. Believes the remittent and what are called
Yellow fevers, more properly called Endemic fevers, are not con
tagious.    Was at Gibraltar in 1800 ; the fever was not epidemic
 then ; there were sporadic cases, which he considered as of local
origin ; they were produced by causes generated in the surface of
 the rock, and atmospheric causes —not imported.           By the term
sporadic   means   wandering   cases, not generally epidernjc; a cas«
                                  D d 3                      happening

422    Report from   the Select Committee appointed to consider
happening here and there in a family.      Believes the plague to be
a contagious disease communicable by the effluvia of diseased
bodies being applied to sound persons, independent of any atmo
spherical or adventitious causes.
   Being asked whether he conceives that a certain quality in the
air is necessary to bring forth latent contagion ; that in the great
plague in the reign of Edw. III. which spread over country after
country, and carried off three- fourths of the inhabitants of Europe,
the climates shifted : if from the year 1570 to 1665, there was a
perpetual recurrence of plague in England, it is probable that the
same quality of the air could have been over England during a
century ? — answers,
                        " With respect to the first question, the
disease was probably produced by an epidemic influence, which
will occasionally travel round the whole globe ; for instance, in
 1802 there was an influenza over most of the world. There was
a fever in India a few years ago, which travelled nearly 1000 miles,
gradually extending itself in the direction of the monsoon, from
near Cape Cormorin to the banks of the Carvery, and sweeping
off 106,000 people. This took a considerable time to travel from
one part to another ; but went in the direction of the monsoon,
affecting one district after another.    That I consider as an epi
demic influence which I cannot account for, excepting by peculiar
states of earth and air ; it was not contagious from individual to
individual, but something in the air, which produced a general
epidemic fever from south to north.       I think it was some epide
mic influence of this kind that spread over Europe ; but from the
time it happened, the descriptions are not minute; I hardly con
sider it the plague of the present day."     Considers that there are
periodical changes of climate, irregular in their returns, but bring
ing a constitution somewhat similar to former periods.       This was
the opinion of Sydenham, and is entertained by many at this
moment.       Thinks these changes productive of disorders, and that
there are scarcely two epidemics precisely alike in their nature.
Believes the plague of 1665 to have been the regular true Levant
plague.     It appears that the plague was, at least, frequently re
current in England for the greater part of a century, previous to
 1665 ; in the year 1608 it is mentioned by a familiar writer to
he so prevalent, that houses were marked with a cross, and the
words miserere mihi written on them to prevent persons from
entering them ; he particularly mentions the plague spots; the
tokens were probably buboes or carbuncles ; with respect to the
spots, there is some difficulty in making up one's mind as to what
they meant, they might mean petechia.
   Dr. William Gladstone, Surgeon to the Naval Asylum at
 Greenwich. — Was at Constantinople in 1806 and 1807; and
from having been then surgeon of His Majesty's ship the Endy
                                                                mion,

    the Validity  of the Doctrine of Contagion in  the Plague. 423
 mion, saw there some diseases of the plague, and a great variety
 of Asiatic fevers, highly infectious.  Considers the plague, from
 what he has seen, as highly infectious, and equally so through the
 medium of the diseased atmosphere of a sick chamber, as by
 simple contact, by feeling the pulse.      Supposes the plague at
 Constantinople to arise from the diseased constitution of the at
 mosphere and other peculiar causes, such as effluvia and soil,
 which produce endemic diseases all over the globe ; from the same,
 causes as we have epidemic diseases in England, and from the
 circumstance of that city standing upon hills. Many of the houses
 are built on ground sloping to the south-west, consequently liable
to the whole action of the south-west sun ; all are badly venti
 lated.   The streets are very narrow, and they do not possess that
 grand source of health, common sewers. The suburb of Pera,
 which is chiefly inhabited by Europeans, has generally less plague
 than any other district; owing, he conceives, to the houses not be
ing so close, or the streets so narrow.      Does not consider the
plague in England in 1665 to have been the real Levant plague.
 At that period, as far as he has been able to trace from a
variety of old authors, there was scarcely such a thing as a com
mon sewer. The privies were accumulated under every house,
probably not emptied for years; and an order was given to empty
them once a month. That order originated, it is believed, in the
 College of Physicians after the spreading of the plague. Ascribes
the sickness of 1665 to the narrowness of the streets, accumu
lation of filth, and want of ventilation ; and probably a diseased
constitution of the atmosphere at that period.       Firmly believes
that it was not imported, but that it originated in England. Does
not consider that our quarantine establishments have kept the
plague from being introduced into Great Britain or Ireland.
From having been frequently under quarantine restraint himself,
has made it his business to visit most of the lazarettos between
Gibraltar and Constantinople ; but the source of disease is more
frequently seen among the Greek vessels that carry cargoes to
Marseilles.    Considers the lazarettos particularly inefficient in
fitment for the purpose of purifying bales of goods from infection,
that is with respect to ventilation and ballast.      Thinks it very
doubtful whether the Levant plague can exist in a British atmo
sphere, but that there is great encouragement to nurse disease,
if any is imported into the lazarettos. There are some of the
lazaretto ships where the shjngle ballast has not been shifted for
many years ; and in many instances fevers have been produced,
and nursed from this case, even in our men of war ; the men of
war formerly used to be ballasted with shingles ; on turning this
ballast, it has produced fever in several of the ships.   Has never
                                  D d 4                       heard

424 Report        from   the Select Committee appointed to consider
heard of a plague case having arrived at or been seen in any la
zaretto in Great Britain.                   ,
    Being asked, What is the state of atmosphere which he con
 ceives compatible and not compatible with the existence of plague ?
— answers, " I look upon it that in cold dry weather the plague
does not so frequently exist.         In hot weather, after floods, when
the rivers, such as the Nile, have overflowed, and left marshes
and ponds, the action of the sun in summer on such marshes and
moist grouud always produces disease, and frequently in the Le
vant plague.      In the cases of plague which I saw at Constanti
nople, the thermometer stood about the freezing point, from 26
to 30 ; it was in the winter."           The state of the atmosphere in
which it is supposed to act most violently, is a high temperature
from 66 to 76 and upwards.             Thinks a lazaretto properly fitted
up with ventilating apparatus, so as to cause a current of air to
be constantly percolating through the cargoes, must soon destroy
the vitality of any contagion that might be conveyed to England.
Is of opinion, that the airing process might be as efficiently per
formed, as it now        is,
                          in    much shorter period,
                                a                        by   adifferent fit
ment, attending to the state of the ballast and hold, which in
every ship       important, but in lazarettos most particularly so.
                  is
Believes     possible that the plague might be imported into Eng
             it
land. Sees no reason why             should not spread, except that the
                                    it
English people     are  more   cleanly, better ventilated in their apart
ments and the common
         ;                    shores   and drains carry off all filth, which
is   agreat cause of the spreading of the plague in other countries.
Does not suppose the atmosphere of England applicable to the
receiving or generation of plague, for the last one hundred years.
This country and every part of the world inhabited, has been
more cultivated, underwood near cities\has been cleared away,
and swamps drained, which has contributed much to rendering
the disease milder,       Knows that the plague     is frequent in Aleppo,
 and that the caravans proceed regularly with goods in bales from
Aleppo eastward through the continent of Asia but never heard
                                                         ;
 of the plague being communicated              by
                                              these caravans to the eastern
 country.    Sees  no  reason    why       should
                                          it       not have been so com
municated as    well   as      by
                              goods     or  persons on board ship west
ward, except that the goods are not so closely packed in cara
vans as in Levant ships.       In ships, the cargoes are screwed down     ;
they often raise the beams of            ship in forcing the goods down
                                         a                                ;
and consequently they are more liable, from their close stowage,
to retain infection,      infection
                         if              embarked.
                                         is
    Dr. Augustus Bozzi Granville. — Hasseen the plague in va
rious parts of Turkey, Greece, Asia, Syria, Egypt, &c. and               in
 Constantinople,     where he resided two years, and has no doubt
                                                                        that

      the    Validity      of the Doctrine of Contagion in     the Plague.         425
    that it can be conveyed by    an individual infected by it to another
    in perfect health.     Ascribes our not having it in Great Britain
    to the regulations of the quarantine laws.
        Being asked what precautions are taken to prevent infection,
    by the Frank inhabitants of Smyrna and Constantinople,                   and
    other places visited by the plague ? — answers, '* If they can af
    ford    it,
             shutting themselves up in the houses before communica
    tion with persons infected        ; they are obliged to go abroad, as
                                          if
    some are, such as physicians who have their livelihood to get,
    some wear oilskin dresses, oilskin gloves, and other medical pre
    cautions to prevent breathing the infected air            others anoint
                                                               ;
    themselves with oil, and avoid contact as much as possible, un
    der strong persuasion that contact produces disease.
        a                                                             In Egypt
    and Syria they shut themselves up as soon as there                isrumour
                                                                            a
    of the plague, and never quit till the dews fall, that                  is,
                                                                         till St.
    John's, day   ;then they  come   out, and  proceed   to church     in  order
    to sing Te Deum." — During the prevalence of great disease in
    any of these towns, never knew the plague destructive in the fa
    milies of the Franks, who avoid contact with diseased persons.
    The plague       not epidemic.
                      is               Can bring cases in support of the
    assertion, and that     does not depend on atmosphere or ventila
                               it
    tion. The state of the air may render the person exposed to the
    contact, more or less liable to feel its effect, but will not operate
    in checking the disease.     Attributes the periodical appearance of
    the plague in the spring and autumn to the seasons having an
    influence on the character of the disorder        ;the same as in this
    country, in winter, we are more likely to catch         cold or catarrh.
                                                             a
    Thinks the plague most probably an endemic disease, at some
    particular p.arts of Egypt. The first mention of             it as coming
                                                                      is
    from that country.    Refers to Thucydides, though of opinion that
    the plague of Athens mentioned             him was not the plague of
                                               by
    the present day. The other authors who mention the disease
    are Muratori, Guastaldi,      Fodere, Nacquart, and very recently
    Jourdan and Valli.
        Cases of plague not so frequent in the division of Constanti-
.
    nople called Pera, as in Constantinople,         because every Frank
    takes precaution against the disease.      That suburb         little more
                                                                   is
                                                                   a
    elevated, and       long narrow street      as to the houses, many of
                        is
                        a                      ;
    them are of stone, whereas in Constantinople they are chiefly
    wood; and the streets are wider at Pera than they are at Constanti
    nople, generally speaking.       Pera upon the whole            more airy
                                                                   is   a
    place  than Constantinople;   but  does not think     itless
                                                             a   likely situa
    tion for the production of any disorder peculiar to the climate,
    than Constantinople.       Knows that caravans proceed very fre
    quently for the conveyance of goods from Aleppo eastward,
                                                                                through

 426    Report from   the Select Committee appointed to consider
 through the continent of Asia; but has never heard that the
 plague was conveyed by those caravans, eastward, so as to esta
blish itself, except among some of the few thinking Christians ;
 the mass of the people never think of the disease at all.
    Damascus became affected with the plague in 1804; it was
carried thither by the army of some Peishwa, who had been on
 the coast to assist in the reduction of Jean d'Acre.     Bagdad is
 often, and has been lately infected with the plague.    Has heard
of the plague being communicated westward of Constantinople,
 over land to Adrianople. Believes the plague which raged there
in 1812, was nearly as fatal as it proved at Constantinople.    Has
also continually heard of the plague being communicated from
vessels from Smyrna, to many parts of the Levant.
    Being asked to explain the difference between infection and
 contagion ? — answers, " Contagion is a mere mode of action
resulting from the habit of certain diseases to affect individuals ;
it is not a principle, such as the electric fluid and such kind, as
many persons give an idea of in their writings, flying about the
air.   Contagion expresses this: during such a disease as the
plague, there are certain animal emanations which partake of
the morbid state of the body from which they issue ; when these
are applied by direct contact, or by any mediate contact, namely,
objects on which these emanations rested, to an healthy body, it
will contract the disease. Infection is this : infection is a pecu
liar state of the atmosphere, which has been rendered unfit for
the healthy exercise of life, by the crowding together of a num
ber of persons ill of the same fever, in a given place, and during
a given time ; thus an epidemic may become infectious,."      There
are examples, and those very authentic, proving that this matter
of the plague can, if applied to an healthy body, cause the dis
ease to break out even at a very long period after ; should say
several months.    There is one instance in point, among the most
recent, and it rests on the highest authority. During the plague
at Corfu in 1815, one of the villages which had been infected
several months, had for some time, I believe for 43 days, exhi
bited no sign of the plague, owing to the measures of segregation
adopted by Sir Thomas Maitland; the village was reported to be
released, and fumigation preparatory to its receiving Pratique,
ordered ; the officer who had the surveillance of the village du
ring the three or four months had resided in the church, from
there being no house that was not thought infected, in which
church the people and the priest had been crowded just before
the laws of segregation were ordered by Sir Thomas Maitland ;
some of these died subsequently, for the church was ordered to
be shut the instant the plague began. It was therefore necessary
                                                                  to

    the Validity   of the Doctrine of         Contagion   in the Plague. 427
to purify the church before the people could go in again, as well
 as the village altogether.        Leave being granted, the priest
went in, and touched the cloth of the great altar, so as to
                                                                   1
shake it to purify        it,
                          when he was seized with the plague, be
ginning with the head-ache, so as to cause him to fall on the
steps of the altar almost immediately; and in three hours, before
he could be carried to the lazaretto, he expired, with buboes
under the arm and livid spots over the body.           of opinion that
                                                              Is
the contagious matter of the plague must be brought either                                 by
persons or in bales of goods on board ship from the Levant to
England and that persons touching the infected portion of mer
          ;
chandize packed in these bales, jnust exhibit such phenomena in
the lazarettos in England, as now described to have happened in
the village in Corfu.     Cases in point have happened at the laza
retto at Leghorn since 1814         at Marseilles within fifteen years,
                                     ;
twice and recently, according to the dispatches of Mr. Hoppner,
      ;
the British consul at Venice, in October 1818.        Has never heard
of the plague being caught           by
                                    any of those persons appointed to
see the quarantine laws put in execution in- the lazarettos in Eng
land but conceives that its non-appearance in England does not
     ;
do away with the contagious nature of the disease.         Knows that
during the prevalence of the plague in the Levant, goods are in ge
neral not allowed to be shipped for England under the quarantine
laws, till after the disease has ceased. If the length of time      very          is
great between the time of shipping and unloading, and            certain   if
circumstances have taken place, either on the removal of the
cargo during the voyage, or in altering it, or the vessels meeting
with bad weather and being washed over and over again,               not     it       is
improbable to suppose that part of the plague-matter,           any ex    if
isted in the cargo or attached to any part of the vessel, may have
been weakened in its virulence         but begs to give that as a sup
                                          ;
position, and not as belief, because we know that all poisons may
be qualified    by many circumstances, so that the strongest may
not have effect.      A barrel of gun-powder may not take fire with
   red-hot poker, under certain circumstances       that           is,
                                                                  mois           by
                                                                         it if
a                                                         ;
ture you render       incapable
                     it          of  combustion.    Thinks     scarcely
probable,  if   contagious matter        in the bales of goods, un
                                          is
less the period of time       very great, that
                                is                 could fail to excite
                                                      it
the disease.     The only way he can account for its not having
taken place during the last 154 years in England,           that   is,
                                                                     was          it
never shipped from the Levant; but neither 154 years nor six
or seven centuries can give the hope that        cannot exist in
                                                    it              Bri           a
tish atmosphere, when we know that such a disease existed be
fore.   The plague of 1665 was no doubt the plague of the Le
vant, according to Dr. Mead.
                                                                                      John

    428        Report   from   the Select Committee appointed                   to consider
         John Green, Esq., Treasurer to the Levant Company. — Has
    been  in Constantinople from the year 1774 to the end of 1780;
    six years. Has during that period seen a raging violent plague
    in May, June and July, by which upwards of 200,000 people died.
    It was he thinks in 1778, and was the greatest ever known till
    about five or six years ago, when there was one rather more vio
    lent.    Thinks the plague is an epidemic, occasioned by a parti
    cular state of the atmosphere ; and contagious so far, that if you
    come in contact with the person actually ill, there is the same
    ground for apprehension in that case, as in case of any fever.
    Does not thiak it can be communicated by the clothes or goods;
    by goods, certainly not.        The clothes belonging to persons who
    die of the plague are sold ; they never destroy them.           Has never
    known the clothes to be the cause of the plague in other persons.
    It is a general remark, that the dealers in clothes do not take the
    plague.     The natives do nothing with the clothes; the Europeans
    generally wash them, but there are few cases of plague among
    Europeans ; the reason why he thinks they are not infectious                                   is,
    that the plague frequently ceases suddenly;              ceases, and does
                                                                          it
-   not recur for two, three, four, or five years and the clothes not;
    being destroyed, but generally distributed and worn as well as
    the bedding — conceives that "if they were contagious             would be       it
    impossible    that  we  could  be  without    the plague during that pe
    riod — even the bedding           sold.   There
                                             is            custom in Turkey,
                                                                     is
                                                                     a
    that     a stranger dies in the plague, the governor or pasha takes
              if
    possession of his property, and the clothes are part of the pro
    perty     and of course he orders them to be sold for his own be
              ;
    nefit, and they dare not destroy them.           Considers that the same
    person   can  have   the plague   more   than   once, and has known in
    stances but only from common report.
                  ;                                         the general belief
                                                                     It   is
    of most people but there
                         ;               particular symptom, that
                                                 is
                                                 a                      a per             if
    son has the plague with        particular species of buboes — they call
                                            a
    it the Blessed — when they have had that, they are aot liable to
    take      again so much
              it                   they do,
                                        ;   if     oniy slightly.
                                                           it   is  Has heard,
    that the Abbt; who had the care of the Frank hospital at Con
    stantinople had the plague ten or twelve times.
         Ithas been generally conceived that the plague was put            stop                a
    to    by
           extreme hot weather, or extreme cold weather, and thought
    so too till lately.       of opinion
                                   Is            not the heat, but the effect
                                                      it   is
    of the heat.         Itthe fall of the dew that stops
                              is                                  because the  it,
    plague prevails    at Alexandria,   in  Egypt, occasionally, till the 24th
    of June; at that time the sun has such power, that               occasions       it
    strong exhalations;        strong fall of dew, almost like rain; and
                                    a
    it    so much
         is            matter in course, that the people, on the 24th of
                        a
    June, who had shut themselves up, came out without- any appre
                                                                      hensions

  the     Validity of the Doctrine of Contagion in         the   Plague.   429
hensions at that time;     And about five years since we had very
strong fogs here in London for about 14 days, so that we could
not see across the street.      At that time Mr. Green had a letter
from Mr. Morier, consul general, dated, he thinks, in February ;
in which he stated, that the plague that had begun to be very
prevalent had all on a sudden entirely ceased ; and that he could
not account for     it,
                      unless  ithad been occasioned              by
                                                          the extraor
 dinary continuance of dense heavy fogs but that
                                            ;           ceased. When
                                                           it                    ^
 Mr. G. received the letter,        occurred to him to inquire as to
                                   it
the state of Smyrna.       At Smyrna    it   expected to cease about
                                             is
the month of July, and generally does cease during the great heat.
Inquired of    acaptain of ship that had been many years in the
                            a
trade, whether during the great heat at Smyrna, in the month
of July, there was any appearance of dew. He stated, Certainly;
and upon asking his reason for giving so direct and immediate
an answer, he said he was certain of the fact, because during the
hot weather the crew slept on the deck         but that in the month
                                                 ;
of July, when the sun became powerful,             occasioned such a
                                                      it
heavy fall of dew, they were obliged to go below to sleep;       wouldit
have wet them through.        Does not feel competent to decide why
the dew has that effect. Always understood from the Armenians
and other natives of Constantinople, that exposing clothes of
infected persons in the night to the dew, would more effectually
render them innoxious than putting them a week in the sun.
During the six years he was at Constantinople the plague would
cease, some months at     a  time   ;and    had nqt prevailed for two
                                            it
 or three years when he first got there.     Arrived in 1774, and to
the best of his recollection the first instance of plague was the
beginning of 1778.       From 1774 to 1778 there was no plague
in Constantinople    ;at Smyrna they have been without the plague
for three or four years. After the Quarantine Act was passed
in    1800, that   isthe first Quarantine Act, for the first Report
made was in 1S00J (the quarantine permitting ships to come from
Turkey with clean bills of health was in 800) Mr. G. predicted
                                                  1
 that we should not have any further foul bills of health, and for
 this reason. The bills of health are determined           by
                                                      the foreign con
 suls at Smyrna, upon the report of     a number of Greek merchants
who form      acommittee for the purpose.      These merchants car
 ried on principally the trade between Smyrna and Holland, that
is,  several were concerned   ;    was their interest to establish foul
                                   it
bills of health, in order to keep the trade to themselves; because
 English ships could not come to England without going first to
 Malta or Leghorn, or some other lazaretto in the Mediterranean,
 to perform quarantine of ninety days.        In the mean time the
 Greeks loaded cotton wool and other goods, and all the articles
                                                                 which

430 Report from the Select Committee appointed to consider
which constituted the chief object of the trade, in ships, which
they sent to Holland : there they have no quarantine establish
 ment.      The practice in Holland     is,  to take     few of the goods
                                                            a
out on the arrival of the ship, which they put into          lighter along
                                                                 a
side the ship and cover up the hatchways           ;at the end of twenty-
one days, the ship and lighter go up to the quays and discharge
their cargoes sometimes the cotton
                ;                             is trans-shipped in vessels
bound to London without being landed.             On their arrival in Eng
land they were liable to fourteen days quarantine in Standgate
 Creek, where they merely cut      a  littje slit in one side of the bales
of cotton after the end of fourteen days, the cotton was sent to
           ;
London in the same vessel or in lighters, and of course imme
diately sold and distributed among the manufacturers, without
 any other precautions than now stated.             By these means the
 Greeks anticipated us, and we could not carry on the trade; but
 thereis   another reason now, to influence the bills of health. The
 committee who decided on the plague or no plague at Smyrna,
 during the time of the plague when      it   was known to prevail, col
 lected from the    Greek    community  a   certain  sum weekly. (Is not
 aware that they collected from other people.)             That          is,
                                                                     for the
 avowed purpose of rendering assistance to persons afflicted with
 the plague, but there   is   no account rendered of the distribution          ;
 consequently, so long as they can establish the plague to exist,
 they collect these contributions.      On the other hand, when there
 has been no accident from the plague, and clean bills of health
 are issued ;   then the community resist as much as they can the
 first allegation of an accident from the plague, in order to save
 their contributions.       The plague  is  said to originate sometimes
 in Smyrna.      It prevails most in particular low narrow streets,
where the houses are so close that you can shake hands across
 the way, and which are inhabited        by   the very lowest classes of
 people;   a   piace   into  which   no   European would chuse to go,
 therefore we do not go to investigate         it  :   ita situation where
                                                            is
fevers must necessarily be expected, from the confined air and
want of ventilation, and the concourse of persons existing in such
 numbers there.       Thinks the plague       isnot necessarily taken          by
 contact; because during the plague in 1778, has seen the man
 who brought provisions to the house where Mr. G. lived               dozen
                                                                          a
 times every day take off the bundle of clothes belonging to peo
 ple who had died of the plague, Armenians.                They are buried
 without coffins, but carried on biers and when they are put into
                                         ;
 the grave, they bundle the bed and clothes into            sheet and bring
                                                                 a
 them back again, bring them home.                There was       winehouse
                                                                     a
 opposite    Mr.  G.'s   house;  has  seen   the  man   who    attended  him
  take the bundles from the men's backs as they were returning
                                                                        from

   the Validity       of the Doctrine of Contagion in   the Plague.       431      .
from the funerals a dozen times a day, to go into the winehouse
to get a glass of wine.   Has seen him also very frequently assist
people staggering in the street from debility, from illness to walk
home to their houses during the height of the plague ; remon
strated with him on the subject; when he said he did not trouble
himself about the plague : he was very much in the habit of getting
drunk, half drunk all day. Has seen him lie in the streets,and per
sons passing the dead over him, kicking him out of the way like a
beast or a log. When the plague first broke out in 1778, the son
of an Armenian merchant opposite Mr. G.'s house was taken ill;
and a clerk in the counting-house of the Armenian was sent with
this young man that was ill, to a place called Ortaquey, a village
about four miles from Constantinople, on the borders of the Bos-
phorus, and there he remained for nine days.     At the end of that
time the young man died, and it proved to have been the plague;
the clerk had attended him day and night, during the whole of
his illness, and slept in the same room, on the same sofa proba
bly, (for the sofas go all round the room,) and he was not at all
affected by    it,
                 and did not take the plague.     Considers there are
often instances of the plague, without its spreading in the com
munity.   It   has been     common observation, that
                            a                               the plague
                                                                if
exists at Constantinople and not at Smyrna,           persons infected
                                                      if
with the plague go down from Constantinople to Smyrna,                        al
though they die there, the plague does not spread at Smyrna, and
vice versa.     It   generally considered, that           carried from
                      is                          if
                                                  it        is
one place to another where there has not been the plague,                     it
does not spread.       There was an English ship, last year, or the
year before, the Smyrna, Captain Farmer, carried down two
Turkish passengers from Constantinople to Smyrna           one died of
                                                            ;
the plague, and the other was landed at the fort about seven or
eight miles off Smyrna.       The ship was, on her arrival at Smyrna,
ordered   by the Consul to perform 40 days quarantine, to be fu
migated before they would permit her to take in any goods but             ;
neither the captain nor any of the crew were affected                by
                                                               the dis
ease;   they did not take it.    Believes there  isno instance on re
cord, of any English sailor dying of the plague on board the mer
 chantmen in Turkey.       Thinks their escape from      may probably
                                                           it
 arise, not only from the different habits, living freely and drinking
wine but also from the English sailors in general sleeping on board
     ;
their ships, where there        Js
                                 agreat difference in the atmosphere
from what  it    ison shore,'perhaps eight or ten degrees. Another
circumstance        all the European merchants in Turkey employ
                     is,
brokers, who do all their business, buying and selling for them                ;
these persons go about freely during the plague, buying and sell
 ing goods, and collecting monies. Does not recollect any of these
people taking the plague, except in two instances. Rather thinks
                                                                          they

*432    Report from the Select Committee appointed        to consider
  they did not use any precautions.       There used to be a custom,
  as to the mode   of receiving money, rather different from what it
  is now; there was a small half tub with water inside the railing-
  in the court yard, into which the money was thrown.             It was
  supposed any thing     immersed   in water  would  be  purified ; they
  used to throw in the meat, and every thing brought in the house,
  except the bread and flour ; the bread is considered not to be
 capable of infection.      The plague in Turkey almost always de
  clines suddenly-     Generally prevails most towards the winter at
  Smyrna, and Constantinople in summer.
      A notion prevailed originally that the plague of Egypt was'
 more dangerous than that which arises at Smyrna or Constan
 tinople; and if a case happens, of a person infected coming
 from Egypt to Smyrna, and occasioning a foul bill of health, it has
 been generally believed that the plague would spread ; but there
 is an instance, just occurred, which is directly in contradiction
 to that.    About the month of November last (1818) or Decem
 ber, a foul bill of health was issued at Smyrna, in consequence
 of some persons arriving from Egypt infected with the plague;
 but instead of the plague spreading at Smyrna, the letters re
 ceived to the 11th February state, that the vessels which had
 sailed a few days before had sailed with clean bills of health, and
 that the plague had not spread.         Is convinced that the plague
 never has   been  brought   from Turkey to this country, or to Hol
 land, nor ever will be, by mere merchandize.           Does not think
 that the plague was carried to Messina nor Marseilles by mer
 chandize ; because in both instances he had occasion to remark
 to the Quarantine Committee in 1800, that Dr. Russel, in his
 publication on the Plague, expressly stated, that the plague ex
 isted on board the ships at the time of their arrival in these places.
 The ship that was supposed to carry the plague to Messina came
from the Morea, from a place where the plague had been very
prevalent ; some of the crew had died ; she was only 36 hours
coming from the Morea to Messina, and the captain himself was
ill at the time, and he died within a day or two after he had com-,
munication with a person who smuggled on shore a box of jewel
lery.    The ship that took the plague to Marseilles had loaded at
a port on the coast of Syria, where the plague had not prevailed
for two years. After she sailed from Syria a contrary wind forced
her into another port on the coast of Syria where the plague had
prevailed ; and she took on board several Arabs, passengers, mer
chants, to take them to the island of Cyprus.           Some of these
persons   were ill of the plague at the time, and died ; after that the
crew, some of them, took the plague, and they had put into more
than one port, and had been driven from other places, and had
the plague on board actually at the time of her arrival at Mar
                                                                 seilles.

   the Validity   of the Doctrine of Contagion in the Plague. 433
 feeilles.  A  passenger  went on shore (for there was no quaran
 tine establishment, at least it was not rigid) ; the passenger went
 on shore, and shortly after the plague appeared at Marseilles*
 Never heard the plague carried eastward from Smyrna by the
 caravans.    Has heard it remarked that the plague did not ex
 tend beyond Turkey.      Has never known any person who handled
 the goods in quarantine, infected in England. Attributes our
 never having seen the plague in England, for a great number of
 years, to the state of atmosphere.          Does not think the goods
 which arrive in the quarantine establishment could produce
plague.     Should not apprehend the danger of the plague being
brought in any way but by persons actually infected with it.
 Conceives the climate materially altered since the plague in Lon
don ; not only the climate, but the circumstances of the country
generally, and especially London itself; the improvements in
London render it generally less liable to epidemic disease.        Has
lnany doubts as to the identity of the plague in 1665 with the
plague in Turkey.      The symptoms do not appear to be the same.
 Is by no means of opinion, however, that the performance of
quarantine should be abolished.          Thinks that many modifica
tions may be established without any risk, but that it would
be improper to abolish the regulations altogether; not only be
cause it is necessary to- have a proper examination of all vessels
 arriving, to see the state of health of the crew and passengers -
when they arrive ; but because it is also absolutely necessary, that
we should observe certain formalities of quarantine, on account
of our connection with other countries where a more rigid qua
rantine is conceived necessary.       If the quarantine establishments
of this country were abolished, no matter why, it might occasion
a prohibition of our vessels in other ports.
    Being asked to state the process of ventilating goods, — an
swers : " The English lazarettos are old men-of-war, with houses
built upon them like an ark ; the sides of these houses are open
like a brewhouse, with shutters, and the floors are all open grat
ings jn fact, so that the ventilation is excessive on board these
vessels in Standgate Creek, greater than it is possible to give on
any building on shore.      The ships also swing with the tide; that
is, when the tide turns they change their sides to windward every
six-hours.    Remembers Sir Gilbert Blaine and Dr. Johnson went
down to Standgate Creek to examine the floating lazarettos, and
they stated the ventilation was the greatest they had ever met with.
Dr. Johnson told Sir LucasPepys, that the ventilation was greater
than the north-west winds on the coast of America.             In some
species of goods the bales are ripped open on one side, sufficiently
 to let in the air, and for different periods of time, for common
bills of health and foul bills ; in one instance they undergo 15 days
    Vol. 54. No. 260. Dec. 1819.               Ee           quarantine,

    434    Report     from the Select Committee appointed to consider
    quarantine, in the other 40.       The internal part of every bale is
    not exposed ; but certain articles are ordered to be emptied out
    of the packages : supposing a ship comes with a foul bill of
    health ; supposing goat wool, the order is to empty it entirely,
    so that they ventilate the articles in bulk ; but the bales that
    have been ripped open on one side, continue so for a certain
     number of days, when the side is sewed up again ; and the other
    side of the bale is ripped open and exposed for a certain number
     of days, in like manner. The people who manage the expurga
     tion of goods there, are ordered to push their arms in as far as
     they can ; it is done for the express purpose of ascertaining
     whether there is infection.      Corn is under a different direction.
     It is subject only to a nominal quarantine ; they let it be taken
    out of the ships directly; they order a grating for the corn to
    pass through, in order that, if there is any loose rag, it should be
    stopped.     The practice is this; the ship remains a certain num
    ber of days, and if all is well, they discharge the goods ; and if
     there are bags or mats, they are taken out.       Thinks that if goods
    which arrive are capable of communicating infection, it is not
    possible the expurgators could escape it ; and that no infection
    could have existed for the last 200 years in England. Is of opi
    nion that the typhus fever is the plague in a less degree.         Looks
    upon
           it,
           it    isthe  same  disease,  only that in  Turkey,   from  the  dif
    ferent habits of the people, there   it  acquires  more   violence :  they
    live upon fruits, cucumbers, melons     ;  eat very little animal food,
    and drink chiefly water, which in summer time        is stagnant. Con
    stantinople      supplied
                    is           bywater from a lake at       avillage called
    Belgrade, about 16 miles from Constantinople,         by means of aque
    ducts, tubes or pipes underground, that were constructed           by  the
    Greeks and Romans.       In the summer time that lake very much
                                                                  is
    dried up and exhausted      ; and the water becomes so bad in the
    public fountains, that very often the Turks come to beg rain wa
    ter from the tauks of the Christian merchants; rain water that they
    bad saved. Recollects about 1800 or 1801, there were three ships'
    cargoes sunk at the Nore.        The circumstances were these: the
    ships  had  loaded   at Mogadore, where the plague prevailed to         a
    violent' degree, so much as almost to have depopulated the place        ;
    and the cargoes consisted chiefly of goat skins, which had been
    collected during the time of the plague     ;   they were turned with
    the hair inside, and they were packed in bales.              Remembers
    stating at the time, that he conceived,      if   danger of the plague
    could exist at all in merchandize,         would certainly be in these
'
                                           it
    goat skins, as they were incapable of being opened and aired
    unless every skin was turned out again, which would have been
    a very dangerous operation      ; and therefore, as they could not be
    expurgated        the existing regulations of quarantine, he sub
                      by
                                                                      mitted,

      the Validity   of the Doctrine of    Contagion in the Plague. 435
   mitted, that if danger of infection could exist at all, it might not
   be correct to subject any individual to the process of turning those
   skins.    That was his opinion at the time; and after having dis
   cussed the subject, and taken the opinion of the persons supposed
   to be most competent to judge, the ships and cargoes were or
   dered to be sent down to the Nore, and sunk in deep water.
   Mr. Pitt seemed to be very reluctant to have these ships de
   stroyed.    They were from 120 to 150 tons. Government paid
   the value of them.      Thinks the value amounted to more than
   20,000/. but can only speak from conjecture.
      Dr. John MacLeod. — Has served much in tropical climates,
   and in the Mediterranean, but doubts much whether he has seen
   any case of the plague.      Conceives that any fever may become
   contagious when people are crowded up together ; under bad
   management, without ventilation and cleanliness, a fever will be
  come highly contagious. At the same time believes we have much
  less to apprehend from contagion than is generally believed. Had
  lately an opportunity of witnessing a very bad fever at Batavia,
  when under circumstances extremely favourable for the operation
   of contagion ; although the ship's crew were very crowded, hav
   ing been lately wrecked, and at the time huddled together in a
  transport, yet, by using proper means, such as free ventilation
   and doing their best to prevent the accumulation of morbid ef
   fluvia, no case appeared to arise from infection : those men who
  were ill, having evidently become so by sleeping in Batavia, and
  getting drunk there.       Thinks the plague should be considered
  under the general description of fever.        People are said some
  times to die before the usual febrile action takes place, but that
  does not take away the character of fever which it possesses ge
  nerally.    Does not consider that the quarantine establishments in
  this country have prevented the infection of the plague; because
  the plague has never made its appearance through shipping.
  Quarantine could not certainly have prevented men arriving with
  the plague on our coasts; and the expurgators, or men employed
> in opening the goods, must have been attacked by the disease at
  one period or other, had it been possible to import it in this way.
  Does not know that any thing more is necessary than to inquire
  of every ship that arrives, whether they are all well on board ;
  and if any men are ill of fever, to treat them as you would other
  people.     Would put them in an hospital, tent or barn, and treat
  them as rational beings, and not like mad dogs, by cutting them
  off from society and assistance, and exciting fear and alarm. The
  depressing passions are much to be avoided.          Can see no reason
  why    seamen  should  be used   in  the common   rigorous way, when
  they happen    to arrive with  fever,   more than  persons in Birming
   ham and Manchester, where there are typhus fevers prevailing
  .                               £   e 2                           every

436   Report from            the Select Committee appointed to consider
every year. In Dr. M.'s mind it is fully established, that we have
nothing to fear from the importation of the plague from the Le
vant to London ; and he grounds this opinion upon the simple
fact of long and great intercourse, without the disease having
once made its appearance by a ship.         We have tried the experi
ment sufficiently long to be satisfied that we have nothing to fear
from the importation of goods.       Considers the cause of the plague
to be the same as that of any other malignant fever, foul effluvia,
dirtiness, want of ventilation, and poor living ; you may generate
in this way, a fever like our gaol fever.
     John Green, Esq. again called and examined. — Has known of
 instances of persons having slept with others, and not having
taken the plague.        Mr. Slaars, a Dutch merchant at Smyrna,
 had two daughters who slept together ; the one was taken ill,
 and the sister continued to sleep with her ; at last she died, and
 upon examination it appeared that she had had the plague; the
sister did not take          it,
                          nor did any of the family.
      Mr. Perkins,  an  English merchant at Smyrna, had also two
 daughters who slept together          one of them was taken ill
                                               ;                                   ;   it
 appeared that      was with the plague
                   it                        she got well of
                                                       ;         and the    it,
 sister did not take        nor did any of the family.
                              it,                           Previous to
  1800, English ships were not permitted to come direct to Eng
  land from Smyrna without          clean bill of health.
                                           a                When they
  had not a   clean bill of health, they went to Malta or Leghorn to
  perform quarantine, and afterwards shipped the same cargoes on
  board them to England.        In the year 1S00 an Act was passed,
  permitting English ships to come directly to this country without
  a clean bill of health.    There was     general revision of the qua
                                                       a
  rantine laws in 1800         committee was appointed for the pur
                                   ;   a
  pose of making       report upon certain questions specifically put
                         a
  to   them   by the  Privy Council      the Privy Council afterwards
                                                   ;
  formed regulations respecting quarantine generally, including
   ships coming without clean bills of health.
      Being asked,     under the form of regulations which prevailed
                        Jf
   before 1800,    itnot probable that the plague was seldom
                        is                                           ever         if
  shipped  for England  from  the Levant?  —  answers: "   cannot  speak
                                                                    1
   as to the shipment of the plague         can speak specifically, that
                                                   ;   I
   the same species of goods had been for       century brought to this
                                                           a
   country from Smyrna, during the plague,         ships bound to Hol
                                                               by
   land, and from thence the goods were brought here they have          ;
   no quarantine establishments         Holland, consequently
                                               in                     was         it
   tantamount to their having come direct."
      Sir Arthur Brooke Faulkner. — The only opportunity he has
   had of seeing the plague, was in the Island of Malta in the year
    1813.   Was physician to the forces, and the only staff physician
   employed during the greater part of that service.        Believes the
                                                                                  plague.

    the  Validity  of the Doctrine of Contagion in     the Plague. 437
plague is generated or produced by a contagion sui generis, quite
peculiar and specific, and that it is communicated only by con
tact or close association with the person or thing infected.          It
was communicated in the first instance to the Island of Malta,
in the direct line of contact. It could be traced to have been.pro-
pagated in the direct line of contact, in the city of Valetta, and
from the city into most of the cassals or villages, where any his
tory could be obtained of its introduction.       The first case of the
communication of the plague was, in his opinion, from a vessel,
the San Nicola, in the harbour, to the family of a person of the
name of Salvator Borg.         The vessel was lying in the harbour
contiguous to the city     of Valetta ; the harbour is called Marsa-
muchetts. The daughter of Salvator Borg died with well marked
symptoms of the disease on the 19th April.          Two other persons
of the same family died on the 2d May, all with well marked
symptoms of the disease.         From the family of Borg it made its
way in a direct line into the family of one Maria Agius, a school
mistress, who, together with others she immediately communi
cated with, were attacked by the plague, and all of whom (with
some of her scholars) were seized or perished with well-marked
symptoms of the disease.        The foci of contagion became so ra
pidly multiplied, that it appeared impossible to carry the investi
gation in a direct line any further.      The means of its communi
cation to the small contiguous island of Gozo, at a late period of
the calamity, can be distinctly made out. A man belonging to
an infected family in one of the cassals, made his escape with a
box of clothes into a neighbouring cottage ; it was speedily found
out that he had escaped, and he was accordingly apprehended
and sent to the lazaretto.         On his enlargement from the laza
retto, he returned to his cottage, where he took this box of clothes
that had never been suspected to be there, but had been con
cealed ; and he hired a boat and carried this box of clothes to
the island of Gozo. The first family infected on the island was
the family at whose house he arrived, and to which place he car
ried the box of clothes. It was a marriage present; and a priest
acquainted in the family, was one of the first victims ; he died
with well-marked symptoms of the plague. The plague was not
at all particularly prevalent where the marsh fevers were most
generally produced.       Never could trace any series of symptoms
that could lead him in the slightest degree to suspect any iden
tity between them ; but has known the plague to personate in
certain symptoms almost every possible form of fever, and has
known it to be entirely free from every kind of fever ; there is no
certain type to which it can be affixed.       Means to say, that fever
is not an essential attribute of the plague; it is frequently mortal
where there is no fever.       It is an extraordinarily anomalous dis
ease,   which   has almost defied definition.      The disease did not
                                  Ee  3                          extend

438 Report                                                                         -
                 from the Select Committee appointed            to consider
 extend to Sicily, in consequence of the prompt precautions that
 were adopted : and, had there been the same at Malta, is per
 suaded that the disease would have been resisted in limine. The
 plague has been known to be received in the lazarettos ; has heard
 many instances related by the Maltese, and produces evidence
 of one ; the title page of a book, which represents a monument
 raised to the memory of a grand master, for having arrested the
 disease in the year 1743.
     Being asked, If he knows any thing of the introduction of the
 former plague that ravaged Malta, — begs to refer to a paper he
 published on the disease, during his engagement, on the plague
 at Malta, which was communicated to the Edinburgh Medical
 and Surgical Journal, and published 1st April 1814.           Read the
 following passage to the Committee : " It is somewhat remark
 able, that the history of the introduction of the plague, when it
made such great ravages on the last occasion on the island, about
a century ago, was nearly similar to what is circulated of the pre
sent ; being attributed to some linen brought from a Levant ves
sel, by a Maltese shopkeeper ; which, after producing the dis
ease in all those who first came in contact with         ultimately dis
                                                          it,
seminated the malady throughout the whole population."
    During the late plague at Malta in 1813, the disease was ar
rested from the moment that an adequate .and           regularly orga
                                                          a
nized police was established, and the inhabitants shut up in their
houses, and other strict measures of quarantine enforced, (which
was the case at    avery late period) in the month of August. From
the 16th August       went on decreasing on the average, but not
                       it
regularly, till    disappeared.
                  it               Feels satisfied that the decline of
the complaint was very much owing to the prompt measures of
police  ; and his reason         is,
                                that the thermometer rose inconsi
derably in point of fact, while the disease was decreasing fast.
During his residence at Malta         did not appear to him«that the
                                           it
temperature of the air had any thing to do with the plague.                   Is
of opinion that very high or very low temperature would check
                   a                   a
it. Believes that materially below 60 or probably at 60 degrees
of heat cannot subsist but
            it              ;           bare conjecture.
                                       it   is               Thinks the
plague principally communicable                 by
                                          the touch.   States the fol
lowing circumstances as to the degrees of precaution used in each
of the military barracks.     The Sicilia'n regiment, though situated
in very infected part of the island, place called Florian, escaped
    a                                            a
by   the promptness and vigilance of Col. Ilivarolla.        De Rolle's
regiment,   which  was  in  the  healthiest spot, was  invaded         by
                                                                     the
disease, and evidently       consequence of their barrier admitting
                            in
a  contact with persons on the outside.         was   barrier at which
                                                     It   a
you could shake hands with any person on the outside.             In the
 14th regiment, which was near the most unhealthy part of the
town, there was but one person suspected, and bis disease was
                                                                immediately

     the Validity   of the Doctrine of Contagion in         the Plague.    439
 immediately arrested ; the public prison and public general ho
 spital escaped.      The convents in Valetta escaped, with the ex
 ception, it is believed, of one ; and the introduction of the dis
ease to that one was accounted for.              The prison and these public
 institutions escaped, Sir A. B. F. conceives, very much by the
 voluntary attention paid by their inhabitants to a strict system
 of quarantine.        Thinks the plague can be propagat- \ from
 goods as well as persons.               Gives the following as his reasons
 for thinking why the plague has not been introduced from goods
 in the quarantine establishments.               In the first place, quaran
 tine restrictions since 1709 have been a great deal more rigid;
 indeed they did not exist in England at all, previous to that pe
 riod. Conceives that the intensity of the contagion may have
 been greatly blunted by the length of the voyage, and the length
of time that passes after the shipment of goods. Besides, we
know, that other countries have a good system of quarantine,
 which is in favour of the plague not being imported here. Is in
 clined to consider the plague of 1665 to have been the true Le
vant plague. Can account for the expurgators never having taken
 the plague, only by collateral considerations.             1st. That we have
 observed, in other countries, the disease has not taken place for
 a long series of years, not for 130 years in Malta.              2dly. We do
 not know what the circumstances are that constitute aptitude in
 the receiver, sufficiently, to know why the plague has not been
 received into the lazarettos since 1665.              But 3dly, it does not
 follow, because it has not been received into the lazarettos since
  1665, that it may not by some fortuitous concurrence of circum
  stances occur again here.           It has been stated, that the ancients
 were not acquainted with contagion, but adduces instances from
 the medical writers and the poets, to the contrary.
     Refers to the following, viz.
     2vv$tciTgl§siv toij   \oip'MTTOVviv l7r/crpaAs$ anohuvcroit  yiq  x/vSuvoj,
 wjTtsp vf»cugaj two; jj o^9«Afc/aj. — Galen, lib. 1. cap. 2. de dif
ferent. Febrium.
     Am r» uno fisv voo-cttv hiwv yo<rou<nv ol n\rivnaXftVTg;, anl 8s yyisiaj
  ouSjij vyiaX=Tui ; — Aristotle, Probl. lect. vii. I.
     Ago; 8s £u/x?:ouv ts, xat £uv8iaiTc«r0ai, ou fissov ») Aoip»' avaTryoij;
  yag Ij jx=TaSoi7iv, |5iji8/i] j3a<pq. — Areteus de Elephantiase.
     Infecti quasi valetudine et con tact ft. — Annal. Tacit. I. 6. & 7.
     Postea curatio ipsa et contactus egrorum, vulgabat morbos.—
  lib. 25 & 26.
     Contagion is clearly expressed in the last eight lines of the third
  Georgic of Virgil ; likewise in the first Bucolic, verse 52 ; where
  these words occur :
                Nec mala vicini pecoris contagia ledent.
  There are numerous other authorities.
                                 [To be continued.]
                                                                 LXXII. Me.

                               [   440      ]
    LXXII.     Memoir    of the  late James     Watt, Esq. F.R.S.*
James Watt,       the great improver of the steam-engine, was born
at Greenock in 1736.          His grandfather and uncle were both
distinguished   as mathematicians     and land surveyors: and the lat
ter was the author of a Survey        of  the river Clyde.       His father,
James Watt, was a merchant and magistrate of Greenock, and a
zealous promoter of the improvements of that town.
    Of the early years of the subject of this memoir, we shall onlv
state that he was educated in the public schools of his native
town, and that his constitution, which was of the most delicate
kind, led him, even in his boyish days, into those habits of stu
dious retirement which accompanied him through life.               His par
tiality for the scientific arts soon developed itself, and at the age
of eighteen he went to London, and placed himself under the tui
 tion of an eminent; mathematical instrument-maker; but ill-health
occasioned his return to Greenock in about a year, and this ap
 pears to be the only instruction he ever received.         All the rest was
self-acquired :  but  so  early had   his  talents developed themselves,
 that in 1757, when he was in his 21st year, he was appointed
 mathematical instrument-maker           to the university of Glasgow,
 with apartments in the college. From these he removed to the
 town of Glasgow in 1764, upon his marriage with his cousin,
 Miss Miller ; and in that and the subsequent year he invented
 his improvements on the steam-engine.             He soon after formed
 a connexion with Dr. Roebuck,       of  Kenniel, near Burrowstoneness,
 to carry the invention into effect; but circumstances delayed his
 taking out a patent until the year 176.9. From the time of this
 invention, until the year 1774, he followed the profession of a
 civil-engineer, at Glasgow, and made many surveys of canals and
 harbours ; several of the former of which have since been carried
 into execution.     The fortunate circumstance of his undertaking
 the repairs of a model of a steam-engine, in itself of so little im
 portance, led to one of the greatest revolutions in mechanics that
 has taken place by any one invention since the records of his
  tory.
     The invention of the plough, of the saw, and the application of
 the power of horses or oxen to turn mills, took place in such early
  ages, that those persons to whom mankind are indebted for them,
 are not known either by name or by any authentic records ; but
 we know that they were considered as demi-gods, and honoured
 as such.     The records of those inventors are fabulous in their
 details, but they are true as to the reality of the discoveries ; nor
 is it wonderful that their origin should be unknown, when evert
         * From the New Monthly Magazine       and Literary Panorama.
                                                                          the

                 Memoir     of James Watt, Esq. F.B.S.                    441
the invention of the first steam-engine is not well ascertained,
although certainly not two centuries ago.
    Men at first were obliged to supply all their wants by their
own labour.       The next advance towards our present state was
the employment of horses and oxen.               Minerva was worshipped
under the name of Boormia, for having first taught the yoking
of oxen to a plough, and horses to turn mills for grinding of corn.
— Diodor. book iii. chap. 64.
    The elements were next called in to aid men in their labours,
and the powers of air and water were employed for those purposes
that had in earlier times employed the most delicate and feeble
portion of the human race*. — But falls of water are only to be
found in certain situations, and the " wind bloweth as it listeth."
— It was reserved for the inventor of the steam-engine to create
a power that could be at the command of man, without regard
to time or place, such as we see it in our day.
    Thoueh the inventor of the steam-engine is not known, about
the middle of the seventeenth century, the Marquis of Worcester
mentions and describes a machine in his book, intituled " The
Marquis of Worcester's Century of Inventions," which was pub
lished in 1663.      The noble marquis does not claim the invention,
and there were numbers of inventions, of which he gives an ac-^
count, that were not his own.             Though the marquis does not
claim the discovery of the principle, yet he distinctly says that he
 had invented methods of applying them to the raising of water.
 His description of the mode he employed, is not sufficiently di
stinct, to be well understood.          He employed two vessels, that
filled with water, and acted alternately, the water being ejected
with a force that made it spout to the height of forty feet.
    It does not appear that the marquis, the greatest inventor of
 his age, did actually employ steam as a power, for any useful pur
pose ; but in the beginning of the following century, Captain
Savary constructed a machine, of which steam was the acting
power, for the purpose of raising water.            The captain obtained a
patent for his invention, and employed his machines for draining
the water that accumulated in the mines of tin and copper in
 Cornwall.
    The success of Savary       was not complete; but the attention of
 ingenious    men    was  called  forth, and with the aid of Mr. New-
 comen and Mr. Crawley, the former an ironmonger, and the lat
 ter a glazier, at Dartmouth, in Devonshire, an engine was con-
    * Antipater, of Thessalonica, addresses the female sex thus — *' Women
                                                                                J
 you who have hitherto been employed to grind the corn, for the future let
 your arms rest. It is no longer for you that the birds announce by their songs
 the dawn of the morning.     Ceres has ordered the river nymphs to move
 the heavy millstones, and to perform your labour,"
                                                                     strqeted,

  442             Memoir         of James Watt, Esq. F.R.S.
  structed, that went by the name of Newcomen's engine, which
  continued to be in use for the draining of mines, from 1705, till
  Mr. Watt's great improvement, of which we are going to speak.
     Savary associated himself with Crawley; and the alteration in-
, troduced by the latter, and by Neweomen, who probably was the
  working engineer, was, that Savary, like the Marquis of Worces
  ter, raised the water by the pressure of steam. Whereas, in New
  comen's engine, which they constructed and sold, the steam was
  only employed as the means of procuring a vacuum in a cylinder,
  in which was a piston, which was pressed down by the weight of
  the atmospheric air. The piston was attached to a lever or beam,
  at the other end of which was a weight, that raised the piston as
  soon as there was a fresh quantity of steam let into the cylinder,
  under the piston.When the piston got to the top, a jet of cold water
  was introduced, that condensed the steam, and again producing a
  vacuum, the piston descended by the pressure of the atmosphere.
     Much time was employed in contriving methods to open the
  cocks necessary; and it was not till 1717 that the ingenious Mr.
  Boughton produced a machine, where all the operations of turn
  ing the cocks were performed by the engine itself.
     Had there been any other power capable of draining deep mines,
  so expensive and complicated was this engine, that probably it
  would never have been brought into use ; but necessity obliged
  the miners to persevere in employing            it,
                                                and constant endeavours
  were made to reduce the expenditure on consumption of fuel,
  though without any further progress than constructing the boilers
  and fire-places under them, in a manner to lose less of the heat.
     Mr. Watt was,      bynatural genius, an inventor, and,      by
                                                                  his edu
  cation and research, led to seek for ceeonomy and perfection in
  the machine, not     by trifling improvements, but        by
                                                            a great altera
  tion in its principle.
     The original inventor of the steam-engine undoubtedly laid the
  foundation for all the wonderful effects that are now produced           by
  that mighty machine        ;but while    was merely employed for the
                                             it
  drawing of water from mines,         was of but little importance, com
                                        it
  pared to what   it   isat the present day: and that change, from         a
  small degree of importance, to that of the very first-rate degree,
  was exclusively almost the work of Mr. Watt.
     We must distinguish the steam-engine from all other machines,
  whether for spinning thread, or rolling iron, &c. as they are all,
  without exception, however useful and ingenious, the means of
  applying power   ;  but the steam-engir.e creates the power that         it
  applies,  and in that     different from all other human inventions*.
                            is
     * Although seventy or hundred horses may have
                             a                         power equal to large
                                                        a             a
  steam-engine, how could such     number be employed in giving motion to
                                    a
  one machine ?   The impossibility of producing equal or simultaneous effort
  to so great a number   obvious.
                        is
                                                                       The

                  Memoir   of James Watt, Esq. F.R.S.                            443
    The steam-engine had been for a century, or nearly about that
length of time, employed for drawing water ; and such was the
expense attending      it, and the difficulty of keeping         in repair,
                                                                     it
that  it  was never employed where wind, water, or animal force,
could answer the purpose.
    In this situation was that wonderful machine, when the model
was brought to Mr. Watt, of Glasgow, to be repaired, and put in
working order, for the instruction of students at the college there.
    Mr. Watt soon observed that there was great waste of heat,
                                                    a
and consequently consumption of fuel, occasioned                     by
                                                                condensing
the steam in the cylinder in which the piston works.              That cy
linder being     of cast-iron,  was   cooled   by  the same   jet of water
that condensed the steam, so that when the fresh steam was ad
mitted,      great quantity was consumed in again heating the cy
              a
linder    ;for steam cannot exist in its rarified state, or, more pro
perly speaking, cannot exist at all in a vessel that             not nearly
                                                                     is
 as hot as itself.
    Mr. Watt calculated that about two-thirds of the steam that
was introduced, was consumed or condensed                   by
                                                            the coldness of
 the vessel; and his first expedient to prevent that waste of heat,
was to have       wooden cylinder, which, being
                  a                                     less powerful con
                                                        a
 ductor of heat or cold, would not be liable to the same disadvan
tage in an equal degree.         He was perfectly right; but he soon
 found that wood was not         fit material
                                 a             in other respects.    When,
heated, and subject to continual friction,          itwas too rough    and   ;
 there were other inconveniences which made him abandon that
 plan, but without, for      moment, abandoning his endeavour to
                             a
 improve the machine.
     It was then that his great genius exerted and developed itself,
 and he was inspired with the happy idea of permitting the steam
 to pass into     separate vessel, there to be condensed; so that the
                  a
jet  of cold water  never being introduced into the cylinder where the
 steam   was   to be admitted for the next stroke of the engine, that
 cylinder was never cooled, and consequently the fresh steam was
 not three- fourths consumed         in
                                     bringing  itback to its proper heat.
    When this was done, the grand improvement was made; but
 the difficulties of the inventor were only beginning. He knew well
 the value of his discovery, but to make others sensible of its value
 and obtain the means of bringing         it  to perfection was the great
 point.     Mr.   Watt  was  not   only  a modest, but he was what                 is
 termed      bashful man, and but few persons were capable of ap
              a
 preciating his merit *.
   * When his great success — when the works he had performed
                                                                  convinced
the world of his uncommon merit and genius, this very bashfulness was in his
favour, and made him more highly esteemed      but
                                               ;     was
                                                     it    sad impediment
                                                                 a
in his way at first. Men with great pretensions and assurance obtain more
credit at first than they deserve, but modest or bashful men less,
 »                                                                   A    gentleman

444           Memoir of James Walt, Esq.       P.R.S.
   A gentleman of some property and considerable knowledge,
Dr. Roebuck, who was capable of appreciating the merit both of
the inventor and of the invention, at last united himself with Mr.
Watt in the enterprise of bringing the matter to perfection; but
his means were unequal to the purpose; and after expending all
he could afford, the affair was on the point of being abandoned,
when Mr. Boulton, the great Birmingham manufacturer, heard,
of the invention.
   Few men were more capable than Matthew Boulton of appre
ciating the value of Mr. Watt's discovery, and none more disposed
to engage in a liberal manner in the enterprise.
   To a generous and an ardent mind, Mr. Boulton added an un
common spirit for undertaking what was great and difficult. Per
haps if Mr. Watt had searched all Europe he could not have found
another person so fitted in every way to assist in bringing the in
vention to bear.     Mr. Boulton had money at command ; he was
a man of address and influence, and advantageously known to
the world: in short, he was just the person who was wanted; and
after reimbursing Dr. Roebuck for his expenditure and loss, he
became partner with Mr. Watt, who removed to Birmingham.
   The difficulties to be overcome were, however, immense. The
expensive engines then in use could not be altered.      It was ne
cessary to erect others entirely new, if the proprietors of mines
would turn the new invention to their profit.
   Messrs. Boulton and Watt, for such was the firm, began by
erecting an engine at Soho, near Birmingham, and exhibiting it
to all those concerned in mining,     They even went so far as to
erect, at their own expense, engines on several mines, to be paid
provided they answered the expectations they entertained.
   A set of experiments was made under the eyes of several per
sons of wejl known honour and skill, to ascertain the saving made
on trial by the employment of the improved engine ; and it was
found to be fully equal to what Mr. Watt had calculated.
   The difficulties then began to diminish, and the proprietors of
mines in Cornwall, where coals are very dear, were induced to
make erections of the newly-constructed engines in place of the
old, engaging to pay one-third of the advantage or saving in coals,
for the liberty of working Mr. Watt's engine, for which he had
obtained a patent, prolonged by an act of parliament.
   The mine of Chace-Water was one of the first which had three
of the largestrsized engines erected, for each of which the pro
prietors engaged to pay 800Z. a-year, being one-third of the sav
ing calculated by the price of coals.
   Mr. Watt was not only an inventor in mechanism, but his spirit
of order as a man of business was uncommonly great. The man-!
ner of settling the sums to be paid was highly ingenious.
                                                              From

                  Memoir of James Watt, Esq.     F.R.S.           445
      From the depth of the pit, the size of the pumps, and num
ber of strokes of the engine, they knew the quantity of coals that
was necessary either for the old engine or the new. They there
fore had only to estimate the quantity of coals saved in making a
certain number of strokes, and according to the price they knew
what was the value saved.         A counter, to tell the number of
strokes, inclosed in an iron box, was fixed on the beam of each
engine ; there were two different sashes to the box, and two keys
kept by the proprietors and two by Boulton and Watt, who had
a traveller that went round to the different engines from time to
time, and the counters being examined, the money was paid ac
 cording to the number of strokes.
      Men with less perseverance or less genius for overcoming dif
 ficulties, would have failed in this enterprise ; but still nothing
 could equal their patience and continued attention to the business.
       In relating the important facts concerning so important an in
 vention, we must not, however, omit to state some mistakes that
 were committed, for which it is not easy now to account.
       In 1779 the elder brother Perrier came over to Birmingham
 from Paris to get an engine for the supply of that capital with
 water, aud the whole was sent over with the permission of go
 vernment. The engine at Chaillot was that then sent, after which
  the Perriers made several other engines, and, to do them justice,
  they executed them very well : but we beg the reader to attend
  most particularly to the fact, that the first engine erected at Paris
  was made at Birmingham, and sent over for M. de Prony, a
  French engineer, and a man of merit, who wrote a History of the
  Improved Steam-engine, which invention he gives to the Perriers,
  never once mentioning the name of Mr. Watt.          The work is in
   two volumes in quarto. — M. de Prony is a man of merit, and well
  known to the literary and scientific world, and it is an injustice'
  to Mr. Watt and his country that ought to be recorded.
        Since we are led to this subject we must be permitted to add,
   that we were acquainted with the Perriers — that the elder bro
   ther was not a mechanic at all, and the other merely a good-.prac-
   tical workman.
        It is not very easy to conceive how M. de Prony could have
    committed so flagrant an injustice, because he must have known
    better, and therefore ought to take shame to himself, as every
    man ought who imposes falsehoods on the world for truth, which
    is in itself a great disgrace, but doubly so when by that false
    hood he deprives a man of merit of the credit due to him, and
    gives it to another, who has not only no claim, but who was not
     capable of any invention of the sort.
         Mr. Watt was too inoffensive a man to attack de Prony ; and
     when the injustice done was mentioned to him in 1810 or 181 1,
                             .                                     when

 446             Memoir           of James Watt, Esq. F.B.S.
 when he was in London, he said it was true, but that he had
 seen De Prony, who had made some sort of an apology, or en
 tered into an explanation.         Mr. Watt did not appear to wish to
 enter on the subject ; but, with great deference to his opinion on
 that point, we think the injury neither admitted of explanation
 nor apology of any sort.        It was a wilful and gross misrepresen
 tation, and it can never pass for any thing else. What adds to
 the injustice      that M. de Prony could not write a history of the
                  is,
 invention for which he had not materials, though he has con
 trived to fill two quarto volumes with his account of that machine.
    An injury done at the expense of truth deserves to be noticed
 in a way rather different from that           which Mr. Watt noticed
                                                          in
 the act committed         M. de Prony. We, however, go further,
                             by
 and say, that   it    in some degree
                        is                  national affair, and strongly
                                                      a
 suspect that     was
                 it        order to rob England, and not to rob Mr.
                             in
 Watt of the invention that the merit was given to the Perriers.'
  It   is to be hoped, that as both Mr. Boulton and Mr. Watt left
 sons, they will cause this matter to be set to rights.
     The steam-engine, notwithstanding the great improvements
 made, was only hitherto (in 1780) employed to raise water, and
 when intended to give motion to mill works, the water raised was
 made to turn an overshot wheel in the ordinary way              but this;
 was attended with       great loss of power.
                             a
     We now come to the second great improvement made on the
 steam-engine      byMr. Watt — that improvement which led directly
 to the revolution that has taken place in the mechanical world.
    To convert reciprocating motion into rotative one, as
                  a                                              a                   is
 done with the common spinning-wheel, and in turning lathes
 moved      by
             the foot, merely           by
                                    means of crank, might appear to
                                                             a
 bea   very simple matter.      In short,    might appear to be an af
                                                        it
fair already settled      yet;this  application of power on the great
scale gave rise to some very curious circumstances.
    During the summer of 17 SO, Mr. Watt set seriously about ap
plying the engine to the turning mill work, which he intended to
do by means of crank. a        This       mistake.
                                             is   a  The most compli
cated mode did not occur first.        The application of the crank in
the manner of the common turning lathe was Mr. Watt's first
idea.    But, to use his own words, as the rotative motion           pro
duced in that machine              by
                               the impulse given to the crank         the    in is
descent of the foot only, and behoves to be continued in its ascent
by the momentum of the wheel, which acts as             fly, he was un
                                                                     a
willing to load his engine with                   fly
                                          heavy enough to continue the
                                             a
motion during the ascent of the piston, and therefore proposed
employing two engines, acting upon two cranks fixed on the
same axis at an angle of 120° to each other, and a weight placed
upon the circumference of the                 fly
                                         at the same angle to each of

                   Memoir of James Watt, Esq. F.R.S.                             447
the cranks     ;by which means the motion might be rendered
nearly equal, and a very light             fly
                                        only would be requisite. . This
was only  a   project, and Mr. Watt's subsequent invention of the
sun and planet wheels, and his application of the double engine
rendered unnecessary the counter-weight, and produced             regular-   a
motion with       light fly.
                   a
    While this model was making,            rumour went abroad that a
                                                  a
Mr. Rickards was erecting in Birmingham                corn-mill, to be
                                                               a
moved    by  steam, the engine being       of the old construction, and
not of the sort improved             by
                                   Mr. Watt.
    Owing to sort of irregularity that very often attends men
                   a
of genius, the model of the rotative motion with the cranks, was
left for several months in an unfinished state, though the inten
tion of completing     it was not given up. In the beginning of the
year following,     Mr.  Wilkinson,    the great iron-founder, who cast
all the cylinders and large pieces of the engines for Messrs. Boul-
ton and Watt, called on Mr. Watt and told him he had contrived
to get admission into the corn-mill, that Mr. Rickards had                         by
 that time completed. — He described how            was constructed, and
                                                          it
 Mr. Watt at once found that Rickards had got hold of his plan with
 the crank.     The axis that made two revolutions for each stroke
of the engine, and the         with the heavy side — there could be no
                               fly
 doubt that   it  was  a copy, and that the plan had               by
                                                            some means
 or another been stolen.
    Mr. Watt, immediately on the departure of Mr. Wilkinson,
 told his draughtsman what he had learned, and there remained
 no doubt of the plan having              by
                                       some means been obtained. The
 draughtsman who had directed the making of the model, was
 anxious for his own sake to get at         knowledge of the manner in
                                                  a
 which the invention had been stolen             he therefore in the first
                                                      ;
 place got,    bybribing  one   of the  workmen, into the mill, and saw
it  was an exact copy of Mr. Watt's model, so that there was no
  doubt but that the plan was stolen.         As only one workman was
 employed on the model, and that in            shop where there were no
                                                      a
  others, there could remain no doubt that that workman was the
  person who had communicated the plan.
     After great deal of trouble, the man was got to confess that
          a
  he did give the plan to one of Rickards's workmen.
     A  patent, however, was obtained for the producing           rotative   a
  motion  by   means of    a crank, in the name of Rickards        so that   ;
  Mr. Watt was prevented from employing the means he had him
  self invented, and he was under the necessity of finding out an
  other method of producing the same effect. In this he succeeded
  in most ingenious way, but
     a                                     a means that
                                                 by            difficult to
                                                                   it   is
  describe;   it was called the sun and planet motion, and answered
  perfectly well.

   448             Memoir     of James Watt, Esq. F.R.S.
       We are minute in describing this, to show the difficulties invenJ
   tors have to encounter; but most of all to prove, that in inven
   tion the most complicated and difficult method is that which
   generally occurs first.
       The example of the common spinning-wheel, with the crank
   and heavy broad rim, which acts as a fly, was all that was neces
   sary to be copied, and the business would have been done.                To
   that did it come at last, after great trouble and expense, and in
   deed every improvement in the steam-engine was attended with
   immense trouble.
       It was to this application of the rotative motion, that the world
   owes the general use to which the power of steam has been ap
   plied, and by which an almost total change has been produced in
   the mechanical world.
       Many operations are now performed by the power of steam,
   that could only before be done by human strength, and still more
   by what horses were employed to perform.              But that is not al! ;
   for where great power was wanted, neither men nor horses could
   be so applied as to do the business, and in most cases wind and
   water were out of the question.
       Power can now be created where and when one pleases, and
   in the quantity that is required; and it has been calculated that
   the labour of three millions of men is performed by means of
   steam ; but even that, though a most incalculable advantage, is
   not all, for operations are performed by steam that could not be
   performed by any other means with which we are acquainted.
   Deep mines could not be drained by animal force, and neither
   wind nor water could be applied, so that they must have been
   already abandoned in many cases, and by degrees in all.
       It is probably, we might almost say certainly, to the improve
   ments in the steam-engine, that this country owes its ability to
   have supported the struggle she had to maintain against nearly
   the whole of Europe and the United States of America at the same
   time*.
      * An anecdote has been recorded of Mr. Boulton, which deserves record.
   — He   was a man who mixed with the world, and went occasionally to court,
   where he was always particularly noticed by His Majesty.
      Soon after he was connected with Mr. Watt, he appeared at St. James's
   on a levee day.     " Well, Mr. Boulton," said the king, " I am glad to see
>* you.   What  new  project have you got now? I know you are always at some
   thing new!!"
                  " I am," said Mr. Boulton, "manufacturing anew article
   that kings are very fond of." " Aye, aye, Mr. Boulton, what's that ?"— "It is
                                        "
   power, an please Your Majesty." — Power ! Mr. Boulton, we like power,
   that's true ; but what do you mean ?" — " Why, sir, I mean the power of
   steam to move machines."        His Majesty was pleased, and laughing said,
   " Very good, very good ; go on, go on." His Majesty little thought that
   Mr. Boulton was manufacturing a poiuer that would enable him to resist
   nearly all the world in arms, but which turned out literally to be the case,
   though neither His Majesty nor Mr. Boulton saw the happy end of the contest.

                Memoir of James Watt, Esq.         F.R.S.         449
    The application of steam to the turning machinery, by -con-
Verting the reciprocal motion into a rotative one, was but imper
fect while the rod of the piston was connected with the beam or
lever of the engine by a chain, for though the chain can draw, it
cannot propel or push.
    By one of the most ingenious of all inventions, which, how
ever, cannot be described without the assistance of a drawing,
Mr. Watt contrived to make the pull and push of the engiue act
always in a perpendicular direction, though the end of the beam
moved in a circle.     This invention was like all the others exclu
sively Mr. Watt's, though unlike some of the others, it was not
 pirated or stolen.
    At the same time that this gave to the engine an accuracy and
 certainty of motion, it rendered the machine much less expensive.
 The two circular heads to the beam or lever became unnecessary,
 so that a simple straight lever, either of wood or of cast-iron,
 answered the purpose.
     In Newcomen's engine, of a large size, the beam was five or
 six feet in depth, and three or four in thickness, built of 12 or 16
 Strong pieces of timber, costing seven or eight hundred pounds
 sterling.
     The improved engines not only do not consume above one-
 third of the quantity of coal, but the boiler, the fire-place, and
 the building ave all much smaller in size, and consequently much
 less expensive.
     We have been particular in giving in detail the difficulties Mr.
 Watt had to encounter, and the wonderful genius and persever
  ance by which* they were overcome.
     Any person 'who sees now with what facility the engines are
  managed, and the perfection with which they are made, must feel
  a difficulty of conceiving the difficulties that good workmen and
  men of genius found in managing the machine, and making it
  perform well for some years after its first invention, but that only  >
  proves the truth of an old proverb, that Practice makes perfect.
      Never was there a more happy or fit union of two persons act
  ing in conjunction than was witnessed in Messrs. Boulton and
  Watt. Though of very different manners and habits, no two
  men ever more cordially agreed.. Mr. Watt was studious and re
  served, keeping aloof from the world, while Mr. Boulton was ac
  tive, mixing with people of all ranks with great freedom, and
  without ceremony.      As both were highly honourable men, and
  very attentive to business, they did full justice to every thing they
  tindertook, and to every person with whom they transacted busi
   ness.
      They were liberal to those whom thev employed    '   : and Soho,
   Vol. 54. No. 260. Dec. 1819.                    F f            where

450             Memoir    of James Watt, Esq. F.R.S.
where their manufactory was carried on, became a seminary for
engineers and mechanics.
   Amongst the persons who rose to eminence by their means ii
Mr. Rennie, the engineer, who has so highly distinguished him
self by the great works he has planned and executed.
   We must be permitted to digress a little on this occasion, a»
the subject is important, and the opportunity one that is very
appropriate.
   It has often been regretted that we have not in this country a
regular school for civil engineers, as they have long had in France ;
but if we may be permitted to judge of the tree by its fruit, thi»
is far from being a disadvantage.
   The School for Roads and Bridges (I'Ecole des Ponts et Chaus-
sees) has not produced any such men as Brindley, or Watt, or
Rennie, or Maudsley, or Brunei, all men who have been irregu
larly bred.
    The bridges constructed in Paris in latter times are far inferior
to those constructed in London.       The iron bridge, for example,
opposite the old Louvre, is ugly and ill built. Neither the design
nor the execution are tolerable, and it is as far inferior to the
Southwark bridge as a cottage is to a palace, though the execu
tion was far less difficult, and there was a fine opportunity of
showing how a bridge of one single arch might have been thrown
over that narrow river, where the abutments at both ends were
of equal height of solid stone, and high above the river.
    As to the high-ways in France, they are not improved in the
least degree since Louis XV. ordered them to be made more than
twenty years ago.
   We can only account for this by engineers following a routine
wlien bred in schools, and by youths being educated for a pro
fession that requires genius, before it is known whether or not
they are possessed of the genius requisite.
    When there are no schools there is no routine to follow ; and
those only are employed as engineers who distinguish themselves
by their ability.
    Monsieur Rich de Prony, who has acted with such injustice to
Mr. Watt, in giving his invention to a man who never invented
any thing, is at the head of that department ; yet with all ap
purtenances and means to boot, he has produced nothing.          The
bridge of Nuilly was built by PerroneSy, and none of the bridges
built since over the Seine are any way equal to it.
    As to architecture, if we are to judge from the recent struc
tures in Paris, it is on the decline.    None of the new works ar«
equal to the old Louvre, or the Porte St. Martin and St. Dennis.
The triumphal arch of the Place de Carousel is a bad copy, from
                                                              a work

                   Memoir    of James Watt, Esq. F.R.S.           451
   A work of the same sort at Rome/ covered profusely with admi
  rable sculpture in miniature ; it produces no striking effect, but
  looks like a model badly planned, and badly placed, but carefully
  executed.
       None of the new fountains are equal to the ancient one of the
  Innocents ; and if we were to follow the comparison throughout,
  we should find a similar falling off.
       England is not a country for architecture ; we want the fine
  material ; yet how much inferior is the church of St. Genevieve
  to St. Paul's !
       As to canals, the French seem to retrograde, and forget
  what they formerly knew.        The canal of Languedoc is a great
  work, but all the canals of a late period are badly contrived, and
  as badly executed.
       In 1779, while Mr. Watt's grand invention of the steam en
  gine was gradually improving, he invented the machine for copy
  ing letters, by means of a thin moist paper and two rollers. It is
   a minor invention, though very useful, and one by which, to use
  his own words, time, labour, and money are saved; dispatch and
  accuracy are attained ; and secrecy is preserved. It has got into
  general use all over the world, and gives Mr. Watt another claim
   to the gratitude of mankind, if indeed the invention of the im
  proved steam-engine could enlarge his claim.
       Mr. Watt lost his first wife before he quitted Glasgow. She is
   said to have been an excellent woman, and by her he had a son
   and a daughter.     The son has for a number of vears carried on
  the steam-engine manufactory in partnership with Mr. Boulton's
   only son.    They have only to tread in the steps of their fathers,
   to ensure them the esteem and good-will of mankind.
       Soon after Mr. Watt settled at Birmingham he married Miss
   Macgregor of Glasgow, with whom he lived very happily.          His
   domestic habits and those of that -.'miable woman perfectly
   agreed, and never was there more harmony in any family.
       Mr. Watt was afflicted with a violent head-ache for many
•
   years; but for a long period, we believe, he had been free from
.  that complaint, and to the last he was a most cheerful and en
   tertaining companion.
       Mr. Watt used to relax from his study and intense thinking by
   reading novels ; but he did that, as he did every thing else, with
    measure and moderation.
        The steam-engine is now employed more or less in'every coun
   try in Europe, and lately three engines have been erected to drain
    some of the mines in South America.
        The navigation of rivers has become much more expeditious by
   means of the application of the power of steam, and there are
    -.                               Ff2                        hopes

i32            Memgir of James Walt, Esq. F.R.S.
 hopes that it may in time be employed to advantage on the opea
 ocean.
    That the power of steam may be employed to the ploughing
 of land, is by no means improbable, aud we believe there are at
 this time projects in embryo for that very purpose.
    The number of horses kept for labour is already very consider
 ably diminished ; the prices of coal, iron, and the produce of
 mines of all sorts are also reduced, or prevented from augment
 ing, as they otherwise would have done ; so that in every view of
the matter the invention is highly beneficial to mankind.
    The life of a sedentarv or studious man produces few incidents ;
but in particular where, like Mr. Walt, he happens not to live
 amongst a society where he can associate much with others of a
similar cast.
    Birmingham, or the country round, afforded few men who were
calculated to associate with Mr. Watt ; accordingly he was almost
constantly at home, and very seldom in company.
    Mr. Watt had for a number of years quitted business, having
acquired an independence, and having a son to continue the ma
nufactory, as we have already said, with the son of Mr. Boultou.
    Mr. Watt was a fellow of the Royal' Society of London, and a
member of the Institute of Paris ; and there is not any body of
learned or scientific men in Europe that would not have thought
his being admitted into their number as an honeur conferred
upon them.
    He died at the age of eighty-four, at his house at Heathfield.
near Birmingham, having enjoyed his usual health and spirits
almost to the last.
   Those who knew him best, and were the most capable of ap
preciating his talents, esteemed him the most highly ; and his
was the rare felicity to have survived envy and closed his days in
the possession and enjoyment of the esteem and admiration of
his contemporaries.     But the time is not yet come when full jus
tice will be rendered to the wonderful effects his discoveries have
produced in the world.       The man, who by the strength of his
genius under the greatest difficulties, brought to perfection a
power that acquires for this country such incalculable benefits,
and who, in remote antiquity, would have been deified amongst
the inventors of the arts of life, has been suffered to depart this
world without any notice by the rulers of his country : but it is to
be hoped he has left friends who will do ample justice to his merit
and his memory, which we have endeavoured to do as far a* oar
means afforded and our space admitted.
                                                      LXXIII,    On

                                   [  453    ]
 LXXIH.        On the Effects of anointing the Stems and Branches
     of Fruit Trees with Oil, and on the means of destroying In
    sects.    By Sir G. S. Mackenzie, Bart. *
  A he   trees in my garden having been much infested with insects
in   the year 1815,     I became anxious to devise means to prevent
 their increase.      I recollected to have seen an apple tree in the
 Duke of Buccleuch's garden at Dalkeith, which had been al
most destroyed by what is called the scaly insect           f ; but which
had recovered on the application of a mixture of oil, sulphur,
 and soot.      It is well known, that oil is fatal to insects, and to
 this part of the mixture I attributed the recovery of the tree.             I
 conceived that oil, applied to the stems and branches of trees,
 might act in two ways ; it might destroy the eggs and pupe of
insects already deposited ; and it might prevent the attack of in
sects in future.       It occurred to me also, that oil, by softening
hard and diseased portions of the bark, might be in these re
spects beneficial to the health and growth of the tree, and ena
ble the vegetative power to throw off such portions by a natural
process, which might be preferable to the more violent proceed
ings of scraping, while the bark is constricted.
    With these views, I directed my gardener to anoint a con
siderable number of trees of different kinds.             Not being aware
of any injury which was likely to arise from allowing the oil to
touch the buds, he zealously rubbed every recess into which it
was possible for eggs to he deposited ; and this has been the
means of my discovering, more extensively than I should other
wise have done, the effects of oil, both in regard to benefit and
injury ; though those of the last kind have put me to some little
inconvenience.        I shall now detail these effects.
    Apple-trees. — In every case where the buds were not touched,
every beneficial effect has followed the application of oil to the
stems and branches.           Fruit-buds, if touched, are destroyed ;
and also, if far advanced, the leaf-buds.           But new buds of both
kinds are afterwards produced in great numbers ; and I re
marked on two young trees with long bare stems, that buds burst
forth on the stems, where none had appeared before. This is
easily accounted for.       The sap not being able to find the usual
outlet in the expansion of the buds formed the previous year,
acted so as to produce new buds and branches, in the same
   * From the Transactions of the Caledonian Horticultural
                                                              Society,
   f  The scale has, I understand, been lately discovered to be the nidus, in
which the eggs of some winged insects are deposited.      Larvae have been

454                    On the Effects of anointing
manner     as it  does when a tree is cut over.   There are now     nu
merous    fruit-buds on trees which had but few, and those          few
were completely destroyed.
  , Fear-trees. — These,      though the more advanced fruit-buds
suffered, have been less injuriously affected than apple-trees.
Their growth has been unusually vigorous ; and great numbers of
new buds have been formed, covering branches which before were
naked.      This I remarked particularly on a jargonelle.
    Plum-trees did not appear to suffer in any respect, but shot
out blossoms and wood vigorously.
    Peach-trees. — One tree, an old one, appeared to have been
 totally destroyed.      But on examining it carefully, I observed
some buds which appeared alive.          Lcut all the branches dovyn
 to these buds, which have produced astonishingly fine shoots,
 A young tree, which for a year or two had made so little pro
gress, and appeared so unhealthy, that it had been condemned,
has shot forth in a surprising manner, and has become a very
handsome tree. T was not, at first, particular in my examination
 of this tree, as, from its former appearance, I was not anxious
about it.      It is probable, however, that the oil had not reached
 the best buds.
    Apricot-trees were so much injured, that the shoots were
feeble, and the trees ultimately perished.        I do not yet know
what    the  effect will be when  the buds shall be  carefully avoided
 when the oil is applied.
    Cherry-trees were seriously injured. When I speak of injury,
 I mean, that in those cases where the buds were not spared, new
 pnes did not push forth, and the general health and vigour of the
 tree seemed impaired.
    Vines, treated in this manner, without sparing the buds, die
 down to the root, from which strong shoots are afterwards sent
 up. When the buds are not touched, they grow vigorously.
 But, on the whole, as the annual exfoliation of the bark admits
 of its being easily removed, I am not inclined to advise the ap
 plication of oil to vines.
    Gooseberry and Currant-lushes did not appear to derive any
 benefit, but seemed to me rather injured by the oil.
    Those peach-trees which were not oiled, were as usual infested
 with aphides, while no insect of any kind was to be seen on those
 which had been oiled.
    The apple aphis {A. lanigera) has been entirely extirpated
 from one garden, by means of oiHapplied to every part where
 it appeared ; and I doubt not of its being soon destroyed in
 every district of the kingdom which it has reached, if the same
 means be used.
    While the experiments leading to the results now           detailed
                                                                   were

                                                 '
                        Fruit Trees ttiih Oil.                    45S
were in progress, I was informed, that a Lady, who is fond of
horticulture, had cured several trees of canker, by first removing
the diseased parts, and then covering the wound with a piece of
rag spread with hog's lard.      We may infer, that oil will have
the same effect.
     I noticed verv early in the progress of my experiments, that
on the stems and branches which had been oiled, parts diseased,
and where branches had been removed, became of a different
hue from the rest of the bark ; an exfoliation appeared to com
mence ; and in autumn, new bark was seen to have been pro
duced, and to have displaced that which was dead and diseased,
«o that it could be easily removed.
     From what has been related, I am satisfied, that in many
cases, trees will derive much benefit from the application of oil,
care being taken not to touch the buds, especially if they have
begun to swell.
     Besides the enemies to fruit, which lurk in the bark, we have
yet to contend with those which deposit their eggs on the leaves
and blossoms.      From wall and espalier-trees, the larva may be
removed with little trouble ; but when an attempt is made to
clear standards, the trouble and time required cannot be ex
pected to be repaid.      Gardeners are in the habit of suspending
on wall-trees, bottles with a little sugar, or honey, and water, to
destroy the insects which attack ripening fruit.         If they will
hang up the bottles early in spring, both on wall-trees and stand
ards, and continue to use them during the whole season, they
will be surprised at the destruction of insect enemies which will
ensue.      Thousands of insects, some in search of food, and most
of them pregnant, and some moving about for the purpose of
depositing their eggs, will be tempted to their destruction ; and
few, comparatively, will be left to do mischief in the autumn.
 The bottles 1 have used for this purpose, are narrow in the neck,
 and depressed a little under the shoulders.
     There is an enemy, however, which does more mischief than
 perhaps all the others put together, that cannot be destroyed by
 these means.     As this enemy commits its depredations only du
 ring the night, it is not probably generally known.       Pear-trees
 and vines seem to be most liable to the attacks of this lurking
 enemy ; but it has been detected on many other kinds of trees.
 The destruction so often observed on grafts, is the result of this
 creature being permitted to multiply.    It is, I believe, the Cur-
 culio vustator, a weevil, which retires during the day amongst
 little clods of earth, from which, owing to its colour, it rs
 scarcely distinguishable, as it never moves when touched. Y\ hen
 mischief is observed to have been done, and the enemy is not
 perceived, by looking amongst the earth at the foot of the tree,
                                F   f 4                         these

 456               Notices respecting New Books.
 these weevil* will be found.       They can only be destroyed by
*earthing for them, and killing each individual when discovered.
 The method which I have found the simplest and the most effect
tual, is to tread the earth round the stem after it is dark, and to
place bits of slates, tiles, or small stones round it. In the morn
ing, the Weevils retreat under them, and may be picked up.
 Cracks in the bark, the separations of branches, holes in the
wall, and every cranny into which it is possible for the weevils
to enter, should be examined. Perhaps wrapping round the stem,
a little tow soaked with some adhesive composition, such as the
 basilicon ointment of apothecaries, may have the effect of ar
resting these insects, when they attempt to ascend the stems of
 the trees.
    The Curculio abietis was detected once on a vine. This is a
considerably larger weevil than the vastator, and is one of those
with a lengthened snout.        If gardeners will take the trouble,
occasionally, to look over their trees and bushes in the night
time, many nocturnal depredators, and their haunts, may be
discovered, which are at present little suspected. It would be of
importance, when any new enemy is discovered, that it should
be sent to you, with an account of the manner in which it iu-r
flicts injury, of the particular parts of the plant which it at
tacks, and of such other circumstances as may be known con
cerning it.                        mm
    A member of this Society, Mr. John Linning, has informed
me, that he has found a little oil put on the stems of carnations,
very effectual in protecting them from the attacks of earwigs.
    As this defence is always at hand, and may be easily made
use of, horticulturists and florists will, I hope, repeat and ex
tend the experiments which have been made.
    The oil which I used was common fish-oil. Whale-oil of the
coarsest kind will answer equally well ; and indeed any greasy
substance.     No more should be put on than wil) just produce a
shining surface,
              LXXIV.     Notices respecting New Books.
Philosophical Transactions of     the  Royal Society of London, for
                      1819. Parts    II. and III.
Th f-    following are the titles of the papers contained in these
additional Parts of the Transactions of the Royal Society for the
present year :.— On the Specific Gravity and Temperature of Sea
Waters in different Parts of the Ocean and in particular Seas,
with some Aepqunt of their Saline Contents.        By Alex. Marcet,
M.p.— An Account of the Fossil Skeleton of the Proteo Saunis.

   Philos. Transaction. — Leylourn's Mat hem. Repository.      457
By Sir Everard Home, Bart. — Reasons for giving the name of
Proteo Saurus to the Fossil Skeleton which has been described.
By the same. — Some Observations on the Peculiarity of the Tides
between Fairleigh      and the North Foreland ; with an Explana
tion of the supposed Meeting of the Tides near Dungeness.        By
Captain James Anderson, R. N. — On the Ova of the different
Tribes of Opossum and Ornithorhyncus.        By Sir Everard Home,
Bart. — The Results of Observations made at the Observatorv of
Trinity College, Dublin, for determining the Obliquity of the
Ecliptic, and the Maximum of the Alteration of Light. By the
Rev. J. Brinkley, D.D. — On some new Methods of investigating
the Sums of several Classes of infinite Series.        By Charle*
Babbage, Esq. — On the Optical and Physical Properties of Ta-
basheer.      By Dr. Brewster. — An Account of a Membrane in the
Eye    now  first described.  By Arthur Jacob, M.D. — A new Me
thod of solving Numerical Equations of all Orders by continuoui
Approximation. By W. G. Horner, Esq. — An Account of Ex
periments for determining the Variation in the Length of the
Pendulum vibrating Seconds at the principal Stations of the Tri
gonometrical Survey of Great Britain.       By Captain Kater.
    Notice. — The 17th Number of Leybourn's Mathematical Repo
sitory, containing the Geometrical Solution of the Problem of
inscribing a regular Polygon of seventeen Sides in a Circle. — Thi*
Number also contains several other curious mathematical Pro
blems and their Solutions, as well as original Papers on Mathe
matical Subjects ; together with the following Set of Questions to
be answered in a future Number (XIX).
    1 . A and B travelled on the same road and at the same rate
from H to L. At the 5()th mile stone from L, A overtook a
drove of geese, which were proceeding at the rate of three miles
in two hours ; and two hours afterwards met a stage waggon which
was moving at the rate of nine miles in four hours.     B overtook
 the same drove of geese at the 45th mile stone, and met the same
stage waggon exactly forty minutes before he came to the 3 1st
mile stone. Where was B when A reached L ?
    2. The curve AVR and semicircle APB have the same abscissa,
{he ordinate MV=?tan. £ arc AP: prove that the area AMV=*
twice the segment AP.
   3. A parabola revolves round its axis, which is vertical, in a
given time, and the angular motion will just prevent a body at
any point of the curve from descending : required the parameter
of the parabola ?
   4. To divide a given arc (A), less than a quadrant, into two
                                    m
such parts (p) and (q) that tan       p X tan q may = max.
                                                              5»  A
                                                                  \

455                 Notices respecting New Books.
    5. A normal at any point of an equilateral hyperbola i* equal
 to the distance of that point from the centre.      Required the de-
 toonstration.
    6. C is the centre of an ellipse and F either focus, PH a tan
 gent at 1' : draw the diameter PCp and pF meeting PH in H.
 Prove that pH = the trans- rse diameter.
    7. P is any point in the diameter of a circle and PB a per
 pendicular to the diameter : draw any chord PA, and a tangent
 AB meeting PB in B, and draw BD and CE (C the centre) per
 pendicular to PA; then PE = DA. Required a demonstration.
    8. Within a given triangle suppose another triangle to be in
scribed, by joining the middle points of it6 sides ; and again,
 within this triangle suppose another triangle to be inscribed by
joining the middle points of its sides, and so on ad infinitum. :
 What will be the limit of the aggregate of the sum of the squares
jpf all the sides of all the triangles so formed ?
    9. Let any right line be drawn through the focus of a given
conic section, terminating in the curve; then a fourth proportional
to the whole line and the two segments thereof, made by the fo
 cus, will always be of the same constant length.     Required a de
 monstration.
    10. A triangle being given, it is required to describe three cir
cles, so that each circle shall touch the other two and a side of
the triangle at the point of bisection.
    1 1 . Required    the curve that has at eaeh point the radius of
curvature      a fourth  proportional to the abscissa, the ordinate,
and    a  given straight line.
    12. To determine the nature of the curve such that the per
pendicular from a given point upon the tangent shall be a mean
proportional between a given line and the segment of the axis in
tercepted between the tangent and this same given point.
    13. To determine the equation to the curve whose tangent is
a  mean     proportional between the segment of the axis intercepted
between it and a given point, and that same segment augmented
by a given line.
    14. A body, urged by a force perpendicular to the horizon, de
scribes the quadrant of a circle.     Required the law of force which
will make it recede uniformly from the horizontal radius, and
the time elapsed and the velocity acquired at any point of the de
scent.
   15. The characteristic property of the circle     is, that all the
chords whieh pass through   a certain  determinate point    its plane
                                                           in
are equal;  but there exists an  indefinite number  of curves which
possess this property.
                         It   isrequired to find the most general
equation to curves of this nature.
          given rod or beam has one end suspended
                                                           by
   16. A                                                   a  cord of
                                                                a   given

          Accum's Treatise on Adulterations                                of Food.       459
a given length, fixed aye giren point above an inclined plane of a
given inclination ; it is req'uired to determine the position of the
beam, weight sustained by the cord, and pressure against the in
 clined plane, when the beam is in equilibrio.
     17. Find the rectification and quadrature of the magnetic curve,
which is such, that if lines be drawn from the poles to any point
 in the curve, and vp and ^ be the angles they make with the line
joining them, cos $ + cos         =    a constant quantity.
                                        vf/         c,
     18. Required   a number consisting of sis digits       de such             ab    f
                                                                                      c
that, its multiples     by               may contain amongst them
                                        3,
                              1,   2,   4,
                                        5,            6
the following arrangements:
                              a     b
                                              d c   e d
                                                    f     f
                                                          e
                                                                   c b a
                              b     c
                                    d         f                -
                              d c
                          .                   e           a
                              f
                              e
                                    f
                                    e
                                              a
                                                    a
                                                      bed
                                                          b
                        f           a         b     c     d         e.
   19.   It  well known that the formula xz+x-{-4l contains a
              is
great number   of primes  prove that when x
                               :                 of either of the          is
two following forms    cannot be
                         it        prime, a: = 53 a 4-
                                                    a    and x=                       3
97a-S.
   20.   Ifthe beam     question 401 instead of resting upon the
                         in
curve, be at liberty to slide freely over the prop and descend                             by
the force of gravity,    itrequired to determine the motion of its
                              is
centre of gravity.
                        Preparing         for Publication.
   Mr. Accum       has in the press,Treatise on Adulterations of
                                                  A
Food, and on Culinary Poisons; exhibiting the fraudulent sophi
stications of Bread, Wine, Water, Tea, Coffee, Cream,, Spirituous
Liquors, Cheese, Mustard, Vinegar, Olive Oil, Pepper, Confec
tionary, and other articles employed    domestic OJconomy> and
                                                          in
Methods of detecting them. The work will form one volume
twelves, containing upwards of 300 pages, and will be published
in the course of next month.
  A  Translation of M. Lennec's excellent work on the Diseases
of the Thoracic Viscera and on Auscultation. By Charles'
Thomas Haden, Surgeon to the Chelsea and Brompton Dispen
sary, &c.
   Lectures on General and Medical Botany.     By Anthonv Todd
Thomson, F.L.S. Member of the Royal College of Surgeons in
London, &c. &c.
   Mr. Cross will shortly publish concise History of the Variolous
                                                  a
Epidemic which occurred in Norwich in the year IS 19, with an
Estimate of the Protection afforded bv Vaccination, &c.
                                                                                           An

 460                           Royal Society.
    An Elementary Treatise on Mechanics, by W. Whewell, M.A.
 Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge, vol. 1. containing Statics
and Part of Dynamics.
    M. Charles Dupin is preparing for publication An Account of
his Travels in Great Britain during the years 1816, 1817, 1818,
and 1819, undertaken with a view to information on the subject
of our Military and Marine Establishment!', Bridges and High
Ways. It will form six volumes in quarto, and be accompanied
 with an Atlas of Plates.
           LXXV.        Proceedings    of Learned    Societies.
                            ROYAL SOCIETY.
 This    Society resumed its sittings on the 4th of November, by
commencing the reading of theCroonian Lecture,by Sir E. Home,
entitled " A Further Investigation of the component Parts of the
 Blood."
    Nov. 1 1 . The reading of Sir Everard's Lecture was concluded,
 in which he attempts to show that smaller globules and of a dif
ferent nature from those commonly supposed to exist in blood,
 are found in it.     They were first observed by Mr. Bauer while
 examining the layers composing an aneurismal tumour.              They
 were seen in the coat in contact with the circulating blood, in
 the proportion of 1 to 4, compared with the larger globules ; but
in the other layers they were more numerous, and in that which
had been first formed they existed in the proportion of 4 to 1.
 Their estimated size was -j-jVb- oi- an inch. Crystals of muriate
and phosphate of soda, and sulphate of lime were found in making
a section of another aneurismal tumour : these and the globules
before mentioned Sir E, supposes to have originally existed in
solution in the serum ; the globules being to be seen only after
the blood has coagulated.         In coagulated lymph, found during
high inflammation, these globules were observed mixed with a
few colourless blood globules.        They were also found in great
numbers in the upper firm coat of the buff of blood, while the
lower and softer parts consisted chiefly of blood globules.         The
author proposes to     call  the new globules by the  name   of globules
of lymph, to distinguish them from blood globules. The author
found the quantity of carbonic acid gas evolved from buffy blood
under an exhausted receiver to be much less than that from
healthy blood ; and that by far the greatest quantity of this gas
was yielded by blood drawn from a healthy person an hour after
a full meal.
              — Both lymph globules and blood globules were found
in the mucus    of the pylorus and duodenum. In chyle the size of
£he globules is various,         Mr. Bauer supposes that the, blood
                                                                globules

                             Royal Society.                           461
globules are fonned in the mesenteric glands, with the exception
of the colouring matter, which they obtain on exposure to air in
passing through the lungs.
    The Bakerian Lecture by Mr. Brande was next commenced
 reading — " On the composition and analysis of the Inflammable
Gaseous compounds resulting from the destructive distillation of
coal and oil, with some remarks, on their relative heating and il
luminating powers."
   Nov. 18. — The Bakerian Lecture was concluded. In the first
part of this lecture Mr. Brande attempts to show that no other
compound of carbon and hydrogen can be demonstrated to exist
than that usually called olefiant gas, consisting of one part of
carbon and one of hydrogen ; and that what is usually called
carburetted hydrogen is in fact a mixture of hydrogen and ole
fiant gases.     The truth of his opinion is supported by the author
by  various  experiments on gases obtained from cr>al, oil, and other
substances.      He supposes that many of the products obtained by
destructive distillation of coals, &c. are of secondary formation,
and result from the mutual action of the gases first formed.            A
peculiar compound of hydrogen and carbon is thos formed, by
passing pure olefiant gas through a tube containing red-hot char
coal, similar in appearance to tar, but possessing the properties
of a resin. Sulphuret of carbon was formed by the mutual action
of sulphuretted and carburetted hydrogen.          Some new modes of
analysing gaseous     mixtures  were  also  pointed out in the first part.
   The    second  part related to the  illuminating and heating powers
of coal gas, and of oil gas.    The   illuminating powers of olefiant,
oil, and coal gases are stated to be to one another nearly as 3, 2,
and 1 ; and the ratio of their heating powers to be nearly simi
lar, that from coal being greatest, and that from olefiant gas the
least. In this part the advantage in point of illumination by em
ploying many jets in the burners (instead of one) placed so near
•ach other that the different flames can unite, was illustrated by
•xperiments.
    The lecture concluded with comparative experiments on ter
 restrial and solar light.    Gas lights, even when concentrated so
as to produce a sensible degree of heat, do not affect the colour
of muriate of silver, nor a mixture of chlorine and hydrogen gases;
while the concentrated brilliant light of charcoal submitted to            '
 galvanic action not only affects the muriate but causes these gases
 to unite — sometimes with explosion.         Concentrated moonlight
 did not affect either of these tests.
    A paper    "  On the Elasticity of the Lungs," by Dr. Carson,
 was commenced reading.
    Nov. 25. — Finished the reading of Dr. Carson '* paper.
                                                                   ROYAL

                         Boracie Acid.
     ROTAL ACADEMY     OF SCIENCES AND BELLES       LETtRES OF
                             BRUSSELS.
    In the Phil. Mag. for August 1818, mention was made of three
questions proposed by this Academy for competition, in the Class
of Sciences during the year 1819.
  . On the first question
                            only one Memoir has heen presented,
written in Dutch. v'f he Academy after a rigorous examination of
it are of opinion, that t hough it bears marks of being written by
a very learned geomet rician, it hns not furnished a satisfaetosy
solution of the question ; that is to say, that the author has not
succeeded, 1st, in proving that the hypothesis adopted by Euler
is really a physical hypothesis.   2d, in presenting under what can
be considered as a new form the beautiful theory resnhing from
it — nor 3d, in assigning the reason truly physical, Why a square
plane with the Wf/ight P. attached to its centre exerts an equal
pressure on the four supports placed at its four angles. Consider
 ing, however, that the Memoir has cost a great deal of labour,
though unfortunately too foreign in general to the question pro
 posed, and thrrt it is partly a commentary on the beautiful Me
 moir of Euler , and partly a mathematical factum, in which art
 collected almost all the arguments which can be advanced in iti
 favour,— the Academy have voted to the author a silver medat
of encouragement.
     On opening the' billet which accompanied this Memoir it was
 found to be the production of Col. Huguenin, Director of the
 Gannon Foundry at Liege.
     On the two other questions proposed by the Society at the same
 time, no papers have been offered, and the Society have resolved
 to abandon them.
         LXXVI.   Intelligence   and Miscellaneous Articles.
                          BORACIC ACID.
It   has been known for some time that Boracie Acid is found            it!
solution in certain lakes in Tuscany.   M. Robiquet (in the Jour
nal de Pharmacie, 1819) states that M. Dubrouzet, one of the
proprietors of the lakes in Cherchaio, informed him that he had
obtained about two per cent. of this acid       evaporating the wa
                                                by
ters, and offered him any quantity of the acid, delivered      inParis
at francs thekilogram. Indeed considerable quantities have been
     3
sent to Paris, but hitherto without finding purchasers. The acid
is in small scales of greyish colour
                     a                 :its taste slightly bitter its
                                                                    ;
aqueous solution reddens litmus.      It not precipitated
                                           is                  by
                                                                either
nitrate of silver or oxalate of ammonia     but strongly
                                            ;              by muriate

             Gehlenite.  — Titaniums— +?oisons. — Egypt.                 463
 of barytes : it therefore contains an alkaline sulphate dissolved in
 water, it leaves an insoluble residue not acted upon by the tnine.-
 ral acids : this residue consists of different earthy bodies, mixed!
 with a little oxide of copper. M . Robiquet suggests the adding
soda, in due proportion, and converting this acid into borax, es a
speculation likely to prove profitable.
            GEHLENITE,     NEEDLE-STONE,         AND DATOLITE.
    Dr. E. D. Clarke has lately detected potass in this stone. The
 property of forming a jelly in acids belongs to but few minerals,
and the Doctor had long suspected that it was owing to the pre
sence either of an alkali or an alkaline earth in stones containing,
silica.   There seems to be no exception but where zinc or lime
is present with the silica.        In the instances of Needle-stone and
 Daiolite, which both yield a transparent jelly when acted on by
 acids, and both contain lime, he has also detected Soda.
           TITANIUM FOUND IN OXIDULATED                IRON ORE.
    M\ Robiquet    has   lately detected titanium in the oxidulated
octoedral iron from the steatite of Corsica.             This ore, dissolved
completely    in muriatic  acid>    then  evaporated   to  dryness in a mo
derate heat, and re-dissolved in water, leaves a white pulveru
lent substance, which when fused-with potash, and afterwards
dissolved in muriatic acid, gives all the characters of a solution
of titanium. In this manner, six parts have been separated from
100 of the mineral; and M. Robiquet is inclined to believe
that titanium generally accompanies the oxidulated iron in na
ture, and that this compound is not, as has been thought, pe^
culiar to volcanic countries. — M. Berzelius found titanium in
Elba iron ore.                   .            .
                                   POISONS.
    A correspondent suggests that a complete work on poisons,
especially those frequently- met with, with their proper specifics'
when such are known, is a desideratum in the healing art to
which medical authors should turn their attention. The experi
ments of Dr. Orphila in Paris promise much valuable informa
tion. It is now ascertained that sugar taken in lumps is a cer
tain antidote for verdigris ; that vinegar counteracts the dangerous
effects of alkaline substances ; and that raw albumen (white of
eggs) if administered in time is a remedy for mercury sublimate.
                               '
                                    EGYPT.
                                       frojn p.
                         [Continued             396.]
                                                   "  Cairo, Marsh 4, 1819.
    " In  our return to Thebes, we-took in Ombos, Hagar, Tileit,
  "      >                                                                aud

464                                          Egypt-
and HemirUha ; Trenchis and Edfir we had seen coining tip.
Ombos is very late, and very bizarre in its construction; five                            pil
lars in front, and two entrances into two separate and parallel
ranges of apartments. Hematis                 a small and curiously enriched
                                                   is
temple, originally      unfurnished.       Euneh,     celebrated for its zodiac,
and unquestionably        the   finest  portico    in  Egypt,    nothing but     is           a
portico   ;  the body of the temple            buried, and the town built on
                                                     is
its roof. Edfir, in the same manner incumbered,                   the most en    is
tire in its accessories, at least of any other Egyptian temples                           ;   it
has all the accompaniments of propyla, area, inclosure, &c. quite
perfect   : but all sunk           in
                                  Thebes.         am literally afraid of saying
                                                        I
any    thing   of   its gigantic    size        size
                                                 ;   a not only of extent, but
mass. The disjecta membra occupy many miles, and the largest
temple, that of Kamek,                 1200 feet
                                         is              length alone, without
                                                               in
 comprehending its dependent sacella temples, to the number of
fifteen or twenty, with which                 surrounded.
                                              it   is           do not rememI
 ber  a more positively sublime effect produced                             by
                                                               any architecture
I   have ever seen, than the vista from the obelisk down the great
 portico. — cannot say how much
                I                                   struck and astonished me,
                                                          it
 when I    suddenly turned round,            without    any preparation from
 former travellers,      and  unexpectedly came upon the whole forest
 of its pillars, enormous fragments of moss lintels, &c.                    shall     I
 well and long remember                 it
                                         :   had seen nothing else in Egypt,
                                              if I
 this would have repaid me for the worst part of the Egyptian
 tour, the seventeen days voyage to Alexandria. — We occupied so
 much time, as you may easily imagine, in taking the measure
 ments and plans of this city of temples, that we had less tim?,
 perhaps, than was necessary, for the Tombs of the Kings but                          ;       I
 contrived, notwithstanding our hurry, to spend two entire day*
 there— a place of wonders, half seen, half lost and perhaps                ;             ir
 recoverably so, in the darkness of their strange emblems and lan
 guage but;          it sufficiently impressive to confound and humble
                          is
 modern conceptions.           Most of these tombs are series to long            a
 strait excavations in the limestone rock, some of the length of
  100 feet in galleries, opening into rooms, and terminating in the
  large arched sepulchral chamber, where the body of the monarch
  was deposited in        granite or alabaster sarcophagus.
                               a                                       The Sar
  cophagus       already on its way to England. The sight of the stuc
                is
  coed painting which         have got, will give you
                                   I                           better idea of its
                                                                            a
  unaccountable preservation, than any vague terms could possibly
  do. It   isnot only fresh, but fresher than any wall painting             have      I
  ever seen   at  home    after   the  first week.                       that its
                                                                   if It
                                                              probable     is
  date    isvery ancient, and may exceed,                  Herodotus's Persian
  Chronology may be relied on, 1000 years before Christ. All
  the injury    ithas received, has been subsequent to its late open
  ing
    j    the excessive rain for          day and
                                             a         night at Thebes, almost
                                                               a
                                                                                      proved

                 New Island in the Bay    of Bengal.               465
a miracle (Herodotus justly regards the same phenomenon in hU
time) has damaged the painting and sculpture at the entrance.
We left Thebes late, and ran as fast as we could for Cairo ; re
ports of the plague had reached us, and apprehensive, in case they
proved true, of being detained in the country till the heat of sum
mer, before which it could not possibly cease, we decided on sa
crificing any ulterior or former projects, such as a journey to the
Great Cairo, to the Faccem or Lake Moris, to these salutary and
essential precautions.    On our arrival here, we found that some
accidents had occurred, of course in Alexandria, where its return
is now periodic, but had not extended further, so that we were
only allowed the time for the Holy Easter of Jerusalem and Mount
Sinai ; for my own part I have seen so many of these displays,
and am now so little affected by any thing which is mere display,
that were my companions originally willing, I should have pre
ferred seeing objects which can communicate information ; I
should prefer a prosecution of our journey a little further into
Arabia, to the sight of all the pilgrims from Godfrey de Bouil
lon down to Chateaubriand.      On these occasions, however, I re
member the advice of Terence, and am satisfied with a circuitous
route.    We remain a few days at Cairo, and have engaged ca
mels for next winter ; we of course travel in June.          You may
guess what our appearance may be, when some of my compa
nions have expended nearly two hundred pounds on their cos
tume.     I am happy to say I have not been one of the fortunate.
We travel twelve or thirteen in a party, including servants, inter
preters, &c. Easter occurs the 16th, I think, of April: to-day is
the 4th of March.      We expect to have sufficient time to see the
city during the week, and shall set off immediately after for Da
mascus and Palmyra, or Teduon in the Desert.             I doubt the
practicability- of a tour in Asia Minor  after this, as the   heats are
dangerous on the whole of the coast at a very early season, and
I am not so Quixotic an errant as to risk my health so obviously,
as I should do by travelling there after July.    You may therefore
reckon as a certain thing my return, somehow or other, to Smyrna
before the first of the month.     I may go once more to Attica,
where my baggage has been sent from Constantinople, should 1
find a ship of war, and thence to Malta for quarantine. We have
already had many kind offers from the officers on this station, to
take us thither. I propose being in Sicily in October, and making
 the tour of the island before the end of the month.       I shall take
 Calabria, and the Volscian and Samnite country in my way back
 to Rome."                   •       —
                NEW ISLAND IN THE BAY OF BENGAL.
    A new island has been lately formed in the upper part of the
 Bhv of Bengal, by a rapid accretion of the alluvium or soil, made
    Vol. 54. No. 260. Dec. 1819.                 G g              along

  4G6             New Island in    the  Bay of Bengal.
  along the shores of the large rivers of the Indian continent.    The
  island is nothing at present but a sand-bank ; but it is continually
  receiving such additions as will gradually render it a spacious
  tract. It was not visible four or five years ago, and it was only
  discovered, together with the canal, by vessels trading to Saugur,
  about the latter end of 1816.      The situation is 21 deg. 35 min.
  of latitude, and 83 deg. 20 min. of longitude, east of Greenwich;
  this position is precisely that which had been indicated in the
  maps as the Bank of Saugur, at the eastern extremity of the up
  per part of the island of that name.      Its formation between the
  mouths of the Houghly and the canal off the bay, may well enough
  account for its origin. There being two considerable mouths of
  rivers, with rapid currents running into the sea, both east and
'west ; these must have long been a submarine agglomeration,
 which has now risen above the surface of the ocean, and must in
 crease under the protection of the continental lands that lie be
 tween those two vast arms of the Ganges.
      It may be about two miles in length from east to west, and
 half a mile wide from north to south. — At the western extremity
 are little elevations that command a view of the sea. The centre
 of the island rises high enough to afford shelter, except during
 the violence of a tempest. The south shore consists of a fine solid
 sand, with a gentle declivity ; one of its bays lies very convenient
 for such as had a wish for sea-bathing.
     In some parts the island is covered with the dtmg of birds,
 which becomes a kind of manure for the soil.         Myriads of small
 crabs cover the northern coast, and their visits are productive of
 some utility.    The central part of the island looks at a distance
 like a green lawn, dazzling to the view : herbage has taken root
 here, and there are a number of tufts of long cass (saccharum spon-
 taneum) that thrive very well.
     In short, the soil has every appearance of becoming well
adapted for all the purposes of vegetation ; and there can be
little doubt that what is now the sandy base of the isle, will here
 after contain produce like the neighbouring islands and conti
 nent ; and that this spot, where man now roves unrestrained,
 will, at no very distant period, conceal the haunts of even the sa
vage tyrant of the neighbouring forest.
     At present the island is only visited by wood-cutters and fisher
men, who have raised two huts on it in honour of Siva, an Indian
divinity.    There is no vestige of any other habitation.   The canal
that separates the island from Saugur is well stocked with fish of
different descriptions ; and the southern shore is frequented by
tortoises.
                                                                  THE

     The Adriatic.  — Northern Expedition. — Earthquakes.             467
                           THE ADRIATIC.
     A very extensive  survey of the shores of the Adriatic has been
  completed by      Captain   Smith of the Aid frigate.           Several
 Austrian officers were employed at the same time, who have pro
  ceeded to Vienna with the result of their labours.
                       NORTHERN     EXPEDITION.
     The Hecla    and  Griper, by the last accounts received, had
 reached 86°. [Is there no mistake in this ?] In Baffin's Bay
 they had fallen in with an immense mass of ice, which appeared
  to be formed upon a solid rock.     The sea to the north of this
 huge mass presented the appearance of a lake perfectly free
 from ice.    None of the inhabitants that they met with seemed
 to have seen or heard of the former expedition under Captain
 Ross.    Report savs that it seems to be the opinion of these
voyagers that there is no northern outlet from Baffin's Bay.
     The bottle, No. 2, thrown overboard by Captain Ross, of His
 Majesty's ship Isabella, on the 3d of June, 1818, lat. 65. 40. N.
 long. 54. 10. W. of Greenwich, to ascertain the direction of the
 current in Davis's Straits, was found by one of the servants of
A. Macdonald, Esq. at Balranald, North Uist, on the 17th of
July last, and the pnper inclosed in it quite dry ; so that it was
 13 months and 14 days on its passage ; the latitude of Balranald
 is about 57-. 20. N.   The paper has been transmitted to the Ad
 miralty, agreeably to their request.
                            EARTH OUAKES.
                                                     Corfu,    11th Sept.
    On the 4th of this month,    at 9 o'clock in the evening,     we had
 here such a violent shock of an earthquake that in an instant the
bells of all the churches began to ring. As this happened in forty
churches at once, it may be supposed what horror was excited ;
 the inhabitants rushed out of their houses, and several buildings
were damaged ; the air was quite serene, and the moon shone
bright. We expect now that w.e shall hear of an eruption of
Vesuvius or Etna, as earthquakes in this country are usually
ascribed to such eruptions.
                                           Comrie, Perthshire,   Nov. 29.
    Yesterday morning, about half-past one, this place was visited
by one of the most alarming shocks'of an earthquake felt here
for ten years past.    It not only awakened the people, but its
violence made some instinctively leap from their beds and run to
the door before they were aware of the cause of their panic.
The convulsion, accompanied with the usual hollow grumbling
noise, resembling the sound of distant thunder, continued for
about ten seconds, occasioning, while passing immediately under
                                Gg2                                   us,

4GS Nautical Almanac. — White's Ephemeris. — New Planet.
us, the crashing of the timber in the houses, moving of the
chairs, jingling of the fire-irons, glasses, &c. &c.    It was felt for
several miles round the village, and seemed to commence in the
north-west, passing the village and its vicinity in a south-easterly
direction, where it subsided.
                    ON  THE NAUTICAL ALMANAC.                     >.
                            To  Mr. Tilkch.
                                                         Dec. 9, 1819.
     Sin, — A writer in the last Number of your valuable Miscellany
 has made a serious and a very proper charge against the publishers
of the Nautical Almanac, for not having a sufficient number of
 copies printed for the use of the public.      In addition to the in
 conveniences arising from that circumstance, I would draw the
 attention of the public to those which arise from another and a
 similar source.   It has been publicly stated that there is a printed
 list of the errors in the Nautical Almanac for the ensuing year
  (1820), which extends to four pages ! ! ! On this information I
 immediately sent to the publisher for that list ; but was informed
 " that there were not any of them left." Now, sir, whether the
 publisher intends to favour the world with a reprint of that list,
  I do not know: but, I hope, after this hint, that the conductors
 of that national work will have ready in his shop, for the use of
  the public, not only a sufficient number of copies of the Nautical
 Almanac itself, but likewise the several lists of errata which, to
  the discredit of that work, it is now found so necessary to pro
  vide.    The Board of Longitude contains some of the most re
 spectable names in the country ; men of honour anil of science ;
  and who cannot be supposed indifferent to any negligence on this
  subject.    I am, sir, your obedient servant,
                                                         Philaster.
                         white's ephemeris.
     In this Almanac for 1820     a typographical error occurs which
   may  for a moment    perplex  those who use it, if not attended to.
 Throughout the year the symbol for the Sun is placed at the
  head of the Heliocentric longitude of the Earth instead of the
   mark for the Earth.     It now stands, Heliocentric Long, of the
   Sun ! ! The mark for the Earth is omitted in the " Astrono
   mical Characters explained."
                              NEW planet.
     The numerous recent observations of new comets have been
   matter of surprise to astronomers.      Their number however will
   be now lessened. An astronomer of some eminence having lately
   been occupied in arranging and reducing their orbits into order,
                                                                     has

            New Comet. — Early Severity of the Winter.             469
 has unexpectedly found several of them to correspond with one
 and the same planetary orbit.       Thus have we lost some of our
 comets, but found a new star.      The particulars shall be laid be
 fore our readers in a future Number.
                             NEW    COMET.
    A new comet    was discovered on the 28th   Nov. by M. Blanpain,
 at Marseilles, in the south wing of the     constellation Virgo. Its
 angular diameter appeared to be about six or seven minutes — the
 germ of a very small and confused nucleus has been observed,
 but no tail whatever.      The following observations have been
 made : On the 29th of November, at 10 minutes past six in the
 morning, true time, 13S deg. 7 min. right ascension, 3 deg.
 North declination. — On the 30th, 45 minutes past five in the
 morning, right ascension, 184 deg. 1 min. North declination
  1 deg. — On the 2d December, at six minutes past five in the
 morning, right ascension 185 deg. 1 min. North declination 2
 deg. 3 min.
                 EARLY SEVERITY OF THE WINTER.
    A letter from Keswick in Cumberland, dated on the 28th ult.
        (e The weather for twelve
 says,                             years past has never been so severe
 in November, as of late. On      the  morning of Tuesday the 23d;
 the thermometer here was down to 25° F., and continued at 27°
 through most of the day ; whereas, last winter, the same ther
 mometer was never noted below 31". Snow first fell on the tops
 of the hills visible from hence, as early as the 4th of October ! :
 on the 21st a more extensive fall of snow took place, and con
 tinued at intervals until noon of the next day, accompanied by
 a smart frost!      A thaw followed, but on the 25 th snow again
 fell, and harder frost succeeded, which on the night of the 28th
"was so severe as to freeze the rnilk in several farmers' houses, in
 the higher valleys of this district ; on the afternoon of the 29th,
 the frost and snow left the valleys, but the latter continued to
 clothe the hill tops until the 4th ult, ; warmer and rainy weather
 succeeded until the 16th, when the frost had again returned and
 lasted till the 19th, with snow on the hill tops, which has lain to
 the present time, and seems now likely to continue through the
 winter : some rain, in the' valleys, and a, high wind succeeded on
 the 19th and 20th; on the 21st the frost commenced, which
 still continues, and on the 26th the snow fell, deep, in the valleys
 as well as on the hills, which still continues."
                      ACCIDENTS AT COAL PITS.
    On the   9th  of December as four sinkers were opening out a
 staple in the Old Engine-pit, to the Hutton-seam, at East   -
                                                                 ftain-
                                                               •
                                 G g 3            .                ton,

470                    Grafting. — Turnip Fly. — Patents.
ton, belonging to Lord Stewart, the gas ascended the staple and
suffocated William Qxley, one of them.    Another buckled him
self to the clasp, and was drawn to bank.  A corf was let down,
and the other two fortunately got into                    it,
                                          and were brought up
almost dead. The gas ascended the shaft of the pit, was ignited
at the engine, which also took fire, and continued burning till
between ten and eleven o'clock at night, when the gas exploded
in the pit. The shock was felt three or four miles the wood                ;
work of the engine was ail burnt.
                      NEW METHOD OF GRAFTING TREES.
  A   common method of grafting,           making
                                                is   by
                                                     transverse sec   a
tion in the bark of the stock and perpendicular slit below it: the
                                            a
bud   is then pushed down to give       the position which
                                                it                to              it     is
have.    This method      not always successful
                             is                        better to re
                                                                 ;
                                                                      it
                                                                      is
verse  it, by making the vertical slit above the transverse section,
and pushing the bud upwards into its position — method which          a
rarely fails of success  because as the sap descends
                             ;                             the bark,       by
as has been ascertained, and does not ascend, the bud thus placed
above the transverse section, receives .abundance, but when placed
below, the sap cannot reach it.      Annales de Ckimie, xi.
                TO PROTECT TURNIPS FROM THE FLY.
   Experiments made              by
                             Lord Thanet and Mr. Grey have con
vinced them that hme sown                  by
                                     hand, or distributed        ma             by   a
chine,     an infallible protection to turnips against the ravages
           is                                                                                 of
the fly.       should be applied as soon as the turnips come up,
                It
and   in the same daily rotation in which they were sown.         The
lime should be slacked immediately before          used,    the air be
                                                            it   is        if
not   sufficiently   moist to render that operation unnecessary.
These gentlemen have communicated the foregoing fact to the
Board of Agriculture.
                LFST    OF PATENTS     FOR NEW INVENTIONS,
  A  Grant unto Henry Tritton, Esq. of Battersea, Surrey, for
bis new method of producing rotatory motion. -^4th Dec, 1819.
   To James Dickson, lapidary, of Gilmore-place in the county
of Edinburgh, for improvements in communicating power tq
machinery        by
              water, spirits of wine, quicksilver, oil, or fluids;
which improvements are applicable to other useful purposes, —                                 .
4th Dec.
   To Samuel Lambert, of Prince's-street,        Leicester-square,
Middlesex, laceman, who,        consequence pf
                                      in           communication     a
made to him by Charles Augustin Busby, now residing at New
York,     the United States of America,
           in                                     possession of an
                                                            is   in
invention for an improved water-wfree!,                    applicable to mills and
                                                                                navigable

                List of Patents for New Inventions.            471
navigable bodies, and for other improvements also applicable to
mills and navigable bodies. — 4th Dec.      ;
    To Henry Constantine Jennings, of Carburton-street, Saint
Marvlebone, Middlesex, Gent. for his substitute for pitch. —
4 th Dec.
    To William Feuillade, of Mortimer-street, Cavendish-square,
Saint Marvlebone, Middlesex, Gentleman, for his improved me
chanical apparatus, instrument, or machine, (intended by him to
be called An Aid-form) for the prevention and remedy of defor
mity and  ill shape in the trunk or body parts of human beings.—
4th' Dec.
    To Sir William Congreve, of Cecil-street, Strand, Middlesex,
Bart. for certain improvements on the manufacture of banknote
paper for the prevention of forgery- — 4th Dec.
    To William Rodger, of Suffolk-street, Charing Cross, Middle
sex, lieutenant in the Royal Navy, for substitute for anchors,
                                          a
which he intends to denominate    A   Block Anchor. — 4th Dec.
    To William Carter, of Grove-place, Paddington, Middlesex,
for certain improvements in the manufacture of measures of ca
pacity. — 4th Dec.
    To James Lee, of Merton, Surrey, for certain machinery and
a  process for breaking, cleaning, and preparing flax and hemp for
use, and which       also applicable to other vegetable fibrous sub
                    is
stances. — 13th Dec.
    To JamesWood, of New Compton-street, Saint Giles's, Middle
sex, for an improvement       the formation and position of the long
                             in
keys B   natural and     sharp used upon the musical instrument
                         C
commonly called the clarionet, for the more easily fingering of
the same. — 8th Dec.
                1
    To Apsley Pellat, Jun. of Saint Paul's Church-yard, London,
for encrusting into glass vessels and utensils, white or other co
loured, printed or otherwise ornamented figures, arms, crests,
cyphers, and any other ornaments made of composition metal,
or other suitable material, —-18th Dec.
    To Thomas Dehany Hall, of Park-place, Regent's Park,
Middlesex, for an improved method of dyeing cloths and other
substances, and of preparing dyes for that purpose. — 18th Dec.
    To James Henry Lewis, of High Holborn, Middlesex, for his
improvement or substitute for or addition to pens as usually em
 ployed in the art of writing, which are denominated Caligraphie
Fountain Pens.— :20th Dec,
                                                        METfiOBO-

4?2                           Meteorology.
            METEOROLOGICAL JOURNAL KEPT AT BOSTON,
                             LINCOLNSHIRE.
      [The time of observation, unless otherwise stated, is at 1 P.M.]
             \ge of
   1819.      the Thermo    Baro    State of the Weather and Modification
            Moon    meter.  meter.             of the Clouds.
             DAYS.
Nov.    15     27    46-    29-50 Cloudy
        16     28    42-5   29-43 Ditto
        17    new    45-    29-70 Ditto
        18       1   44-    3005 Fine
        19       2   40-    29-88   Ditto
        20      3    36-    29-40   Cloudy— rain at night
        21      4    41-    29-04   Ditto
        22       5   36-    29-40   Fine
        23       6   35,    29-72   Ditto
        24      7    41-    29-80   Ditto
        25       8   39-    29-85   Ditto
        26      9    34-    2Q-63   Cloudy
        27     10    36-    29-80   Fine
        28     1 1   33-    29-77   Foggy — rain    at night
        29     12    48.    29-40   Rain
        30     13    52-    29-40   Cloudy
 Dec.     1   full   47.    29-70   Ditto
          2    15    47-    29'72   Rain
          3    16   39.     30-     Fine
          4    17    47'    29-40 Cloudy — heavy rain P.M.
          5    18    41'    29-94 Ditto
          6    19    38-    SO-     Ditto
          7    20    36-    SO-     Ditto
          8    21    29-    SO- 14 Stormy
          9    22    87'    30-03 Fine
        10     23    29'5   29- 90  Ditto
        11     24    32,    29 90 Ditto
        12     25    34-    29-84 Ditto
        13     26    34-    2984 Rain and snow
        14     27    30-5   2955 Fine
   N.B. The weather has been more severe the last week than it was at any
time last winter.
 -  ..   :,. ::\                                                 meteoro

                                         Meteorology.                                                       473
                        meteorological table,
                     By Mr. Cart, op the Strand,
                              For December 1819.
                    Thermometer.
                                                                 Mb                       .
                                                                Q   TS 0
Pays of                                         Height of
                                 Clock
               0 e        c              ght.   the Barom                                        Weather.
Month.                    O
                                                                 »D-° k
               "0    0   K0                      Inches.
                                                                 »u 0;
                                                                0    c            ***
Nov.   25       32       39      35             30-04               16                        Fair
       26       37       41      35             29-77             1
                                                                  1                           Cloudy
       27       30       36     32                 •92                 7                      Cloudy
       £8       31       33     45                 •87                 7                      Cloudy
       29      47        52     50                 •67              0                         Rain
       30       50       52     50                 •65              10                        Cloudy
Dec.     1     48        49     40              30-02               14                        Fair
         2     46        49     40              30.00               0                         Rain
                35       41     38                 •23                                        Fair
         4 3
                                                                    15
               46        49     42              29'62                0                        Rain
               42        42     36                                  10                        Cloudy
         6 5
                                                   •97
                37       37     36              30.10               10                        Cloudy
         7      36       36     36                 .Oi                0                       Cloudy
         b      32       23      25                •10              12                        Fair the evening
                                                                                              Cloudy — Snow m
                                                                                                  (
                26       27      28                •07
                                                                     0 0
         9
         10     27       33      23             29-97                                         Cloudv
       1
       1        16       27      24             30-05               10                        Fair
         IS     30       3       31             29-95                                         Fair
                                                                    0 0 0 6 0 9 6 8 0 6
                          7
       13       26       35     26                 •80                                        Cloudy
       14       24       34     30                 •67                                        Fair
       15      30        37     33                 •50                                        Cloudy
         16    30        37     30                 •95                                        Fair
       17      40        44     49                 •52                                        Rain
       18       51       54     50                 •50                                        Fair
       19      49        52      52                •85                                        Cloudy
       20       52       54      51                •72                                        Small Rain
       21       47       47      51                •77                                        Rain
       22       52       52      50                •75                8                       Fair
       23       50       41      37                •46              10                        Fair
       24       32       37      32                •3'5             10                        Fair
       25       31       33      30                •43              16                        Fair
         6      25       32      30                •55              12                        Fair
               N.B. The       Barometer's height           is   taken at one o'clock.

                                          Z     m      3
                           INDEX to VOL. LIV.
 AbOURANBOL.               The great temple       Compass Needle,      Irregularities  of, 276,
    of,                                      395                                            2J2
                            &c,  Brussels, 146,   Condensation, chemical, What ?            £74
 Academy      of Sciences,
                                            462   Confectionarv . Often poisonous,          317
  .                      Paris,             8 12  Contagion.     Report of Select Commit
 Acids.    On composition of,                 90     tee on,                                417
 Adriatic, survey of,                       467   Cotton Manvfaitory in France,             310
 Aiorolites. On,                        39, 336   Cremiology.     Tupper on,                226
 AJrica. Bowdich on,                          29  Cul'e,y. On preserving,              58, 142
 Albano.      Mud baths of,                  150  Dana on effect of vapour on flame, 140
 Alkalis. Constitution of,                   187  Davy (E.) on Boa Constrictor,            308
 Antiquities at North Shields,              393   Davy (Sir H.) on Mists,                   296
 AnU. On the utility of,                    378   Drjinite proportions.     On,        90, 182
 Ashantee.      Products, arts, &c. of, 2(i       Dtniera. Respecting the Temple of,
 Astronomy,                                 393                                             396
 Atkinson on Meteoric Stones,               336   Droxidation of Metals.      On,           376
 Atoms.     On weight of,                   270   Dijm Academy rf Sciences, Sec.            387
 Aurora Boreihs.        A singular,         388   Dreaming.      Essay on,            252, 324
 Bagnold on spiders and ants,               378   Duelling.    A prize question,            387
 Batly's notes on Cagnoli,            350,  406   Do long on heat,                          267
 Baktwelt on Mineralogy,                      43 Dyeing. Chesnut wood applied to, 149
Bath Inst't'tin,                            384   Dysentery.     Treatment of,              190
 Bengal, New Island in the Bay of,          465   Earthquakrs,                  316, 390, 467
Berry, the miraculous,                        29  Earth:. Constitution of,                  187
 Berzelius on Lithia,                         72 Egypt. Antiquities of,                    463
Bismuth.       Volatility of,               232  Egi/ptian antiquities,                    S94
Blasting of rocks, discovery respecting,         Egyptian    Society,                      385
                                              73  Encyclopedist     Revue,                 31 1
           Sir E. Home on the,              460  Entomology,     Samouelle's,              307
Blood.
Boa Constrictor. On excrement of, 303            Ephemfie, White's,                        468
                                                                                           127
Books, Nru; 62,'144, 221, 306, 379, 456          Farry on Greeuough's Geology,
Boracic acid.       On,                     462  Paul/era's (Sir Arthur Brooke) evi-
                                              26    dence on Plague,                       436
B utd>ch on Ashantee,
Brand on olifiant gas,                      46 1 F>gure >f the F.arih,      Cagnoli on, 350,
Bridge MMta'y, a new,                       S47     406 ; Laplace on,                      37 1
Bridge.     On the Menai,                     I1 Firmivger on measuring Arc of Me
Butter, vegetable,                            28    ridian, 60; on Lunar Atmosphere,
                                                     101 j on Lowe's mercurial
Cagnoli on figure of the earth, 350, 406                                               pendu
                                                    lum,                                   102
Carmuhael on sleep and dreaming, 252,
                                           324   Flame.     Effect of vapour on,           140
Cartwright on his pedo-motive machine,           Flies.    Singular clouds of,             316
                                             59  Fluor spar found in Aberdeenshire, 3 14
                             tables, 80, 160,    Fossil sli'lls.   Smith's work on, 71 ;
Gary's meteorological
                          240, 320, 400, 473        Lister's description of,               133
                                                 Foster's evidence on Plague,              418
Chaptal on French industry,                309
                                On laws of,      Fox's alloy of platinum and tin,            72
Chemical Combinations.
                                       90, 182   Frenrh Industry.      Chaptal on,         309
Chronometer, a singular,                     73  Friction. Tredgold on, 19,293; Meikle
                                                    on,                                    215
Cloth Manufactory in France,               309
Coal gas. On,                        117, 164    Galvanism.      New theory of,            206
Coal-mine   , Explosion,               72, 469   Gas Lights.      Brand on,                46 1
               On,                           81  Gehlenile.    On,                      .  463
Cohesion.
Comets,                    75, 2S8, SD2, 468     Geology of Loch Leven,                    229

                                      INDEX.                                           475
  Geology.     Prize question in,         387      fruit-trees  with oil, and on the meant
  Geometrical recreation,                   74     of destroying insects,                453
  Gladstone's evidence on Plague,         422   MacLedn's evidence on Plague,           418
  Glass. To render less brittle, 316,     392   MacLeod's evidence on Plague,           435
  Granville's evidence on Plague,         424   MacSweeny on preserving provisions,
  Gravitation.     On,                    147      cutlery, &c,                     58, 142
  Grecian University,                     318   Madura. Climate, &c. of,           107, 194.
  G-etk Kases. On Coghill's collection     of,  Manufactures, French,                   309
                                          221   Manuscripts, a method of dating, 46 ;
  Grernnugh's Geology. Remarks on, 1 27 ;          the Herculaneum,                     317
    Observations on Remarks,              205   Mathematics.       Prize question in, 387
  Green's evidence on the Plague, 428, 436      Medicine.      On,                       199
  Hammel, on climates, winds, &c. 107,          Meikle on the longitude, 34, 290; Re
                                          194      marks on, by Riddle, 241 ; Reply to
 Hare's Galvanic     theory,              206      remarks, 343, 401 ; on Cartwright's
 Hirmony. Upington on,                       9     pedo-motive machine, 59 ; on cohe
 Heat. Researches on,                     267      sion, 81; on friction, 215; Reply to
 Henry On coal gas,                117,164         M. on friction, 293 ; reply to M. on
 HcrcuUneum SISS.         On,             317      mathematical works,                  366
 Hieroglyphics.     On interpreting,      385   Memoir of the late James Watt, esq.
 Hcmeon the blood,                       460                                            440
 Hygrome>er.       Adie's,                233   Menai Bridge.       Report on,            11
 Ingl:s on dating     MSS. 46 i on geology      Meridian.      On measuring arc of,       60
    of Loch Leven, 220 ; on swallows,           Meteor,                                   75
                                          321   Meteoric stones.     On                 336
Ir.k, made with chesnut wood,             149   Meteorology, 79,80, 159, 160,239, 240,
 Imects.    Singular clouds of,          316           319, 320, 388, 399, 400, 472, 473
Imects, on destroying by oil,            453    Mildew, to prevent in wheat, 396, 397
Iron Briagi. On the Menai,                 11  Military Bridge. A new,                  347
Island, New. in the Bay of Bengal, 465         Millar on poisonous tea,                 218
Johnson's evidence on iJlague,           418   Millingen on Greek vases,                221
Jupiter.     On ocultation of,            143  Mineralogy.       Bakewell on,             43
Kraken.      On existence of the,        301   Mists.     Davy on,                     296
Laplace on figure of the earth, 371;           Mitchei's Elements of Nat. Phil.        227
    Note on,                             375   Miichill on the kraken,                  301
Lead slwt, danger of, in cleaning bottles,     Monge on pyrolignous acid,                 69
                                         229   Mud-baths of Albano,                     150
Learned Societies, 66, 144, 146, 312, 318,     Murray on aerolites,                       39
                                   381,460     Murray (Dr.) on definite proportions,
Lectures,                                2SS                                       90, 182
Lee on the Kraken,                       301   Music, necessary to the orator,             3
Lister's description of fossil shells, 133     Nautical Almanac.        Often out of print,
Literary and Phil. Society, Manchester,                                           313, 468
                                         144   Nerves. A prize question,               381
Lvhia.     On,                             72  Northern Expedition,                    467
Lithograph c Process,              156,  234   Occullation of stars. To ascertain figure
Loch Lomond.        On geology of,       220      of the earth by,                350, 406
Lock-jam, cure of,                       231   Oxygenated water. Thenard's,        70, 3 12
Longitude.      On finding, 34, 241,    265,   OefimtGas.         Brande on,           461
                                         290   Partridges, facts respecting,             74
L'tve's mercurial pendulum,              102   Patents,                 238,318,398,471
Lucas on deoxidation of metals,         376    Pendulum.       On Lowe's mercurial, 102
Lunar atmosphere.       On,              101   Periodical mathematical works, defended,^
Lunar observations.      On, 34, 241, 265,                                             367
   290; on ascertaining longitude by, 34,      Peruvian lark.        Atmosphere   impreg
                                        241       nated by,                            230
MacCuUnrh's      discovery of spodumene        Petit on heat,                          267
   and fiuor spar in Scotland, 314 i of        Picot's statistics,                     311
   primary sandstone, 315 j on quartz          Plague.      Report of Select Committee
   rock,                                315       on,                                  417
Mackenzie      (Sir G. S.) on anointing        Platinum.      On alloy of with tin, - 72

 476                                  INDEX.
 Play fair, Professor.     Death of,       79 Smut, to prevent in wheat,       396, 397
 Prisons.     On,                         463 Sound, velocity of,                    73
  Pilar let. On,                     107, 194 Specific heat.    On,                 268
  Pompeii, discoveries in,                237 Specific weight of atoms.    On,      270
  Portable fas lights,                    233 Spider.    Anecdote of a,             373
 P»ize QuatMis,                381,387,462 Spodumene discovered in Scotland, 3 ! 4
 Prpvisiom.     On preserving,        58,142 Sulphuric and.       Composition of,    90
  Pyrolignaus acid. Antiseptic properties      Swallows.    Inglison,               321
              '
     of,                                   69 Sympiesomeler.      Adie's,           233
  Rifmesqve on sea snakes, &c.            S61  Tanning with chesnut wood,           143
  Readc's theory of vision,                49 Tea. Poisonous,                       218
 .Reflect>ng circle.   On the,            161  Tttfurd's Menai bridge,                11
  jji^It on reflecting circle, 161; re- Tellurium and Tungsten. On,                 152
     marks by, on Meikle on Longitude, Titanium found in oxidulated iron ore,
     241; on Capt. Ross's reply to Capt.                                            463
     Sabine, 250; reply to R. by Meikle, Thenard on oxygenated water,           70, 312
                                     343, 401 Timber.    Climates of,               232
  Rio Janeiro. On,                   107, 194 Trade-winds.     On the,         107,194
 Royal Academy of Inscriplions,'Pam,S87 Tredgold on friction,                         \S
           —        f       .      Copenha- Tapper on craniology,           -.      2.'6
     gen,                                 387 Vpmgton on music, 8 ; on harmony, 9
  Royal CMege of Surgeons,                381  Vaccination,                         233
 Royal Geological Society,                382 Vapour.     Effect of on flame,       140
 Royal Institute of France,                86 Vision.    Experiments on,             48
 Royal Society,                       66, 46 1 Wall, James, esq. memoir of the late,
  Sabine on irregularities of compass-                                              440
     needle,                              276 Weights and Measures. Commissioners'
  Sabine.    Remarks on Ross's reply to,          Report on, 172; previous suggestions
                                          250     on,                               175
.Samouelle's Entomology,                  S07 Whale, skeleton of,                   157
  Scoresby on compass needle,             282 Wheal. To cure smut in,          396, 397
  Sta snakes, &c.      On,                361  Wheel-carriages,    On,                21
 Serpents, >ea. On,                       361  White's Ephemeris,                   468
 Sheldon on chesnut wood,                 148  Wine poisoned by lead shot,          229
  Skin, diseases of. A prize question, 381 Water. Early severity of4                469
  Sleep. On the proximate         causes   of, Zoology, Ashantee,                     29
                                     252, 324
                      KM)   OF  TI!E FIFTY-FOURTH VOLUME.



     Fhil . May -ToV. LIF. TL& .
Fig.Z.
                                 .



I


Fig.l.
       .S.TMtr.Jr.




           C   t/~1/ A
NX 002 Ebb D3b


