The philosophical magazine.
London, England : Taylor & Francis, 1798-c1977.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/umn.31951000614037m
                              Public Domain, Google-digitized
                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                              We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                              meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                              free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                              in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                              heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                              of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                              copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                              of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                              need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                              address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                              produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                              on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                              the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                              or used commercially. The images are provided for
                              educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.


THE LIBRARY
PHYSICS LIBRARY           1
         APR
               231sssif Q





                                          TH E
IIIILOSOPHIGAL MAGAZINE
                     AND JOURNAL:
                                      COMPREHENDING
      THE VARIOUS BRANCHES OF SCIENCE,
            THE LIBERAL AND FINE ARTS,
  AGRICULTURE, MANUFACTURES,
                               AND COMMERCE.
         BY       ALEXANDER TILLOCAT, LL.D.
MJLLA.   M.G.S.   I.A.S-
                      F.5-A. BDIN. AND PERTH; CORRESPONDING  MEMBER OF
  THE    ROYAL   ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, MUNICH; AND OF THE ACADEMY
             OF SCIENCES, LITERATURE AND ARTS, LEGHORN, ETC.
            AND        RICHARD TAYLOR, ELS.
 MEMBER OF THE As'rnonomCAL 50:11an or LONDON, or THE unmann
       LOGICAL SOCIETY; AND or THE ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY
                  or GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND.
   _“ Necaranearum         sane textus ideo melior    quia ex 5e <U+FB01>la gignunt,         nec nosler
 vilior quia ex alienis libamus ut apes."      J   051'. Lxrs. Monit- Polit. lib.   '1.   cap. 1.
                                   v     0 L. LXIV.
For   JULY, AUGUST, SEPTEMBER,                              OCTOBER,          NOVEMBER,
                               and   DECEMBER,               1824.
                                     LONDON.
                                     Q
              PRINTED BY RICHARD                   TAYLOR, SHOE-LANE:
AND SOLD BY CADELL; LONGMAN,HUBST, BEES, DBME, BROWN, AND GREEN;
    BALDWIN, CRADOCK, AND JOY; HIGHLEY; SHERWOOD,     Joles,
          AND 00.; HARDING; UNDERwoon;     SIMPKIN AND
              MARSHALL, LONDON 2——AND BY CONSTABLE
                 AND co. EmNnuch: AND PENMAN,
                                           GLASGOW.

                   ’  a¢~
        // /‘          '
        \
              ,l-r f'
            I
          \
‘LURI: Y‘ I'LAMIAD‘u

'II/<U+FB02>l;
                           CONTENTS
            OF THE SIXTY-FOURTH                                        VOLUME.
      ON     Professor DGJBEREINER’S new Mode of producing Fire.
        By Dr. J. S. C. SCHWEIGGER                       .      .       .        .       .        .      Page 3
                      a
     Description of Hydro-pneumatic Pump for compressing Gases
        or other elastic Fluids. By Mr. SAMUEL SEAWARD                                                           .    12
     Introduction to the Sixth Section of BESSEL’s Astronomical Ob
        servations.                                                                                                  17
     On the Corrosion of Copper Sheeting by Sea- Water, and on
         Methods of preventing this Eject ,- and on their Application
        to Ships of War and other Ships.                   By Sir HUMPHRY DAVY,
        Bart.Pres.R.S.        .   .   .     .      .       .     .        .        .       .       .       .          30
     Solution   of a Geodetical Problem.                   By J. IVORY, Esq.                                    MA.
     Analyses of a Series of Papers on the Structure, Distribu
        tion, and Functions of the Nerves,- by CHARLES BELL, Esq. ,
        which have appeared in some late Volumes of the Philosophical
        Transactions.      .   .   .   .    .      .       .      .          41, 119, 353, 4-4-2
    Some Observations on the Mgration of Birds:                                               By the late
        EDWARD JENNER, MD. ERS. ,- with an Introductory Let
        ter to Sir HUMPHRY DAVY, Bart. Pres. R.S., by the Rev.
        G.C.JENNER.            .   .   .    .      .        .     .        .       .        .       .       50,91
     Observations on the Mesembryanthema barbata'.                                                By A. H.
        HAWORTH, Esq. F.L.S. ($0.             .        .      .       .        .       .        .       61, 109
     The Theory of Vegetable Physiology of                    M         AUBERT DU PETIT
        THOUARS; or of the Increase of Plants by means of Buds,
        or <U+FB01>xed Embryos.     By JOHN LiNDLEY, Esq. F.L.S.                                                    .       81
     On the Extraction of Selenium from the Residuum of the Sul
       phuric Acid Works of Lulca'witz in Bohemia ,- and on the
        Cause of the Odour of Tellurium.                  By Professor SCHOLZ, of
       the Polytechnic Institution of Vienna                        .        .       .        .       .        .     83
    Hints towards the Natural History of the Toad. By WILLIAM
       FOTHERGILL,Esq.       .   .   .    .      .       .      .       .        .       .        .      .         . 85
    Introduction to the Seventh Section of BEssnL’s Astronomical
                                                ‘
        Observations . . . . . . . 102, 170, 249, 841,415
    AnAccount of the Mesembryanthema ringentia. By A. H. HA
       won'rn, Esq. F.L.S. <S'c.          .      .       .
                                                                ._
                                                                        .        .       .        .      .          109
                                                                                                                         '
    A Sketch ofthe. Progress of        Science        respecting Igneous                                Meteors
        Vol. 64.         -                           a

                                 CONTENTS.
   and Meteorites during the Year 1823; including an Ac
   count   of the principal Pha‘nomena of that Nature observed
   during the same Period .- with Inquiries suggested by those Sub
  jects.    By E. W. BRAYLEY, junior, A.L.S., and Member of
   the Meteorological Society                .     .    .    .    .             111, 287
On Mr. SAMUEL SEAWARD’s Claim to the Invention of a Hydro
An Attempt
                             ............l29
   pneumatic Pump for compressing Gases, (51. By Mr. OHN
    MARTINEAU.
                 to explain the Action of the Voltaic Pile.
                                                                                       J
                                                                                          By
    Mr. THOMAS POLLOCK . . . . . . . . . . 129
OfSemi-decussation of the Optic Nerves.‘ By WILLIAM HYDE‘
    VVOLLASTON, M.D. V.P.R.S.                   .     .    .   .     .     .     .       184
Observations      on the Heights of Places in the Trigonometrical
   Survey of Great Britain, and upon the Latitude ofArbuiy
   Hill. By B. BEVAN, Esq.               .   .     .    .    .    .    .      .      _   140
Remarks on the Experiments             of the Pendulum made                      Captain
    KATER,    MBIOT,       6ft“.   By WILLIAM          GALBRAI'I‘H, Esq. A.M.
                                                                                         161
On the Velocity        of  Sound ,- anrl on the ENCKE                   Planet.           By
   Mr.J0HNFAREY               .   .  .   .   .    i.    .    .    .    .     .     .178
Observations     on the Twelfth Book          of Euclid.             By    J.   WALSH,
                                                                                         181
Decas novarum Plantarum Succulentarum; A Decade of New
   Succulent Plants. By A. H. HAWORTH, Esq. EL.S. 6%. 184-,
   Decas Secunda . . . 298,                     Decas Tertia . . . 4-23
Some Remarks on the supposed In<U+FB02>uence of the Pollen in Cross
   breeding, upon the Colour of the Seed-mats of Plants, and
   the Qualities oft/zeirFruits.         By THOMAS ANDREW KNIGHT,
   Esq.   ER.S.,    tic.  President    of the Horticultural Society 191
Observations on the Ejects of Age upon Fruit Trees of di<U+FB02>’erent
   Kinds; with an Account of some new Varieties of Necta
   rines.    By THOMAS ANDREW KNIGHT, Esq. HRS. (5w.
  Pres. ofthe Hort. Soc. . .               .  .     .    .       .     .     .     .     194
On the complete Solution of certain Functional Equations.                                 By
   JOHN HERAPATH, Esq. . . . . . . . . . . 197
On the Speci<U+FB01>c Heat of the Gases.                       By W. T. I'IAYCRAFT,
   Esq.                                                                         200,262
On Comparative Barometric and Pluviametric Observations ,- in
   Reply to Mr.SQUIRE.              By VV.BURNEY, LL.D. . . 208
   COOPER..'..............210
On <U+FB01>nding the‘ exact Mean Solar Time.                          By Mr. SAMUEL
Sketch   of the GeOgraphical Distribution of Plants in Yorkshire.
   By   J, ATKINSON, Esq. EL.S. (Sc. Leeds                        .    .     .     .     211
On the Theories of Vegetation of Sir J. E. SMITH and. M. DU
   PETIT THOUARS. By Sir JAMES EDWARD SMITH, President
   ofthe Linna’an        Society.    .   .   .
                                                   .
                                                        .    .     .    ._    .     .    24-1

                          CONTENTS.                                  .
On Electra-Magnetism.           By Mr. W. STURGEON                        .     .    242
An    improved Demonstration qf Sir ISAAC NEWTON’s Binomial
    Theorem, on Fluxional Principles, more especially calculated
   [Or the young Student in Mathematics. By the Ben. L. EVANS,
   ER.S.andA.S.&c.          .     .     .    .   .   .  .      .     .      .   .    270
Remarks on the Gothic Ornaments of the Duomo, Battistero, and
   Campo Santo of Pisa.           By ARTHUR TAYLOR, Esq. ES.A.
   Member of the Roman Academy of Arcadians . . .                                    273
                                                                                          '
On the Local Attraction of Vessels.—In a Letter from Admiral
   KRUSENSTERN of the Imperial Russian Nazrq to PETER
   BARLOW, Esq. ERS.              .     .    .   .   .  .      .     .      .   .    283
Reply to Mr. SAMUEL COOPER’s Queries on jinding the exact
   Mean Solar Time. By GLOSTERIAN.                      .      .      .   -.     .   295
On the Weights and Measures. By Mr. THOs TREDGOLD 302
Contributions to our Knowledge of Chemical Bodies.                             By Mr.
    W.HERAPATH.         .   .      .     .   .    .  .  .                   .   .    321
On the Calculus of Variations. By JOHN WALSH, Esq. . 330
On the Transformation of the Solutions ofa Periodical Func
   tional Equation.    By JOHN HERAPATH, Esq. ._ . . 333
Statement on the part of the Monthly Critical Gazette respecting
   the Review of Sir J. E. SMITH’s English Flora in that Pub
   lication.    By A CORRESPONDENT                   .   .      .     .     .   .    339
On <U+FB01>nding the exact Mean Solar Time. By M. SMITH, Esq. 350
On <U+FB01>nding the Latitude by the Altitudes of two Stars.                                 By
    M.SM1TH,Esq.        .     .     .     .    .   .  .   .      .     .     .   .   351
Apparent     Right Ascension     and       Declination      of     the   four Minor
   Planets, at and about their ensuing Opposition.
                                      ‘
                                                                                   By S.
    GROOMBRIDGE, Esq. . . . . . . . . . . . 359
On Weights and Measures, and on numerical Notations, in Reply
   to Mr._ TREDGOLD.       By DECAPHILUS                .      .     .      .   .    362
On some Extraordinary Inconsistencies                in the Greenwich Oh
  servationsfor 1821.      By S. LEE, Esq. ' . . . 867, 4-51
On 'some Observations in the Meteorological Register.                                 By
    W. BURNEY, LL.D. . . . . . . . . . . . 370
On the Electro-motive Actions of Water and Liquids in general
   on Metals .- and of the electric E<U+FB01>cts which taheplace—<U+FB01>rst,
   in the Contact of certain Flames and Metals ,- secondly, in
   duGénie..............
    Combustion.    By  M   BECQUEREL, Ancien Chefde,Bataillon
On a new Fossil Genus, of the Order Enalio Sauri (of Cony
                                                                                     401
   beare): and on a new Species ofIchthyosaurus.                         By R. HAR
   LAN, MD.        With a Note bythe Rev. W. D. CONYBEARE.
                                                                                     409
On Lava found on the- Sands near Boulogne. By ROBERT
    BAKEWELL,Esq.       .    .      .     .   .   .   .  .       .    .      .   .   4-14

                                 CONTENTS.                                 '
 Tables for facilitating the Calculation of the Mean Time of the
      Passage of Stars over. the Meridian ,- for the Use of those
      who observe by Clocks or Chronometers showing Mean Solar
       Time.     Computed by Mr. P. LECOUNT              .  .  .   .  .  428
 Meteorological Register kept at            chx,     in the County of Caith
      ness, near the Northern Extremity of Scotland, for 1823            431
 On a Hydro-pneumatic Pump. By Mr. SAM. SEAWARD . 44-1
 Upon the System of Vegetable Physiology of                 M    AUBERT nu
      PETIT Tuousns : in Reply to Sir JAS. Eow. SMITH.                    By
     J. LINDLEY, Esq. ELS. 6w. . . . . . . . . 456
Notices respecting New Books                   62, 14-8, 218, 304-, 371, 4-57
Proceedings of Learned Societies . . 65, 147, 805, 374-, 459
Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles 67, 149, 229, 309, 383,
                                                                         467
List ofPatents , . . . .                       79, 159, 289, 318, 398, 472
Meteorological Tables . . . . 80, 160, 24-0, 320, 400, 4-73
                                   PLATES.
  I.    Hydro-pneumatic Pump for compressing Gases.
 IL Mr.     S'runonou’s Electro-magnetic Rotating Apparatus ; and Mr. HAY
         CRAFT’S Apparatus   for ascertaining the Speci<U+FB01>c Heat of Gases.
HL      Fossil Remains  of two    new   Saurian  Animals found in America :—
         Saurocephalus lanciformis, and Ichthymaurm comfonnil.
                                   ERRATA:
                                                                 1
    Page 65, line 9, for Solenho<U+FB02>'er, read Solenho<U+FB02>'en.
    Page 66, line 16, for M. 1e Baron Blias, read M. le Baron Blin.
   Page 67, line' 10, for Mariand deRivero, read Mariano de Rivero.
    Page 249, line 8, for east to west, read west to east.
     Page 297 in each of the Tables, for 21, 22, 23, 24 Min., and 21, 22, 23,
24 Sec., read 30, 40, 50, 60 Min., and 30, '40, 50, 60 Sec.

                                    THE
     PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE                   -
                    AND         J OURNAL.
                         81“    JUL       Y   1824.
     I. On Pro<U+FB01>ssor DmBEREINER’s new Mode of producing
                Fire. By Dr. J. S. C. SCHWEIGGER *.
               new and interesting phwnomena as those of which'
   SUCH mention  has been made by M. Doebereiner, naturally ex
   cite the wish to connect them, if possible, with the series of
   other phaanomena of nature already known.                Every trial of
   this sort, however fruitless it may end, will at least contribute
   to show the object from more than one point of view, and by
   that means to facilitate the development of the mystery.
'
   The following observations were caused by a small publica
   tion, to which we wish to direct the reader’s attention. It is
   entitled, On the newly discovered and very remarhahleProperties
   of Platinum, and the Pneumatic Capillary Agency of cracked
   Glass ,- by J. W. Doebereiner. Jena 1823.            In this pamphlet,
  we <U+FB01>nd, in page 6, under the head “ Fruitless Endeavour to ex
  plain satisfactorily the newly-discovered Property of Platinum,”
  the following remark: “ As the hydrogen is neither absorbed
  nor condensed b the metallic platinum dust, and yet the in
  <U+FB01>ammability of t e former so much heightened, when                 con
  tact with the latter, that it attracts oxygen in a diluted state, in
  which an electric spark cannot effect their union, the g<U+FB02>ect can
  not be considered as resulting from any mechanical agency of the
  platinum ,- but it must be supposed, in order to explain the phas
  nomena satisfactorily, either that the hydrogen             as forms an
  electrical combination with the platinum, in whic the former
  represents the exciting and in<U+FB02>ammable agent, or the zinc, or
  that the entire phaenomenon is determined by the peculiar
  form of the atoms of the platinum.            On the former supposi
  tion, we must assume that hydrogen is a substance of a metal
  lic nature; and on the latter, consider the spongy platinum,
          * From his Neue Journal fiir Chemie, 810. band ix. p. 211.       7
  Vol. 64. No.    315. July  1824.               A   2               with

  4-          Dr. Schweigger   0n  Prof. Doebereiner’s
  with M. Schweigger, as possessing a crystallo-electric power.
  —In order to examine these suppositlous, I have made a
  great number of experiments, but have not yet obtained an
  result in con<U+FB01>rmation of either.     1 brought into contact wit
  the explosive mixture, entire and broken pieces of boracite,
  tourmaline, diamonds, <U+FB01>nely powdered coal, graphite, silver
  and copper dust; and none of these substances effected, at
  common tem eratures, a condensation of the gases.       No con
  densation o hydro      n occurred when I placed it in con
  tact with platinum (ing and the following substances respec
  tively: peroxide of manganese, carbonic oxide, carbonic acid,
  nitrous gas, and other oxides.      I further exposed the plati
  num dust to mixtures, 1st,. of carburetted hydrogen and car
  bonic acid gas; ley, of ole<U+FB01>ant gas and carbonic oxide;
  3dly, of the vapour-of alcohol and carbonic acid gas; 4-thly, of
  sulphuretted hydrogen and carbonic acid as; but none of
 these mixtures became condensed or change in their nature.
 I   expected the reverse; for   I  thought that the elements of
                                                                   -
 water, which are contained in all these gaseous mixtures,
 would act upon each other, and would by that means give rise
 to new combinations.      This and many other experiments, by
 which I endeavoured to ascertain the relation of hydrogen
 gas, when combined with other substances, as in ammonia and
 sulphuretted hydro .en, ole<U+FB01>ant gas and carburetted hydro
 gen, to platinum an oxy en gas,-—-convinced me, that the ac
 tion of that metal is con ned to mixtures of free hydro an
 and oxygen gas; and that its action is probably of a pecu iar
 nature—that it is neither mechanical, electric, nor magnetic.”
     Although I perfectly agree with my friend Doebereiner,
 that these remarkable phaenomena are owing to some new
 principle qf nature, yet I am inclined to follow the hint thrown
 out by him in the passage just cited, to investi ate these phase
 nomena, after my own manner, on the princip es of crystallo
 electricity; and to combine with them other phmnomena, the
 union of the observations on which will, perhaps, be useful for
further investigations.    An arrangement of a series of phaenor,
mena so as to} connect any particular pbaenomenon with the
whole, in a natural manner, is alone what we understand by a
theory in physics. With respect to my electro-chemical theory,
I_ am not satis<U+FB01>ed, as is usually the case, by merely calling the
chemical attraction an electrical one; by which change of name,
it appears to me that but little is gained, so long as we do not
refer the particular chemical changes of bodies to electrical
laws, but continue to deduce them, in the old manner, with
Dr. Black, from <U+FB01>xed caloric. The Voltaic battery has in a
direct manner forced us to renounce the language of Black’s
                                                           theory

                                                .
                                                  mi,arm‘s-ii?“
                                                         .              .e :.
                      new Mode          producing Fire.                        _  5
 theory of caloric in some particular cases.                  But while one
 says that the atoms or molecules of acids are electro-nega
 tive, because they move towards the positive pole, and that
 the atoms of bases are electro-positive, because they are at
 tracted by the negative pole; while properties evidently be
 longing to the entire masses of bodies are thus ascribed to
 the supposed properties of their atoms—but little is actually
 gained; even without considering how relative the notions of
 acid and base are, by which alone the electro-chemical theory,
 which is grounded exclusively on the phasnomena of the Voltaic
 battery, and which only expresses these phae'nOmena in a more
general manner, is often involved in great perplexity.                        It is
curious, however, that other phmnomena, much longer known
and not less remarkable than those of the Voltaic batter ---I
mean the crystallo-electric phamomena-P-should so little ,ave
 attracted the attention of philosophers, that they have not
found their merited place either in the compendiums of
natural philosophy or of mineralogy; but have been referred
by the natural philosopher to the mineralogist, and by the
latter again to the former, being merely mentioned occasion
ally-in a note. It is therefore right to say, at last, to the neg
lected guest at the bottom of the table of natural philosophy,
“ Friend, approach nearer i” if it were only to see what would
result. when he should be seated at the top.                I will therefore
endeavour to deduce not only the chemical, but also the go.
neral attraction of bodies, from these crystallo-electrical laws;
for which reason         I must refer to preceding volumes of this
Journal *. As we observe all bodies to divide according to
their crystalline texture, which is even the caSe with the <U+FB01>nest
chemical precipitates, it is hard to conceive how it could have
been supposed, that crystalline divisibilit ends where our mi.
croscopic observations terminate; and t at liquids consist of
spherical atoms, so that the terms liquid and without form are
s nonymous;       while the ideas of Matter and of Form are in
t eir nature inseparable.           The notion of a liquid being no
thing  else than   that    of an  in<U+FB01>nite mobility; that is, if we sup
pose that the universal attraction of bodies depends upon cry~
stallo-electrical laws, by a liquid will he meant an electric in.
di<U+FB02>'erence to all the crystalline di<U+FB01>'erentials.            Not only when
we suppose the in<U+FB01>nite limit of divisibility obtained, which
supposition is unnecessary even in the mathematical analysis,
the notion of crystalline di<U+FB01>'erentials will disappear.              But it is
a shallow presumption, when we suppose, with the notion of
    ' See vol. v. pp. 49—74; vol. vi. pp. 250, 254; vol. vii. pp. 302—
308, and 515,- vol. viii. p. .307; vol. xi. pp. 54, 330, 435; vol. xiv. pp. 510
—516; vol. xxv. pp. 158—173.                                             _     _
                                                                     a liquid,

6                      Dr. Schweigger          on   Prof. Doebereiner’s
a liquid, to have attained the limit of the in<U+FB01>nite even in idea.
On the other hand, we <U+FB01>nd, when we take experience for our
guide, one and the same body—as for instance, acetic acid—at
one and the same temperature a pear as well in a crystalline
'as in a liquid or gaseous form, t ose states bein     dependent
 only on various pressures of the atmosphere *2       nd we knew
lOng since, that in some experiments on the polarisation of
light, some liquids produce effects which are dependent upon
 a crystalline double refraction of the rays of li ht; as for in
stance, camphor has in its solid state a dou 1e refraction,
and reproduces, in the well known experiment of Malus, the
double im e which has disappeared; but it retains that pro
perty'in itg<U+FB01>iquid state, of which                         I
                                       have convinced myself by
an experiment instituted expressly for that purpose.          The
same is known to be the case with camphor dissolved in spirits
of wine. Even polarisations like those of crystals of attrac
tive or repulsive axes appear in some liquids.       The crystal
line nature of the di<U+FB02>'erentials of many liquids can be proved,
therefore, by direct experiment.     In this our differential cal
culus of physics, the step is therefore unavoidabl taken to
consider the elastic <U+FB02>uids under the same point 0 view as I
have done in the former series of this work (see vol. v. p. 60).
Indeed this assumption, though at variance with the some
what surprising notion commonly entertained on that subject,
has already obtained the assent of several exact chemists                                1-.
     The experiments‘of Mr. Perkins on this subject will soon be made known.
    '1- it
      Compare, for instance, the Review     the principal Features
                                                      of              the pre       of
sent State    Chemistry,- by Professor Von Ittner, Freiburg, 1823.     On the
                 3,“
other ban ,1 must be excused for not paying any attention to what M.
Osann has stated in regard to my theory, in his Treatise on those substances
which con eal when heated, and become liquid again upon coolin in                        ,
serted in %ilbert’s Annalr, vol. lxix. p. 283-300.      M. Osann competed
the greater part of this Treatise under my direction, and made most of
the ex erirhents contained in       in my presence, and in my laboratory.
                                          it
But    is to be wished that he had given a greater degree of perfection to
         it
his more recent labours, and    articularly that he had paid more attention
to the diminished solubility          I of
                                 lime, as also of several other substances
at an elevated temperature.      must also refer him to some other thin                   t
particularly to the remarkable observation made by M. Bucholz on                          e ;
crystalline      precipitate   of   the sub-nitrate    of      bismuth,   even when dissolved
in an excess of water, by the mere increase of heat; which latter phseno
menon M. Osann has cited, in p. 300, in      very incorrect manner, because
                                                       a
he has not taken the trouble to read attentively the       assage cited from
Bucholz’s Contributions to the Extension      Chemistry, <U+FB01>lo. ll. p. 60, and
                                                       of
No.IIl. p.       M. Osann has in ever respect been precipitate in his
                  1.
publication. He has overlooked, in          hurry, that the theor which he
                                                      is
considers as peculiarly his own,   the very same as that of M.
                                          is                      ay-Lussac,
which had mentioned in my Essay,which has been attacked, but scarcely
             I
read, by M. Osann:      theory which was given up by M. Gay-Lussac him
                               a
self in consequence of his own further experiments.
                                                                                         The

                        new Mode         of producing Fire.                          7
        The
        phaenomena of light, which appear by a sudden com
          of the air, but never on a slow compression of                            it,
pression
 owever powerful, will be deducible from an electric rever
sion, when considered under the, same point of view, which                          is
o<U+FB01>en indicated when bodies in the same electrical state are
quickly moved towards each other, that the weaker electricity
   opposed    by the stronger, as     the case with ma nets.    It
is is
                                             is
   an opinion which contradicts itself, to suppose       at those         t
appearances of light are owing to a mechanical expulsion of
caloric which has been chemically <U+FB01>xed in the air. In order
to cover a little this contradiction,      said that the capacity
                                                  it   is
of the air for caloric            is   diminished by compression: but this
means nothing else, we would say, but that        ht and caloricli
become free, because they become free.      Besides this, such a
peculiar explanation cannot assign any reason why those ap
pearances of light are never elicited by a rapid compression ofv
hydrogen or azote, but alwa   in a h'   degree in that of oXygen»
                                         s         h
orhalogen [Chlorine]. Neither can          favourite theory of <U+FB01>xed
                                               t   e
caloric assign any ground of distinction in this respect with
regard to the last-mentioned gases, since they, like the former,
consist Of a ponderable base and of <U+FB01>xed caloric.                Wh                   ,~
therefore, does this <U+FB01>xed caloric appear with such strong lig                       t
only in those gases which are attracted to the positive pole of
the Voltaic battery, viz. in ox gen and in chlorine? Accord
ing to my crystallo-electrical theory,        can "with goOd reason
                                                   I
assume, that the crystalline differentials of the last-mentioned
gases repel each other with      predominant negative electricity,
                                        a
on account of their being attracted by the positive pole of the
Voltaic battery at the moment of their becomin free. If
therefore such gases are forcibly compressed,                  positive
                                                                it   is
                                                                      t    e
electricity which     excited by the electric reversion Of the poles
                        is
of many rapidly approaching crystals. But              is-known, that
                                                                it
positive electricity possesses a strong                 power, which
negative electricity, constantly            radiatilzg
                                               in a aint light, is de
<U+FB01>cient in. It       therefore the appearing1
                   is              latter, w ich according to our
crystallO-electrical theory   will  appear in       strong compres
                                                            a
sion of hydrogen, and generally of all those gases which are
attracted to the negative ole.       For this reason will the com;
pression of such gases elicit caloric only, and not                                 It
should not be objected that a decided manifestation light.   o electri
 city has never been perceived in these appearances of light;
 for as the products of both electricities, viz. light and heat,
                                                                          '
 are present, the appearance of the electricities separately can-
 not be expected. Moreover, the crystallo-electricity              here        is
 meant, which, as       well  known,
                             is        imparts   itself but  with dii'li-ae
 culty, where       appears the more powerful, as
                   it                                       the       is
                                                                               cased:

  8            Dr. Schweigger    on  Prof. Docbereiner’s
  the tourmaline.      But every thin which facilitates the ap
  pearance of the electricity will be Favourable to those appear
  ances of light and caloric in the compression of the gases, ac
  cording to my theory: and that this is really the case,     I shall
  now proceed to show. The paper on “ TheLight produced by
  the Discharge of an Air-gum” by Mr. John Hart, inserted
  in the Journal of Science, vol. xv. p. 64, affords an interesting
  con<U+FB01>rmation of the theory now proposed, and shall therefore
  be given as an Appendix to the present essay.          All the ex
  periments made by Mr. Hart, in order to produce li ht by
  the' discharge of an air- an, failed, until he accident ly dis
  char (1 some paper wad ing, when be perceived a faint light,
  which},3 however, he could not reproduce by a repetition of
  the experiment.     He therefore tried other bodies: but neither
  clean dry silk, woollen, paper, nor wood, would answer, and
  even shell-lac only succeeded     occasionally; whilst sugar, but
  especially  narrow  slips of glass, never failed in producing the
  effect.   It appeared at length that even some particles of lime
  or sand produced a luminous discharge, and that when sand
  or fragments of su ‘ar were held at the muzzle of the air-gun,
  while thestream 0 air was rushing forth, the appeared lumi
 nous.     VVe <U+FB01>nd this paper translated in the     nales de Chimie,
 tom. xxii. p. 11-36—439; and the Editors, in con<U+FB01>rmation of
  Mr. Hart’s results, observe, that when we blow with a clean
 pair of bellows on even the most delicate electrometer, no sign
of electricity is obtained; whereas when the bellows contain a
little powder or ashes, the electricity produced is very stron .
     Mr. Hart explains these phasnomena by the electrical ic
 tion of the bodies.     But he will hardly be able to state, why
 the bodies which so easily become electric, as silk, woollen,
and shell-lac, would not answer in his experiments; while it
 was only necessary to throw the silk on the <U+FB02>oor, so that it
mi ht become dusty, for a luminous discharge to take place.
 Wlth these experiments the following observation may be
connected.      I have received from General von Hellwig (who
 long since intended to make experiments on the compression
of air by an hydraulic-press, like those lately instituted in
 England) a glass apparatus for producing <U+FB01>re by compression,
constructed in a most convenient manner, like that repre
sented by M. Thenard in his Traite' de Chimie, tab. xxii.
fig. 8. The polished bore of the tube in which the accurately
<U+FB01>tting piston moves, is scarcely half an inch in diameter,
whilst the glass forming the tube measures about an inch
in thickness.      The appearances of light upon the violent
compression of the air are very easily perceptible in this in
strument; and when a small piece of amadou is affixed to
                                                                 the

                         new Mode       of producing Fire.                     9
the book of the piston, it usually becomes ignited at the <U+FB01>rst
stroke, by a most vivid <U+FB02>ash.       When the amadou is not used,
a more powerful stroke is necessary for the. production of
light; and when the piston is perfectly clean, One may some
times repeat the experiment ten times before that effect is pro
duced.
     The smallest piece of amadou, however, <U+FB01>xed to the hook
of the piston, facilitates the evolution of the light, and heightens
its brilliancy.     Care only is to be taken that it may con
tain many <U+FB01>bres, and for that reason it should not be com
pressed with the <U+FB01>ngers.       It is strikingly manifested by this
experiment that the amadou does not act a merely passive part
when ignited by the <U+FB02>ash, but that it contributes to the easier
excitement of the light, which is too brilliant to be mistaken
for the weak combustion of some points of the amadou,
when glowing under the smoke.          There can be no doubt that
this is the fact, when we compare the experiment with those
of Mr. Hart already cited.         Now it is well known that the
projecting <U+FB01>bres of amadou best adapt it for the absorption
of electricity. It was lately announced in a French Journal,
that this substance is particularly remarkable for this property
of drawing electricity from electri<U+FB01>ed bodies, and that with ra
   idity and in great quantity: and MM. Lefévre-Gineau and
    ouillet have actually found that a piece of this substance ab
sorbs electricity, when placed opposite to a charged conduc
tor, at a greater distance than even a metal point.              it be  If
made wet, however, this property, which evidently arises from
its <U+FB01>brous and spongy structure, becomes diminished *.
     The amadou in the apparatus for producing <U+FB01>re by compres
sion above described, operates altogether with the same modi
 <U+FB01>cations.     I substituted for it metallic points, and they also
 appeared to a considerable degree to favour the appearance of
 light, though not to the same extent, as the action on'such
 tender electrical crystals as our theory supposes to emst 1n
 elastic <U+FB02>uids depends so much upon the softness and abund
 ance of the points.
     Now let a metallic amadou be conceived ; that                is,
                                                            the effect
 of metallic points united with the spongy structure; and this
 moreover in metal, like platinum, easily ignited by electri
                  a
 cityf; will not such a metallic sponge greatly facilitate the
                                                        development
  *‘  See Gilbert’s Annalen, band 73; or the new series, band 13, p. lil7._
      While copper     easily melted in a moderate <U+FB01>re, and latinurn 1s m
                        is
fuslble, they become reversed with respect to electric <U+FB01>re; rpm whlcl'l lat
ter circumstance   ithas usually been concluded, that copper IS afar better
conductor of electricity than platinum, which of all themetals is also the
                                                                             wont
                              July
                                                             -'
   Vol.   64-.   No.   315.
                                     1_824-.
                                                      B

10            Dr. Schweigger         on   Prof. owereiner’s
development of electricity by the agency of points, in mixtures
of gases strongly opposed in electric polarity? and this in a
greater degree proportionably to the tendency to development
of the electricities under ordinary circumstances, that is, the
further those gases are distant from each other in the electro
chemical series, or the more powerful their inclination to com
bine.     But we are unacquainted with more strongly opposed
electro-chemical poles than oxygen and hydrogen, which are
the extreme links of a series formed by arranging all bodies
between the two wires of the Voltaic battery.
    But why does platinum contribute in so distinguished a
manner to this combination ?-Because it is best adapted for a
spon y mass, by its not melting in a common <U+FB01>re.              The
meta s nickel and palladium may be added to platinum with
regard to this latter aptitude.   According to Dulong and The
nard’s observations, the “platinum in the spongy state strongly
calcined, loses the property of becoming incandescent; but in
this case, it causes the combination of the two gases slowly,
 and without a very sensible raising of the temperature *:” which
is according to our theory, that if the points of the platinum
 sponge are made to_melt in consequence of a strong calcina
 tion, and by which they lose their angles, the experiment, which
 is founded on the agency of points, will be less successful.
    Agreeably to this theory I had offered the supposition, that
 platinum powder prepared by mechanical means would ope
 rate with still less energy ; and this is really the case. In the
 same manner, a smooth and thin leaf of platinum does not
           until it is crumpled; which again shows the in<U+FB02>uence
 operate
 0 points. The experiments which the French chemists made on
 the agency of some metals in the decomposition of ammonia,
 are beautiful and ingenious.     The observation, <U+FB01>rst made by
  Thenard, is to be found' at large in the former series of this
 Journal (see band vii. p. 299, 8m), and even at that time                  I
 added an appendix, in order to explain this remarkable phae
 nomenon according to the laws of crystallo-electricity.    In like
 manner the observations of Gay-Lussac on the decomposition
 of the vapour of prussic acid must be considered as support
       this theory (see band xvi. p. 14-). lVIlVI. Dulong and
  ing
 T enard, at the conclusion of their memoir occasioned by the
 ingenious experiment ofDos-bereiner, express the supposition,
worst conductor  of        It   isprobable, however, that the ground of the
                      heat.
                 hes still deeper, and perhaps in this newly-discovered
former property                                                         prin
ciple.  It may also be mentioned here, that M. Hildebrandt, in his Treatise
on light emanating from electrical points, attributes to
                                                             platinuma  great
power of exciting it.               ‘
   *t See PhiL
               Mag. vol. lxii. p. 284.
                                                                         that

                   new Mode    ofproducing Fire.                       11
 that an opposition may exist between the noble and inferior
 metals, so far that the latter are favourable to the decompo
 sition, and the former to the union, of gases.       But this is very
 doubtful : for without considering that chemical combina;
 tion and decomposition are not di<U+FB01>'erent in principle, and are
 under most circumstances inseparable, those very noble
 metals and their oxides are the most powerful agents in the
 decomposition of oxygenated water, that        is, the expulsion of
 its oxygen with the evolution of caloric and light.           The ex
periment with the aphlogistic lamp, which      isthe very reverse of
 M. Thenard’s experiment with ammonia, most easily succeeds,
next to platinum, with iron wire; in which therefore the iron,
which promotes the decomposition of the ammonia as well as of
the prussic acid, at an increased temperature, also favours the
union of oxygen and hydro en at the same elevated tempera
tu re.   It not to be denied at the experiment with the aphlo
          is                  t
gistic  lamp   depends also on the fullness of the points of con
tact; and that we therefore <U+FB01>nd the’union of the gases to be
favoured by the same circumstance by which the formation of
crystals is promoted.      WVhen attentively considered, chemical
and crystalline attraction will appear to 'be the same, as
                                                                   it
                                                                   is
well known that every chemical precipitate appears in a cry
stalline form under the microscope.        This      illustrated
                                                    is             b  a
very interesting experiment       made  by my   friend    M.  Vogel; a
very ingenious chemist, formerly a resident at Bayreuth, whose
early death was a reat loss to the science.       He <U+FB01>rst observed
the combination 0 oxygen and hydrogen at a low tempera
ture, under the in<U+FB02>uence of charcoal.       It true, that in this
                                                 is
experiment charcoal impregnated with hydrogen must be em
ployed, by which the atmospheric air becomes at the same time
deoxygenated.       If, however, one should be inclined to reduce
that power of the charcoal to a mechanical principle,       it  should
also be considered, that the hydrogen will be more perfectly di
vided, and most fully in contact with the oxygen, when mixed
with the latter in a gaseous form, than when                  absorbed
                                               previousiy
                                            moreover,
by the charcoal: and when we consider,                       at hydro
gen not only adheres mechanically to the charcoal, especially
when absorbed with water, but becomes condensed,            it   ought
not to be forgotten,    that hydrogen  and oxygen     may   be  greatly
condensed in the gas blow-pipe, and will remain for ears in
that state, without combining with each other, when        t   e
                                                                  com
pression   is  e<U+FB01>'ected slowly and quietly.      In this mterestmg
experiment of M. Vogel likewise We <U+FB01>nd that the many points
of contact effect the union of the gases. The e<U+FB01>'ect, how
ever, in this instance   is  more slow and feeble than in the ex
periment of Docbereiner.
                                B   2                              This

12      Mr. Seaward’s Description of a Hydro-pneumatic Pump
    This is .what I had to state, from the crystallo-electric theory,
respecting the new mode of producing <U+FB01>re, discovered by Prof.
Dmbereiner.        I do not consider this explanation as entirely sa
tisfactory; but    I  think it not unbecoming the present state of
natural philosophy, if at least I have succeeded in thereby con
necting it with the other phaenomena of nature: if any thing is
to be advanced on this subject from the electro-chemical theory,
it is only the crystallo-electricity that can throw any light upon
it. As hydroguretted carbon stands near to the zinc in the
positive electric series, while oxidated carbon is still more ne
gatively electric than silver or platinum, it was certainly in that
respect a very ingenious supposition of M. Dazbereiner, when
he compared the activity of the hydrogen with regard to the
platinum" to that of zinc; and that he so far thought of the
excitement of electricity by contact.                Soon afterwards, how
ever, he renounced this theory, in his public reading before
the Assembly of Naturalists at this place (Halle), which at pre
sent would be even less tenable, as even carbonic oxide gas is
made to unite with oxy en by the platinum sponge, as we
have just seen from the             issertation of the French chemists f.
 With regard to the electro-chemical explanation, it appears
 that the above view of crystallo-electricity alone remains.
    For the illustration of the preceding Essay, I will add an en
 cyclopedic review of m y crystallo-electric theory, the considera
tion of which gains in interest on account of Daebereiner’s
important experiments.               This will be nearly as published at
 a former period in the Universal Encyclopedia, conducted by
 Ersch and Gruber, under the article Attractioni.
 II.    Description    of a Hydro- pneumatic Pump for compressing
     Gases or other elastic      fluids. By Mr. SAMUEL SEAWARD.
   To   the Editors of    the Philosophical       Magazine and Journal.
        Gentlemen,
                                                   of an hydro-pneumatic
THE     pump,accompanying
                which
                                   description
                             have invented       for the pressure of com
pressing gas, would have been                 forwarded to you a long
time back, but I was desirous of             seeing the machine tried be
fore I o<U+FB02>'ered it to the attention            of the public. Being now
fully satis<U+FB01>ed on this point, as             it performs all that was ex
   * See Phil. Mag.
                      vol..lxii. p. 291.         1‘ Ibid. p. 285.
   I We purpose
electric theory in
                     to give atranslation of this account of the crystallo
                   a future Number.—Enrr.
                                                                    pectcd

          for   compressing Gases or other elastic   Fluids.             13
pected from         take the earliest opportunity of submitting
                   it,
                    I
itto your notice.
   The original idea    due to Mr. David Gordon of the Lon
                         is
don Portable Gas Establishment, who published his views on
the subject some time back in the Repertory of Arts,--though
I believe this   the <U+FB01>rst pump of the sort that has ever been
                   is
made.     Iam yours, 8Lc.
  Feb. 18, 1824.                           SAMUEL SEAWARD.
   IN consequence of the general use to which gas           likely
                                                               is
to be brought when highly compressed,         becomes important
                                               it
to ascertain the best method of reducing         to that state, so
                                                    it
that itshall be most useful and advantageous to the public.
   The present method of compressing gas         attended with a
                                                    is
great many   disadvantages:  these principally  consist of a con
siderable loss of gas during the operation of compression, an
immense loss of power in consequence of the gas not being
completely forced out of the pump barrel, and the excessive
wear and tear of the machinery employed therein.
    The pump that has hitherto been used for this purpose
consists of    abarrel well bored out, open at one end (as A,
<U+FB01>g.  1,  Plate 1.), with the two valves     and
                                              0     at the other
                                                         d
end; and the solid piston      Bworking therein.    This     peris,
haps, the best possible arrangement of the piston pump, and
is  the one adopted by some of the <U+FB01>rst engineers and machi
msts.
    Now, in the using of this pump       it  impossible that the
                                              is
piston can be worked so close as to strike the bottom: there
must be some space for clearance, otherwise there would be
great danger of damaging the valves, or doing other mischief.
Say, in a pump of 12-inch stroke and        inches diameter, the
                                              5
spaces allowed between the bottom of the piston and the bot
tom of the pump shall be one-eighth of an inch, which          no   is
great deal; now as the operation of compression goes on, this
 space will be gradually increased, and when the gas arrives at
a  pressure of 80 atmospheres, or 450 lbs. upon the square inch
(which    isthe average pressure employed by the Portable Gas
 Company), there will then be the enormous weight of 9000 lbs.
acting against the bottom of the barrel and the piston, which
will naturally cause them tO recede the one from the other;
and from the actual spring of the cranks, the looseness and
wear of bearings, spring of the connecting rods and cross
heads, and even of the bottom Of the pump itself, we may
fairly conclude that under this great pressure the piston does
not come within one quarter of an inch of the bottom; con~
sequently there remains that quantity of gas under the great
                                                         pressure

 14-    Mr. Seaward’s Description qfa Hydro-pneumatic Pump
 pressure of 30 atmospheres, which cannot be forced out, and
 which, as the piston recedes for the return stroke, will expand
 in the barrel, and occupy a great part of the space; thereby
 preventinv the admission of another full charge.
    And this is one of the great defects of this sort of pump;
 for, allowing the space to be one quarter of an inch, it will
 be just one forty-eighth of the whole capacity of the pump;
 and, addinv to this the space left by the rising of the eduction
 valve        which will remain open until the piston has receded
             (1,
 a little in the return stroke, we may doubtless presume that
 a portion of compressed gas, equal in volume to one-fortieth
 of the whole stroke of the pump, remains behind every time
 in the barrel: therefore, when the pump commences working,
 and the gas in the receiver arrives at a pressure of 10 atmo~
 spheres, only three-fourths of the gas               forced out of the
                                                       is
 barrel ;—at 20 atmospheres, one half ;——at 80 atmospheres,
 one quarter;—and when              arrives at 4-0 atmospheres, the
                                   it
 pump will cease to act, as the compressed gas which remains
 will expand itself, and <U+FB01>ll the whole barrel therefore no      :
 more gas can then be admitted from the gasometer. More
 over, there      an actual loss of gas occasioned by the leaking
                    is
of the piston, which        a failing that these pumps are all more
                              is
or less liable to; for, whether they be packed with metallic
rings, cupped leathers, or hemp packin          still thei‘e will be some
                                                  ,
escape under this            pressure: an         the leathers Sac. are
                                                  if
screwed up so her great as totally to prevent the escape of the as,
the friction will become immense, consequently one-half the
power will be absorbed, and thus very little advantage would
be      ined by the remedy.                                            _
      hese observations will,
                                   it
                                   is  presumed, place the defective
operation of the common forcing pump in                   clear point of
                                                            a
view, and will naturally lead us to comprehend the advantages
of the hydro-pneumatic pump.               will have been observed,
                                             It
that the great evil in the common pump              the space or cavity
                                                      is
that    is left when the piston         down at the bottom of the
                                        is
stroke. Now the remedying of such evil               the primary object
                                                      is
sought for in this improvement; for this purpose a quantity
of non-elastic <U+FB02>uid       isintroduced into the chamber of the
pump, which, <U+FB01>lling up the whole of the cavity when the pis
ton    isdown, necessarily forces out every particle of the com
pressed gas; the method of accomplishing which will be
readily understood in the description of the new pump.
   Fig.     2   an elevation, and <U+FB01>g;
                   is                      a plan of the hydro-pneu
                                             3
matic pump.       AA a frame for supporting the machine: the
                         is
pump consists of two chambers            Band D; in the chamber        B
works the solid plunger C, through a cupped leather (1)), by
                                                                    mean   5

                                                                       L i}
              for compressing  Gases or other elastic Fluids.   _ 15
means      of the crank (11) and the slings (mm).     D is the pneu
matic chamber, at the top of which are placed the induction
valve (e) and the eduction valve (0): over the latter is placed
a small vessel (g) with the pipe 72 leading to the receiver.
    Now when the plunger C_is at the bottom of the stroke,
as shown in <U+FB01>g. 2, the pneumatic chamber D is then to be
Quite full of oil or some other non-elastic <U+FB02>uid; and for further
security a small quantity of oil is also to be above the eduction
valve (c) :—-when the plunger C is drawn back, the oil in the
chamber D will sink to the level of (rs), and the space will
then be <U+FB01>lled with the gas, which will rush from the gasome
ter through the pipe (f) and valve (6): but when the plunger
is again forced down, the oil will rise to the same height as
before, again <U+FB01>lling up the whole capacity of the chamber D,
and forcing out every particle of gas through the valve (0);
and so on alternately.
    If, through the increased pressure, or from some other
cause, the oil in the chamber D should not be quite su<U+FB01>icient
to <U+FB01>ll up the whole cavity on the return of the plunger, it is
of no consequence, because the moment the valve (c) rises~
ever so little, the oil which was above the valve will descend
and displace the gas in the chamber D.             The vessel g is a
 small, reservoir for the oil, and to receive any drainage from
 the gas: the tube (Ir) is for ascertaining that the proper quan-_
 tity of oil is in the apparatus, or for supplying more when re
 q uired.
    It is possible that a tri<U+FB02>ing leak may-take place through
the valve (0); but this will be of little consequence, as the
 escape of a small quantity of a non-elastic <U+FB02>uid back into the
 chamber D is not attended with a twentieth part of the in
 convenience to which the escape of the same volume of com
 pressed    gas would be subject.
    Now the particular advantage of this pump is, that the full
 charge of gas is forced through the valve (0) at every stroke of
 the piston, whether the pressure be equal to l, 10, ‘or 50 at
 mospheres. Indeed there are no limits to the degree of com
 pression of which this pump is capable; provided the parts of
 the machine be suf<U+FB01>ciently stron to withstand the strain, and
 an adequate power be employed; while it is supposed that
 the operation of the common pump is not capable of extend
 in beyond a pressure of 30 or 40 atmospheres;
       be following diagram will furnish an‘easy method of as
 certaining the power required to work the above pump suf<U+FB01>
 ciently near for all practical purposes.
    Thus let the straight line A B be divided into 32 equal
         ,                                                     parts ;

     16     Mr. Seaward’s Description of a Hydro-pneumatic Pump.
     parts;   of which make GB=16;                 FG=8; EF=4; DE=2;
     ACD E                                G
     CD=1; and AC=1. Then if we consider this whole line
     equal to the space which the plunger moves over in one stroke
     of the pump, it is plain that at B, the commencement of the
     stroke, the force will be equal to one atmosphere only, repre
     sented by the vertical line Bb: but when the plunger has
‘
    reached G, it will have made half a stroke, and the force will
    then be equal to 2 atmospheres, as shown by the line Gg=
    2 X136.    Again, when the plunger is at F, it will have made
    three quarters of the stroke, and the force will then be equal
    to 4 atmospheres =Ff=4Bb; and so on, until the plunger
    arrives at C, when it will have made g5 part of the stroke,
    and the compression and force will then be equal to 32 atmo
                                   Cc:
                                                   f j,
    spheres equal the line        32 x Bl).
        Therefore if we consider bg, g], e, &c. as so many straight
    lines, then will the areas Gb, Fg, E       De, Ste. be nearly as
    the momenta of the plunger passing over the several spaces
    BG, GF, FE, 81c. But these several areas Gb, F g, E                              j;
    Szc. are all equal to each other; therefore the whole of the
    momenta of the plunger passing through the space BC,
    will be equal <U+FB01>ve times the area Gg b B; that       equal to x
                                                                 is,             5
                       =       x1§ x16=120.
    <U+FB01>%‘-CE                 5
      To this must now be added                the momenta        of the plunger
    passing from   to A, the last
                           C                  31   d   part of the stroke, which
    will   be as 32 X      1=32*
                              which at (led to the above gives 152.
                                   ;
    We have now to deduct    the pressure of one atmosphere which
    has assisted the plunger in passing over the space BA; that
    is, 32 x = 32, which taken from the fore oing quantity will
              1
    leave 120 for the whole absolute momenta ofgthe plunger. Now
    divide this quantity by the number of parts in the line                      AB
      ‘1' Because when the gas in the chamber
                                                  compressed equal to 32 at
                                                       is
    mospheres,     will then raise the valve and make its esca
                  it                                             into the re
                                                                       e
    ceiver, as we suppose the pressure not to exceed 32 atmosp eres.
                                                                           (   = 32  ),

On the Sixth Section         of Bessel’s Astronomical         Observations.   17
(:32),   and it will give 3il atmospheres, or 56% lbs. per square
inch for the average force on the plunger ,durin the whole
stroke, when compressing gas equal to 32 atmosp eres.
   Therefore as the pump acts but singly, if a fly-wheel of
suf<U+FB01>cient weight be employed, a power equal to about 30 lbs.
on every square inch of the area of the
                                           plunger will be nearly
ade uate to the working of the pump.
   It gas of the pressure of only 20 or any other number of
atmospheres less than 32, be required, the necessary average
power for producing it can readily be ascertained from the
same diagram; for let the line Am represent the
                                                        proposed
pressure, then cuttin of? the upper part of the <U+FB01>gure by the
line mn, parallel to t e base AB; and calculating the remain
ing area, in the manner already described, it will give the re
quired power.     And if the pressure should be required to be
more than 32 atmospheres, then by increasing the height of
the diagram towards ac in the manner already shown, we
can also in that case estimate nearly the necessary required
power.
II I.   Introduction to the Sixth Section ofBI-zssEL’s Astronomical
                                    Observations.
                       [Continued from vol. lxiii. p. 443.]
                 6. Observations        ofcz'rcumpolar Stars.
      reduction of the observations of these stars to the
THE
  beginning of the year 1820, was undertaken by Mr. Arge-
                                                                                   ,
                                                                                   ,
 lander, who has been employed since the autumn of 1820 as
 assistant in the Observatory, and has already obtained by ob
servation and calculation many results useful to science, of
which I expect to publish in the next section
                                                    of my Observa
tions such parts as belon r to the subject of this             The
                                                       work.
fundamental catalogue of iinigsberg is the foundatlon of the                       _
present computation; the reductions have been made by the
small tables, the publication of which Professor
                                                       Schumacher
has kindly undertaken.     In the               table, which 15
                                    following                   ar
ranged according to polar distance,       the rst column contams
the mean of observations made above and below the pole, the
same value havin been given to both from the pole to a Auriga:
exclusive; and      0m this star down to the horizon the value
of the lower assa es having been diminished according to a
scale supplie    by      the            themselves.    The remain
                        observatories
ing four columns contain the differences of the determmatlons
obtained in the four different ways from the mean ones.
  Vol.    64.   No.   815.   July   1824-.           C

                                                       Upper Passage.         Lower   Passage.
                      Decl.      JR    1820.
                                               2°
                                                     East.
                                                            2   West.  2    East.  2°   West.
                        o    l  11   I    n            ,,          n                      ,,
                                                                              u       Q
      Ursa: Min. 78 21 15 50 42-439            33  +0110     6 +0149   11  +0060 9—0-406
   £Cephei           76   37 23 32       2-812 76  +0044    23 +0010   17  +0028 1470-071
   4 Ursm    Min.    74   5414 51 20-568       30 +0249      8 +0009   11 —0-238    6-0-1512
   9—                72   2915 21 5-721        42 +0247     10 +0002   12 -0-210
                                                                                   Iii-0022
   1. Draconis       70   4712 25 44-512       40 +0103      5 +0042   14 —0-133
                                                                                    940-009
   2.                70   1911 20 35-750       37 +0060      8 +0116   11 _0-183
                                                                                   193-0150
   11 Cephei         69   4621 26 17-952        42 +0129    11 _0-042  13 +o-112    7—0-151
   a Ursa Maj. 62         4310 52 31-754       38 +9031     10 +0076     8 —o-088
                                                                                   1140-006
   n Draconis        61   5516 21 34-399       33 +0049      9 _0-033    9 +0002 9 _0-027
   4 Cephei          61   4921 14 16-581       46 +0034      9+0-017   15  +0099 9-0-113
   66 Draconis 61         28 20    2 40-083    37 +0053      9 +0012     9 +6018 11 -0-098
   11Cephei          61     820 41 36-787      42 +0122     11 +0018    11 _0-605 13—0135
   10                60    1821 40 15-4901      35 +0024     5 _0-024  12  +0092 10-0019
  P.   xx.   222 59       49 20 28     23-093   35 -%0'071  10 _0-008    9 +0010 3 _0-088
   1 Draconis        59    1018 48     32-426  38 +0025      6 _0-050  12  +6097 10 +0017
   4—-               59     315 58     31-807  37  +0033    11 _0-058    9 +0054 [9-0053
   42Cep.    I-lev. 58    2219 52      28-800  37  +0034     9 +0016   10  +0000 9;-0052
  48 Draconis        57   3518 53      42-291  38  +0048     6 _0-083  12  +9093 15-0014
  BCephei            57   3022 22      30-415  39  +0045     9 +0047   12 —0-052 13 ~-0060
   Z                 57   192‘2    4   37098   48  +0093    12 +0035   13 _0-003 13 _0-147
   as Draconis 56         3319     8   16-048  38  +0080     6 _0-074  12 +9944 15-0004
   5 Cephei                 922    8           31 —0-038
                     56                25-424                7 _0-017    7 +0052 19 --0-045
   88 Cygni          56     220    8   12-571  32 + 0-036    3 _0-037    6 +0074 1050-100
   7. Cephei         55   4621 48      50-715  22 —0-002     3 +0051     7 +0023 gl—O-l32
   a Cassiopeia: 55       33   0  30 21-293    53  _0-047   12 +0026   15  _0-097 9‘+0-051
   49 Draconis 55         2418    57    9023   35  +0038     6 _0-018  12  +0020 10—0'028
   P.  XXI.
                                                                              _ _51—0101
               336 55     2221    47    3-642  22  +0049     6 +0012     7 —0-016
   9 Draconis        55   r1118   39    8-793  18  +0942     6 _0-022  11              —0-017
  7 Ursae Maj. 54         4211    44 19 051    50  +0945    10 _0-072  16 +0033
   P.  XX.    391 53      5020    48    9-762  37  +0034    10 +0034   10 +0067
                                                                                   10‘+0-027
                                                                                    7‘—0-109
   51 Draconis 53           619    0 52-456    37  _0-003    6-0028    12 +0055
                                                                                   16—0011
   :- Cygni          53     219   12 56-451        +0048     6 _0-033
                                               39                      13  +0050 16—0037
   P. XXI.      s2 52     5021     4 41-911    31 + 0-013    6+0-071   10  +0043 3 -0-162
   20 (3ng1          52   3219 46 6-713        37  +0969     7 _0-062  12  +0045 9 -0-017
   7 —
   13 Draconis       52   2617 ‘26 22-264      41  +0036    11 _0'037    8 _0-005 15 +0009
                     51   3117 52 25-814       50  _0-003   14 _0-082  14 +0052 15 +0056
   I Cysni                21 19 25
                     51                 9-994  38  + 0-040   7 _0-090  13 +0042 10 +0023
   8 Lacerta         51 20 22 16 29-992            +0025               10 _0-016 13 _0-073
                                               36            8 +0037
   1 wCygni                                        _0-133
   nUrsaa Maj. 50
                     50
                          2221 35 42-781       31            5 +0068     9 +0021    9-0015
                          13.13 40 26-243      43  +0081    11 +0015   10 _0-125    9+0-007
   c Cyg.pra:c. 50          619 37       1'853 26  +0026     7 _0-001    9 +0023    6 e—0'078
     -—- set1- 50 619 37 4'470 19                  +0934     4—0'004     6+0-019 6—0-046
   I  Cysni          49 48 19 31 36-885        40  +0090     7 _0-070  13 +0012 12 +0018
   @- Persei         49 13 3 11 31-492         42  —0'056   11 _0-031    9+o-011 9+0-062
    1 ~ Cygni
                                                                             _
                     48 47-20     21   32-335 36   +0113    10 _0-027    9 +0635    9 _0-117
   BPmei             47    12‘ s 20 9-272 13       +0036     8 —0'OQ3    5         __    _.
   2 Auriga!
                   _ 45 48 5        3 24-491 104   —0-025 36 _0-004
                                                                                   _
                                                                       32 +0008 17 +0-104
   11111512 M1945 28+10 59 30-260               11 _0-023                5   __          __
   a                                                          6+0-023+
      015111         44 39 20 35 17-921         69 _0-006   21 +0007   21 +6013 14 _0-022
   ' Aurlsm          43 33 4 49         4415    32 --o-055   9 _0-110    4 +0005 10 +0100
  '7 Andromed-4l          28 1 52 53-644       38  _0-114    9 +0012   12 +0-109    9+0-062
   *1
      5""8?          40 59 4 53 54-881         38  —0-066   12 _0-116    6 +0028 10+0-122
  We“?               40 15 2      56   54-581  38  _0-046 11-0017        9 _0-006   7 +0132
   2 Cyan}           39           15               +0028 9 _0-017
  ' Persel                41i20
                                       46.298  33                        9 +6036    9 _0-143
              _      39 29+ 3     45   48-359  33  -0-056 10+0-004       9 _0-024   8 +0-155
  7 Herc-111$        39
                          1616    36   43-850  32  _0-005 12 ~0-036      s +0059 7 +0081
   2- Bootis         39     6114  24   49-736  26  +0019 12 _0-076       7 +6129    2+0-061
  r   Cygni          38 38 21     10   21-217  26  +0031 7 +0008        9 +0096     6 _0-247
    Besides this catalogue M. Argelander likewise computed the
                                                                             probable errors   of
the single observation of each star, and found them as follows:

                               Probable Errors.    Probable Errors.
                                                         x . cos 3.
                 Declin.      Upper          Lower Upper           Lower
                                    Passage.              Passage.
              _     o     1      I/            1/     I,            n ,
  z  Ursa Mm.     78   21      0-115         0-194  0-023        0-039
  7 Cephei        76   37      0147          0225   0-034        0-052
 5 Ursa: Min.                                0-106
  7 -—
                  74   54      0-131                0-034        0-028
                  72   29      0-140         0-145  0-042        0-044
  2 Draconis
                  70   47      0-131         0-196  0-043        0-064
  A               70          '0-100
                        19                   0-168  0-034        0-057
 0 Cephei          69   46      0-127        0-175  0-044        0-061
 1: Ursa: Maj.    62   43       0-085        0-123  0-039        0-056
 2 Dracvnis       61            0-102
                       55                    0-094  0-048        0-044/
 2 Cephei         61   49       0-084        0-174  0-040        0-082
 66 Draconis      61   28      0-098         0-100  0047         0'048
 "Cephei          61     8     0-088         0-097  0-042        0-047
 10               60   18      0-072        0-093   0-036        0046
 P.   XX.   222   59 49        0-071        0-075   0-036        0-038
 0 Draconis
                  59 10        0-080        0-128   0-042        0-066
                 59      3     0-109        0-084   0-056        0-043
2 CepheiHev-      58 22        0-087         0-084  0046         0'044
 48 Draconis
                  57   35      0-092         0179   0049         0'096
 SCephei          57   30      0092         0-103   0-050        0-056
              _   57   19      0-088        0-129   0-048        0-070
 58 Dracoms      56            0-101
                       33                   0-110   0-056        0061
 I Cephei‘       56      9     0-119        0107    0-066        0-060
 85 Cygn}         56     2     0-078        0-081   0-044        0-046
.2 Cepl321 _     55    46      0-074        0-122   0-042        0069
 a Cassmpel?
                  55   33      0-085        0-096   0-048        0055
 49 Dmcmus        55   24      0-095         0-104  0-054        0‘059
 P- XXI-.836
  c Dracoms
'r U002 Maj-
                  55
                  55
                       22
                       21
                               0-084
                                0-094         _
                                             0-104  0-048
                                                    0-054          _
                                                                 0059
                  54   42      0-092         0-145  0-053        0084
 P- XX-    39}    53   50      0-081         0-099  0-047        0-059
51 Drapoms        53     6     0-080         0-084  0-048        0-051
1‘ @0011                 2
                 53            0-088       '0-105   0-053        0-064
 P. XXL-‘32      52   50       0-069        0-087  0-041         0-053
20 Cygm_         52   32       0-092        0-096  0-056         0-058
l3 Dracoms       52   26       0-088        0-132  0-054         0-081
2        _       51   31       0-101        0-118  0-063
I Cygm                                                           0073
                 51   21       0-058        0-128  0-036         0-080
3                     20
     Laceer      51            0-092        0-074  0-051         0-047
 1 1' Cygm            22       0-108
               _ 50                         0-120   0-069        0-077
2 Ursa: MaJ.     5o 13         0-073        0-087   0050         0-055
c Cyg.praec.     50    '6      0-049         0-096  0-031        0-061
    -——seq.      50      6     0-102        0-119   0-065        0-076
                 49    18      0-064        0-094   0-042        0-062
2 Persei         49    13      0-060        0116    0-038        0-076
                                             _
 1 U Cygni
                                                                  _
                 48   47       0-035        0-087  0-036         0-055
3 Persei
                                              -
                 47    12      0-063                0-043
2 Auriga
0; Ursae Maj.
2 Cygni
                 45
                 45
                 44
                      48
                      28
                               0-059
                               0-080
                                            0-085   0-041
                                                    0-056         _
                                                                 0-059
                      39       0-064        0-103   0-046        0-073
1 Auriga         43   33       0-086        0-087   0-063        0063
y Andromed.      41   28       0-087        0-113   0-065        0-085
n Auriga:        40   59    -
                               0-067        0-067   0-050        0-050
2 Persei         40    15      0-076        0-111   0-058        0-085
7 Cygni          39   41       0-070        0-068   0-054        0-052
- Persei         39   29                    0-112
                               0-074                0-057        0087
n Herculis       39   16       0-087                             0-105
                                            0-136   0-067
7 Bootis         39     6      0-089        0-119   0'069        0-092
a Cygni          38   39                            0-068
                               0-087        0-114                0-089
                                    C2

 20      .            Introduction to the Sixth Section
    The differences of the results obtained in the different po
 sitions of the circle and in both passages are commonly small,
 and easil to be reconciled with the probable errors above
 given.      gifferences amounting to a second of a great circle
 are, notwithstanding the frequently small number of observa
 tions, rare, and occur only about once in nineteen times at
 those altitudes where the proximity of the horizon has no in
 <U+FB02>uence on the observations: usually the differences                   0 on
 without any regularity; but sometimes they                        to ollow
 some law, e. g. from 60° to 80° declination, inappear      t e upper pas
 sage and eastern position of the circle.              Its small amount,
 however, would render any further conclusions very dif<U+FB01>cult,
 especially as it can hardly be doubted that the errors arising
from the instrument itself are mixed with others which are as
yet unknown.        I   believe, therefore, that the severe test to which
this instrument has been subjected, warrants the conclusion
that the deviation of the line of collimation from a circle, if
any exists, is too small to be determined by observations.
    As a transit, this beautiful instrument completely ful<U+FB01>lls
every thing that can be required.             It gives the right ascen
sions, whether the stars are observed above or below the
Pole, whether the circle is in its eastern or western position,
by a comparison with the fundamental catalogue, with such a
near agreement that no decided difference can be assigned.
                    7.   Place qftlze Meridian Mark.
    The    same equations which were                      for determining
the collimation, likewise give 15Aaemployed     or t e eastern deviation
of the mark from the meridian.               I have determined it so as
to compare every period with the preceding and following
one.
                                 15Aa                            lSAa
                1820.              ,,            1820.              ,,
      May 27to June          27 +2'16 Nov. 29t0Dec. 28          +115
      June 12—July           16 +275 Dec. 29—Jan.             3 +2'4-1
      June 29—Aug.            1 +207            1821.
      July 20—Aug.            9 +1'84-  Jan. 12to Feb. 28       + 1'80
      Aug. l—Aug.            19 +1'99 Feb. 11—Mar. 25           +0'32
      Aug. 9—Sept.            1 + 1'61 Mar. 27—Aprill7          +2'32
      Aug. 21—Sept.          16 +180 April 20—May 4             +8'58
      Sept. 7—Oct.            4 +1-ss April 25—May 22           +1-89
      Sept. 23—Oct.         27  +069. May 5—June 4              +146
      Oct. 13—Nov.           15 +310 May 25—June 18             +1'29
                                        June 11—June 30         +112

                  of Bessel’s Astronomical   Observations.           v‘2!v
      The mean of all these twenty determinations is +1”'83,
   exactly agreeing with the result obtained by Dollond’s transit.
      I have stated here the single results, as they may serve for
   solvin the question, whether the axis of rotation of the earth
   coincides with a principal axis, for which there is, as far as I
  know, no positive proof founded on observation. If the period
  of the inequality resulting from this cause, on the supposition
  of the earth bein a spheroid of rotation, be supposed =337'5
  mean days, and i? the angle of the axis be designated by 3, the
  observed azimuth of the mark is
                     =15Aa + Ssec. zp (s +t. 1° 4/)
  where t denotes the number of mean days elapsed from the
  beginning of 1820, and s the value of the argument at that
                                                       i
  time. The twenty observations compared with this formula
  give       15 A a = + l”'804 probable error =          0”"1226
             S. cose=+0'064i         .  .  .   .  .  =i0'0997
             5. sins =—0 '090                         =i0  '0927
                   3:
                                     .  .  .   .  .
                            O'llO    .  .  .   .  .  =i-O'1361
  from which it becomes probable that the angle of the      '
                                                              axis does
  not exceed a quarter of a second.
     Observations of this kind, continued during a longer period
  or instituted with the sole view to. determine 8, might still more
  diminish the uncertainty; those which have here been given
  may, however, satisfy us that the angle of the axes is so small
 as to 'have no dangerous
                      '
                                in<U+FB02>uence upon the greatest number
  of observations.
     Besides these remarks concerning the use of the instrument
 as a transit,   I have to give some explanations on the observa
 tions in general.      The observations made with the circle may
 be employed either as polar distances or zenith distances ac
 cording as the place of the pole or of the zenith on the instru
 ment is supposed to be .known; the former appears-to me to
 be more direct, partly because the result which is required,
 the declination, is immediately derived from the polar distance,
 partly because the place of the pole may be found at every
 period independently of reversmg the instrument; whereas
 the place of the zenith can only be determined by combining
 two periods.       I have therefore constantly referred all com
putations    hitherto   made to the pole, and          here the deter
minations which have been employed, an give          which are exclu
 sively founded on the two pole-stars which were usually ob
served <U+FB01>ve times at each passage; the declinations made use
of in these calculations are for a Ursée Minorz's taken from the
Ephemeris which Prof. Schumacher and Prof. Struve
                                                                  have
published; for 8 Ursce        Mz'noris they  were   computed  from  my
                                                                 1 820'
tables.

22                    Introduction to the Sixth Section
                                  No.
                                             Place of the Pole on
                      star“                                                     Means'
     1320.
                              Cogs.
                                                the Instrument.
                                                o   ,       a
                                                                                   '_'_'_
 March 6—         7   a   U        5          88 42     5817— 8                 °         '
                      “L
                              .                                               33 42           5324
                                   5                    58.30% }
             7—   8                          323    8
                                   g                    ggjggig                       3       39-52
                                                                      }323
         11           uL           2          33 42     5303+;                33 42
                              _i
                                                                                              57-67
         16-17                                           1-04-;
                      “E                      33 43
                                                                      '_33           43        1-40
         19-23                               323    a
                                  1;                    232i;         }323 _
                                                                                      8       36.21
 April       5-   7   “U          14           33 42    5246-;
                                                                              33 42             _
                      aL          14                    53'l8+8       }
                                                                                              5283
             8—13     2U          41         323    s   4124+;            -
                                                                                                 __
                      “L          13                    4039-;        }823
                                                                                      8       *1 07
         13-17 “U                 21          33 42     5751-;
               aL                                                             33 42 57 _39
                                  19                    57%“          }
         13-21 “U                  9          33 42     59-64-_;
                                                                                     _—___
                                                                                       59“
                L                 10                    5928+; }              33 42
         22-26                               323
                       ail
                                                    3
                                  2;                    3:533                        8        43%
                                                                      }323
         27-33 4U                 35          33 42     59'65—8
                      “L                                                      33
                                                                                     43.008
                                                                                                _
                                  22                    60'5l+8       }
 May         4-15 1U              51         323    3   4409+;
                      4L          37                    4273-;
                                                        5359-;
                                                                      is”—           8        43 . 41
         15-25 ml]                42          33 42
                       L          21                                          33 4’2 59 _03
                                                        59'4-6+8      }
         27-42 “U                 16         323    s   427155
                      ¢L                                40-30-;                               *1 50
                                                                                                _
                                                                                     8
                                  27
                                                                      }323
 June    12-27 3U                 43          33 42 58'03—8
                      “L          37                    57'68+8       }
                                                                              33 *2 57 86
         29-46 2U                 12         323        41-99+;
                                                                4-;
                                                    3
                       L                                4   -
                      $6           32;                  339+;
                                                                              $823
                                                                                              41-27
                      ;L'
                                                                                     8
                                   5                    40~77-;'
 July    17-32        “L          35          33 42     5343+;
                      ;E           1;                                         33 42           5817
                                                        5835—2:
                                                        5311+
 Aug.        1-   9_aL            20         323    3   39-76-;
                                                                      }
                      8U          16                    39'57+;'          323        3        40-13
                       L          19                    40-79-;'
             9-19         L       20          33 42 57'67+8
                      ;   U       17                    59-01—8'              33 42           57-90
                       L           7     .              57-87+;'
                                                                                              'Aug.

                of   Bessel’s Astronomical Observations.             28
   Aug. 21—38        “L      20   322   s 40-34—8
                      8U     25            40-50+s'      323   8 40-89
                       L     12            40-69—8'
   Sept.    7—16      “U     25    as 42 58'83—8
                       L     25            58'10+8
                                                          33 4‘2 58.52
                      3U     10            58'67—5'
                       L     10            58'65+8"
           22-34       U     26   323   s 41- 4
                      “L     29            40%in               8 41-09
  Oct.     12-32 1U          15    as 42 59'84—8
                       L     27            59-49%
                                                          33 *2  59'“
                                                       }
                           ‘i
  N'0v.     4—15       U     15   323   8  4-
                                              '
                                                    8
                      “L      5            422?;  "    }s2s
                                                               8 42-95
   N °v . 26-46 —U                323   8     -'2
                     “L      2;            25223       }323
                                                              a 32-12
  Dec.     16—25     aU      43    as 42 50'4-6—‘8
                                                          33 *2 50'71
                       L1    32            50'96+8     }
         '
           29—34      “U1    22   323   s 2s-ss+a
                     8 U      8           31'10+8’       323   8 29-33
                       L     12           29'08—8'
    It appears from these results that the place of the pole or
 the instrument, whenever it had undergone no change,'is sub
ject to very small variations, which in the course of each pe
 riod always appeared insensible. In order to trace, however,
likewise these small inequalities, I have noted down for some
 months the state of a thermometer attached to the pillars, and
 the length of the air-bubble of the level of the altitude in the
 last column of the observations, tag. No. 4- bubble 63-6:
 7°‘6; but when I found no connexion,              I  did not continue
this practice any further.        The instrument got repeatedly new
wires, the intervals between which are stated in the observa
tions.      At the passage of the sun the <U+FB01>rst limb was usually
observed on the <U+FB01>rst four, and the following limb on the last
three or four wires; in the mean time the northern or southern
limb was brought between the horizontal wires, and the cir
cle read off. There is only time to do this if the observation by
the circle is made 20” or 30" before the culmination, and two
verniers only are read oll'.         For this purpose it becomes ne
cessary to know the deviation of the horizontal wires from
parallelism to the equator, and the difference of two verniers
from four.       The former was investigated by means of 0b
serving a: Ursa? Minoris at the two extremities, and in the
middle of the system of wires. By this means the correc
tions to be applied to the readings of the circle to correct this
error, were found' as follow:
                  '-
                                                                 From

                                                                  '
 24-                     Introduction to the Sixth Section
         From       March     27 to   April    7    $0”'004~0      t. cos  8
                    April       8 — May       19    10  '0226 t. cos       8
                    May       23  — May      25    i0 '0551       t. cos 8
                    May       27—Nov. 14- 10 '0097 1. cos 8
                    Dec.        l—Dec. 81 10-0109 t. cos 8
where t denotes the number of seconds before the culmination;
and the upper sign is to be applied for the eastern, the lower'
one for the western position of the circle.
     The same observations have decided that gravity does not
act on the horizontal wires; for the observations made at the
two extremities, and reduced to the meridian, always Very
nearly agreed with those made in the middle; and the mean of
the frequent trials of this kind, occurring in the journal, do
not show the least trace of a <U+FB02>exure by gravity.
     The difference of' two verniers from four I have determined
by a set of readings, which were repeated three times, and
freed from the el'léct which the temperature might produce by
acting unequall on the circle and the alhidade, by allowin
always at least alf an hour to elapse between the placing and
reading of? of the circle.
                                                                        I   Semi-_
           _
      Vernier  I.       II.      III.     IV.    é(1+III)|§(II+IV)‘Di<U+FB02>‘erence.
         O   I   I!       I/       u        I!                 II           n
        o 0 0       +5'65      +515     +Q'65 +2”-sa +415                 +0'76
       l5 0 0 +l'8             +1231    +1235 +0'65 +1'58                 +047
       30 0 0 +0’65            _0'85 +0'15       —0°4‘3     +040          +0'4-l
      45 0 0 +225              +0'55 +2‘25       +0'28      +2°38         + 1'05
       60 0 0 +0'85            _1'7     _0'7 _0‘85          +0'08         +0'4'7
       75 0 0 +255             "—2‘1    _0‘25 -‘l'05 +l'l5 +1'10
      90 0 0 + 6'55            _0'4 _0'4- _0‘20 + 3'08 +1'64:
     105 0 0 +8'75             +3'7 +31          +1'85 +5'93              +204
    120 0 0 +695               +2'75 +4'6        ‘l' 1'38 +543 +2'03
    135 0 0 +5‘8               +2'35 +2‘9 +l'18 +435 +1259
    150 0 0 +6'8              +l'95 +4'5 +0’98 +540 +291
    165 O 0 + 3'0             _0‘4'    + 0'2     —-0°20    +1°60          + 0'90
    180 0 0 +3'2              —2‘6     —l‘4'5    —l‘30     +0'88          +l‘09
    195 0 0 -‘|- 4-‘5         — l‘O    —2'25     _0'50     +1'13          +0'82
    210 0 0 +40               +0'35    '-1'7 +018 +1'15                   +049
   225 0 0 +4'0               +0'6     _0'25 +0'30 +1‘88                  +0'79
   24-0 0 0         4' 4"1    _0'65 —-1'65 —0°33           + 1'23         + 0‘78
   255 0 0 + 4-‘0             _0'1 +1'4'5 _0'05            + 2'78         + 1'89
   270 0 0 +4-‘1              _0'15 +3'1         _0'08     +3'60          +1'84'
   285 0 0 +2'8               “3'7 +2‘05 _1‘85             +243           +214
   300 0 0 + 4'25             _' 3'05
                                       + 0‘4-5 —1'53       + 2‘35         + 1'94
   315 0 0 +3'3               _1'85 +0'25 “0'93            +l‘78          +1'36
   330 0 0 + 4°85             _1'75 + 1'35 “0'88           + 3'10         + 1'99
   84-5 0 0 +3'85             “0'25 ~04 _0'13              +l'73         +O‘93
                                                                                The

               of  Bessel’s Astronomical Observations.             25
    The semi-differences contained in the last column are to be
applied to the readings obtained by the <U+FB01>rst and third verniers
with their signs: but to those obtained by the second and
fourth verniers with the contrary signs. They are well repre
sented by the formula + 1”'26 + 0"'6764~ sin                215°
                                                  {224+          66}
where u denotes the reading of the <U+FB01>rst vernier.        The values
of this formula have been constantly applied to the observa
tions of the sun being added together with the deviation of
the wires from the parallelism, the deviation of the parallel
from a great circle, and the change of declination in the co-
lumn of the journal headed, Reduction to the Meridian.           The
numbers for the two pole-stars contained in the same column,
however, do not include the deviation of the horizontal wires.
    During the observations of the sun the whole instrument
was screened, and only two inches of the object-glass were
 left uncovered.     But, notwithstanding this, as a considerable
degree of heat was produced in the focus, I applied, on the
25th of November 1820, near the place of the wires, a stop
made of thin brass plate, which completely protects the ring
containing the wires from the rays of the sun.
    The divisions of the level of the alhidade circle were deter
mined by chan ing, in some culminations of the pole-star, the
alhidade at eatil'i observation; the value of a Paris line on the
scale was thus found :             I,                    1,
           1820.   April 11      1'236  Therm. = —11'2 C.
                           12    1'155   .  .  .  .    14"}
                           14-   1'29]   .  .  .  .    141'25
                           20    P2541   .  . .   .     8'3
                    June   27    1'18?   .  .  .  .    19'3
           1821.   May     22    1'227   .  .  -  .    lO’O
             Mean     .  .   .   1'24-1
    This value has been used to convert the deviation of the
level given at each observation into seconds. Whenever the al
 hidade be an to show somewhat considerable deviations,              I
 put it has by the screw of the alhidade; in the be innin
 this has not been mentioned in the journal, but since t e       llt
of December, 1820,         I have always remarked it whenever        I
 have touched the screw.
    This level has the inconvenience of having the bubble in
 our winters extended to such a length that its extremities are
 covered, and can no longer be observed. In order to avoid the
 adding of spirit, I have <U+FB01>lled the lower part of the tube to
 about its axis with closed glass tubes, so that it takes only
 half the quantity of spirit of wine, and consequently shows
onl    half the effects of temperature, and may now be used
Without alteration all the year round.
    Vol. 64-. NO. 315. July 1824..                D            Tables

  26                    Introduction to the Sixth Section
                           Tables for     8  Ursee  Minoris.
                                            D
  _
     1815                  —0'736        4-60          Dorpat...... —O'068
     1816      —O'978       +0022        828           Giittingen .. --0'021
     1817        ......    —O'220        196           Gotha.              —O'023
     1818                  —0'4-62       565           Greenwich         . +0006
     1819                  —0'704-       933           Konigsberg -0'050
     1820      —O'94.-7     +0053        301           Mannheim..          -O‘Ol7
  '
     1821                  ——0-189       669           Milan .             -o-019
     1822
             ‘
                 ......    -O'4-32         37          Munich              —0'026
     1823       ......     -0'674-       406           Palermo.            —0'081
     1824      —O'917      +O‘083        774'          Paris. .              O'OOO
     1825                  -0'159        14-3          Vienna...... —0'039
     1826       ......     -O'40l        511
 Argument—J.             For  the upper passage,
            +1 d. until December 28.
            +2 d. from December 28 to December 31.
     2.  For the lower          assage,
            +0'5 d. unti June 28.
            +1'5 d. from June 28 to December 81.
Sum     of the   mean Position      for    the Beginning   of the Years and of
                                   the Nutation.
                               h      1     n            O      1     II
    1815.   Jan.         0   18 32        0'56   -—  1 86   34-    29'04- —83
              April    10                 0'55    —  7             2821      —82
             July      19                 0'48   -13              27-89     —81
             Oct.     27                  0-35   --18             2658       —81
             Dec.     66        -
                                          0'17                    25'77
  1816.      Jan.        0   18   31    41-19    -21   86   34-   28-81     ——80
             April    10                4-098    —26            -28-01      ——76
            July      19                40-72    -31              27-25     -78
-
             Oct.     27                40-41    -25              2652 —69
             Dec.     66                40-06                     25-88
 >7“,
   1817.     Jan.        0   18   31    21-13   —39    86   54-   28-80 —68
             April    10                2074-   —4-2              28-12     —-62
            July      19             1
                                        20-82 —46                 27-50 —57
            Oct.      27                19-86   --50              26-98     -52
             Dec. 66                    19'36                     2641
‘1818.      Jan.        0    18   31     0'48   -52    86  8-1    29-21 —4.-8
        -
            April     10          30 59-96      -53               28-88     -41,
            July      19                59-48   -55               28'4-2'4—35
            Oct.      27                58-88   -57               28-07—28
            Dec.      66                58'31                     27‘79

          9f Bessel’s   Astronomical Observations.                 17
                      h    I   I!             I     II
1819. Jan.    0    18   30   8943 —58       86 34 30'56 —24:7
      April  10              '38‘85  —59               30'32 —16
      July   19               38'26 —59                30'16 -— 9
      Oct.   27               37'67 —60                30'07 —- 2
      Dec.   66               37'07                    30'05
1820. Jan.    0    18   3O    18'19 —60     86  34:    32'70 +   3
      April  10               17-59  -57               22-73   +10
      July   19               17'02 —56                32'83   +17
      Oct.   27               16'4-6 —55               33‘00   +25
      Dec.   66               15‘91                    3325
1821. Jan.    0    18   29 57'00 —53        86  34-    35'78   +29
      April  10               56'4-7 —50               36'07 +36
      July   19               55'97 -—4-7              36'43 +42
      Oct.   27               55'50 —44                3685 +48
      Dec.   66               55'06                    37'33
1822. Jan.    0    18   29 36'11     —41    86  34-    39‘76 +54
      April  10               35'70 —37                4-0'30  +57
      July   19               35'33 »-—33              4:0‘87  +62
      Oct.   27               35-00 1—29               41-49 +65
      Dec.   66               3&‘71                    4:214
1823.  Jan.   0    18 29      15'70 —25     86  134    ‘14-'49 +69
      April  10               15'4'5 —2()              45'18 +73
      July
      Oct.
             19
             27               15-10  -
                              15'25 —-15
                                          9
                                                       45'91
                                                       46°67
                                                               +76
                                                               +79
      Dec.   66               15°01                    47'46
1824. Jan.    0    18   28 55'92 —        5 86 34 49'74        +80
      April  10               55'87       0            5064:   +81
      July   19               55'87 + 5                51-35   +81.
      Oct.   27               55'92 +11                52'16 +82
      Dec.   66               56-03                    5298
1825.
 '
      Jan.    0    28 28 36'87 +15          86  34-    55'22 +82
      April  10               37'02 +19                56'04 +80
      July   19               37'21 +25                56'84-  +78
      Oct.   27               37'46 +29                57-62 +77
      Dec.   66               87'75                    58'39
1826.  Jan.   0    18   20 18‘51     +33    86 35        0'63 +74
      April  10               18'84  +37                 1'37  +70
                                                                    ‘
      July   19               19'21  +41                 2'07 +67
      Oct.   27                                          2'73 +62    I
                              19'6234-4'6                5’35
      Dec.   66               20118
                                  D?

“zit
                            Right Ascension.                     Declination.                                 Aberration
                                     .
                                   Di<U+FB01>‘.
                                            A      T                   .                   :
                       {bi-1820.            puzzrign. for 1820.      D15“.
                                                                             ‘22233Ly           ])            IR.    Declin
       Jan.      0 -22'-64 -0'-'15          -o'-'0048   --    o-1o _1‘-’69   _o'-'o282{              0-22-6          --    3-6
                 5 _Q-2-79  +0-04           -o-oo23
                                                         --   1-79 -1-67     -o-o284l  183 —-22-4                          2-3
                                                                   _1-66
                                                                                                                     -
                10     -22-75      +022 +o-ooo3               3-46           ._o-o285‘ 365 -2-2-0                    -_ 4-0
                15     -22-53      +039 +0-oo28               5-12 _1-63     -0-o284 548 -21-4                             5-6
                                                        —     6'75 —l'58                                             —
                20     -22-14      +059     +0'0053                          —0'0‘279‘ 730 —2°'7                           7'2
                25     _21-55 +0-71 +0-0078
                                                        —
                                                          -   8-33   -1-52   -0-0-272i         913           -19-8   -8-7
                30     -2o-84 +0-89 +0-0103                9'85 —1-44 —0-0263l                  95           -18-8 -1o-2
       Feb.      4     —19-95 +l-o4 +0-0127             -11-29 -1-35 _0-02523                  2715-17-7             _11~6
                 9     _1s~91      +1-18    +0-015o     -12-64       -1-25 -o-o24ol            460-16-4              -12-9
                14     _17-73 +l-31         +0-017l     -l3-89       —l'13                     643—15-0              -14-0
                                                                             -0-02261i
                19     -16-42      +1-42    +0-0191     -15-02 --1-00 -0-0210i_8—25-13-4                             _-15-1
                24     _|5.00      44-51    +0-0209     _16-02 -0-87 _0-0193       8-11-7                            -16-0
       Much]           -13-49      +1-60    +0-0226     -16-89 —0-72 --0-o174    190-10-0                            -16-9
                 6     -11~89      +1-66    +0-0240     —l7-61 -0'58 -0-0154     373- 8-2                            -17-6
                11     -1o-23      +1-72    4-0-0253    -18-19 -0-42 _o-0134 555- 6-4                                _1a-3
                l6 +651            +174 +0-0263         -18~61       -o~27   -o-0113           735-            4-5   I56
                21
                25     --
                       __   6.77
                            5-01
                                   +176 +0-0271
                                   +1-76    +0-0276
                                                        -18'88
                                                        -l8'99 +005
                                                                     —0'll   —0‘009'2i 920—
                                                                             —0'0070   103-
                                                                                                               2‘5
                                                                                                               0-5
                                                                                                                     —18‘9
                                                                                                                     --19-0
       April
                31
                 5
                       -    3-25
                            1-51
                                   +1-74
                                   +l-71
                                            +0-0279
                                            +0-0280
                                                        -18-94
                                                        -18-74
                                                                     +0-2o
                                                                     +0-36
                                                                             -o-oo48
                                                                             -0-0027
                                                                                               285+
                                                                                               468+
                                                                                                               1-4
                                                                                                               3-3
                                                                                                                     -19-0
                                                                                                                     _13~9
                10     + 0-20 +1-65 +0-o27a             _18-38       +0-51-0-0006 6—50+                        5-2   _186
                 15    + 1-85 +1-60 +0-0275             -17-87       +0-65         833+
                                                                             +0-0014                           7-0   -18-2
                ‘20    'i' 3'45 'l’l'51 +0‘0‘268        —l7'22       +078 +0'0034‘ 15+                         8-8   _17.7
                25     + 4-96 +l-42 +0-0257             -16-44       +0-91   +0-0052‘          198 +10-5             -17-0
                30     + 6-38 +1-32 +0-0245             -15-53       +1-03   +0-0069           380 +122              -16-2
       May       5 + 770 +1'2l              +0'0234     —l4'50       +l'l4   +0-0085           563 +13-7             _15-3
                10     +
                     8'91 +1'08             +0-02‘ll    —13'35       +143 +0'0100              745 +152              —l4-3
                15 + 9'99 +0-95             +0-0205     -12-13 +1-32 +0-0112                   923+15-6              -134
                                                                                               _
                go +10-94 +0-81             +0-0186     -10-81 +1-4o +0-0123                   110+17-8              -12c
                25 +11-75 +0-66             +0-0167     _     9-41   +1-46   +0-0132           293           +189    -1o-7
                                                        -                                            24752
                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                     --
                                                        —
                                                                     +l-5l                                                  -
                                                                                                                            3-14)
                3o +12-41          +0-52    +0-0146           7-95              0-01   0                      1 -8
       June      4     +1293 +0-36 +0-0124                    6-44   +1-56   $00126                          $237
                9
                14
                       +1329 +021 +0-0101
                       +1350 +0-05 +o-oo77              --
                                                        —     4-88   +159
                                                              3-29 +1-60
                                                                             +0-0150
                                                                             +0-0152
                                                                                               840 +214
                                                                                                23           +219    -_    6-5
                                                                                                                           5-0
                19     +13-55      -0'll    +0-0053           1-69   +161    +0-0152           205           +223          3-5
                24     +13-44      -_0-26 +o-oo28
                                                        -     0-08   +1-61   +0-0150           -3?8+22-5              --   1-9
                29     +13-18      -o-42  +o-ooo3       + 1-53 +1-6o +0-0146                    570 +226                   0-3
       July            +1276       -—0-56 —0-oo22       + 3-13 +l-57 +00140                     753 +226
                                                                                                                     +++
                                                                                                                           1'3
                 9 4
                                                                                    _
                       +1220       —0'72 —0'0047        + 470 +l-54 +0-0132                     935 +223                   2-8
                14     +11-48      -0-86    -o-0072     + 6-24 +1-50 »o-0122                   113 +21-9                   4-4
            19 +1962 —1-01  —0-0097                     +     7-74     1-       00$                              -          -
            24 + 9'61 —l'13 —°'°l‘11                    + 9'18 i133          $00098                  333        i
            29   8'48 —1‘26 —0-0145                     +10'57 +132          +0-0083           665 +198              + 8-8
       Aug.      722 —1"39 —0-0168
                       +                                +11'89 +125          +0-0067           848 +189              +102
                 8 3
               + 5-83 —1'49 —0'0190                     +1312 +1-17
                                   -1-60
                                                                             +0-oo49
                                                                                               —30 +17-8             +115
                13     + 4.34            -0-0-211       +1431          1-
                                                                       0-0             0                       -           -
                18     +  274      —1-70 —0‘023l        +I5-40 $033 $0039
                23     + 1-04      -1-78    -0-0250     +1639 +0-89 -0-0013                    578 +13-7             +149
        Sept.
                23
                 2      -
                       _. 0-74
                            2-61
                                   -1-87
                                   -l-93
                                            -0-0268
                                            -0-0284     +17-28'+o-79
                                                                     -o-0035
                                                        +18-07 +0'69 -0-0059
                                                                                               760 +122
                                                                                               943 +10-5
                                                                                                                     +15-9
                                                                                                                     +16-7

                                                                                                  727/
               a
                  Right Ascension.                  Declination.            |       Aberration.
         \
           for
                1820.,
                        Di<U+FB02>“.  \Qggllizlm  f0f1820.,
                                                        Diff.
                                                                VQEZEZLJ       )     ;R_  Declim
Sept_   7   --   n
                 4-54
                           "
                       —1-99 —0-0299
                                    n          7,
                                            +18-76l+0.57
                                                          n          I
                                                                -6'-0083
                                                                                       //
                                                                              125+ 8-8 +1’i-4
      12         6-53  -2-04 _0-0312        +1033 +047          -0-0108 308+ 70 +180
      17     — 8-57    4'07    4-0323       +l9-80 +034         _0-0134l 490+ 52 +185
      22     -10-64l-2-11       —0-0333     +2014 +023          -o-01601 673+ 3-3 +188
      27     -12-75 l-2'11 _0-0342          +2037 +010          _0-01s7j 855+ 1-4 +100
061.    2 -l4-86 -2-12 _0-0348              +2047 ‘_0-o2         _0-0213 Te— 05 I100
        7 —16-98 -2-11 _0-0352              +2045 _0-15          _0-0240      220- 2-5 +190
      12 _1909 -2-09 _00355                 +2030 _0-27          _0-0267      403- 4~4 +188
      17 41181—205 _0'0356 +2003 —039                            --0~o293     585- 63 +104
      22 43231—2401—0-0354                  +19-64 _0-52         _00319       768—- 6-2 +17-9
      27 —25-24‘—1-941‘—0'0350'             +1912 —064           -00344       950-100     +17-3
Nov.    1 ---27'18 —l'88'—0'0345 +13'48                —0'77     —0'0369       133—11‘7   +165
        6 4206 —1-79l—0-0338                +1771 _0-88          _0-0393 315-130 +156
      11 -30-s5l-1-69,-0~0328               +1683 -1-0o          _0-0415      498-14'8 +14-5
      16 _32-541-1-591_o-0317               +15-83 [-1-11        _00437
_21          ~34~131—1-47 _00305            +14-72 -1-21         _00457       680|_16-3
                                                                              863-176
                                                                                          +134
                                                                                          +122
      26                        _0-0290     +1351 _1-30          _00476         45—18-8 +109
 Dec.   1 -35-60l-1-33
             _3693 _1'19 _00272 +1221 _1-39                      _0-0493      228-19-8 + 9-5
        6 -3s-121-1~04 _0'0253              +1082 -1-47          _0-0509                      80
       ll —39~16 5989 —0-0233 + 9-35 -1-54                       _0-0522
                                                                              410F207 +
                                                                              593-21-4 + 6-4
       16 +4005 _0471 _0-0212               + 7-81 -1-59         _0‘0534 7751-22-0 + 4'8
      21 —40-76 _054 _0-0190                + 6-22 _1-63         _0-0544 958'—22-4 + 32
      26 -41-30 _0-37 _00166 + 459 _1-67                         _0-0551      140 -22-6    + 1.5
                                                                              323 -22-5 _ 02
      31 _41-67 _019 _00141
      36 -41-86
                                            + 2-92 —l-6S
                                —0-0116 + 1-24
                                                                 _00556
                                                                 _0-0559      505 -22-4   -   1-9
                                   Lunar Perturbation.
                                   JR.   (Decl.                        1R.     Dec].
                                     //      n                          n         n
                     0    500    _0-01 | _0'09       250      750    +001 +009
                    10    510      0-00 _0-09        260      760       000 +009
                    26    520   +001 _0-09           270      770 _0-01 +009
                    36    530   +002 _0-08           280      780 _002 +008
                    40    540    +0-03l-o-08         290      790    _0-03 +008
                    50     550  +0~03l_068           300      800    _0-03 -0-08
                    60    560   +0~04;-0-o7          310      810    _0-04 +007
                    70    570    +005 -0~06          320      820    _0-05       006
                    so     580   +o-06j_066          330      830    _0-06 +006
                    96     590   +006 _005           340      840    _0-06 +005
                   166     600   +0-07‘-0-04         350      850
                   110     610                       360      860    _007‘+004
                                                                     _0-07 +003
                                 +0107+_0~03
                   126     620   +008 _0-02          370      870    _0-08l+002
                   130     630   +0'08‘,-o-01        380      880    _0-081+0-01
                   140     640   +0-081+0-01         390      890
                                                                     _0'083—0'0]
                   150  _oiaT'+»—008+002             400      900    Who-02
                   166     660      007 +003         410      910     _0-071-0-03
                   170     670   +007 +004           420      920     _0071-004
                   186     680   +007 +005           430      930     _0071-0-05
                   190     690   +006 +006           440      940    _006‘-0o6
                   200     700    +006 +006          450      950     —0-06 —0-06
                   210     710   +005 +007           460      960    _0-05‘-0-07
                   220     720    004 +008           470      970    _0-04\-0-os
                                                                     _0-03 _0'08
                   230
                   240
                           730 +003 +008
                           740 +002 +0118
                                                     480
                                                     490
                                                              980
                                                              990    —0'°2    4"“
                                                  |  500   |   0      _0'01   ——0'09

                                  [3°]
IV.     On the Corrosion of Copper Sheeting by Sea- Water, and on
     Methods of preventing this Eject; and on their Application
     to Ships of War and other Ships.    By Sir HUMPHRY DAVY,
     Bart. Pres. RS."
           rapid decay of the copper sheeting of His Majesty’s
1.
'
     THE
       shi   of war, and the uncertainty of the time of its
                s
duration, have lon       attracted the attention of those persons
most concerned in t e naval interests of the country.       Having
had my inquiries directed to this important object by the
Commissioners of the'Navy Board, and a Committee of the
Royal Society having been appointed to consider of               en            it,
                                                                                I
tered into an experimental investigation of the causes of the
action of sea-water upon copper.       In pursuin this investiga
tion, I   have ascertained many facts which                     lg
                                                      think not un
worthy    of the notice of the  Royal Society,  as  they promise to
illustrate some obscure parts of electro-chemical science; and
likewise seem to offer important practical applications.
    2. It has been generally supposed that sea-water had little
or no action on pure copper, and that the rapid decay of' the
copper on certain ships was owing to its impurity.        On trying,
however, the action of sea-water upon two specimens of cop
per, sent by John Vivian, Esq. to Mr. Faraday for analysis,
I  found the specimen which appeared absolutely pure, was
acted upon even more rapidly than the specimen which con
tained alloy: and, on pursuing the inquiry with specimens of
various kinds of copper which had been collected by the
Navy Board, and sent to the Royal Society, and some of which
had been considered as remarkable for their durability, and
others for their rapid decay,        found that they offered very
                                     I
inconsiderable di<U+FB01>'erences only in their action upon sea-water;
and, consequently, that the changes they had undergone must
have depended upon other causes than the absolute quality of
the metal.
    3. To enable persons to understand full       the train of these
researches,      will be necessary for me to ascribe the nature
                it
of the chemical changes taking place in the constituents of sea
water by the agency of copper.                       ‘
    When a piece of polished copper          su<U+FB02>'ered to remain in
                                                is
sea-water, the <U+FB01>rst effects observed are, a yellow tarnish upon
the copper, and a cloudiness in the water, which take place
in two or three hours: the hue of the cloudiness             at <U+FB01>rst       is
 white;   it gradually becomes green. In less than a day                                a
blueish-green precipitate appears in the bottom of the vessel,
          *    From the Philosophical Transactions       for   182-1,   Part   I.
                                                                                     which

 Sir H. Davy     on Corrosion of quper Sheeting by Sea-water.   31
 which constantly accumulates; “at the same time that the sur
face of the copper corrodes, appearing red 'in the water, and g'
grass-green where it is in contact with air.       Gradually car
 bonate of soda forms upon this grass-green matter; and these
changes continue till the water becomes much less saline.
     The green precipitate, when examined by the action of so
lution of ammonia and other tests, appears principally to con
sist of an insoluble compound of copper (which may be con
sidered as a hydrated sub-muriate) and hydrate of magnesia.
     According to the views which I developed fourteen years
ago, of the nature of the compounds of chlorine, and which
are now generally adopted, it is evident that soda and mag
nesia cannot appear in sea-water by the action of a metal, un
less in consequence     of an absorption or transfer of oxygen.
It was therefore necessary for these changes, either that water
should be decomposed, or oxygen absorbed from the atmo
sphere.     I foundthat no hydro en was diseng ed, and con
sequently no water decompose : necessarily, t e oxygen of
the air must have been the agent concerned, which was made
evident by many experiments.
     Copper in sea-water deprived of air by boiling or exhaus
tion, and exposed in an exhausted receiver or an atmosphere
of hydrogen as, underwent no change; and an absorption in
atmospherica air was shown when copper and seadwater were
exposed to its agency in close vessels.      nihi'tai saw I?" .
     4. In the Bakerian Lecture for 1806, I have advanced the
hypothesis, that chemical and electrical changes may be iden
tical, or. dependent upon the same property of matter; and       I
have further explained and illustrated this hypothesis in an
elementary work on Chemistry published in 1812.          Upon this
view, which has been adopted by M. Berzelius and some other
   hilosophers, I have shown that chemical attractions may be
exalted, modi<U+FB01>ed, or destroyed, by changes in the electrical
states of bodies; that substances will only combine when they
are in different electrical states; and that, by bringing a body
naturally positive arti<U+FB01>cially into a ne ative state, its usual
     wers of combination are alto ether estroyed; and it was
8; an application of this princip e that in 1807 I separated
the bases of the alkalies from the oxygen with which they are
combined, and preserved them for examination; and decom
posed other bodies formerly supposed to be simple.
(.1; It was in reasoning upon this general hypothesis likewise,
that I was led to the discovery which is the subject of this
                                                       '
paper.
     Copper is a metal only weakly positive in the electro-che
mical scale; and, according to my ideas, it could .only act
                                                              upon

I   _____*";'..-       '-——----—   s
      32                               Sir H. Davy   on the Corrosion
     upon sea-water when in a positive state; and, consequently,
     if it  could be rendered slightly negative, the corroding action
     of sea-water upon it would be null; and whatever might be
     the differences of the kinds of copper             and their elec
     trical action upon each other, still everysheeting
                                                     e ect of chemical
     action must be revented, if the whole surface were rendered
     negative. But ow was this to be effected? I at <U+FB01>rst thought
     of using a Voltaic battery; but this could be hardly applica
      ble in practice.                 I
                            next thought of the contact of zinc, tin, or
      iron: but I was for some time prevented from trying this, b
      the recollection that the copper in the Voltaic battery, as wefl
      as the zinc, is dissolved by the action of diluted nitric acid;
      and by the fear that too lar e a mass of oxidable metal would
     be required to produce deciswe results. After re<U+FB02>ecting, how
     ever, for some time on the slow and weak action of sea-water
      on copper, and the small difference which must exist between
     their electrical powers; and knowing that a very feeble che
      mical action would be destroyed by a very feeble electrical
      force,       I
                  resolved to try some experiments on the subject. I
      began    with   an extreme case.                 I
                                           rendered sea-water slightly
      acidulous by sulphuric acid, and plunged into it a polished
      piece of copper, to which a piece of tin was soldered equal to
      about one-twentieth of the surface of the copper.      Examined
      after three days the copper remained perfectly clean, whilst
      the tin was rapidly corroded: no blueness appeared in this
      liquor; though, in a comparative experiment, when copper
      alone and the same <U+FB02>uid mixture was used, there was a consi
      derable corrosion of the copper, and a distinct blue tint in the
      li uid.
           qIfone-twentieth part of the surface of _tin prevented the
       action of sea-water rendered slightly acidulous by sulphuric
      acid,  I had no doubt that a much smaller quantity would ren
      der the action of sea-water, which depended only upon the
      loosely attached oxygen of common air, perfectly null; and
      on trying <U+FB01>lm part of tin,      found the 9726: of its preventing
                                              I
      the corrosion of the copper perfectly decisive.
           5. This general result being obtained,     immediately insti
                                                               I
       tuted a number of experiments, in most of which          was as      I
       sisted by Mr. Faraday, to ascertain all the circumstances con
       nected with the preservation of copper by a more oxidable
       metal.      found, that whether the tin was placed either in tne
                   I
       middle, or at the top, or at the bottom of the sheet of copper,
       its effects were the same; but, after a week or ten days,                  it
       was found that the defensive action of the tin was injured, a
       coating of sub-muriate havin formed, which preserved the
       tin from the action of the liquid.                               .
                                                                                With

                 of Copper  Sheeting by Sea-water, 5c.             33
    With zinc .or iron, whether malleable or cast, no such di
minution of effect was produced.          The zinc occasioned only
a white cloud in the sea-water, which speedily sunk to the
bottom of the vessel in which the experiment was made.           The
iron occasioned a deep orange precipitate: but after many
weeks, not the smallest portion of copper was found in the
water; and so far from its surface bein corroded, in many
parts there was a regeneration of zinc or 0 iron found upon it.
    6. In pursuing these researches, and applying them to
every possible form and connection of sheet copper, the results
were of the most satisfactory kind.         A piece of zinc as
as a pea, or the point of a small iron nail, were found large    fu y
adequate      to  preserve forty   or <U+FB01>fty square   inches of copper;
and this, wherever_ it was placed, whether at the top, bottom,
or in the middle of the sheet of copper, and whether the cop
per was straight or bent, or, made into coils., And where the
connection between different pieces of copper was completed
by wires, or thin <U+FB01>laments of the fortieth or <U+FB01>ftieth of an inch
in diameter, the effect was the same; ever side, ever. sur
face, every particle of the copper remained right, whi st the
iron or the zinc was slowly corroded.             '
    A piece of thick sheet copper, containing on both sides
about sixty square inches, was cut in such a manner as to
form seven-divisions, connected only by the smallest <U+FB01>laments
that could be left, and a mass of zinc, of the <U+FB01>fth of an inch
in diameter, was soldered to the upper division.           The whole
was      lunged under sea-water; the copper remained perfectly
polislied.      The same experiment was made with iron: and
now, after a lapse of a month, in both instances, the copper is
as bright as when it was <U+FB01>rst introduced, whilst similar pieces
of copper, undefended, in the same sear-water, have undergone
considerable corrosion, and produced a large quantity of green
deposit in the bottom of the vessel.
    A piece of iron nail about an inch long was fastened by a
piece of copper wire, nearly a foot long, to a mass of sheet
copper, containing about forty square inches, and the whole
plunged below the surface of sea-water; it was found, after a
week, that the copper was defended by the iron in the same
manner as if it had been in immediate contact.
    A piece of copper and a piece of zinc soldered together at
one of their extremities, were made to form an arc in two dif
 ferent vessels of sea-water; and the two                    of water
                                                                      '
were connected to ether by a small mass 0 ‘portions  tow moistened in
the same water: t e e<U+FB01>ect of the preservation of the copper
took place in the same manner as if they hadbeen in the same
 vessel.                                              7
    Vol.   64.  No,  815. Jng  1824-.      E                       As

  34-    Sir H. Davy    on Corrosion (f Copper  Sheeting by Sea-water.
       As the ocean may be considered, in its relation to the quan
  tity of copper in a ship, as an in<U+FB01>nitely extended conductor,
   I  endeavoured to ascertain whether this circumstance would
  in<U+FB02>uence the results; by placing two very <U+FB01>ne copper wires,
   one undefended, the other defended by a particle of zinc, in
  a ve       lar e vessel of sea~water, which water might be consi
   dere to ear the same relation to so minute a portion of
   metal as the sea to the metallic sheeting of a ship. The re
   sult of this experiment was the same as that of all the others;
   the defended copper underwent no change; the undefended
   tarnished, and deposited a green powder.
       Small pieces of zinc were soldered to different parts of a
   large plate of copper, and the whole plunged in sea-water: it
   was found that the copper was preserved 1n the same manner
   as if a single piece had been used.
       A small piece of zinc was fastened to the top of a plate of
   polished             and a piece of iron of a much larger size was
                to tie bottom, and the combination placed in sea
   soldered copper,
  water. Not only was the copper preserved on both sides in
  the same manner as in the other experiments, but even the
   iron; and after a fortnight, both the polish of the copper and
   the iron remained unimpaired.
       7. I am continuing these researches, and I shall communi
   cate such of them as are connected with new facts, to the Royal
   Society.
       The Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, with their
   usual zeal for promoting the interests of the Navy by the ap
   plication of science, have given me permission to ascertain the
  practical value of these results by experiments upon ships. of
  war; and there seems every reason to expect (unless causes
  should interfere of which our present knowled                 ives no
  indications) that small quantities of zinc, or, wh1ch is much
  cheaper, of malleable or cast iron, placed in contact with the
     '        sheeting of ships, which is all in electrical connection,
  :p‘<U+FB01>perentirely prevent its corrosion.   And as negative electricity
  cannot be supposed favourable to animal or vegetable life;
  and as it occasions the deposition of magnesia, a substance
  exceedingly noxious to land vegetables, upon the copper
  surface; and as it must assist in preserving its polish, there
  is considerable ground for hoping that the same application
  will keep the bottoms of shi s clean; a circumstance of great
  im ortance both in trade and) naval war.
'
        t will be unnecessary for me to dwell upon the economical
  results of this discovery, should it be successful in actual prac
  tice, or to point out its uses in this great maritime and com
  mercial country.                                                    I
                                                               I  might

              Mr. Ivory’s Solution g"                        a Geodetical Problem.                                   35
   I might describe other applications of the principleto the
preservation of iron, steel, tin, brass, and various useful me
tals; but I shall reserve this part of the subject for another
communication to the Royal Society.
     V. Solution of          a Geodetical Problem.                                      By   J.   IVORY, Esq.
                                        M.A. F.R.S.
IT    is proposed to solve the following problem:
        The length ofa geodetical line on the earth’s surface, to
gether with the latitude, the longitude, and the azimuth, of one
of its extremities, being given; it is required to determine the
latitude, the longitude, and the azimuth of the other extremity.
     The earth, bein supposed an oblate spheroid of revolution,
we may put unit    or the polar semi-axis, and represent the
equatorial semi-diameter by 4/ l +e2: then, if x, y, 2 be three
rectangular co-ordinates of if point in the surface, a: and y
being parallel, and z perpendicular, to the equator; we shall
have
                                 11+?
                                 -l+—eq
                                               +    Z
                                                        Q—
                                                         —        I.
And if ds represent the element of a line traced in any manner
upon the surface, we shall further have
                              'ds =
     Again,       if we    assume,
                            a: 4/1+e9.               cos          zp   cos
                                                                             \11, 4:,
                            y= Ml+e’. sin                     41       cos
                            a:    sin      11/,
these values  will satisfy the equation of the surface, without
                                                  and      Diffe.                                     111.
supposing any relation between the angles                                                a
               values,    and substitute the
rentiate these                               differentials in the
expression of ds; and, for the sake of brevity, put
                  V: J1 +e2
                                                                                                  2
                                       51112.1,    + (1+e2) cos’xli.                         £3,
                                                   111 111
then,                  -          d    s   =   d         V.
                                                                                                                   is,
   It easy to discover that
        is                         the true latitude; that   is                                                          it
isthe complement of the         which the perpend1cular to the
                          angle
surface of the spheroid ma es with the polar axls.
                                                                                                             _If
                                                             _de                                              A
note the given latitude of the beginning of the geodeucal hue,
and 8A the difference of latitude at any other pomt, then
¢=A+8>c      The are measures the an
                                  95                  two men                  le
                                             between
dians:       therefore the difference of long1tude reckomng
             it   is
                                 0
                                 d                E        from

36           Mr. Ivory’s Solution ofa Geodetical Problem.
from the meridian that passes through the               of the
            line.  The   azimuths at the      beginning
                                         extremities o the in
geodetical
tercepted part of the line will be denoted by p. and ’4’, of
which the <U+FB01>rst is supposed to be known.
   The foregoing expression of ds is general, and will appl
to any line that can be traced on the surface of the spheroidif
 But a geodetical line is the shortest that can be drawn be
 tween any two of its points; and we may employ this pro
perty to investigate  its equation.   Now, by making s and Q
               '
 vary, we get
                                                               61¢
                               (1+6)           cos‘z 4*.
                                                           -d—
                                                                     d)?
                                                             4'
                      d8s=————-v                           r
                                                                         —;
and, by integrating,
 8s=8¢><
                 (1+e’)   cos? 4*.
                           v—-v—f8oxd.
                                                                                       _.
                                                                         (l+eq)cos’¢.-di£
                                                                                   v
Hence the condition of   a minimum length between two <U+FB01>xed
points, is expressed by this equation, viz.
                                (H41)          cos'2 4,.
                           d. —-———-‘-—'v                            =   o;
and, consequently,
                                                           d
                                (l +e’)        cos" 4‘.
                                          _.V__ =                        a,
a being a quantity which is constant in the whole length of
the geodetical line.
   Let ds’ be what ds becomes when .r and y only vary, and z
remains constant; then,
                       ds’=      Vim                  cos      ¢.d¢:
and, because ds =Vd\ll, we get, by substitution,
                       meos          118
                                           44:! s'    __
   But ds'    perpendicular to the meridian on the surface of
                _is
the sphermd, and ds cuts the same meridian in the azimuth
angle    [A
          ;wherefore ds':    sin pl.      (1
                                     Consequently,
                                           s
                      C   0s   \il
                                     '
                                     sm    p.   '=   —-£-                                   '
                                                      “1+8:                                     ‘
     T hisequation expresses     distinguishin a   r0 ert of th
lines of shortest distance upon the surface ofga Ephgroid. The
product of _the cosine of the latitude and the sine of the azi
muth remams' constantly the same through the whole length
of every such hne.     In the sphere, which     the extreme case              is
                                                           when

               Mr. Ivory’s Solution qf‘a Geodetical Problem.                                                               37
when      is evanescent, the criterion belongs to the great ch
           e
cles, which are therefore the lines of shortest distance.       In
the other extreme case, when the spheroid <U+FB02>attens into a plane,
the cosine of the latitude is the rectilinear distance from the
pole, and the criterion belongs to any straight line drawn in
the plane.
   As the last equation is general for all points of the geodeti
cal line, it will be true when applied to the initial point of the
measurement; and thus we get
                                                                           a
                           Cos     A sm p.                  =       7—3;              -
Consequently,
                                                                                                        f!
                           Cos A sin
                                         _
                                                  (L
                                                           =
                                                                év—iV 1 +e’.              cos 4:
                                                                                                                ,
                   Mm
    From this equation                   we obtain
                                                       .            cos 1. sin      pd     \l/
                                                   905
                                                                                                                ''
                        “1 Tel                                 \P
                                                                    4/cos‘ dr—cos‘l
                                                                                                 1.    sin‘lp
and again, by substituting this value, we get
                            d8 __        d‘J-r         cos¢ 4/l+e‘*                  sin‘lab
                                             V805" \L—cos'i                    A   sin‘2 [4
    It will      now be proper to introduce two new quantities,                                                             cp'
and      s’,   connected with  and    by these equations, viz.
                                             q:                 s
                             d   ¢  '= (I'PX ____*/
                                                  117”
                                             Jl+eqsin1¢9
                                      d8 = ____'_i_s__
                                                   I                                             ,
                                                                 All-Hz" sin‘HP
And when these new quantities                                             are substituted, the foregoing
                                   W
equations will become
                                                   cosA cusp 11¢
                        dcpl=
                                   cos   i;-   JFFQW ism—g                                       ’
                                                                                                                ‘    (B)
                                                  d¢           Cos   \P
                        ds'=                                              Tm;
'   In        last equations there are now no traces of the
           these
spheroid.    The     express the relations of the parts of a sphe
rical triangle;       sides being
                         t   e       90°—>t, 90°—¢; and ¢’, 1",      8',
are the angles opposite to      and 90° —\1/.   The third angle of
                                                           s’
the trian        pf, or the azimuth at the end of the geodetical
                      le
line; an           is is
                 determined by the equation
                   it
                                 Cos         \{1   sin          pf: cos            A      sin        11..
    The    uations (A) show in what manner the quantities
               e                                                                                                            o
and      w ich belong to the spheroid, depend upon the like
         s,
quantities     and o’on the surface of the sphere.
                              s’
                                                          n                                                                I

 38                 Mr.     Ivory’s Solution                         qfa Geodetical Problem.
      In the spherical triangle two parts only                     are known, namely,
    the side 90°—A, and the angle                          but         {1.
                                                                   easy to <U+FB01>nd the side
                                                                        :                   it  is
 s/    from the length of    which                    s,    known by actual measure
                                                                             is
 ment.          Since            e"   is    a very small fraction, we may, in the for
 mula
                                                                             d
                                                                             s
                                              (18':                                             ’-
                                                                  :LI
                                                                  4/1+ei'        sin“?               -
 neclect
   1:
         the variation of the latitude, and su pp ose                                                                    ¢=A; then
                                                      1_
                                                       —
                                                  5
                                                                  4/1-9-3"   siniin
which    an approximation sufficiently near.
               is                              To obtain an
other approximation, put cos   = cos    in the equations (B),        4.                     A
then
                                                                       do          _
                                                                      cosp’
                            ¢=A+cosla Xs'=).+cosp.xs.
Wherefore,                 at the middle point                            of the geodetical line,                              we have
                                                                       co                                                 ,
                                              ¢=>~+                          25"       s;
and    if
       we suppose that, in the foregoing formula,                                                                        1!:   does not
vary from the mean value, we shall get
                                                                       s
                                      s'
                                              -\/1+e2                sin‘l   (1+ 00%‘9
This last value                  is    now more than sufficient for any pra'ctical
p   urpose.
   Having found      the other parts of the spherical triangle
                                      8',
that remain unknown, are to be computed by the rules of
spherical trigonometry.   By this means we obtain,
         Sin        xi:   = sin   (A-l-M):                    sin    A    coss'+cos                      A   cos    {a   sin   11';
                                              Sin
                                                  .
                                                              I_
                                                            'u'_      cos    A   sin ,1:
                                                                                         _
                               cos 0+3                                                  A)
                                                                                         ’
by  which formulas, the difference of latitude                                                                8A,   and the azi
muth p', will be found.
   And, again, we have further,
                                                                   sin y. sin    3'
                                            Sin       <p'   =                           _
_                                                                 Cos (1.    HA)
                                                                                       ’
and,     4>'
        being found,      manifest from what has already been
                                            it   is
said that we-shall obtain    or the true difference of longi45,
tude in the spheroid, by the formula
                                       =    f'        x               1+e¢sin'<;,+c_‘§'_‘
                                                                                                         .2
                                                                                                               s)   '
                                                                      l+e<1\~——
                             f
    In   practice           it   will       be most convenient to reduce the
                                                                             expres
                                                                                                                                  sions

              Mr. Ivory’s Solution of a                         Geodetz'cal Problem.                 89
sions of         8).,   p—p',         and e’, into series containing the powers
of s'.
   In two particular                       cases the general formulae become more
                                                                                             -
simple.                                                                      .
     First,
         when the geodetical line is perpendicular to the meri
dian, the spherical triangle becomes right-angled, which ren
ders the computation less complicated.                         ,
   Secondly, when the geodetical line is upon the meridian,
the angles of azimuth and the difference of Ion 'tude are
evanescent; the difference of latitude is equal to s ; and the
problem is reduced to <U+FB01>nd s’ for a given value of s, from this
                                         ~
equation, viz.
                              d8=dsl t/1+e" sin2().+s');
which, in almost every                              case,      is suf<U+FB01>ciently solved             by the
formula,
                                      s
                                          I_.
                                           —
                                                ,—_8___                            .
                                                4/   1+e'1 sin‘1(}.+—§is)
     July   10, 1824._                                                                   JAMES IvonY.
   POSTSCRIPT.—Ill the First Part of the Philosophical Trans
actions for 1824, just published, there is a short paper by
Dr. Young, containing a rule for the astronomical refraction.
It is no more than a particular case of my general formula.
If we       write       y   for     If},   and z for
                                                              -:.
                                                                ,    in the expressions at p.       4-22
of   the last Number                  of this Journal,                  we shall obtain
                                                                     m+l
                                    ly=(1—f)z                           m
                                                                                 +fz2,
   With respect to these equations,
                                                     f- inn—J
                                                         __         m-4
                                             may be added, as                it                      al
ready remarked at p. [£50 Phil. Trans. for 1823, that when
m     less than
     is                   negative; the total height of the atmo
                             f4:,         is
sphere   is'less than  25 miles;  and the rate of the gradation of
heat, although      agrees  with
                             it  nature at the earth’s surface, in
creases in ascending.      For these reasons    have excluded all                 I
these cases in seeking the value of the exponent m, that will
best represent the real atmosphere of the earth; or, as Dr.                                          ‘
Young terms                 it,
                      have rejected them as inadmissible.
                             I
   Now put m=2g then
                                           f         =    _    “is
                                           .y   =
                                                iz   s    %_  l     2
                                                                        z2
                                                                         a
which       is   Dr. Young’s assumption.
                                                                                                      In
  .D

 4-0        Mr. Ivory’s Solution of a Geodetical Problem.
     In Dr. Young’s paper, no reason is given why the refrao
 tions should be more exact when they are computed by the
 assumption adopted than by any other.           We may observe
 here, by the by, that this mode of proceeding is at present not
 uncommon in physical inquiries where the mathematics are
 concerned; the real difficulties being often got rid of, by a
 phrase, or by some analogy, or by sliding in a formula to
 serve as the basis of a calculation.      In the present instance
 we are referred to something that is said to be demonstrated
 in the Journal of the Royal Institution.       This probably al
 ludes to the passage at p. M8 of No. 81, to which        I have al
 ready adverted in this Journal for April last. The reader
 will <U+FB01>nd that nothing is proved; and that the whole amounts
 to the applying of the same assumption, viz. 122:2, to another
 of my general formulae, as indeed is very plainly implied in
 the words of the passage.
     Dr. Young concludes his paper with giving a <U+FB01>nite formula
 of four terms, similar to that in the Nautical Almanac, by
 which, he says, my table may be computed with great accu
 racy.     Now this very fairly concedes every thing I have at
 any time said of the formula, and the method for the refrac
 tions in the Nautical Almanac.       I  have said that the method
 does not emanate from any exact theory; that the formula is
 empirical, and of no use till a table be produced, by means
 of which the proper values are to be assigned to the indetermi
 nate coef<U+FB01>cients. The formula will thus represent, to a cer
  tain degree of exactness, the French table, or that of M. Bes
  sel, or that of Dr. Bradley, or mine.     But as it will represent
  any   table  whatever, good  or bad,  it can be an authority for
  none.     The real foundation of the table in N. A. is the man
 ner in which the coef<U+FB01>cients of the formula have been ob
  tained ; and not a word has escaped that can throw light
 upon this point in all the discussions that have been sent forth
 to the public quarterly in the Journal of the Royal Institution.
7 It
      appears that the table has been so constructed as to agree,
  partly with M. Bessel’s table, partly with that of the French
  astronomers, and partly to fall between the two. In this man
  ner we' can exactly a preciate the table; whereas it is en
  veloped in mystery an obscurity when we regard it as a crea
  tion of the formula.
     July 10, 1824.
                                                                 L
                                                       V1. Analyst]

                              [41].
 VI.  Analyses qfa Series quapers on the’Strueture, Distribué
   tion, and Functions of the Nerves ,- by CHARLES BELL, Esq.,
   which have appeared in some late Volumes
                                             of the Philosophical
   Transactions.
 WEtopropose, in    present article and continuations
                       the
      present our readers with          of valuable
                                       analyses     a
                                                                 of
                                                                series
                                                                      it,
of papers on the nerves, by Mr. C. Bell, which have appeared
in the Philosophical Transactions from 1821 to 1823; and
shall probably conclude them with some remarks on certain
parts of his system.
   I.    On the Nerves; giving an Account ofsome Experiments on
  their Structure and Functions, which lead to a new Arrange
  ment of the System—Phil. Trans. 1821, p. 398—422.
     The author’s inquiry in the present paper      is  limited to the
  nerves of respiration, and in his conception of this matter they
  form a system of great extent, since they comprehend all the
                   _
  nerves which serve to combine the muscles employed in the act
                                                                     of
 breathing and speaking.
     Now the number of muScles concerned in respiration               is
  unquestionably great; as all those which are in any way c0n~
 nected with or employed in the act of breathing, or in the
 common actions of coughing, sneezing, speaking and singing,
 are regarded by the author as muscles of respiration.            The
 association of these muscles     is  effected by certain nervous
 chords which combine them in the performance of the above
 named actions, and which he calls respiratory nerves.             To
 illustrate the sense in which this latter term   is  intended-to be
employed, the following case serves extremel well: “When
a post-horse has run its stage, and the circu ation       is  hurried
and the respiration excited, what       is  his condition? Does he
breathe with his ribs onl    ; with the muscles which raise and
depress the chest? No.        he <U+FB02>anks are in violent action; the
neck as well as the chest        is in powerful excitement; the
nostrils as well as the throat keep time with the motion of the
chest.     So
            if   a man be excited by exercise or passion, or by
whatever accelerates the pulse, the respiratory action         is ex—
tended and increased, and, instead of the gentle and scarcely
perceptible motion of the chest, as in common breathing, the
shoulders are raised at each inspiration, the muscles of the
throat and neck are violently drawn, and the lips and nostrils -
move in time with the general action; and          if   he does
                                                                  not
breathe through the mouth, the nostrils expand; and fall 111
time with the rising and falling of the chest; and that appar
ratus of cartilages and muscles of the nose (which are as cu
rious as the mechanism of the chest, and which are for ex
    an. 64-. No. 215. July 1824.             F               Pandmg

42        Analyses    ofa Series of Papers,    by  Mr. C. Bell,
pandin these air-tubes) are as regularly in action as the leva
tor an      depressor muscles of the ribs.”           It is very evident
that, when an animal is in such a state, many muscles are com
bined in the act of respiration, which are seated apart from
each other, and are otherwise capable of performin                distinct
 o<U+FB02>‘ices:  it is  therefore   the   ob'ect  of this paper  to s  0w  what
nerves they      are which   effect  t  is combination,   and  are conse
quently to be known as respiratory nerves; but before these
can allow of being enumerated, it is necessary to observe,
    lst, That the nerves of the animal frame are complex, in
proportion to the variety offunetions which the parts have to
maintain.
    For, on minutely and carefully examining the nerves of the
human body and comparing them with those of other animals,
a. very singular coincidence is observed between             the number
of organs, the compound nature of their functions, and the
number of nerves which are transmitted to them. No organ
which possesses only one property or endowment, has more
than one nerve, however exquisite the sense or action may be;
but if two nerves, coming from different sources, are directed
to one part, this is the sign of a double function performed by
it.   If  a part, or organ, have many distinct nerves, we may
be certain that, instead of having a mere accumulation of
nervous power, it possesses distinct powers, or enters into dif
ferent combinations, in proportion to the number of its nerves.
The knowledge of this circumstance gives new interest to the
investigation of this part of anatomy.
    Thus, in reviewin the comparative anatomy of the nerves
of the mouth, We <U+FB01>nd that in the creatures which do not
breathe, the mouth having one function only to perform, one
nerve is suf<U+FB01>cient.        It is the same with the face, the nostrils,
and the throat, of those animals where no complexity of re
lations or of organization exists, there being no variety of
nerves in such a case.         But in dissecting the parts compos'
the tongue,      throat, and   palate, of the human subject, <U+FB01>ve
ferent trunks of nerves may be found corresponding with the
multiplied o<U+FB01>ices of the mouth in man, such as respiration,
manducation, speech, taste and feeling.                Surely the same
nerve cannot serve lhr the action of gnawing and feeding in
the lower animals of simple structure, and also for the govem~
ance of those complicated operations which interpret wants
and sentiments in man.
    ley, That the nerves of all creatures may be divided into. two
parts or systems ,~ the one simple and uniform, the other complex
and irregular in proportion to the complexity oforganization.
  -
    The principle which is to guide us towards a knowled e of
                                                                    t ese

      on the Structure, Distribution,   and Functions qfthe Nerves. 43
    these two distinct classes is obtained, in
                                                 spite of the dif<U+FB01>culties
    which present themselves on
                                     minutely displaying the nerves of
    the face, mouth, throat, and other parts of the
                                                        human subject,
    by ascertainin what parts of the or anization of an
                                                              animal are
    necessary to li e and motion; and w at organs are superadded
    as the animal advances in the scale
                                           of existence, as necessary
    to higher and more complex
                                    enjoyments and actions. Where
    an animal is endowed with mere sensation
                                                       and locomotion,
    without a central, organ of circulation, and with no
    of respiration but what is generally di<U+FB01>'used over the organ
                                                                   whole
   frame, the nerves are extremely simple,
                                                 consisting only of two
   chords running in the length of the body, with branches
                                                                   going
   o<U+FB01>" laterally to the several divisions of the
                                                  <U+FB02>ame.     There is no
   intricacy to be seen, nor can a double supply of nerves
                                                                  be ob
   served; but each portion of the frame has an
                                                         equal supply:
   and the central line of connexion is suf<U+FB01>cient to
                                                                combine
   the actions of the muscles, and to give them the
                                                             concatena
   tion necessary to locomotion.        This system is designated by
   Mr. Bell, the original and symmetrical system, which, he
                                                                   says,
   exists as well in the human body as in the leech or
                                                                  worm,
   but is observed by those additional or
                                                   superadded nerves
   which belong to those organs which,
                                                tracing the orders of
  animals upwards, are observed gradually to accumulate until
  we arrive at the complication of the human frame.               These
  additional or superadded nerves, however, do not destroy the
  original system; for when we separate certain nerves, it is pre
  sented even in the human body.
                                                                _
      This original and symmetrical system is constituted of the
  nerves of the spine, the tenth or sub-occipital nerve, and
                                                                     the
  <U+FB01>fth pair of the head or trigeminus of Willis: all which
                                                                   pre
  sent a striking agreement with each other with
                                                             respect to
  origin, modes of distribution, and function; in that they all
  have double origins, and ganglia on one of their roots;
                                                                   they
 go out laterally to certain divisions of the body; they do not
 interfere to unite the divisions of the frame; they are all mus
  cular nerves ordering the voluntary motions of the frame;
 they are all exquisitely sensible, and the source of the com
 mon sensibility of the surfaces'of the body; they pervade
                                                                  every
 part, and yet are symmetrical and simple as the nerves of the
 lower animals.
     Exposing the nerves of this class in a living animal, they
exhibit the hi hest degree of sensibility, and allow of being
distinguished mm the nerves of the other class, by.the com
parative want of sensibility of the latter.        The division of a
nerve of this original class is followed by a loss of sensrbility
to the skin and common substance; whereas these parts
                 ,                                                  are
                                   F  2         ,                     1n

  414-     Analyses   of a  Series qf Papers, by Mr. C. Bell,
  in no measure deprived of it when         a nerve not of this class is
  divided.
      The nerves of the irregular and complex system, in contra
  distinction to those of the ori inal and symmetrical one, do
  not arise by double roots, nor iave they any ganglia on their
  origins; they come off from the medulla oblongata and the
  upper part of the spinal marrow; and from this origin they
  diverge to those several remote parts of the frame which are
  combined in the motion of respiration.         These are the nerves
  which ive the appearance of confusion to the dissection, be—
  cause t ey cross the others, and go to parts already plentifully
  supplied from the other system.
      The author enumerates the following as respiratory nerves,
  according to their functions :
       l. The par vagum, or the eighth pair of Willis, takes its
  course to the larynx, lungs, heart, and stomach, and associates
  them together; they being at the same time supplied with
  nerves from other sources.
      2. The portio dam of the seventh or respiratory nerve of
  the face.     By the division of this nerve the face is deprived
  of its consent with the lungs, and of all expression of emotion.
      3. The spinal accessory, or superior respiratory nerve of the
  trunk.     In its course it supplies the muscles of the neck and
  shoulder, which are already profusely supplied by the regular
  system of nerves.        When it is divided, those muscles which
  were in action as respiratory muscles cease their co-operation,
  but remain capable of voluntary actions.
      4. The phrenic, or diaphragmatic, or great internal rewira
  tor'l/ nerve.   This is the only one of the system which has
  been known as a respiratory nerve.
      5. The external respiratory nerve, connected with and re
. sembling the former as to origin; it passes through the axilla
  and oes to the muscles on the outside of the ribs, which are
  supp ied with nerves from the other system coming out be
  twixt the ribs as well.        This nerve has been entirely over
  looked.
       These four last-mentioned nerves       overn the muscles of the
  face, neck, shoulders, and chest, in t e actions of excited re
  spiration, and are absolutely necessary to speech and expres
  sion. Under the same class, moreover, must be ranked the
  nerves which go to the tongue, throat, and windpipe, these be
  ing no less essential to complete the act of respiration; as the
                           the lingual, or ninth of Willis, and the
  glosso-pharyngeal,
    ranches of the par vagum to the superior and inferior larynx.
      With the view to give a more detailed illustration of the
  nerves being divisible or distinguishable into two distinctclasses,
                                                                    Mr.

 on the Structure, Distribution,   and Functions ofthe Nerves.   45
Air. Bell  con<U+FB01>nes himself more immediately to the nerves of
the face; for the human countenance performs many functions,
and in it are combined the organs of mastication, of breathing,
of natural voice and speech, and of expression. The nerves
upon which these functions are dependent are here distinct,
and run apart from each other, until they meet at their ex
tremities: they moreover take different courses through the
bones of the head, and therefore render the results of any ex
periments which may be made upon them more certainiand
determinate.
   The nerves of the face are the trigeminus or the <U+FB01><U+FB01>h of
 Willis, and the portio dam of the seventh, which in this paper
is called the respiratory nerve qf the face.
   The existence of the former is constant in all animals which
have a stomach with palpi or tentacula to embrace their food.
If a feeler of any kind, having no connexion with respiration,
projects from the head of an animal, as in the instance of the
antenna of the lobster, it possesses sensibility by being sup
plied with a branch from this nerve: whereas, should it be
connected with respiration at the same time, as is the case
with the hollow trunk of the elephant, two nerves are readily
found, both of great size; the one a continuation of the superior
maxillary branch of the <U+FB01>fth; the other derived from the re
spiratory or seventh.      This nerve is subservient to the same
functions in the highest or most complex animals as in the
lowest or most simple; being the nerve of taste, of the muscles
of the face and jaws, and of common sensibility; its branches
being distributed minutely to these organs and profusely to
the muscles which move the lips on the teeth.
   The portio dura only exists where there is some consent
established between the face and the respiratory organs.        In
<U+FB01>shes there  is, strictly speaking, no portio dam of the seventh,
the nerve resembling     it  being a branch of the par vagum,
which, instead of being distributed forward to the face, passes
backwards to the muscles of the gills.       In the human subject
this nerve has a very extensive distribution, penetrating to all
the muscles of the face, which are also supplied with the
branches of the <U+FB01>fth pair, and to the skin in company with
the minute vessels of the cheek; besides sending numerous
branches to the super<U+FB01>cial muscles -of the throat and neck,
which are connected with branches of the spinal and respiratory
nerves. These two sets of nerves, moreover, of the face, differ
from each other as to texture; the respiratory being found to
correspond with the structure of the par vagum, the <U+FB01>laments
of which are close, and like minute plexus; whereas those of
                              a
the <U+FB01>fth are large and round, and with less intricacy      intheir
                                                          texture.

4-6     Analyses      of a   of Papers, lg Mr. C. Bell,
                             Series
texture.   And it is worth of consideration, that every one of
its branches is joined by divisions of the <U+FB01>fth, as if it was not
 alone suf<U+FB01>cient to supply any individual part with nervous
 power.
    A question therefore very naturally arises, Whether these
 nerves do not perform different of<U+FB01>ces? and, from the assist
 ance afforded by the knowledge of the human structure and
 of comparative anatomy, the author is prepared to decide the
matter by experiment.         The ass and the dog were the two
 animals chie<U+FB02> selected for this purpose.       The division of the
                of?
portio  dura      one  side  during excited  or  extraordinary re
spiration, is instantly followed by a loss of motion of the nostril
of the same side, whilst that of the other continues synchro
nous, or in unison, with the risings and fallings of the chest.
 The animal gives no sign of pain, nor struggles when this nerve
is  cut across. The power of manducation continues without
the slightest impediment. The side of the face in which the di
vision has been made, remains at rest and placid during the
highest excitement of the other parts of the respiratory 01'
  ans.   Even in the last dying efforts of the respiratory mus
cles for the drawing in of breath, when the muscles of the
mouth, nostrils, and eye-lids, are in a violent state of spasm,
this remains unmoved.        A man had the trunk of the respira
tory nerve of the face injured by a suppuration, which took
place anterior to the ear, and through which        it passed in its
course to the face.       It was observed, that in smiling and
laughing, his mouth was drawn in a remarkable manner to
the opposite side.     The attempt to whistle was attended with
a ludicrous distortion of the lips; when he took snuff and
sneezed, the side where the suppuration had affected the
nerve remained placid, while the opposite side exhibited the
usual distortion.    On cutting the respiratory nerve on one side
of the face of a monkey, the very peculiar activity of his fea
tures on that side ceased altogether.       The timid motions of
his eye-lids and eye-brows were lost, and he could not wink
on that side; and his lips were drawn to the other side, like a
paralytic drunkard, whenever he showed his teeth in rage.
    Mr. Bell cut a tumour from before the ear of a coachman;
a  branch of the nerve which goes to the angle of the mouth
was divided.     Some time after he returned to thank Mr. B.
for ridding him of a formidable disease, but complained that
he could not whistle to his horses.
   It would appear from hence, that the association of the
muscles of the face with the act of breathing  is effected through
the operation of this nerve.
   Exposing and touching the. superior maxillary branch of
                                                                the

  on the Structure, Distribution, and Functions   of the Nerves. 47
the <U+FB01>fth nerve gives acute pain; but its division causes no
change in the motion of the nostril, the cartilages continuing
to expand regularly in the act of respiration; but the side of
the lip may be observed to ban low and to be dragged to the
other side; and if the nerve o the opposite side be divided
also, the loss of motion of the lips in eating is very obvious.
 The division of a branch of the <U+FB01>fth which goes to the fore
head in a man, did not cause paralysis of the superciliary mus
cles; but an abscess and ulcer seated anterior to the ear of
another individual, affected the superior branch of the respi
ratory nerve; the eye-brow fell low, and did not follow the
other when the features were animated by discourse or emo
tion. The infra-orbital branch of the fifth, on the left side, was
cut across, and the portio dura or respiratory nerve on the
right side of the same animal also; sensibility to pain re
mained on this side, while that of the left was completely de
stroyed.     The difference of suffering moreover was most
marked at the time of their being divided; the division of the
<U+FB01>fth was accompanied with signs of acute pain, that of the
seventh or respiratory with none at all.        When carbonate of
ammonia was applied to the nostrils of the ass whose respi
ratory nerve had been cut, the opposite side of the nose and
face was curled up with the peculiar eXpression of sneezing,
whilst the side on which the nerve was divided remained quite
relaxed, although the branches of the <U+FB01>fth pair and the sym
pathetic were entire. The same experiment on a dog under
similar circumstances caused the action of sneezing on the
                                                                     -
sound side only.
   From these facts and experiments it may be concluded, that
the nerves of the face are divisible, as to their functions, into
two distinct sets or classes; and that it is the of<U+FB01>ce of the portio
dura or respiratory class, to associate the actions of the mus
cles of the face with these of the other organs of respiration;
seeing that these muscles serve to actuate and expand the
passages to the           and to controul the motions of the lips,
the nostrils, andlungs,
                    ve um palati, simultaneously with the respi
ration of the lungs.       It can also be proved that the throat,
neck, shoulders, and chest, have nerves similar to the portio
dura both in structure and in function, which serve to unite all
the extended apparatus of breathing and speaking.           The ac
tion of smilin seems also to be owing to the in<U+FB02>uence of this
nerve; for al ough it has been presumed that this act is pe
culiar to the human countenance, yet there is a great simi
larity, if not identity of expression presented sometimes in the
face of the dog when he turns out the ed e of his lips, leaps,
and twists his body and wags his tail as e is fawning on his
                                                            master;

 48       Analyses  0 'a Series q/Papers, by   Mr. C. Bell,
 master; but dividing the respiratory nerve of one side, the ex
pression, which consisted in that peculiar turn of the lip, could
 only be observed on the other.         Another conclusion to be
 drawn from the experiments above detailed, is that the portio
 dura, besides being a nerve of respiration, is also a grand nerve
 of expression, not only in man, but in brutes also; which is
 con<U+FB01>rmed by the circumstance of the disappearance of that
 excitement seen in a dog’s head, his eyes, and ears, when
 <U+FB01>ghting, on the division of this nerve.
    There is moreover a peculiar distinction observable between
 these two sets of nerves of the face in re ard to their origins,
 the <U+FB01>fth pair receiving roots, Ste. from      e medullary process
 of the cerebrum and of the cerebellum. A ganglion is formed
 upon it near its origin, though some of its <U+FB01>laments pass on
 without entering into the ganglion.        The respirator nerve,
 on the other hand, arises from the superior and lateral' part of
 the medulla oblongata, close to the nodus cerebri, and exactly
where the crus cerebelli joins the medulla oblongata ,- and, what
 is worthy of notice, the other respiratory nerves, which form
 so distinguished a part of the nervous system, arise in a line
                                      '
 with the roots of this.
    The striking difference presented by these two sets of nerves
 in regard to sensibility would imply the necessity of ranking
 them under two distinct heads, if not the idea of their per
 forming dissimilar functions; for the cutting of the <U+FB01>fth nerve
gave pain in a degree corresponding with our notions of the
sensibility of nerves; but in cutting the portio dura, it was
 not evident that the animal suffered pain at all.
    “ Having brought this investigation to      a conclusion, some
perhaps,             by its details, may ask to what does this dis
           fatigued
cussion lead    .
    “ Were we to inquire no further, and to rest content with
the inference, that the two sets of nerves distributed to the
face have distinct functions; even this must prove useful both
to the surgeon and physician. _To the surgeon it must be
useful in performing operations on the face, as well as in ob
serving the symptoms of disease: but especially to the physi
cian must these facts be important; he will be better able to
distinguish between that paralysis which proceeds from the
brain, and that partial affection of the muscles of the face,
when, from a less alarming cause, they have lost the controul
ing in<U+FB02>uence of the respiratory nerve.
    “Cases of this partial paralysis must be familiar to every
medical observer.       It is very frequent for young people to
have what is vulgarly called a blight; by which is meant, a
                                                             slight

 on the Structure, Distribution,
                                  and Funetioni oft/1e Nerves.  t9
slight palsy of the muscles on one side of the face, and which
the physician knows is not formidable. In<U+FB01>ammations of glands
seated behind the angle of the jaw will sometimes produce
this.   All such a<U+FB01>'ections of the respiratory nerve will now be
more easily detected; the patient has a command over the
muscles of the face, he can close the lips, and the features
are duly balanced; but the sli htest smile is immediately at
tended with distortion, and in aughing and crying the para
lysis becomes     uite distinct.
    “ The know edge of the sources of expression teaches us
to be more minute observers. The author had late] to watch
the breathing of an infant which had been severa times re
stored from a state of insensibility.      At length the general
powers fell low without any returning <U+FB01>t; insensibility and
loss of motion stole over the frame; all but the actions ex
cited by the respiratory nerves ceased; then each act of re
spiration was attended with a twitching of the muscles of the
ala nasi, and of that muscle of the cheek which makes the
dimple in smiling.       It was then evident that the child could
not recover; that all but the system of respiratory nerves had
lost their powers; that the features, as far as they were subject
to the in<U+FB02>uence of the other nerves, had fallen.
    “ There are conditions of the
                                     lungs, when the patient is in
great danger, and yet the in<U+FB02>ammation is not marked by the
usual signs of pain and dif<U+FB01>cult motions of the chest.         We;
shall see nothing but the twitching of those muscles of the
face, which are animated by the respiratory nerve.         We See
a certain unusual dilatation of the nostrils, and a constrained
motion of the lips, which with the change of voice is just suf-     .
<U+FB01>cient to give alarm, and indicate the patient's condition.
This is a state of the lungs very often produced after severe
accidents, as gun-shot wounds, and after great surgical opera
tions.
    “ These circumstances are stated to prove that the subject
of expression is not foreign to medical studies; and certainly,
by attention to the action of the muscles of the face, we shall
<U+FB01>nd the views drawn here from the anatomy, further coun
tenanced.     We learn that smiling is an affection of the nerve of
respiration  on  the muscles of the face, and that when laughter
shakes the sides, it is only an extended and more convulsive
action of the muscles produced by the same class of nerves.
When to the paleness and coldness and inanimation of grief,
there is added the convulsive sob and the catching of the throat,
and the twitching of the lips and nostrils, we discover the same
class of nerves to be affected, which, in crying, are only more
obviously in operation, producing more violent contractions.
                                                               “ In
    Vol. 64. N0. 815. July 1824-.             ‘G

50             Dr. Jenner     on the   Migration of Birds.
    “ In all  the intermediate emotions between these extremes,
the varieties of expression in the face are produced by the op
position of the two powers affecting the same muscles; the
one is a voluntary power, by which we restrain the features
and conceal emotion; the other is an involuntary power, which
cannot be always controuled, but which will sometimes have
 sway and mingle its in<U+FB02>uence.”
                               [T o be continued.]
 VII.     Some Observations on the Migration of Birds. By the
    late EDWARD JENNER, M.D. EILS. ,- with an Introductmy
    Letter to Sir HUMPHRY Davy, Bart. Pres. R.S.,                     by the
    Rev. G. C. JENNERJ"
       SIR,
 IT Dr.had long    been   the   intention of my late revered
           Jenner, to lay the accompanying Observations
                                                                      uncle,
                                                                      on the
 Migration of Birds before the Royal Society, as well from in
 clination, as to redeem a pledge he had given some years a o
 to that learned body; but which he was unable to accom lis ,
 in consequence of his extensive correspondence with a most
 every part of the lobe on the interestin subject of Vaccina
 tion, which occupied nearly the whole 0 the time his more
 immediate professional avocations would allow him to bestow
 on other objects.
    It was my peculiar happiness to accompany Dr. Jenner in
 most of his investigations of the phaenomena of migration; and
the paper I have now the honour of presenting, was left in my
hands at the time of his decease.
    Had it pleased Providence to have spared him a little longer,
he might probably have corrected some inaccuracies in the
style and order of his paper, that may now perhaps appear
conspicuous to the reader, but which I did not conceive my
self justi<U+FB01>ed in
                    attempting. have the honour to be, Sir,
                          Your most obedient humble servant,
    Stone, near Berkeley.  May 29, 1823.                  G,   C_ JENNHL
To Sir Humphry Davy, Bart.
President of the Royal Society.
                                      I.
_
    IT is not my intention, in the following pages, to give a ge
neral history of the migration of birds.             The order in which
          " From  the Philosophical Transactions   for 1824, Part I.
                                                                        they
                                                              ,_     ______

                    Dr. Jenner   on the   Migration   quirds.         51
they appear and disappear, their respective habits, and many
other observations, have been given with considerable accu-.
racy by several naturalists who have paid attention to this
very curious subject.      It is with a view of representing some
facts, hitherto unnoticed, chie<U+FB02>y with respect to the cause, which
excites the bird, at certain seasons of the year, to quit one
country for another, that I communicate the following pages
to this learned body.
   But before I proceed to state my observations on this head,
it may be necessary to adduce some ar uments <U+FB01>rst, in sup
port of the reality of migration, the fact itself not bein gene
rally admitted ; and secondly, against the hypothesis of a state
of torpor, or what has been called the hibernating system.
   In the <U+FB01>rst place, the ability of birds to take immensely long
<U+FB02>ights is proved by the observations of almost every person
conversant with the seas. To the many instances already re
corded,     I
            shall add the followin :
   My late nephew, Lieutenant enner, on his passa e to New
foundland, saw on the 20th of May the hobby haw . It came
on board, and was secured. The day following a swallow came
on board.      At this time the ship was steering a course direct
for that island, and was not within the distance of an, hundred
leagues of an land. His brother, the Reverend G. C. Jenner,
in crossing          the
                   Atlantic, observed an owl (of what species he
could not precisely acertain, but he believes       to be the com
                                                        it
mon brown owl) liding over the ocean with as much apparent
ease as if     had
                it     en seeking for a mouse among its native
<U+FB01>elds  *.  Wild geese have frequently been shot in Newfound
land, whose crops were plentifully stored with maize or In
dian corn     consequently, these birds must have taken a pretty
                ;
bold <U+FB02>ight in short space of time, as no corn of this kind
                     a                                                 is
cultivated within a vast distance of that island.      These how
ever
   I     do not consider as migrations of any further conse
quence, than just to show the powers of the
   My in enious friend and neighbour, the late    wing.everend Na
thaniel 'Ighornbury, who had occasionally visited Holland, in
formed me that the pigeons about the H                make a daily
                                                           e
maraudin      excursion, at certain seasons, to      opposite shore
                                                       t   e
of Norfol      to feed on vetches, a distance of forty leagues.
                ,
   * Mr. Jenner informs me, that in subsequent voyages he has taken, in
the Atlantic, several hundred miles from land, the nuthatch, hoopoe, and
snipe; and has often seen small birds of the linnet kind. Of the latter, a
lare  <U+FB02>ock came on board, perched on the rigging, appeared very lively,
an a<U+FB01>er adjusting their plumage, and chirping in concert for a few m1
nutes, took their <U+FB02>ight in   direction for the Azores.
                             a
                                          G   2                    Now,

  52           Dr. Jenner    on the Jlligmtion of Birds.
  Now, ma ' not this be almost considered as daring a <U+FB02>ight- as
  that of t e bird which crosses the Atlantic? For it is not at
  all probable that the shores of this country can be visible to
  the <U+FB02>ock when they set out.
      Again : Is there not something as extraordinary in the pi
  geon, which can in a few hours <U+FB01>nd out its home, though
  taken away in a box and totally excluded from the light, to
  the distance of two hundred miles, as in that bird which quits
  one shore to seek another, whatever may be the extent ol'in
  tervening seas? The fact seems to be, that we, the little lords
  qftbe creation, are too prone to measure the sentient principle
  in animals by the scale of our own ideas, and thus, unwillingly,
  allow them to possess faculties which may surpass our own,
  though peculiarly appropriate to their respective natures; but
  a little re<U+FB02>ection must compel us to confess, that they are en
  dowed with discriminating powers totally unknown to, and
 for ever unattainable by man. I have no objection to admit
  the possibility that birds maybe overtaken by the cold of
 winter, and thus be thrown into the situation of other animals
  which remain torpid at that season; though I must own I
 never witnessed the fact, nor could I ever obtain evidence on
 the subject that was to me satisfactory: but as it has been
 often asserted, may I be allowed to suppose, that some decep
 tion might have been practised with the design of misleading
 those to whom it might seem to have appeared obvious? For
 far be it from me to insinuate that the subject has been wil
 fully misrepresented by those naturalists who have stated it
 as a fact.    Yet how careful should we be in the investigation
 of all subjects in natural history which may captivate by their
apparent novelty !
     If birds crept into holes and crevices to hibernate, would
they not, like quadrupeds, creep out again in a lan id state,
                                                                     '
their fat all absorbed, and their bodies emaciated          We see
this fact exempli<U+FB01>ed in the hedge-hog, one of the most re
markable of our hibernating animals, which retires to its but
at the approach of winter, with vast stores of fat, placed in
every situation where nature could <U+FB01>nd room for it.        This fat
is its only source of nutrition for the winter, which, by the
time the sun rouses it to fresh life and activity, is exhausted,
and the animal comes forth thin and emaciated. But the case
with birds is extremely different.        If, on the <U+FB01>rst day of its
appearance,     a martin, a  swift, or  a redstart be examined, it
will be found as plump and <U+FB02>eshy as at any season durin its
stay; it appears also as strong on the wing, and as full 0t ac
tivity at that period as at any other during its ‘abode with us.
                                                              How
                           \

            Dr. Jenner    on the   Migration q/‘Birdr‘.         53
How the cuckoo, that disappears at       so early and so hot a sea.
son as the <U+FB01>rst week in   July, can become torpid,   is beyond the
power of conception.
    The apparent incapability of the landrail to perform the
task of migration, has often been so strongly adduced as a
presumptive argument in favour of the hibernating system,
that those who do not admit that of migration, were it to re
main unnoticed, might urge it as an objection. It must be ad- ‘
mitted, that a super<U+FB01>cial examination of the habits of this bird
tends to favour the supposition of its incapaeity for so great an
exploit, as it often rises from the ground like an half-animated
lump, and seems with di<U+FB02>iculty to take a <U+FB02>ight of a hundred
yards; but let us remark its powers when seriously alarmed.
Should it be forced upon the wing by any extraordinary cause,
by the pursuit of a hawk, for example, the velocity of its
<U+FB02>ight, and the rapidity of its evolutions to avoid the common
enemy of its race, will at once appear. This is no ve          rare
exhibition.     Necessity  here, as in migration,  becomes   e  pa
rent of exertion, which, when thus called forth, cannot be
shown in a much greater degree by any of the feathered tribe.
The moor-hen (which winters with us) gives another instance
of what a bird, which appears so much to want activity in its
ordinary <U+FB02>ights, is capable of performing when exertion is ac
tuall y required. When pursued by ahawk, and self-preservation
calls up all its powers, it may be seen to rush up into the air
with amazing velocity, almost as high as the eye can reach,
then darting down with an equal pace, it often, by such rapid
manoeuvres, escapes the destructive talons of its swift pursuer.
    It is a remarkable fact that the swallow tribe, and probably
many other birds which absent themselves at stated periods,
should return annually to the same spot to build their nests.
The swift, which for nine months has some distant region to
roam in, was selected for the purpose of an eXperiment to as
certain this with precision.      At a farm-house in this neigh
bourhood I procured several swifts, and by taking off two
claws from the foot of twelve, I <U+FB01>xed upon them an indelible
mark.      The year following their               places were exa
mined in an evening when the had nestingretire to roost, and there
 I found several of the marke birds. The second and third
year a similar search was made, and did not fail to produce
 some of those which were marked.        I now ceased to make an
 annual search ; but at the expiration of seven years, a cat was
 seen to bring a bird into the farmer’s kitchen, and this also
 proved to be one of those marked for the experiment.
    That the bird, when the stimulus for migration is
with the choice before it of almost any part of Europe igiven,
                                                             or
                                                            annua It?

 54-           Dr. Jenner   on the   Migration of Birds.
 annual excursion, should so uniformly not only revisit this
 island, but even select the same spot for its breeding place, is
 certainly a wonderful occurrence.         But if birds were not in
 stinctiver   directed  to return  to  their old haunts, should we
 not <U+FB01>nd them over-crowding some situations, while others
 would be left desolate P And would not this be the case if the
 search of food was the object of their mi ration ? However
  it may be admissible, in one point of view, to consider the
 bird in its state of migration from this country, as a nearer
 neighbour than at <U+FB01>rst might be conceived, if we may be al
 lowed to consider distance, or space, in the instance before us,
 as governed by the pOwer of progressive motion, of what con
 sequence is it to the swift, which, to use the animated expres
 sion of Mr. White, “dashes through the air with the incon
 ceivable swiftness ofa meteor,” whether he comes to us from
 some neighbouring country, or the shores of Africa?            The
 wonder excited by the return of these birds again to their old
 nesting places, would at once cease, if we could believe what
 has been asserted by some naturalists, and gained credit with
 many, namely, that at the time they disappear from us,
 they submerse themselves in ponds and rivers, and in this si
 tuation become torpid.       If this idea had not been encouraged
 and supported by     some   new  hypothesis, I should hardly have
 thought   it necessary  to  have   taken any serious notice of it;
 but as the matter now stands I will just state my opinion,
 why I think it impossible for any birds to be disposed of in
 this way.
     Permit me <U+FB01>rst to call to your recollection the season of
 the year at which many of these birds disappear.         It happens
 when they feel no cold blast to benumb them, and when the
 common food with which they are supported, is distributed
 through the air in the greatest abundance.          At such a time,
 what can be the inducement to them and their young ones,
which have but just begun to enjoy the motion of their wings,
 and play among the sunbeams, to take this dreary plunge?
 And how is the of<U+FB01>ce of respiration to be performed during
the nine months watery residence ? The structure of the lungs
 of birds differs not essentially from that of quadrupeds, and
 therefore all communication with the atmosphere being cut
 off from the <U+FB01>rst moment of submersion, the possibility of a
 bird living nine months, or indeed as many minutes, under
 water, appears to be totally irreconcilable with the nature of
their structure.     I have taken a swift about the 10th of Au
gust, which may be considered as the eve of its departure,
and plunged it into water ; but like the generality of animals
 which respire atmospheric air, it was dead in two minutes.
                                                                The

                                                              ‘
               Dr. Jenner  on the Migration qf Birds.            55
     The  late Doctor Beddoes has thrown out a supposition, that
  by frequent immersion in water, the association between the
  movements of the heart and lungs might perhaps be destroy
  ed, and that an animal might be inured to live commodiously
  for any time under water. As this will probably give new vi
  gour to the languid system of the advocates for the submer
  sion of birds, I think it incumbent upon me to mention it.
     Though we frequently see the swallow and the martin
  sprinkle and splash themselves as they glide over the surfaces
 of ponds and rivers, yet we never see them dip under for a
 single moment; indeed a few plunges would so moisten their
 wings as to prevent their <U+FB02>ying, and we should see them oc
 casionally in this disordered state <U+FB02>uttering on the shore.      If
 they went to the sea side, and got beyond the reach of the eye
 to inure themselves to this element, how could they return,
 divested as they must be either of the means of swimming or
 <U+FB02>ying? Whoever has observed the common tame duck driven‘
 to the necessity of repeatedly diving from the pursuit of a
 water-do , must have noticed how exhausted it rises to the
 surface 0 the water after a short period of submersion, and
 how incapable it is of <U+FB01>yin , in consequence of the soaking of
its wings.     The same may e said of birds more in the habit
of diving, the grebes and divers. When entangled in a net
 they soon perish, or when they happen to dive under ice that
may chance to overspread a pond; no uncommon place of
resort for some of the smaller species of grebes.
     I have alwa 5 been much attached to that faithful animal,
 the Newfound and dog, and have often procured from that
 countr those dogs that had been much accustomed to diving,
 and w ich had been kept to the practice; yet I never ob
 served that any of them attained by habit the power of remain
 ing under water longer than thirty seconds, and even then, on
 rising to the surface, they appeared confused. Negroes and
other men who have been employed in seeking amon sunken
 rocks the hidden treasures of the deep, are said to lave ac—
   uired a habit of remaining some minutes under water; but
t e time was probably measured by a rude guess, and not by
 a stop-watch.
     Having thus called the attention of the Society to such state
ments as give support to the fact of migration, and having
also endeavoured to controvert the notion of an hibernating
           I beg to draw their attention to what 1 conceive to be
    e true cause of migration.
tsystem,
     At the coming on of spring we observe our more domestic
birds, those that approach our houses, and are most familiar
to us, assuming new habits.       The voice, gesticulation, and the
                                                        attachment

56                      Dr. Jenner              on the    Migoation     quirds.
attachment which the male begins to show to the female,
plainly indicate some new agency acting upon the constitu
tion *. This newly excited in<U+FB02>uence, which so conspicuously
alters the habits of our birds at home,   at the same time,           is,
exerting itself abroad upon those which are destined to resort
hither.      It the preparation which nature making for the
                        is                                                  is
production of an o<U+FB02>spring                            by
                                     a new arrangement in the struc
ture of the sexual organs, (viz.) the enlargement                the testes in   of
the male, and the ovaria in the female.
    No sooner         the impulse arising from this change suf<U+FB01>
                             is
ciently felt, than the birds are directed to seek                     country         a
where they can for a while he better accommodated with suc
cours for their infant brood, than in that from which they de
part
          is Jr.
    It not at the commencement of this enlargement, nor until
it   isconsiderably advanced, that the birds are prompted to
              and this     very wisely ordered; for were they to set
                                       is
mggrate;
0 when <U+FB01>rst the testes and ovaria begin to grow tumid, they
must waste much time here unnecessarily, and indeed arrive
at too early aperiod to <U+FB01>nd a supply of food. Very little time
is lost after their arrival, before they form their connubial al
liancesi. The business of nesting then begins and as a con                   ;
                                                                       vinoing
   1" The rock, among many others, exhibits           familiar instance of the
                                                                    a
chan     of voice.                                                           .                 ,
     1-irds of the same species that are commonly stationary in this island
throughout the year     say commonly, for all,I believe, occasionally
                                  (I                                   migrate)
are migrators in other countries.           The adult bird might, perhaps, <U+FB01>nd                      a
subsistence for itself in the country          quits during the incubatim season
                                                          it                                        ;
but the nestling       probably the object nature chie<U+FB02>y holds in view, both
                         is
with respect to food, and to the temperature of the air in which                   <U+FB01>rst   it   is
to feel existence.     The one may be un<U+FB01>t or too scanty, and the other too
hot or too cold.           wonderful to see with what peculiar care the parent
                             It   is
birds select the food for their young until they are four or <U+FB01>ve days old.
For the most part         purely animal; but not an atom even of that
                             it   is                                           suffered   is
to go into the nestling’s stomach, that         not perfectly adapted to the tender
                                                          is
state of its digestive powers. While the swift          feeding on small beetles that
                                                               is
have hard crustaceous wings, and whose habitations are the air, its nestling:
are fed in their early state with nats.          The sparrow,       grunivorous bird,
                                                                            a
feeds its young for several days a ter they are hatched, With the softest in
sects only, now and then introducing             little coarse sand, smooth on the
                                                           a
surface, to inure the stomach, as         suppose, to hear the same kind of sub
                                                     I
 stances in a more rugged state, which will shortly be required.
I     Should fatal accident befall either the male or female bird after this
                    a
alliance     newly formed, no time
               is                          lost in unavailing sorrow, nor any great
                                                     is
 nicety shown in forming        new connexion, as the following little history
                                            a
will evince.        pair of
                    A                  be an to build their nest in       gentleman’s a
garden at Burbage, in \Viltsmagplies
                                  ire.     isliking their familiarity, he shot one of
them from an ambush made for the purpose.                  The next day there were
again     pair going on with the work.
          a                                    One of these was also shot. The
loss was not long in repairing          for the day following the pair were again
                                                 ;
      '                                                                           ‘
                                                                                          complete

               Dr. Jenner    on the   Migration of Birds.                57
vincin proof that nesting is the chief cause of their errand
here, t is and its natural consequences occupy their attention
from the time bf their coming to the day of their departure.
This is illustrated by the dispatch which some of them make
in performing the object of their mission. The cuckoo <U+FB01>nishes
this business in a shorter space of time than any other bird;
but as he deviates so widely from the common laws of the fea
thered society, I shall select the swift as a better example for
pointing out the fact.      The swift shows himself here about the
beginning of May (sometimes a few stragglers appear earlier),
and by the be inning of August he has completely reared his
young ones, w ich seldom consist of more than two.                 At once
the old birds and their family take their leave and are seen
no more for that season.           Now his further residence cannot
be rendered unpleasant by any disagreeable change in the
temperature of the air, or from a scarcity of his common food,
which at this time abounds in the greatest plenty.                This cir
cumstance of the early departure of the swift, without a more
apparent cause, seems to have excited much astonishment
and perplexity in the mind of that attentive and ingenious na
turalist, the late Mr. White of Selborne.               Speaking of the
swift (Letter XXI. page 184), he says, “ But in nothing are
swifts more singular than in their early retreat.             They retire,
as to the main body of them, by the tenth of August, and                    v
sometimes a few days sooner; and every straggler invariably
withdraws by the twentieth, while their congeners all of them
stay till the beginning of October, many of them all through
that month, and some occasionally to the beginning of Novem
ber.     This early retreat is mysterious and wonderful, since
that time is often the sweetest season of the year. But, what
is more extraordinary, they begin to retire still earlier in the
most southerly parts of Andalusia, where they can be no ways
in<U+FB02>uenced by any defect of heat, or, as one might suppose,
defect of food.       Are they regulated in their motions with us
by a failure of food, or by a propensity to moulting, or by a
disposition to rest after so rapid a life, or by what?              This is
complete, when another fell a victim to the gun.  Thus the gentleman went
on destroying one of them daily until he had killed seven; but all to no
purpose—the remaining magpie soon found another mate. The nest was
<U+FB01>nished, and young ones were produced, which were su<U+FB01>‘ered to <U+FB02>y.      This
is an extraordinary fact.—lt seems to show that nature has a reserve of
birds in an unconnected state, immediately ready to repair losses. Were the
whole to pair at once, the circumjacent country might be insu<U+FB01>icient to
furnish food for the immense number of young ones that must burst forth at
the same time.
    Vol.  64'. N0. 315.  July   1824‘.               H                  one

    58               Dr. Jenner   on the   Migration of Birds.
    one   of those incidents in natural history that not only ba<U+FB01>les
                                                       ” Thus Mr.
    our   searches,  but almost eludes our guesses!
     White.                                                            .
          Now, should the principle I have laid down he admitted,
      name] , that these birds come here for scarcely any other pur
      pose t an to produce an offspring, and retreat when the task
       5 <U+FB01>nished, how easily will all circumstances be reconciled!
      and how little mysterious will those things appear which na
      turally seemed unaccountable, not only to the amiable author
      from whom the fore ing passage is taken, but also to qthers
      who have written be ore on the same subject.
          It is somewhat remarkable that so 5 cious a philosopher
      as the illustrious and learned Ray, w 0 so clearly saw the
     object of migration in <U+FB01>shes, should not also have been led
     to a sight of it in birds. After making a very just observation
     respecting salmons, that.quit the sea and ascend up rivers
     with no other view than to <U+FB01>nd a place of security for their
     spawn in the sand, be directly says again, adverting to birds,
      “ What moves them to shift their quarters? You will say the
     disagreeableness of the air to the copstitution of their bodies,
     or want of food *.”
         The spring migratin birds do not arrive here at <U+FB01>rst in
     very large numbers.         t may be observed, that in the early
     part of April a few swallows may be seen; soon after these a
     few solita      martins, and as the month advances now and then
     a swi<U+FB01>.      3n the walls of Berkeley Castle martins build their
     nests in great numbers.       I availed myself of their situation,
     and took several of them on the same night, the latter end of
     May. On dissection, the cause of their gradual and succes
     sive migrations appeared obvious, the testes and ovaria being
     in very different states of progressive forwardness. While
    ,one bird presented embryo eggs in the ovarium as large as
         as, in another they were found no larger than hemp-seed.
        hese were the extremes; for in the other birds there ap
.   peared all the intermediate stages, from the enlargement of
     the ovaria, suf<U+FB01>cient to give the stimulus for migration, to the
     degree of forwardness just described.        The same gradations
     in the state of the testes of the male corresponded with that of
     the ovaria in the females.     This progressive arrival is not con
     <U+FB01>ned to the swallow tribe: all the birds that come earl in
     the spring a pear in the same gradual manner.        I cannot elp
     observing,    t at here the wise design of Providence  is ver con
     spicuous.      Their appearance keeps pace with that of          in   die
          "‘
               Ray on the Wisdom of God in the Creation, Part   I.   p. 128.
                                                                            sects

                  Dr. Jenner   on the    Migration of Birds.           59
     sects which are to a<U+FB02>'drd them food. If the numbers which
     <U+FB02>ock in upon us in May, were to arrive in April, when only
     part of them appear, all must be insuf<U+FB01>ciently supplied, and
     many of course perish from a want of the needful succours;
     but by the middle of May, myriads of insects have produced
     eggs, and great numbers have either brought forth or ma
     tured their progeny; and it may be remarked there is still a
     greater increase of insect food by the time the young birds
     begin to require it.     Swallows, on their <U+FB01>rst com'          , feed
     principally upon gnats.     These    insects are  called  fort  from
     their wintry retreats when the air is but moderately heated,
     48 degrees of Fahrenheit’s thermometer being suf<U+FB01>cient to
     put them on the wing.     It is in pursuit of them that we see,
    in cool weather, the swallow incessantly skimming over the
    surface of ponds and brooks; and their thus early hovering
    over water has strengthened the idea of their having lately
    emerged from their watery abode, where they are supposed
    to have lain dormant durin the winter.         But they are driven
    by necessity to feed on      t<U+FB01>e  gnat.    Like the swift and mar
    tin, their more favourite food       is a small beetle of the sca
    rabazus kind, which, on dissection,    I  have found in far greater
    abundance in their stomachs than any other insects.
       The tumid state of the testes and ovaria sometimes comes
   on prematurely, and in the same manner sometimes subsides.
    When this happens, swallows and martins desert their nest
   lings, and leave them to perish in the nest.        The economy of
   the animal seems to be regulated           by
                                               some external impulse,
   which leads to a train of consequences. When this change
   in the testes and ovaria takes place, the bird becomes impelled
 b   a    stronger principle, that is, the desire of self-preservation.
   'lyhis sometimes happens when they produce a very late hatch.
   A pair of martins hatched four broods of young ones in the
   house of a tradesman in this place in the year 1786.              The
  latter brood was batched in the early part of October. About
   the middle of the month the old birds went off, and left their
  young ones, about half <U+FB02>ed ed, to perish.         The pair returned
  to the nest the 17th of         ay  1787,   and  threw   the skeletons
  out.
       Thus scarcely a winter passes but we hear of a nest of
  robins, hedge-sparrows, and some others of the smaller birds.
  We have been informed by Pennant, and has been noticed
                                                   it
  also by others, that the cuckoo has been heard to give his
  song early as so the middle of February, two months sooner
  than the usual time. The same deviation from the ordinary
_ course of nature, which prematurely occasions the pairing
                                                                       of
                                   H   2           .                our

60           Dr. Jenner   on the   Migration of Birds.
 our domestic birds above mentioned, proves the stimulus,              I
 conceive, to certain unseasonable migrations, and accounts
 for the irre ularity <U+FB01>rst noticed. The same argument is of
 course applicable to the premature                    of any other
 migrating birds.      The month of Marc  appearance
                                               sometimes affords us
 warm weather for several successive days.           At this timeI
 have often seen the snake basking under a hed e. The lizard,
 too, has been invited from his cold retreat;        ut never could
I    see the  swallow  or the martin, although   I have taken every
                                                                    '
 opportunity of looking for them during the transient sunshine,
 and made diligent inquiries of others.     At the further advance
 ment of spring, often in April, when, from the long prevalence
 of north-easterl winds, the weather becomes unseasonably
 cold, and even rosty, swallows, martins, and other early mi
             appear among us.      But they soon experience the
 grators
    ardships of an inhospitable reception; the insects that should
 afford them food being still in a state of torpor in their wintry
 recesses; and, unless called forth by some agreeable chan e in
 the air, the unfortunate birds perish for want of food.        his
I    have known happen during an inclement spring, and have
 picked up starved martins under their nesting places, and
 willow wrens, which have perished under hedges, through a
 want of succours.                                            .
      Unlike the migrating birds that winter with us, of which I
 shall speak in a subsequent part of this paper, the spring or
 summer birds do not possess the disposition to change the
 scene and seek a more genial clime, when this country           so
                                                                 is_
 overspread by <U+FB01>'ost as to deny them their common supplies.
 This,
     I     imagine, will admit of an easy explanation.    The win
_,ter birds    require nothing here but food and shelter. Our
 summer visitors come for more various and important pur
 poses.     Had they, like the former birds, been endowed with
 a disposition to wander on certain changes of the atmosphere,
 the great design of their migration, as       it must have proved
fatal to the business of incubation and the rearing of their
young, would have been frustrated.         It may be worthy of re
mark, that both the summer and winter migrating birds are,
 on their arrival here, well received by the domestic natives,
 and neither create quarrels nor excite fears.        The redstart
 builds its nest in the same tree with the titmouse, and the red
 wing feeds peaceably in the same meadow with the starling.
                          [To be continued.]
                                                                           '
                                                         VIII.   0&-

                                 [61]
 VIII.      Qbservations   on the Mesembryanthema            barbata.    By
                   A. H. HAWORTH, Esq. F.L.S.             (5-0.
    To   the  Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
       Gentlemen,
                   recently had occasion to      reconsider the remark
 HAVINGable plants which compose the              section Barbata of the
extensive genus Mesembiyantlzemum,              added one new species
to the group, and detected an error in nomenclature respect
ing an old one; I send you hereunder an amended account
of the whole section and its botanical characters; which, per
haps, may be acceptable to the next Number of your valuable
Miscellany; and I remain, gentlemen,
                              Your very respectful correspondent,
Chelsea,   July 20, 1824-                              A. H. HAWORTH.
              MESEMBRYANTHEMUM.,             Sectio BARBATA.
                          Section is Clzai'acteres.
Suifrutices     2-1 l-entales   plusve, papulosi, foliis apice radiatim
                             stellato-barbatis.
                          Speciemm    Characteres.
barbatum.        M. (The bearded, bushy) erectum: ramulis ef
   l.      fuso- decumbentibus, foliis remotiusculis patentibus
          apice sub-seX-radiatis, calycinis laciniis subaequalibus.
          Mesemb. barbatum, a, Linn. Sp..Pl. 691.—-Dillen. Hort.
          Eltlz. <U+FB01>g. 234. Bot. Mag. t. 70.          M    stelligemm.    Nob.
          in  Synops. Succ. pl. 6w.
              Obs.    Finding this plant,      communicated to me by
          Professor Williams, from the Botanic Garden-0f Ox
          ford, to be the original M. barbatum of Linnaeus; and
          at the same time being my         M   stelligerum ,-   I avail my
          self of this opportunity of rectifying the error, which
          may perhaps be the most appropriately done by the
          transposal of the names of the plants, as here adopted.
stelligemm.       M. (The bearded, procumbent) ramis procum
          bentibus elongatis, foliis remotis semierectis apice sub
          quinque-radiatis; calycinis laciniis prseinaequalibus.-—
          Mesemb. barbatum. Nob. in Synops. Succ. ewclusis syno
          nymis.
              Obs.     Priore omnino debilior, sive procumbens,
          ramis longe paucioribus longioribus, foliis remotioribus
           magisque erectis.                                        _
                                                                   mtonsum.

62                   Notices respecting New Boo/rs.
                                                                               I
intonsum.   M. (The black-bearded) ramulis erecto-decum-
   3.   bentibus e<U+FB01>‘usis hirtulis, foliis apice sub-dAeceln-radiatis;
                                                               '
        calyce barbé nigré cincto.
           Nova species, a Capite Bonaa Spei. Florebat in re
        gio Horto Kewense, A.D. 1824, Julio mense.
           Obs.   Variat
        a. rubicundum,   <U+FB02>oribus rubicundis,          terminalibus soli
               tariis.
         [5. album, <U+FB02>oribus niveis nitentibus, morientibus palli
             dissime roseis.
             Obs.   Flores breviter pedunculati, pedunculis-his
         pidis ebracteatis, setis albis erectis.      Calyx 5-<U+FB01>dus
         turbinatus inferne hispidus, setis patentibus albis, tunc
         late barb<U+FB01> validé nigré cinctus, setis nigris subulatis
         expansis.     Flores, A. M. ad solem ardentem solum
         expansi, post illos Mesem. barbati et minores.       Folia
         in ramorum apices subconferta, semierecta plusve, pal
         lidiora quam in prioribus et acutiora, basi saepe inci
         pienter ciliata; undique ad lentem papulis setulz'i albé
                                 '
          adpress<U+FB01> <U+FB01>nientibns.
             Distinguitur optimé hispidis ramulis, calycisve nigre
         dine barbaa.                         _
stellatum.     M. (The small-bearded) foliis (ramulisque brevi
   4.    bus grossis) caespitosis canis crassis papuloso-scabris,
         apice multiradiatis, basi ciliatis; pedunculis calyci
         busque 6-8-<U+FB01>dis hirsutis.—M slellatum. Pl. Grass. 29,
         cum icone.—Nob. in Revis. Pl. Succ. 191.
             Rarius, et in EBStll intenso solum <U+FB01>oret.
densum.      M. (The dwarf-bearded) densissime caaspitosum:
   5.    foliis papuloso-scabris, apice multiradiatis, basi sub
         ciliatis; pedunculis calycibusque 6-<U+FB01>dis hirsutissimis,
         caudice senili prmcrasso ramuloso           brevissimo. -—
         M. densum. Nob. in Synops. Succ.t§~c.--Bot. Mag. 1220.    t.
            Obs.    Flores rarissimi: aestu intenso solum vidi,
         quoque solum bis.
                   IX.   Notices respecting New Books.
     First Part of the Philosophical Transactions of the
THE
  Royal Society for 1824 has just appeared, and the follow
in   are its contents:
     he Croonian Lecture.     On the internal Structure of the
Human Brain, when examined in the Microscope, as com
pared with that of Fishes, Insects and Worms. BySir Everard
Home, Bart. V.P.R.S. —- Some Observations on the Migra
                                                                        tion
                                                                               ,‘zi

        Analysis    of Periodical Works      on   Natural History.          63
tion of Birds.        By the late Edward Jenner, M.D. F.R.S.
—On      the Nature of the acid-and saline Matters usually ex
isting in the Stomachs of Animals.              By William Prout, M.D.
F. R. S.—-On the North Polar Distances of the principal Fixed
Stars.      By John Brinkle , D.D. RR S. 8w. Andrew’s Pro
fessor of Astronomy in t e University of Dublin.—On the
Figure requisite to maintain the Equilibrium of a homogeneous
Fluid Mass that revolves upon an Axis. By James Ivory,
A.M. F. R.S.—On the Corrosion of Copper Sheeting by Sea
water, and on Methods of preventing this E<U+FB01>ect; and on their
Application to Ships of War and other Ships. By Sir Hum
phry Davy, Bart. Pres. R.S. -— A <U+FB01>nite and exact Expression
for the Refraction of an Atmosphere nearly resembling that
of the Earth.        By Thomas Young, M.D. For. Sec. RS.—
T he Bakerian Lecture. On certain Motions produced in
Fluid Conductors when transmitting the Electric Current. By
J. F. W. Herschel, Esq. F.R.S. — Experiments and Obser
vations on the Development of Magnetical Properties in Steel
and Iron by Percussion: Part II.                  By William Scoresby,
Jun. F .R.S. E. Sac. Communicated by Sir Humphry Davy,
Bart. Pres. R.S.—On Semi-decussation of the Optic Nerves.
By \Villiam Hyde Wollaston, M.D. V.P.R.S.
                             Recently published.
    Observations on the Re-building of London Bridge: de
monstrating the Practicability of executing that Work in three
<U+FB02>at elliptical Arches of Stone, each two hundred and thirty
feet Span: with an Examination of the Arch of Equilibrium
proposed by the late Dr. Hutton: and_ an Investigation of a
new Method for forming an Arch of that Description.                         Il
lustrated b Seven Plates and other Figures.                  By  John    Sea
ward, CivilyEngineer.
     The Green -h0use Companion:                  comprising a general
 Course of Green-house and Conservatory Practice through~
out the Year; a natural Arrangement of all the Green-House
 Plants in Cultivation; with a descriptive Catalogue of thepmost
 desirable to form a Collection, their proper Soils, Modes of
 Propagation, Management, and References to Botanical \Vorks
in which they are <U+FB01>gured.              Also, the proper Treatment of
 Flowers in Rooms, and Bulbs in Water Glasses.
   ANALYSIS OF PERIODICAL WORKS                 ON NATURAL HISTORY
                       Curtis’s British Entomology.
                    N0. 7. contains the following subjects :
   Pl. 2’]. Aplmdius villusus. From an unique specimen taken by the author
 upon Newmarket Heath.        With the insect is <U+FB01>gured the beautiful and local
                                                                      Anemone

 6+         Analysis     of Periodical Works         on   Natural History.
  Anemone Pulmlilla from the same habitat. — Pl. 28. Acantlwsoma [Memor
 rlwidalis.     A new genus proposed by the author For those species of Penta
 tonur with only two joints in the tarsi, and having a keel beneath. —
 P1. 29. Sarrol/rripu: ramomnus (Branched Sarrothripus).                A new genus of
  Moths selected from the extensive family or Turtricilla.                The length of
 the proboscis, the slender palpi and the brush upon the fore le                   are ad
 mirable characters to distinguish this natural little genus from t use with
 which it has so long been united.         The species <U+FB01>gured is new to this coun
 try, but the remainder of the genus have been long well known.—Pl. 30.
 Xyela pzm'lla. Not only a rare but most remarkable insect; discovered
 by the author to be an inhabitant of Britain.            Dalman <U+FB01>rst noticed it in
 the Stockholm Transactions; and Klug, we believe, has also inserted it in
 his Monograph upon the Tenthredinida.             It is a most valuable acquisition
 to the Entomologist, since it unites most beautifully              the Tenthredinidze
 (Tent/iredo Linn.) with the Urocen'dw (Sire: Linn.).
                     17w    Botanical Magazine.            N0. 450.
     Pl.  2495.   Sida aurita.-Conantbera bifolim— Lnuru: aggregate,- “ foliis
 perennantibus ovatis acuminatis triplinerviis subtus glaucis, pedunculis sim
  )llClbllS axillaribus aggregatis, bracteis scariosis ovatis concavis:" a doubt
 is expressed whether this may not belong to the genus Teh-nntliera.—Canna
 cdulis.—Aspidislra lurida ; Bot. Reg. 628.—Wulfcnia carinl/liaca.—Psidium
 cattleianum: a <U+FB01>ne <U+FB01>gure of this species of Guava, together with an illus
 tration of the character of the genus,was given in Mr. Lindley’s Collectanea.
                                                 \
 -—Sarccq1h_yllum     carnosum.
                      The Botanical Register.             No. 113.
     Pl. 809.  Amar lli: ignea,  “  umbelli: 6-<U+FB02>orai, perianthii luciniis   in tubo cy
lindraceo convo utis, pedunculis perianthii nutantis longitudine, stylo ex
serto, stigmate simplicissimo ;" a most beautiful plant sent from Chili by
Lord Cochrane.            Mr. Lindley has referred this plant to the old genus
                                       “ contains the rudiments of several
 Anmryllis, which, he remarks,                                                   genera,
but the principles upon which they are to be separated remain-to be ascer~
tained.”—O.ralis Plumieri.—Azalea indiea, received from China in 1819.
An arrangement is added of the varieties, spring and autumnal.—Cineraria
speciom,
             “ racemo simplice, foliis renit'ormibus denticulatis; petiolo in<U+FB02>ato,
caule simplice folioso, bractea in medio pedunculi, <U+FB02>oribus cernuis.”—
                                   “
 Chlmvrp/zylum Ore/lidaslrum,        2-pedalis, foliis lanceolatis acuminatis s basi
stricto patentibus, paniculz‘i ramosa strictii multi<U+FB01>ora, ramis glabris.”—Orm'
                       “ racemo spicato multi<U+FB01>oro, foliis
t/mgalum virem,                                                lineari-lanceolatis    de
bilibus ad apicem breviter teretibus acuminatis, sepalis patentibus, sta
minibus alternis bideutatis, bracteis <U+FB02>oribus longioribus:” a new species
<U+FB01>'om South Africa. — Hedysarum ascendens. —— Narcissus gracilia ; “ 12-18
uncialis, foliis lineari-subulatis canaliculatis, scapo terete l-2=<U+FB02>0ro, ovario
in<U+FB02>ato, <U+FB01>ore sulphureo.-—(Sabine MSS. ” Under this head it is remarked
                          “ the whole
by Mr. Lindley that                    genus arcissus requires to be revised with
a ‘udicious but severe hand.         It may then be discovered that the number
0 genuine species is very few; and that the individuals which it has be
come the fashion to call species, are varieties capable of bein               so distin
guished.      This we have reason to know is also the opinion of r. Sabine,
who has probably examined a greater number of plants of this genus than
any other person.         it will also, we think, be decided, that in most in
stances Mr. Haworth’s genera are the species, and such of the same in
genious writer's species as can be distinguished from each other the va
rieties, of Narcissus.”
                                                                             X . Pro

                                 E
                                      65   l
                  X. Proceedings of Learned        Societies.
             ROYAL ACADEMY           OF SCIENCES   OF PARIS.
     March   1.       HE Minister of the       Marine transmitted   some
                     specimens of the coal which had sponta
neously taken <U+FB01>re in the arsenal of Brest.     He solicited the
Academy to investi ate the cause of the phenomenon.—
 M. Paulet presenter? his manuscript translation of the History
of Plants by Theophrastus.—M. Cuvier read a Memoir en
titled “ A new Examination of a Fossil Animal from the
Schists of Solenhoft'er, which appears to belong to the Class
of Reptiles, and to which the Name of Plerodactylus has been
given.”—M. Jomard read a note on the Discoveries recently
made in Africa.—-M. Becquerel read a Memoir on the Mag
netic Actions produced in all Bodies by the In<U+FB02>uence of very
powerful electric Currents—M. Paixhaus        ave an account of
the experiments lately made at Brest on                his
                                                 new system of
artillery—M.    Fresnel,  in the name of a Commission,   made a
Report on an improvement of Saussure’s hygrometer proposed
by   M. Babinet.
   March 8.—-M. Bulle, of Besancon, transmitted         manu    a
script Memoir, entitled Syste‘me rotatgf rayonnant.—-M. Bussy
described the means he had employed for the liquefaction of
sulphurous acid gas—Mademoiselle S. Germain presented a
Memoir, in manuscript, on the E<U+FB02>'ects which the variable
Thickness of sonorous Plates produces on their Vibrations.—
M. Pouillot presented an Essay on the Oscillations of the
Waters of the Ocean—M. Poncelet, Captain of Engineers,
presented a manuscript work, entitled “ On the Centres of
 harmonic Means,” supplementary to his Treatise on the pro
jective Properties of Figures—M. Desfontaines made a very
 favourable Report on the Memoir of M. Auguste Saint-Hilaire,
entitlet “   A Monograph of the Genera Sauvagesz'a and Le
 vradia.”—M. Moreau de Jonnes read some New Researches
 on the Trigonocephalus fer de lance, or great Viper of the
 Antilles.—M. Cagniard de        Tour deposited a manuscript
                                     la
 Account of his new Researches on Carbonic Acid Gas and the
other a'ériform Substances which he has obtained in a liquid
 State.   He exhibited several products of his experiments.—
 M. Dulong, in the name of a Commission, made a Report on
 the Method of measurin the Power of Bodies to conduct
Electricity proposed by     . Rousseau.
                            l\
    March 15.-'M. Payen transmitted an Analysis of Tupi
namba Root—M. Bussy announced that the means by which
he had succeeded in liquefying sulphurous acid gas, had also
   Vol. 64-. No. 315. July 1824.                   I  enabled

66         Royal Academy of Sciences of Paris.
enabled him to liquefy chlorine, cyanogene, and ammonia.—
M. Moreau de Jonnes exhibited the young in the state imme
diately prior to birth of the 'Ii‘igonocepllalus fer de lance.—
M. Fresnel, in the name of a Commission, made a Report
upon an instrument which M. Thilonier had originally de
signed for the fabrication of mirrors for telescopes, but which
he had also applied to the formation of the parabolic and el
liptic mirrors of copper employed in experimental philosophy:
in this respect the Memoir appeared worthy the approbation
of the Academy.—M. Geo<U+FB01>'ro Saint-Hilaire read a Memoir
on the Osseous System, as a 'ording the most certain indica
tions of zoological af<U+FB01>nities, and on the presumed causes of
its superiorit  In that respect.—-M. Latreille read an extract
from his Neemoir on the Geography of central Africa.—
M. Mongez commenced reading a Memoir on the Trees called
by the Romans Citrus and Citrum.—M. le Baron Blias read
his Researches on the Theory of Sound and of Vibrations.
   March 22.—T he Minister of the Interior communicated to
the Academy a Report by the Sub-Prefect of Embrun, contain
in Observations made during ajourney to Chamouni.—-M.
 Mgagendie communicated the results of his experiments on the
sense of smell.    He announced that this sense is not entirely
destroyed by the division of the olfactory nerve: he described
also the various effects which result from the division of the
<U+FB01>fth pair of nerves.-— M. Freycinet read a letter from M. Du
perry, dated Otaheite, in which that of<U+FB01>cer announced the dis
covery of four new islands near the Perilous Archipelago. —
 M. Percy made a Report on a new Method of destroyin the
 Stone in the Bladder, proposed by Dr. Civiale.-—-M.         ay
Lussac read for himself and Dr. Liebig a Memoir on the
 Fulminate of Silver.—M. Serulas, pharmaceutic chemist, read
                                                                  '
a Memoir on a new Compound of Iodine, Azote, and Carbon.
   March 29.—A Note by M. Becquerel was read, in which
he explained in what manner, by means of an extremely sen
sible apparatus, he had succeeded in determining the electrod
motive actions which take place at the moment when acid
and alkaline solutions come into contact with any metal;
and likewise those which take place when a liquid is inter
posed between two metals.——M. Mon ez concluded the read
ing of his Memoir on the Citrus of    the Romans.~—M. Fouil
houx read a Memoir entitled “ Anatomical and Physiolo ical
Remarks on the Gan lionic System.”—An abridged Ana<U+FB01>ysis
of a Memoir by M. oche, on the Rotatory Motion of Solid
Bodies, was presented to the Academy.—-M. Poinsot men
tioned that he had completed a work which contained several
theorems recently announced by him.
                                                          The

                         Astronomical Discovery.                 67
 _ The Academy concluded this sitting by         oing into a secret
Committee for several objects of internal        mimstration ; and
in particularfor the consideration of some arrangements neces
                                                                   '
sary to expedite the publication of their Memoirs.
    April 5.—M. James Leroy claimed the priority of inven
tion of the instrument above mentioned, for effecting the de
struction of stones in the bladder.-—M. Séli e presented an
achromatic microscope of his invention, whic was referred to
a Commission—M. de Humboldt ave some new information
of MM. Boussingault and Mariam? de Rivero, who continue
to explore the environs of Bogota with equal zeal and success.
            XI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                    ASTRONOMICAL      DISCOVERY.
    To  the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
       Gentlemen,
 I   HAVE     this moment received a letter from a distinguished
     astronomer on the continent, announcing a very happy and
brilliant discovery, or invention, by M. Bessel, for determinin
the accuracy of the position of his meridian circle.      It is we
known that the method of observing by reflea‘ion has been, for
nearly half a century past, practised on the continent; al
though but recently introduced into this country.           In this
method, the observations themselves are made the test of the
position of the instrument.         But M. Bessel’s inquiries were
directed to some mode by which he might be enabled to de
tect any <U+FB01>exure in his instrument, without astronomical obser
vations; and, of course, in any state of the atmosphere, whether
 cloudy or otherwise.      This question was obviously reduced to
 the <U+FB01>ndin of two points, which, being seen from the centre
 of the meridian circle, are exactly 180° distant. These points
he determined by the method given b M. Gauss in M. Schu
 macher’s Astron. Nach. No. 43, and mm the property of the
 telescope there alluded to.
    As M. Bessel’s method will be fully explained in one of the
ensuing Numbers of M. Schumacher’s Journal, and as I have
not time at present to be more explicit, I shall now only give you
an outline of the plan.      M. Bessel places two telescopes (each
furnished with micrometer wires) in the two apertures 70f the
 building, with their object-glasses turned towards each other:
 one on the north, and the other on the south side.          Let us
 call these telescopes A and B. He then takes the lasses out
of the meridian circle, so that he might see (throng the tube
 of the. instrument) with the telescope A, the intersection of the
                                   I 2                         Wires

68                         New Lunar Tables.
wires in the telescope B; and adjusts the two telescopes A
and B, so that the intersection of the wires in each might
coincide.      In order to render this operation more easy, the
wires in one of the telescopes formed a right angle; and in
the other, an angle of about 10°.          This being e<U+FB01>'ected, he
puts   the  glasses again   into the meridian  circle, and measures,
with the circle, the angular distance of the points of intersec
 tion: which, by Gauss’s method, must be exactly 180°; and
which, if found more or less, will give the quantity and di
rection of the <U+FB02>exion.        It may perhaps be imagined that, in
order to do this correctly, the points of intersection in the
wires, and the centre of the meridian circle should all be in
the same straight line; a condition that would be very dif<U+FB01>cult
to obtain.      But, this is by no means necessary, since all the
rays are parallel; and the only thing required             is,
                                                         that you can
see the points of intersection        through the meridian circle.
This will be evident by reading M. Gauss’s paper.
    The event has fully anSwered the ingenious idea: and the
method gives a precision hardly to be obtained in any other
way. It will also determine the zenith point of the instru
ment without inverting it.        This method        indeed the more
                                                     is
valuable, since   it  can be applied at     time when (on account
                                            a
of the weather, or from other circumstances) no observations
can be made.       It, in fact, saves the astronomer the trouble
some operation of observing by re<U+FB01>exion; and gives the re
sults with greater accuracy.
                       I  am, gentlemen, your obedient servant,
Gray’s  Inn, July 28, 1824.                        FRANCIS BAILY
                           new LUNAR TABLES.
   The new tables of the moon         M. Damoiseau have at
                                           by
length reached this country; and their contents are highly
honourable   to the author.     The are entitled, Tables de
la Lune forme'es par la seule Them'ie de l’Attr-action; par
M le Baron de DAMOISEAU, Lieutenant-Colonel d’Artz'llerie en
retraite, Chevalier des Ordres Royauc (It Saint-Louis et de la
Legion d’Honneur, Membre aq'joint au Bureau des Longitudes.
We have given these titles at full length, as they are equally
honourable to the author, as to the Government which pays
so much and such deserved respect and attention to distin
guished merit     This
                  *2      the third set of lunar tables which
                             is
    French Board of Longitude has edited within these last
the
eighteen years: and already another new set       forming by
                                                           is
f    The Royal Academy of Sciences has recently bestowed on M. Da
molseau the prize medal, on account of his investigations relative to Encke’s
comet.                                                               '
                                                                 MM.   Car-

    A Letter from Mr. J. Ritchie, the late African     Traveller.     69
 MM. Carlini and Plana. The present tables,             as their title
 imports, are founded entirely on the theory of gravitation; and
 are a proud monument to the genius of our immortal Newton.
 The equations depend wholly on mean motions, similar to the
 tables of Clairaut: and, from the list of 50 comparisons at the
 end, they appear to be deserving of the highest credit.
     We regret, however, to state that these tables are arranged
 according to the centesimal division of the quadrant, and the
 decimal division of the day: which renders it necessary to re
 duce the result to the sexa esimal notation, and to the civil
 mode of reckoning time, before they can be of any use to the
 public.    We are much surprised that the French will per
 severe in arranging some of their best tables in this manner:
 since it only entails double trouble on the computer.           If any
 decimal notation at all is required for the convenience of com
 puting the equations, it would be much better to divide the
 degree into decimal and centesimal parts; and this would
 prove rather a convenience than otherwise to the computers.
 The degree would be the unity of comparison, and would gra
 dually lead to the abolition of the use of signs.       But the pre
 sent arrangement has nothing in common with that which has
 been so long established; and is moreover continually leading
 the computer into errors.       At all events, if the French will
 persevere in the use of the centesimal division, they ought to
 adopt a new set of characters for expressing their degrees, mi
'nutes, and seconds ,- and not usurp those in general use, which
 denote quantities totally different, and thus lead to endless
 confusion.
 A LETTER FROM Mil-J. RITCHIE, THE LATE AFRICAN TRAVELLER,
                     TO A FRIEND IN ENGLAND.
        My dear  1H,,               Tripoli in the West, Jan. 21, l819.
     I have not  forgotten my promise of writing to you before I»
  left Tripoli, whatever you may have thought from the length
  of time that I have deferred its performance. I believe the
  moment of my departure will be soon approaching; and, al
  though I have remained at this place much longer than            I ex
  pected, it is a delay which  I  cannot re ret, as it has alforded
  me an opportunity of acquiring some           nowledge of the lan
    uage, and of making excursions in the neighbourhood which
  have given me a more just idea than I before had of what will
  beIWantin in the course of my journey.          We have been able
  also to col ect a number of objects in natural history, which         I
  hope will prove interesting to our friends in England, and
  convince people (Sir J. Banks in particular) that the obstacles
  which they supposed to interfere with all researches of
                                                                 na tthis
                                                                     ure

 70                 A   Letter from  Mr. J. Ritchie,
 nature in Africa, are not met with at least in this part of the
 country.     Dupont has prepared more than 100 birds, and I
 have made a considerable collection of reptiles, <U+FB01>shes, shells,
 insects and plants.       I have two specimens of the Effah, a poi
 sonous snake not uncommon here, but which with several
 other reptiles I cannot <U+FB01>nd to have been described by Cuvier.
     The Chameleon is very common in this country; when I
 caught the <U+FB01>rst, I observed distinctly that its property of
 changing its colour depended on the exertion of a voluntary
 power; and      I  was of course rather anno ed to <U+FB01>nd, on con
 sulting. my books, that the same remar had already been
 made.
     A few days ago, Dupont found a nest of Brachini, the
 whole of which he took prisoners.           No less than a thousand
 of them are set aside for En land, and of the rest we intend
 forming a colony in our garden.           I am now makin a few
 experiments     on  the  substance  which   they emit when t ey cre
 pitate,  but  do   not  know   whether  I   can collect enough to ar
 rive at any conclusion.          It made Dupont’s <U+FB01>ngers entirely
 black when he took them; it is neither alkaline nor acid ac
 cordin     to the ordinary tests, but is soluble in water and in
 alcoho .      7
     It is only within these few days that the botany of the coun
 try is becoming interesting, and at present every day makes
 it more so.                               .
     I have just heard that the French Government has deter
 mined to attach a naturalist to each of their ships of war, and
 that orders have been received by all their Consuls to afford
 every facility to these gentlemen in their researches.
     I hope Great Britain will not be behind her rival in endea
 vouring to promote science, and I anxiously hope to hear
 u on my arrival in Europe that an ef<U+FB01>cient School of Natural
    istor is formed or to be formed in En land.              My exer
tions s all certainly not be wanting to contri ute towards ren
dering our national museum worthy of the country which
possesses it.     The French Government has, in addition, issued
orders to their Consuls to collect and send home for the Paris
Museum specimens of the animals and plants of the countries
in which they respectively reside. I trust that we shall also
be in to make some use for scienti<U+FB01>c purposes of our political
an     commercial preeminence abroad.            There is no obstacle
to the <U+FB01>nest collection in the world being formed in England,
if we knew how to pro<U+FB01>t of the advantages we possess. The
natural history of our Indian possessions is almost unknown.
and, so lon       as there exists in England no school of natural
history, sin“ ar in its plan to the Jardin des Plantes, must con
                                                                 tlnue

                       the late A<U+FB01>z'can Traveller.                 71
,tinue to be      so in a great measure.       I hope that the active
 steps now taken by the French and other Governments will
 awaken the British legislature to a sense of what we throw
 away by an ill-judged oeconomy.          London may be the metro
 polis of commerce, but it will never be that of science until
 it possesses the advantages of a school of natural history, with
 a truly national museum,           menagerie and botanic garden,
 and a school for mathematical and physical science on the
 footing of the French Ecole Polytechnique.          I could have sent
 home, durin         the time I have remained here, many additions
 to a menagerle ; but if they were to get to England, there is no
 place-to put them in; and besides, I doubt even whether, un
 der the actual management of the British Museum, the ex
 pense of their conveyance would be paid.
      My instruments have arrived here in pretty good state, that
 is,   with only two accidents, which, considering the number of
 things,I      do not think more than might have expected. One
                                      I
 of these losses  is    Six’s thermometer for indicating the maxi
 ma and minima of temperature.           I     have, however, written
 for another from England, which        if  fortunateI    may get be
 fore  I   leave this place, as the Bey of Fezzau will be yet six
 weeks or two months before his preparations are <U+FB01>nished.
 The other accident was Fortin’s barometer, which Dupont let
 fall on board the ship in which we sailed from Malta.        I    have
 however since my arrival repaired this loss to my satisfaction.
  I     cannot tell you so much about my plans as could before
                                                      I
 leaving Euro e.         In the <U+FB01>rst instance,
                                             I    shall go with “ Ma
                           ”
 hommed     il     uckné the Bey of Fezzan, to Fezzan, and after
  wards proceed with him in an expedition which he            is on the
    oint of undertaking against Waday to the south-eastward.
     his
       is    the same country which    is  called Bergou in the maps.
 M subsequent motions will entirely depend on circumstances.
 I       have had two accessions to my party since        I   saw you.
  One  is    Lieutenant Lyon of the Albion, the admiral’s ship at
  Malta, an of<U+FB01>cer who draws very well, and          is an exceedingly
 well-informed young man.           The other  is  John Belford, a car
 penter from the Maltese Dockyard, who turns out to be a very
  steady and useful man.       I    intend to attach four Africans to
 the party.       Two of these are Mustapha, a' native of Tripoli,
 formerly one of the English Consul’s Dragomen; and Hassan,
 a   native of Fezzan, who speaks the                   of Bomou and
  Haoussa.   I      have had very numerouslanguages
                                               o ers from persons both
  at Malta and here, who were willing to accompany me.               In
  deed I     should have no dif<U+FB01>culty in <U+FB01>nding two or three hun
 dred volunteers, as a day hardly ever passes without some ap
 plications.
                                                                    ‘If

   72       Action  of Ammonia    on Metallic Copper.—-Glass.
       If you happen to be in England on receiving this, pray
   give my kind remembrances to your father and friends ge
   nerally; and believe me to be, with sincerest wishes for your
   happiness and welfare,
                               Your faithful friend,
                                                        J. RITCHIE.
             ACTION  or AMMONIA 0N METALLIC          COPPER.
       Dr. Macculloch    has   observed,   that metallic copper dis
   solves rapidly in solution of ammonia at a boiling heat; the
  water being decomposed during the precess, its oxygen united
  to the copper, and its hydrogen evolved in the gaseous form.
  He suggests the application of this process to the purpose of
  colouring gold trinkets, as it is called, or dissolving out to
  a certain depth the copper of the alloy they consist of, so as
  to leave a coat of pure gold on their surface—Brewster’s New
  Journal, vol. i. p. 75.
         IMPERMEABILITY    or cuss T0      WATER   UNDER   HIGH
                               PRESSURE.
      It was lately maintained by Mr. Deuchar, in a paper in the
 Philosophical Magazine, vol. lx. p. 310, that from the perous
 nature of certain siliceous bodies, it was extremely probable
 that the <U+FB02>uids in minerals had been forced through their mass
 by pressure, and that the water which is found in well-stopped
 bottles, when sunk to great depths in the ocean, has been
 forced through the pores of the glass.
   ,. The Rev. Mr. Campbell, in a voyarre to South Africa, car
 ried out with him two crystal globulin“ bottles hermetically
 sealed, and made on purpose by Messrs. Pellet and Green,
 St. Paul’s Churchyard.        In lat. 14:° 27' N. and to the W'. of
 the Cape de Verd Islands, they were sunk from on board the
 Westmorland, to a depth of 200 fathoms, or 1200 feet, by means
of two leads, the one of 22 and the other of 28 lbs. When the
rope was brought up, by the exertion of ten men, for a quarter
of an hour, the two globular bottles were found empty. A wine
bottle, sent down at the same time, corked and plastered over
with rosin, came up full of water, with the cork inverted; <U+FB01>ve
other bottles were full of water, but the corks and rosin of
these were in the same state as when let down.        Another wine
bottle had the pitch remaining entire on its mouth; but the
inside was nearly full of water, in which also the cork was
swimmin . The water in the inside of the bottles was not
more fresh than before its entrance.——Campbell’s       Second Jour
ney inA<U+FB01>ica, vol. ii. p. 383, quoted in Brewster’s New Journal,
vol. i. p. 189.              -
                                                                 ON

                          of Steel by soft Iron.
               On the Cutting                                         73
          on THE CUTTING or STEEL BY sor'r mon.
    At page 336, volume vi. of this Journal, (Philosophical
Magazine, vol. lxii. p. 317,) the remarkable fact that soft iron,
in rapid revolution, will cut the hardest steel, is described
by the Rev. Herman Daggett.            This fact does not appear,
as far as I am informed, in books; nor have I found that it
was before known to practical men.          It seems to have been
discovered by the Shakers, who are remarkable for the neat
ness and expertness of their mechanical operations.          As it is
desirable that the experience of others on this subject should be
made known, I will now add, that in June last I saw Professor
Robert Hare at Philadelphia execute with a common foot
lathe operations similar to those described by Mr. Daggett:
they were however less energetic and decisive, as the machine
did not produce so rapid a motion as that of Mr. Barnes.
    I have, however, since repeatedly seen the experiment suc
ceed, in the most perfect manner, at the manufactory of arms
belonging to Eli Whitney, Esq. near this town [New Haven,
 Connecticut].     As water power is here applied with great
facility and energy, a wheel of soft and very thin plate iron,
 six inches in diameter, and furnished with an axis, was made
 to revolve with such rapidity that the motion became en
 tirely imperceptible, and the wheel appeared as if at rest.
 When pieces of the best and hardest steel, such as <U+FB01>les, and
 the steel of which the parts of gun-locks are made, were
 held against the edge of the revolving soft iron plate, they
 were immediately cut by          it,
                                   with a  degree of rapidity which
 was always considerable, but which was greater as the pieces
of steel were thinner pieces as thick as the plate of a com
                       ;-
 mon joiner’s saw, were cut almost as rapidly as wood             cut
                                                                 is
 by the saw itself.     Considered as an experiment merely,       it   is
 a very beautiful one, and in no degree exaggerated in Mr.
 Daggett’s account: there        a very vivid coruscation of sparks,
                                 is
 <U+FB02>ying   off in the direction  of  tangents to the periphery of the
 cutting; wheel and an intense ignition of the steel, extending
 for a considerable distance ahead of the section, and on its
 sides, attends the operation.       The impulse against the steel
is   so strong, that in several instances        was thrown against
                                                 it
 the opposite side of the room with a velocity that might not
 have been without danger to a person standing in the way. It
 may be said,I     believe, with safety, that none of the ordinary
 mechanical operations commenced upon cold and hard steel,
 will divideit   with so much rapidity as this mode of applying
 soft iron. After all, it   isevident that  it   only a peculiar me
                                                 is
 thod of cutting red-hot, or possibly white-hot steel; for the
  mechanical force produces these degrees of heat, and      it    one
                                                                 is
    Vol. 64. No. 315. July 1824-.                K                  of

74                     On the Culting   of Steel   by Sq<U+FB02>        Iron.
of the best methods of evolving heat by mechanical impulse.
The steel of course loses its temper at the place of section,
andthere only; for the softening extends but a little way, and
is limited to a narrow portion, marked by the iris colours
known to be roduced by heat upon steel.
   The iron plate, as Mr. Daggett states, becomes only warm,
and wears awa , only very slowly; yet it does wear, for
the ed es are              left
                      rough, and the channel of section in the
steel ex ibits with     magni<U+FB01>er minute stria: or grooves, run
                                  a
ning in the direction of the wheel’s revolution.          know not    I
that there      any
                 is  reason  to suppose any peculiar electrical
phaanomenon, except     that electricity alwa    accompanies heat.
                                                            s
It plain from the important use made 0 this mode of cutting
     is
steel by the Shakers and by Mr. Barnes, that            may be of     it
considerable practical importance.
   As    philosophical experiment
          a                                highly interestin
                                             it    is           and                 :
it remains       to be shown, why the heat evolved by re im
                   Iyet
                                                                                t
pulse shou     nearly all be concentrated in the steel, and be
                 d
scarcely perceptible in the iron: neither           perfectly clear
                                                            is   it
that even ignited steel should be so easily cut by the im
pinging of soft iron. No smith probabl ever thought of at
tempting to divide steel by applying an Iron tool.—Silliman’s
Journal, vol. vii. p. 842.
Results       of the   Analysis of the principal Brine Springs in the
               State      New York. By Mr. G. CHILTON.
                          of
                                      Process.                                          .
     1.   The water of each bottle, after weighing    and taking      it
 its speci<U+FB01>c gravity           *,
                         was slowly evaporated to dryness in                            a
glass basin.     _
  _ 2. The deliquescent salts were extracted from the dry re
siduum by digestion in alcohol, and separated from each other
by converting them into sulphates in the usual way.
    8. The mass, after the separation of the deliquescent salts,
was dissolved in water and <U+FB01>ltered.       The carbonate and sul
phate of lime left on the <U+FB01>lter were separated          muriatic
                                                         _
                                                                           by
acid, Sac.
    4-. The <U+FB01>ltered solution Was treated with carbonate of soda,
boiled, and <U+FB01>ltered; the carbonate of lime left on the <U+FB01>lter
indicating the quantity of sulphate of lime decomposed.
    5. To the last clear solution, neutralized by the addition of
f     The water from the deep well at Montezuma was neglected in respect
to its speu<U+FB01>c gravity._ One or two of the samples had ,the odour of sulphir
retted hydrogen, which was not regarded in the examination,       in conse
  uence of the bottles being imperfectly corked:    think they were those
                                                        I
 rom Montezuma.
                                                                                muriatic

                            Capt. Parlb‘y’s Ri<U+FB02>e Rockets.                               75
muriatic acid, muriate of barytes was added till it ceased to
yield a precipitate; the quantity of sulphate of barytes show
ing that no other sulphate existed in the water.
      Table   of the   Results reduced to centesimal Proportions.
                               100 cubic        100 cubic  100 cubic 100 cubic
                                lnches.          Inches.    lnches.   lnches.
                                 N o. l,         N o. 2,  Montezuma.   N o. 3,
                                 Galen.        Montezuma. Deep WelL Onondago.
                                                             Sp.gr.-    Sp.gr.1'0958.
                              Sp.gr.1‘0544-.Sp.gr.1‘0161.
                                Grains.            Grains.    Grains.      Grains.
 Muriate of soda ..     2246'05               I;
                                                   551'52  2016-33       3780'34
 Muriate of lime ......   13-15                     21-07    40-75         23-12
                                              }
 Muriate of magnesia       7'90                     11'70     9'80          5'78
 Sulphate 0f lime . ...   55'26                     36'30   118'20        106'93
 Carbonate of lime...      2'63                                '60
                                          1'30I
                                                     2'24‘                  5'78
 Silex...................                             '60
        Solid matter...                            622'93    2185'18    3921'85
                              2826'29’
                                  Silliman’s Journal, vol. vii. p. 344.
                 CAPT. PARLBY’s man ROCKETS.
   To   those interested or curious in the important matter of
yesterday’s (Dec. 13, 1823) exhibition at Dum-Dum, where
the <U+FB01>rst practical experiment of Capt. Parlby’s ri<U+FB02>e rocket
was undertaken by express desire of authority, the result must
be most gratif ing.      The display took place in presence of
General Har wick, Commandant of the Bengal Artillery,
who  is  now on the eve of embarking for Europe, of Colonel
Casement, and many civilians and of<U+FB01>cers, who could not fail
to experience a pleasing and proud satisfaction at the com
plete success of an experiment of which the in enious and
scienti<U+FB01>c individual has himself just cause for exu tation, and
his masters good reason to be grati<U+FB01>ed. The short notice, only
a few days since, on which Capt. Parlby had to prepare,
speaks much for the activity and ready resources of the depart
ment, which     isdirected under his sole management.
   The range of the rockets from their respective distances of
600, 800, 1000, and 1760 yards, was in general most beauti
ful; and, in the ultimate result, establishes
the superiority of Capt. Parlby’s ri<U+FB02>e               A very sm
                                                   unquestionalzlly
                                           rocket.
                                                                                     1
portion of them exploded, from causes attributable,         under
                                                        we
stand, to the     real; haste in which at so short a
                                                       notice they
were necessari    y prepared.    A few were <U+FB01>red from a tube
                                    K     2                 placed

76     Capt. Parle     que    Rocket—New Periodical Work.
                                                        than one mile !
placed at a no less distance from the target
one   of which, at this amazing     distance,   penetrated    the target;
two   others ranged   in <U+FB01>ne    parallel  lines   even  over   the target,
one of these to the distance of 2300, and the other 24-00
yards.    To the professional man it were needless to o<U+FB02>'er re
marks on the consequences            deducible from this successful
experimental result in the department of projectiles.                   The
 State and service at large can be no        less interested   on   a  prac
tical question of this kind, extending, as it does, its import
ance to the science in general; and our regret is proportion
ably awakened at knowin that the experiment, submitted so
lon     back to our late lgoble Commander-in-chief                 as 1815,
 an before the Congreve        rocket   had  reached   India,   should    not
 earlier have been put   to   the test.
    It is to be hoped that some individual of of<U+FB01>ce, or of the
 ordnance branch, will publish, for their brother o<U+FB01>icers, a
 correct table of yesterday’s rocket practice, and that hereafter
 a comparative trial may be exhibited on the same ground with
 the Congreve and Capt. Parlby’s ri<U+FB02>e rocket—Calcutta John
 Bull.
    The following is an accurate account of the                      8LC., of
 the rocket <U+FB01>red by me on the 1st of December, range,      be ore Major
 Wood, Capt. OliVer, and Capt. Nichelson, 8w.
    Len th of the tube through which the rocket was <U+FB01>red, 16
 feet.—€llevation l8 degrees—Range to the <U+FB01>rst graze where
 the rocket lodged, 1473 yards 2 feet.f-Penetration into the
 ground exactl <U+FB01>ve feet.
    The size 0 the rocket is that which according to p rotech
 nical rules is denominated a 1% pounder, a leaden bah of the
 diameter of the mould being that weight; but a rocket of this
 size, when <U+FB01>lled with composition and complete with its head,
 stick, 8m, weighs about 5 pounds 8 ounces.
    From the penetration of the rocket into the ground at the
 distance of 1473 yards from the place from which it was <U+FB01>red,
 it may be presumed that had the rocket been thrown at a
 higher elevation, the ran e would have been extended beyond
 a mile.    The range of t e larger rockets is expected to be
                            '
  3000 yards.                   SAMUEL PARLBY, Model Master.
                      NEW PERIODICAL WORK.
     The Lyceum of Natural History of New York have lately
  published the <U+FB01>rst number of their “ Annals.”               Its contents
  are valuable, and evince the ardour of the members of this
  highly respectable institution, in regard to the natural       '    history
                                                                            of

                Calendar   quora,    Fauna, and Pomona.                    77
of their country. The object of the work is to give publicity to
the papers read before the Lyceum, “ the preference to be
given in all cases to such as tend to elucidate the knowledge
of the natural productions of the United States.” We under;
stand it is contemplated to publish from four to six numbers
in the course of the next twelve months, at from 25 to 37!,~
cents, or perhaps 50 cents, each; the price depending in a
great measure on the number of plates in~each number.        The
price of the <U+FB01>rst number is 25 cents ; it contains four papers,
two of which are on botany, one on mineralog , and one on
“ a new species of Cephalopterus ” by Dr.         itchell, Presi
dent of the Society.
Calendar qf' Flora, Fauna, and Pomona, at Hargf<U+FB01>eld in Sussew,
                     <U+FB01>-om June 1 to July 15.
   June 1. — The Yellow Fleur-de-lis Iris Pseud—Acm‘us, <U+FB01>rst
<U+FB02>owered today.       The two Goat’s beards begin to be very
abundant in the gardens.      The <U+FB01>elds are at length beautifully
bespangled with Ranunculi, and here and there with Hare
bells, which are not yet decayed.      Paras palustrz's has youn
in the nest, as has also Mecz'stura 'vagans, commonly called
Long-tailed Titmouse.       The weather is become warm and
pleasant, but by no means settled.       Swifts" are become nu
merous, and indeed the whole Swallow tribe are more plenti
ful again this season than for several years past.
   June 2.—LychnisFlos Cuculz', Tormentz'lla vulgaris, and P0
tentilla reptans, in <U+FB02>ower in the hedges.       In the gardens a
yellow re<U+FB02>ex Lily, which        I
                               take to beLilz'um Pomponium {3 of
Curtis.    It <U+FB02>owers usually at the end of May in my arden.
 Trollius europaeus, which <U+FB02>owered at Hale End in ssex at
the end of April, is only just come into <U+FB02>ower here today.
   June 4.—Crepz's Melunensis-l- in <U+FB02>ower. Geum urbanum
abundantly in <U+FB02>ower; and also a new species (or perhaps var.)
of Carcluus, found by T. F. Forster, Esq. near Bolebroke, last
year. Iris spuria in <U+FB02>ower.        The Monkey Poppy is still
abundantly in blow, and a great ornament to the garden.
    *     All
         the Hirundines are now arrived and abundant.        They came this
year      the following order:
          in                       the Swallow on the 19th,- the Martin
May 1 ; and the Swift May 23, which is very late. The came at once in
abundance:    sometimes a straggler is seen on the 9th of    ay.— See Peren
nial Calendar for every day in the year, published by Harding and Mavor,
under the 15th of April.
    'f‘ new species brought by me in seed from Melun
          A                                                in  France in July
1822.      know not what species to refer
           I                              it  to, and therefore have given it
                                       '
a name from its native place.
                                                                       June

  78               Calendar   qulora, Fauna,     é-c.
     June 5.—A single example of Papaver R/uzas in <U+FB02>ower,
 though not common yet.
     June 9.—Mimulus lute'us, Hemerorallis<U+FB01>a-va, Rhododendron
ponticum, Ranunculus acrz's plenus, R. Flammula, and Digitalis
purpurea in <U+FB02>ower.        Mr. B. M. Forster discovered Cardamine
amara     in blow.     Roses begin to abound—Many prognostics
 of rain heard today; the peacock squalls; spiders creep on
 the walls much, and the cock crows all day at unwonted
 hours.     Tooth-ache and aims in the face prevail much.
     June 10.-——A rainy day has followed yesterday’s prognostics.
Papa-oer dubium in <U+FB02>ower.
     June ll.— St. Barnabas—Commencement                of the solstitial
period.      Gladiolus cmnmunis? in <U+FB02>ower; also yellow Allium,
and both Symphitum tuberosum and S. asperrimum ,- also a
hybrid variety.
‘
     June 17.——Malva sglvestrz's <U+FB02>owers in parts of Surry and
 Hampshire.          7
     June 24-.—This is the only year I remember when the
 ScarletLychnis was not in <U+FB02>ower by this day. An old poem
assigns it to St. John the Baptist, from its constancy to this
day, and my journals for <U+FB01>fteen years con<U+FB01>rm the fact.
     June 26.--L_yclmis chalcedonica just in <U+FB02>ower, but not com
mon yet.       All the four British species of swallow very nu
merous.       The weather at length warm. Campanula Medium
be ins to blow.
    June 27.—The purple Martagon Lil y(Lz'lz'um Pomponium a)
in blow, though some plants of the same species did not open
their <U+FB02>owers till about St. Swithin’s day.            Foxgloves begin
to             under the hedges. Strawberries plentiful in the
     rabound
       ens.
    June 29.—St. Peter and Paul. — A single <U+FB02>ower out on
Crepis barbata; the general <U+FB02>owering, however, took place a
fortnight later.     Anagallz's arvensz's begins to <U+FB02>ower.
    June 30.— Tropa’olum majus begins to <U+FB02>ower. Hay cut in
my <U+FB01>elds.       Cherries and raspberries ripe.
    July 1.-- VerbascumLychnitz's,Hieracium sylvaticum. Weath
er variable.
    Jul 2. —- Visitation of the B. V. Many—Do days begin.
Weat er changeable. Hemerocallis <U+FB01>d-va just eginning to
blow.      Garden poppies common.                                 .
    July 9.—@n0tkera biennis blows. The solstitial Flora is
now in perfection, though later than in most foregoing years.
The Lilium bulbg'fcrum, which flowered today, used always to
be out in June.       Much hay spoiled by the wet and uncertain
weather.      Indian Cress abundant.
                                                                    July

                           List of New Patents.                               79
   July l4-.-—The vigil of St. Swithin was announced by the
most tremendous storms of thunder and li htning ever re
membered by the oldest inhabitant of this vi<U+FB01>age.     Weather
hot and close.
   July l5.‘-—St. Swithin. The zestival period begins. Rain
early in the day.   Lilium candidum began to <U+FB02>ower; also the
white Papaver somngferum, Sonclzus cmruleus         variety in
                                                            (-3   (a
troduced by T. F. Forster, Esq.) in full blow. Weather warm.
Agrostemma    coronaria plentiful.  Scabiosa atropurpurea be
  'ns to <U+FB02>ower.
   July 16.-—Campanula rapunculoides and Inula Helem'um in
<U+FB02>ower.
   This year presents a very bad show of apples. Pears are
more numerous.      Strawberries, cherries and raspberries al
ready very abundant.
   Hartwell,
           J   nly 19, 1824.                                  T.       FORSTER.
                         LIST OF NEW PATENTS.
   To John Hobbins, of Walsall, Sta<U+FB02>‘ordshire, ironmonger, for his improve
ments in gas apparatus-Dated 22d June 1824.-—2 months allowed to en
rol speci<U+FB01>cation.                                                    7
   To Hum hry Austin, of Alderley Mills, Gloucestershire, manufacturer,
for certain improvements on shearing machines—22d June.—6 months.
   To John Benton Higgon, of Gravel-lane, Houndsditch, Middlesex,               n
tleman, for his improvement or addition to carving-knives and other aged
tools. —22d June—2 months.
   To William Busk, of Broad-street, in the city of London, merchant, for
certain improvements in the means or method of propelling ships, boats, or
other <U+FB02>oating bodies—29th June.—6 months.
   To William Pontifex the younger, of Shoe-lane, London, coppersmith
and engineer, for his improved modes of adjusting or equalizing the       res
sure of <U+FB02>uids or li  uids inpi es or tubes, and also an improved      mo    of
                                                                            e
measuring the sai <U+FB02>uids or iquids.—lst July.—6 months.
   To John Leigh Bradbury, of Manchester, Lancashire, for his mode of
twisting, spinning, or throwing silk, cotton, wool, linen or other threads or
<U+FB01>brous substances—M July.—2 months.
   To Philip Taylor, of the City Road, Middlesex, engineer, for certain
im rovements on steam-engines.—3d        July.—6 months.
     o'John Lane Higgins, of Oxford-street, Middlesex, esquire, for certain
im rovements in the construction of the masts, yards, sails, and rigging of
ships and smaller vessels, and in the tackle used for working or navrgating
the   same.-7th July.—6   months.
  To William Hirst and John Wood, both of Leeds, Yorkshire, manu
<U+FB01>acturers, for certain improvements in machinery for raising or dressing of
cloth.-7th July. —6 months.
  To Jose  h   Clisild Daniell, of Stoke, Wiltshire, clothier, for his improved
method 0 weaving woollen cloth. ~7th July.—2 months.
  To Charles Phillips, of Repnor, in the parish of rendsbury, Kent,
                                                          F
enquire, for certain improvements     on tillers and steering wheels of vessels
of various denominations—13th July.—6 months.
                                                                  A lVIETEORO

                                                                                                                          BURNEY         at                     Mr.         CARY    in     London,        and Mr.    VEALL      at Boslon.
A                                             TABLE:                               the Observation:       qur.                                     Goa-port,
    METEOROLOGICAL                                                 comprising
                                                                                             CLOUDS.                                     of          Thermometer.                       RADL
          .GOSPoR-r,at                                     o’Clock,   A-M.                                                     Height
                                 half-past     Eight                               \                                                                                          M
                                                                                                                                               in
                         Q-                                                                 .               -
                         =              11    .-      E-        -
                                                                       .                    5   -                vi       11mg”;
                                                                                                                            nces,             c.     __          'z'               ='
    Daysof               “‘03     5          _3                         2;        kg                                                                                                           5                                LL“
    M°""‘-                        E          55%-     i"                               1:                        --       Loud.          Bast.         -   8   :1:
                                                                                                                                                                     °
                                                                                                                                                                              9    0           8
                                                                                                                                                                                                          L°““°“'            BM“
     1824.                5%
                                   <U+FB02>         0    _                    >          50         _      13‘                                                              “6'          >-            ”
                                                                      2                                                                 8116-         £55
                         95      EL      3.1                                      5%    058212251“-
                                                                                                1         1                                                            58          1-50                   Fair       Cloudy
                                   59             5   55       W             ..    ....“1             .    ......         30.08         2967
                                                                                                                                                      57767
.June26                  30-04          49-                                                                   1                                                                                                      Fine
                                                                                        1      1,             1           30-04         29-05                          63                                 Cloudy                          [3pm.
           27            30-06     61                                                                                                                 57'6860
                                                                                                                                                                       66                                 Fair       Fin0.—Tlior.           73-5
           28                      65                                                          1.,            1...            29-99     29-50         6077062
                         29-97                                                                             l                                                                                              Fair       ClOUdy,    heavyrain
           29            29-72     67
                                                                                                           l                  29'74     2935          62 7055          66'5
                                                                                                                                                                                                -67       Fair       Cloudy    [thunqmm
                                   64                                                                         1...            29-93     29-40         55167
           30            29-93                                                                                                                                 57761                                      Fair       Fine,  ruin p.111.
                                   65
                                                                                                              1               29-83     29-40         60768
                                                                                                                                                               59 62-5
 July                    29-90                                                                                                                                                                      '6               Cloudy
             1 2                                                                                                              29-64     29-15                                                             Showery
                         2962      64                                                                                                                 597060|63                                                             brisk wind.
 1)                      2969
                                                                                                            ll        1 1 1
                                                                                                                              29-65     29-13         6016655163
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Showery    Fine,
                                                                                                              1...            29-84      29-30        56 65 55158                  1'70                   Showery    Cloudy, rain Inn.
                         29-76                                                                                                                                                                                       Cloudy
                                                                                                                              30-04      29-63        60166 57 59                               ~27       Cloudy
                         30-02
                                                                                                                              2990       29-50                                                            Showery    Fillc,rai11p_m.
                         29-90                                                                                                                        60L6560L62
                         2992
                                                                                                              Il      1 1 1
                                                                                                                              29'88      29'50        60.6664   61‘5                                      Showery    Cloudy        [371.111.
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Fair       Fine.—Ther.75'5
                                                                                                                              3006       2950         667066167
                         30'04                                                                                                                                                                            Fair                   show-cry
                                                                                                                    ...       29‘95      29'55                                                                       Cloudy,
                                                                                                                                                      66175166-V64
             3456 78 9
                         30-00                                                                                                                                                                            Fair       Fine,
                                                                                                                              30‘00      29'45                                                  ‘04                          [a.m&p.m.
             10          30-00                                                                                                                        60‘7‘2‘62265                                        Foir       Fine
                                                                                                                                                                                   0-10                                            [3]).";
O            11                                                                                                               30-12      2968         601736262
                         30-15                                                                                                                                                                            Fair       Fine.-   Ther.78‘0.
             12                                                                                                               30-12      29-54        601'7663770
                         30-10                                                                                                                                                             .-        .    Fair       Fine         [&p.m.
                                                                                                                              30-13      2960         637872165
             13          30-10                                                                                                                                                                                        Fine, showery mm.
             14          2995
                                                                                                              l       11
                                                                                                                              30'01     i29-43        72i77
                                                                                                                                                            69173                       i       -20
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Tempest
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Fair       Cloudy,          rain (1.111.
                                                                                                          1...                29-98     -29-40        607262y63-5
             15          29-95                                                                                                                                                           .           ..               Fine
                                                                                                              ..              30-15       29-65       667260365                                           Showery
             16          30-12                                                                                                                                                     l                      Fair        Fine
                                                                                                               .      1       30-30      29-75        64_70|60162-5
             17          30-24                                                                                                                                                     060                    Fair        Fine
             18                                                                                                               30-35      29-85        6076960164
                         30-27                                                                                                                                 62                                         Fair        Fine
    (1                                                                                                                        30-50      30-          607059
             19          30-50                                                                                                                                 61                                         Fair        Fine
                                                                                                                              30-44      29-92        59170            63
             20          30-47                                                                                                                                                                            Fair        Fine
                                                                                                              1...            30-33      29-80                         63
             21          30-30                                                                                                                        61'7060                                             Fair
                                                                                                                              3033       29-85        607061           66                                            Cloudy
             22          30-31
                                                                                                                                                                       70-5                               Fair       Fine
                                                                                                              1...            30-20      29-66        6475 63
             23          30-24
                                                                                                              1     .
                                                                                                                    .                                 63 75 60         67                                 Fair       Fine          '
             24          30-00                                                                                                29-93      29-37
                                                                                                                              29-94      29-40        5970 64          62-5         0-00                  Fair       Fine
             2‘5         29'94

                                              THE
         PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
              AND JOURNAL.
                                                                            '
                            31“       A UG US T         1824.
    XII.        The Theory       of   Vegetable Physiology of   M     AUBE_RT
         DU PE’l‘I'l‘ THOUARS;          or of the Increase of Plants by means
         of Buds, or <U+FB01>red Embryos.            By JOHN LINDLEY, Esq.
         To   the   Editors ofthe Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
              Gentlemen,
          WISH     to direct the attention of naturalists in this coun
              try to           theory Of vegetable physiology which
                       a curious
     arose in France several       ears since, but which has not yet
     attracted notice here. 'lyhe author, M. du Petit Thouars,             is,
     equally remarkable for the originality of his opinions, and for
     the dexterity and ingenuity with which he supports them.
     They are scattered over many separate works, and have been
     published piecemeal and at long intervals of time; so that even
     in his own countr where his works are best known, few per
                             ,
     sons can be foun who are acquainted with the precise nature
     of his theory, or who will take the trouble to consider the
     plain propositions upon which         supported, divested of their
                                              it   is
     discursive and deeply metaphysical illustrations.
.       This theor has always appeared to me to be a most re
     markable explanation of most of the phenomena of vegetable
     increase; and     Ihave for a long time hoped that some notice
     would have been taken of        in those of our elementary works
                                        it
     which are devoted to the subject of vegetable physiology.
        Whether the opinions of M. du Petit Thouars are founded
    on true or false reasoning,          not necessary now to inquire.
                                         it   is
     They are at least the opinions of a man of high reputation as
    a botanist and philosopher; they have never been contradicted
    by any writer of talent, and from their peculiarity and inge
    nuity are certainly deserving of attention.          therefore have
                                                            I
    subjoined    to  this communication     the principal propositions
    connected with the theory, extracted from the latest pub
    lication of the author, in which they have all been collected.
    Ifit  should appear that suf<U+FB01>cient interest exists among botanists
    in this country to induce you to occupy the pages of your
        Vol. 64. No. 316. Aug. 1824.                     L      Journal

82      M. du Petit Thouars’ Theory of Vegetable Physiology.
Journal with a continuation of the subject,             I will at future
opportunities arrange under their respective heads the principal
facts and arguments upon which the theory is supported.
                                  I  am, gentlemen, yours    truly,
Turnham Green, July 26, 1824.                        JOHN LINDLEY.
     1. The BUD is the <U+FB01>rst visible moveable point of vegetation.
     One exists at the axilla of every lea<U+FB01>
    It is manilést in the greater number of dicotyledonous plants
and     of grasses.
    It is  latent in monocotyledonous    plants, in which it exists only
as a vital point.
    The leaf therefore is to the bud what the <U+FB02>ower is to the
 fruit and seed.
    2. The bud is at <U+FB01>rst supported by the juices contained in
the utricles of the interior vegetable substance or parenchyma.
This is the operation by which the parenchyma             is reduced to
 the state    of pitlz.
     That part is therefore analogous to the cotyledon of the
 SEED     or SEMINAL EMBRYO.
     3.  As soon as the bud is formed, it is subject to two general
 movements.
    The one is a motion upwards, or an ae'rz'al motion;
     The other is a motion downwards, or a terrestrial motion.
     From the <U+FB01>rst proceed the embryos of leaves,
     Analogous to which is the plumule;
     From the second proceeds the formation of the new <U+FB01>bres
 of the wood or bark,                                 I
     Analogous      to  which is the  radicle.
     4. Each of these <U+FB01>bres is formed at the expense of the
 ('ambium, or of the sap produced by the <U+FB01>rst <U+FB01>bres and de
 posited between the wood and bark.
     The <U+FB01>bres carry downwards the matter necessary for their
 own elongation,
     Which matter is the descending sap.
     5. The development of the bud consists in the a'érial or
         elongation of these <U+FB01>bres;
 leaiyach of which, attracted by the leafy extremity, carries up
 wards with it the matter necessary for its own elongation,
     Which matter is the ascending sap.
     6. From this sap are formed two            eneral substances, the
 woody and the parenchymatons.               (W rich were long ago re—
 cognised         Grew.)
     The woody is disposed in <U+FB01>bres which undergo no
                                                                 chanrlge.
                                                                         1e

               On Selenium from Lu/cawitz in Bohemia.                        83 >
    The parenchymatous appears formed, in the outset, of de
 tached particles which unite and form utricles; so that it
 assists in the process of increase in every direction.                   This
 is the only substance which is susceptible of a green co
 lour.
    7.    The sap is the food of plants.
    It   is pumped up, in the form of moisture, by the roots, and
it becomes exposed to the atmosphere in the leaves.
    In the <U+FB01>rst instance it has a common use; but finally it
 receives a particular destination according to the kinds of
plants and their parts.
    It is only carried to the points where it is wanted, so that
there is no universal circulation.
    Being composed, principally, of the two general substances
of which mention has been made, the woody and the paren
chymatous, as soon as one of these is employed in the process
of ve etation, it is necessary that the other should be disen
gage and deposited in the vicinity; so that the application
of one substance is the separation of the other.
XIII.       On the Ea'traction of Selenium <U+FB02>ow the Residuam of the
    Sulphuric Acid Worlrs of Lulrawitz in Bohemia iand on the
    Cause of the Odour of Tellurium.            By PI‘Q/essor SCHOLZ,
    the Polytechnic Institution of Vienna.*
   N      the winter of the years 1821-2, I examined the thick
      matter which collects in the leaden chambers of the Auer
sperg manufactory of sulphuric acid at Lukawitz in Bohemia,
and which, from its gray colour inclining to red, had excited
the attention of M. Schrattenbach, the director of the works,
and a very active man, who delights in the promotion of the
natural sciences.         A few experiments upon it with chemical
tests immediately showed that it contained selenium, of which
I have now extracted from it several ounces in its purest
form.       As this resi‘duum was not of such a compound nature
as that of the Gripsholm Works, from which Berzelius <U+FB01>rst
extracted selenium, I was enabled to make use of a process
much more simple than the one he adopted to obtain that
body. The substance was introduced into a tubulated retort,
with muriatic acid and a little nitric acid ; and nitric acid being
added from time to time, was evaporated nearly to dryness on
a sandheat.        It was now repeatedly lixiviated with boiling
water; the solution <U+FB01>ltered, concentrated by evaporation, and
mixed with a solution ofsulphite of ammonia, which had been
     * 'From  Schweigger’s Journal f iir C/wmie, &c.
                                          2
                                                     N. R. band viii. p- 231
                                                                  prepared,

84'                On Selenium from Luka'witz in Bohemia.
prepared, immediately previous to its application, by passing
sulphurous acid gas                   a solution of carbonate of am
monia.      The precipitatethrough
                                 t us produced was collected on a
<U+FB01>lter, and <U+FB01>rst edulcorated with cold and afterwards with hot
water.     On boiling the <U+FB02>uid which had passed the <U+FB01>lter, and
which had a strong smell of sulphurous acid, nothing more
was separated from           either alone or with further addition.
                            it,
The bulky red precipitate became diminished in a consider
able degree on pouring the hot water upon             it, and changed in
colour to lead-gray, and then most resembled the gray pow
der which        obtained by exposing the triple-salt of platinum
                   is
to red heat. The powder was now distilled in a small glass re
      a
tort; but required a considerably greater heat than
               it                                                 is neces
sary for the distillation of sulphur;        viz.a   dark  red  heat,   until
the retort began       to  soften.    In  this  process I    observed     the
same changes of colour         and   lustre,   accordiu     to the various
circumstances of cooling and the different modi<U+FB01>cations of the
state of the aggregate mass, as those which have been de
scribed by Berzelius.          To detail the experiments        I    subse
quently    undertook    with   this  new   and    interesting   substance,
would, as obtained no new results, merely serve to con<U+FB01>rm
                   I
the statements of that chemist; which would be the more su
per<U+FB02>uous, as his well—known exactness and veracity allow no
room for doubt.          Icannot however agree with BerZelius in
arranging selenium with the metals, now that am acquainted
                                                      I
with     from my own observation; but
          it                                   I    have given    it, in my
lectures, a place among the simple in<U+FB02>ammable bodies, as they
are called, immediately succeeding sulphur.
    The sulphur burnt in the chambers of the manufactory at
Lukawitz         obtained from pyrites found in the vicinity of
                   is
that place, and the enormous abundance of which occasioned
the establishment of these works.            A quantity of the     p    rites
was sent me as a sample; but they did not differ in their ex
ternal appearance from ordinary pyrites, nor could our mine
ralogists here observe any distinguishing characters in them.
I  assayed them for selenium, but could not discover any; so
that     must either occur in them in such small proportion as
          it
to escape detection by the usual tests, or in single specimens
only, and those which       Iexamined must have accidentally been
free from it.
_
    In the course of last winter    I    had opportunity of con<U+FB01>rm
ing, by   direct  experiments,    the  supposition of Berzelius, that
the smell of tellurium in vapour might be owing to selenium.
M. R. von Gersdorf, the principal assayer here, and of equal
ability as achemist and mineralogist, gave me, for further exami
nation,     portion of sulphur which he had obtained by distil
               a
                                                                      lation

         Mr. Fothergill    0n the  Natural History of the Toad.          85
lation from a great quantity of ore of tellurium (particularly
from the foliated ore of Nagyag, with at most <U+FB01>ve per cent. of
the matrix).        From this ore, freed by distillation from a part of
its sulphur, he has reduced the metal in              eater quantit , pro
bably, than it has yet been procured in y others. T e sul
phur      I received from him, the appearance of which already
denoted it to contain selenium, yielded, by the process above
described, thirty grains of that substance in a state of purity.
I regret, that owing to the nature of the material examined,
it was not in m power to determine whether all the ores of
tellurium, or on y certain species or varieties of them, contain
selenium; and also that          I was unable to direct my attention
to the uantitv they may contain.            It is now ascertained, how
ever, t at tellurium derives its odour from selenium; for the
pure tellurium         reduced by M. von Gersdorf emits while
burning, or by partial oxidation during sublimation, merely
the smallest indication of that smell, which, since Klaproth’s
investigation, has been considered as a characteristic of this
metal.
   Vienna, July 4, 1823.
     XIV.    Hints towards      the Natural History of       the Toad *.
                    By WILLIAM FOTHERGILL, Esq.
              remote    antiquity  to the present enlightened age, the
FROM    toad has had the unmerited        misfortune to be considered
as venomous in no common degree; which has subjected it
to every species of cruelty that prejudiced ignorance could
in<U+FB02>ict. -If the following observations, illustrative of its true
manners and habits, should have the effect of procuring it
better treatment, by proving, not only its innocency, but use
fulness in the oeconomy of nature, the writer will re<U+FB02>ect with
satisfaction on the time devoted to this friendless reptile.
     Toads leave the place of their retreat for the winter the.
<U+FB01>rst mild weather in the spring, and their <U+FB01>rst work appears
to be the propagation of their species; to accomplish which,
they resort to watery ditches, pools, and the weedy margins of
lakes: the spawn is extruded from the female in a lon string
resembling small beads connected by a transparent ge<U+FB01>itinous
substance; the male sits perched upon the back of the female,
and the spawn is impregnated during extrusion.                  The writer
has never been so fortunate as to see him perform the o<U+FB02>ice
of accoucheur as related by Demours in the Memoirs of the
French Academy; but he will not assert that such a circum
   ‘l' Some extracts from this paper were given in the Linnaean Transactions
vol. xiii. p. 618.
                                                                     stance

 86               Mr. Fothergill’s Hints towards
stance never takes place: yet    if any one attentively considers the
structure and position of the binder legs, he will be convinced
of the dif<U+FB01>culty, if not impracticability, of bringing them to
bear in such an operation.         The <U+FB01>rst part of the string is
probably extruded by a peristaltic motion of the ovarium; and
when this is of-a su<U+FB02>icient length, the female entangles the end
by swimming round the stalks of weeds or small twigs, which
 when once accomplished all the dif<U+FB01>culty is over, as she then
swims in any direction that may happen, taking care fre
quently to surround any weeds or stalks of aquatic plants
capable of suf<U+FB01>cient resistance; and as the male keeps his
station during the whole process (which continues several
days) their joint e<U+FB02>‘orts in swimming are su<U+FB01>icient for the pur
pose of delivery.    Thus entangling the chain of spawn e<U+FB01>'ccts
a double purpose, by expediting the extrusion, and securing
it from being swept away by the current or any inundation
that may take place previous to the eggs bewming tadpoles.
    The young fry having assumed their perfect form, leave the
water and spread over the adjoining meadows, some years in
countless multitudes, and are the favourite food of many birds,
and even of such toads as are of suf<U+FB01>cient growth to swallow
them.
    Thou h incapable of bearing much cold, the toad is impa
tient of cat, and never of choice takes up its residence for the
day in a situation exposed to the rays of the sun, but generally
in some dark corner overshadowed by the foliage of tall
growiug plants or shrubs, where it patiently waits like the
spider in its web, ready to dart its formidable tongue upon
any luckless insect that may come near; for durin the heat
of the day it is rarely seen crawling abroad in searc of pre ;
yet it will greedin seize what casually comes within its reac ,
and even pursue a little distance, but whether it succeeds or
is disappointed (if not disturbed) retreats to its station, and
often in a backward direction.           Its beautiful eyes stand so
prominent   as to enable it to see   its  prey <U+FB01>'om whatever quarter
it may approach. Its tongue when at rest is conical, very elastic
and capable of great elongation, and covered with glutinous
saliva to which small insects adhere when struck; its basis is
<U+FB01>xed just within the anterior rim of the lower mandible,
and the apex extended back towards the throat, in which it
differs from every English reptile the writer is acquainted with,
the fro excepted, which takes its food in the same manner,
but, belng endowed with superior locomotive powers, does not
use its‘tongue with the admirable dexterity of the toad. In
the upper and lower mandible are two protuberances, by
means of which it instantly squeezes to death bees and wasps
previous to deglutition.                                          Its.

                      the   Natural   I-Iz'slory    ofthe Toad.                            87
    Its food is small worms, bees, wasps, spiders, caterpillars,
 maggots,   beetles, and in short insects of almost every de
 scription, except butter<U+FB02>ies, and even these it will occasionally
  take when their wings are shortened. Although capable of sus
  taining long abstinence, when opportunity o<U+FB02>'ers, it is a vora
  cious feeder. To mention one instance may be suf<U+FB01>cient. The
  writer gave a middle-sized toad nine wasps *, one immediately
  after another; the tenth it refused: this was in the forenoon;
  in the afternoon of the same day he gave it eight more, the
  ninth it followed with devouring eyes, but did not strike it.
       To see the toad display its full energy of character, it is
  necessary to discover it in its place of retirement for the day,
  and, if possible, unperceived, drop a caterpillar, small worm,
  large <U+FB02>y, bee, Sac. within its sight, and it immediately arouses
   from its apparent torpor,             its eyes sparkle, it moves with
  alacrity to    its  prey,  and  the   whole    reptile assumes a degree of
   animation quite contrary          to   its general sluggish appearance:
  when arrivedat a proper distance, it makes a full stop, and, in
   the attitude of a pointer, motionless eyes its destined victim
   for a few seconds, when it darts out its tongue upon                     and    it,
  lodges    it in  its throat,  with   a   velocity   the eye can  scarcely fol
  low. It sometimes happens to make an ineffectual stroke, and
  stuns the insect without gorging             it, but never makes a second
  till the object of its prey resumes motion.
       The writer has never succeeded in rendering any so com
  pletely domestic as that mentioned by                      J.
                                                           Arscott, Esq. in his
  letter to Pennant; yet he has certainl familiarised several so
   far as to have reason to believe himself and family were distin
   guished from strangers.          One summer, happening accidentally
   to remove an inverted garden pot which had a part of its
   rim broken out, he found            a    toad had taken up its residence
  winder it; he quietly replaced the pot, and instantly com
   menced feeding       it  with every variety of insects he could pro
   cure, which, when dropped before the hole in the pot,                  would  it
    march out and immediately seize, and retire to its hole until                              a
   fresh insect attracted its attention. Almost every evening                left     it
    its station to ramble about the garden, but uniformly returned
    early in the morning to its favourite situation under the pot.
    This was continued several weeks; but happening to have a
    party who were desirous to see            it  feed,    appeared unusually
                                                               it
    shy  and   restless;   in  the  evening        itquitted  its place, and re
’
    turned   no  more    that  season.      In the  succeeding summer either
    the  same   toad,   or another    so  like     as
                                                   it  not to be distinguished,
    took up   its  residence   under    the   same   pot,  which was diligently
    ’-"
          \Vasps, bees, &c. must be deprived of         a   wing previously   to their being
  drOpped     before the toad.                                                             ‘
                                                                                           ted

  88              Mr. Fothergill’s Hints towards
  fed   during the summer; this was continued several years,
  making its <U+FB01>rst appearance the latter end of May, and re
 treating about the middle of September.             That this toad di
  stin uished the writer and the persons of his family (who were
  in t e daily habit of feeding it) from strangers, he cannot
  doubt, as it would permit them to stroke and pat it without
  discovering much inclination to hide itself from observation.
  What exit it made was never known.
     J. Arscott, Esq. in his letter to Pennant before alluded to,
  says,
         “ I imagine if a bee was placed before a toad, it would
 certainly eat it to its cost.”   This was undoubtedly a mistaken
 idea, as the Apis melli<U+FB01>ea, conica, terrestris, and the Vespa
 vulgaris, are its favourite food, the writer                   for many
 years given them in large quantities to many         havirfiig
                                                        di erent toads
 with perfect impunity, and n0 otherwise disabled than having
 a wing cut off to prevent their             away.    When they have
 struck any of the above insects,    <U+FB02>yintg            does not imme
 diately take place as in other cases, eglutltion
                                               ut the lower mandible
 remains closel compressed against the upper for a few se
 conds, in whic time the bee or wasp is killed and all danger
 of being stun avoided. The protuberances in the upper and
 lower mandib e, before remarked, appear to be destined for
 this o<U+FB02>ice.
     A <U+FB01>ne toad having taken up its abode in aconvenient situa
tion for feeding, some bone was spread on a leaf, and placed
                                '
at a little distance from it.     he honey soon attracted a number
of <U+FB02>ies and wasps, and it was surprisin to see the caution with
which it approached the leaf, and its exterity in striking the
insects as they alighted; pleased with its situation and en
tertainment, it resorted to the same place many days. One
morning another toad had                    itself about a foot distant
from the former; a variety 0 (placed
                                   insects were dropped one by one
between them; their attention was mutually attracted, and
they frequently set at the same insect; yet the disappointed
toad never discovered the least resentment or vindictive spirit,
nor did the writer on this or any other occasion ever observe
the least disposition to quarrel with or annoy each other.
     Having for man years fed toads with a great variety of
insects, it occurl:      to the writer to try them with the young
of their own species. A small one (about three-fourths of an
inch long) was procured and dropped before a full -grown
toad: as soon as the little victim began to move o<U+FB01>', it was
eagerly pursued, struck at, and fairly swallowed. This experi
ment has been frequentl repeated with many different toads,
with various success, and it must be admitted that more will
refuse than devour the young of their own species.
                                                                     To

                       the   Natural Histmy qft/ze Toad.                 89
     .To try their indiscriminate appetite further, some living
  minows (Cyprinus Pkowz'nus) were procured, and one of them
  dropped before a toad: so soon as it began to struggle its no
  tice was attracted, and having approached to a proper distance
  it viewed it with attention, and after some time made a stroke;
  but being slippery,      did not adhere suf<U+FB01>ciently to its tongue
                              _it
  to bring   itinto its mouth; but the minow continuing to
                                                              strug
  gle, the stroke was repeated, and the minnow swallowed.
  A<U+FB02>zer a few minutes a second was dropped,
                                                 nearly two inches
  long, at which some feeble and ine<U+FB01>'ectual strokes were made;
  the minnow was taken up alive and put into water.
                                                               Ne‘xt
  morning the toad was observed in the same place; the min
 now dropped before         which
                               it,  struck at vigorously and fairly
                                       it
  swallowed.                                      _
     One trait in the character of the toad must not be passed
 over without notice, and that            is,
                                     its uniformly refusing to feed
 on dead insects, however recent. To ascertain whether the'
 effects of .hunger would not overcome this aversion, a vigor
 ous toad was placed in a large garden pot, and          number of
                                                                a
 recently dead bees put in along with         and covered so as to
                                                    it,
 admit air, but prevent the access of any insect large enough
 for to feed upon; at the expiration of six or seven days, on
      it
examination        was found not a bee had been touched; yet the
                  it
writer from many years’ experience knows that when alive
they are a favourite food. It may be alleged that this was not
a fair experiment, and that being in a state of unnatural con
<U+FB01>nement was the cause; but that could not be the reason, as
they will generally eat living insects freely after one hour’s
imprisonment.
    About the time the Hirundines leave us, toads retire to
their winter quarters, which are in the bottoms of walls, roots
of hedges and close bushes, or any situation where they are
likely to be protected from the frosts of winter; and some even
burrow in the solid ground to adepth which the frost seldom
penetrates, not in numbers together like frogs, but solitarin          *.
   * In the sprin the writer has twice had an opportunity of
                                                                  detecting
them in the act 0 emerging from their annual interment.    Walking in his
orchard, as often as he happened to tread on one               spot a faint
squeak was heard, which bein frequently repeated, particular
                                                        was induced care
                                                            e
full to open the ground, and ound that toad had approached so near the
                                                a
surgice that the pressure of his foot had given    pain. The second was
                                                      it
ina  dry open meadow, and discovered by the uttering of the same sort of
squeak on treading on one place; and on opening the ground a toad was
found as in the <U+FB01>rst instance.                   _          _   '
   They burrow backwards, by the alternate motion of their hinder legs,
the writer having seen them in the very act.
   Vol.    64.   No.   316. Aug. 1824-.                    M'        The

90     Mr. Fothergill       on the   Natural History qftlze Toad.
     The   uses   of the slender billed small birds
                                                 have been long and
deservedly acknowledged    in  preventing,  or at least checking, the
noxious increase of many sorts of insects; and it is hoped the
unprejudiced reader will now consider toads as able coadjutors
in the work, and treat them with that indulgence they are so
justly entitled to. Whoever expels them from his premises (the
apiary excepted) is driving away useful servants. The writer
hopes he has established the character of toads as to their
usefulness; and that they are devoid of all poisonous or venom
ous qualities whatever, he is perfectly satis<U+FB01>ed from many
years’ observation and experience, having handled them in all
directions, opened their mouths, and given them every oppor
tunity and even provocation to exert their venomous powers,
if possessed of any. In short, he believes them to be the most
patient and harmless of all reptiles.
    The following observations being connected with the na
tural history of the toad, may perhaps not improperly follow
as addenda.
    The substance known by the name of star-jelly or star-shot
(Tremella Nostoc), found on marshy ground, is the decomposed
bodies of toads or frogs, but more particularly the latter, the
 writer having frequently found the exuviae of the reptile con
nected with       it,
                  and he has also seen the lacerated body of a
frog lying on the margin of lake one day, and the next seen
                                     a
it   converted into this substance, the atmosphere at the time
being very humid and the weather wet, which appear to be
necessary adjuncts to the formation of star-jelly.         It may be
 objected that this substance        sometimes found in places in
                                         is
 accessible to frogs and toads, as the tops of thatched barns,
hay-ricks, 8:0. This        easily accounted for; these reptiles
                             is
are the food of various birds of pre        and by them carried to
                                                  ,
 those situations to be devoured at ieir leisure; and
                                              t                scared if
in the act, the lacerated toad or frog       left behind, and
                                                   is              the     if
state of the weather and air        favourable to this mode of de
                                         is
composition,star~jelly      formed.
                             is         If the weather        hot andis
dry, they are converted into a hard leather substance.          Frogs
in particular are rarely decomposed                     by
                                                    usual process of
                                                        t    e
animal putrefaction.
    Pennant         “ The gelatinous substance known by the
name of star-ssays,
                  0t or star-jelly, owes its ori in t0 the winter
mew, or eoddy moddy, or some of the kin               being nothing
                                                                 ,
but the half-digested remains of earth-worms on which these
birds feed, and often discharge from their stomachs.”
    It not contended that this ma not in part be true; but
      is
no part of the star-jelly the writer              has
                                            ever seen could derive
                                                                    its

                   Dr. Jenner     on the   Migration quz'rds.                91
7   its origin from this source, as neither the winter mew nor
    any of its congeners ever make any stop, and are rarely seen
    in his neighbourhood.
          Carr End.                                WILLIAM FOTHERGILL.
    XV.        Some Observations      on the   Migration of Birds.      By   the
          late EDWARD JENNER,         MD. ER,S.       ,-   with an Introductory
          Letter   to   Sir HUMPHRY DAVY, Bart. Pres. R.S.,                  the
          Rev. G. C. JENNEn.
                                  [Concluded from p. 60.]
          PROCEED             now to make some observations on another
        kind of migration, directly opposite to the foregoing, namely,
    the return of the spring migrators to their respective hornes.
       The great disproportion in numbers between those species
    of birds which quit the country in summer, and those that
    leave it at the autumnal season, has led naturalists to lose sight
    of the early mi rators, and to con<U+FB01>ne their re<U+FB02>ections on the
 subject to the late ones only.     Hence the common obserya»
 tion, that they are all driven off through a failure of food or
a cold temperature of the air.      But seeing that many of them
disappear in the summer season, when food is placed before
them in the greatest plenty, we must seek for some other
cause.          If
             we examine what is now going forward in the ani
mal economy, dissection will point out a change in the testes
and ovaria, the very opposite to that which took place in the
spring. These parts now begin to shrink *, the disposition
for raising a further progeny ceases, and the nuptial knot is
dissolved.    What inducement have they to stay longer in that
country where,            I
                    think, it clearly appears their chief object is
to multiply their species? This being now effected, they re
tire to different parts of the globe, doubtless better suited to
their general dispositions and wants, when disengaged from
parental duties.    In many of the migrating species, indeed in
the far greater number, the disposition for further incubation,
and the season for their procuring a further supply of insect
food, cease at the same time.      It is pretty evident from the
habits of the cuckoo and the swift, that quit us in the summer
as soon as their nesting is at an end, that swallows, martins,
and those birds that disappear in the autumn, would depart
at an earlier season, even though their supplies were to con
tinue, if the rearing of their young were perfected. Indeed,
as has been before observed, so strong does this propensity
      '  I examined a female cuckoo the <U+FB01>rst week in July, and found the
                                                                     -
    oviduct shrivelled, and all the eggs dis osed of.
          ~.                                 NT1
                                               2                           now

92             Dr. Jenner     on the  Migration qf Birds.
 now and then appear, that it overcomes even the obligation
 of rearing their young when hatched late in the                season, and
 they are sometimes left in a callow state to perish in their
 nests.    This premature departure, probably arises from a re
 verse of that stimulus which occasions the too early migra
 tion of the spring birds, as has been noticed in a former part
 of this essay, namely, a change which takes place in organi
 zation.
    One of the most sin ular occurrences in the history of mi
 gration, is the mode 0 departure of the young birds from the
 country where they were produced.              It may be conceived that
 the bird which had once crossed the Atlantic, or any other
 ocean, might have something impressed upon it that should
 prove an inducement to its return; but this cannot be an in
 citement to the young one.          The identical bird, which but a
 few weeks before burst from the shell, now unerrin ly <U+FB01>nds,
without any apparent guide, a track that leads it sa ely to the
 place of its destination, perhaps in many instances over the
                                           ‘
 widest oceans.
    It is well known, that those birds which incubate several
 times in the course of one summer, forsake their <U+FB01>rst broods
 when they no longer require their protection: and being now
 alienated, they cannot, in their parents, <U+FB01>nd the guides that
conduct their course.          As swallows and martins con regate*
prior    to  their  departure from us, it may be said t at their
young, though      discarded,    may mingle with the common <U+FB02>ock,
and in this particular instance          I  am ready to admit that it is
probable they may do so; but there are many migrating birds
that never either associate with swallows and martins, or join
together in <U+FB02>ocks, as the nightingale, redstart, and indeed the
far greater number. As a striking proof that the parent bird
cannot possibly be the guide, in one instance at least, we may
point out the'cuckoo, whose offspring <U+FB01>nds a distant shore in
perfect safety, although it could never know the parent to
whom it was indebted for existence, and though its existence
in numberless instances must have taken place even after the
departure of the parent.         For the old cuckoos invariably leave
as early in July, when many of their eggs are yet unhatched
in the nests of those small birds to whose fostering care they
   * Swallows and martins
                             congregate on the sunny sides of buildings for
the sake of warmth, and not, as it is generally supposed, to hold a kind of
consultation previous to their <U+FB01>nal departure.     In the wet summer of1821,
When the air was unusually chilled by the long continued rains, they were
observed to assemble, during some intervals of sunshine, for several succes
sive mornings, as early as the middle of July ; and in the present year
                                                                        (1822)
I remarked the same on some mornings that were unseasonably cold about
the middle of August.
                                                                           are

                 Dr. Jenner   on the   Migration of Birds.              93
are    intrusted.    Compared with quadrupeds, and some other
animals, birds may be considered as acquiring the adult state
at an early period, and the young bird, at the time of its leav
ing us, may be looked upon as possessing power equal to the
old one in procurin food, velocity of <U+FB02>ight, 810. The parent
bird, from having <U+FB01>ost that stimulus by the subsidin of the
testes and ovaria, which urged it to incubation and detained
it here, is now reduced to‘a condition similar to that of its
offspring, both falling into the same habits, and remaining in
the same state with respect to organization, until the return
ing calls of nature urge them to quit that country again to
which they are now about to depart.
                                   II.
                        Winter Birds   qf Passage.
    “ We have,     ’tis hoped, made it pretty evident that summer
birds of passage come to and depart from us at certain seasons
of the year, merely for the sake of a more agreeable degree of
warmth, and a greater plenty of food; both which advantages
they procure by an alternate change of climate; but the mi
  ration of winter birds of passage, and particularly of <U+FB01>eld
 ares and redwings, is much more dif<U+FB01>cultto be accounted for,
there bein no such apparent necessity either on the score of
food or climate, for their departure from us.”—Mr. Catesby,
Phil. Trans. N0. 483.
    The winter birds of passage, as they are commonly called,
begin to take their leave of us about the same time that the
spring migrators are taking wing to pay us their annual visit.
As the latter appear among us in gradual succession, so in
like manner the former disappear. They are both actuated
by the same impulse, the former in leaving, and the latter in
coming to this country, namely, the enlarged state of the testes
and ovarium.        As soon as the stimulus becomes su<U+FB02>iciently
felt, they quit their homes in quest of a country better suited
to their intended purpose than their own.
    That a want of food cannot be the inducement, must be
obvipus to the slightest observer. When the redwing and
<U+FB01>eldl'are quit this country, it abounds with that food which
they prefer to any other; and at this time they are in the <U+FB01>nest
condition; the redwings often enjoying their plenty by assem
bling together on trees, and there uniting their feeble voices,
make no unpleasant song i“.
   4' The same thing happens through the winter, whenever      the weather
has long continued so mild as to allow them plenty of insect food.     The
starling (and some other birds which have a short note and weak voice)
unites with its companions in the spring, and forms a similar concert.
                                                               ‘
                                                                        he

 9~1~            Dr. Jenner    on the  Migration of Birds.
      The winter birds (the females at least) may be said to seek
 a better accommodation, upon the same principle as the poor
 woman who uits her cottage for the comforts of a yin -in
  Hospital.         ere, both herself and suckling are for a wiile
 supported in that peculiar way which their situations at that
 time require.       For this reason, conceiving it will tend to lessen
 confusion, I choose to call this country the home of the winter
 birds (though not natives), and the countries from whence they
 come, the home of the summer birds, looking upon the latter
 merely as visitors; and let it be recollected how soon the visits
 of some of them are paid; for, being governed by an unerring
 principle, they stay to accomplish one great design only, that
 of rearing their young, and then return.
      The countries to which many of the winter birds retire not
 bein very far distant, are better known to us than those to
 whici the summer birds migrate; but I must forbear enter
 ing into an inquiry upon this subject, as remote from the de
 sign of this paper; and indeed it may be thought I have al
 ready, in some instances, digressed too widely from my original
 purpose.
      The migration of the winter birds is less distinctly marked
 than that of the spring mi rators.          The snipe, the wild-duck,
 the wood-pigeon, breed ere in considerable numbers; the
 two latter indeed, particularly the wood-pigeon, are so nu
merous in summer, that we should hardly be reminded of the
migration, did they not pour in upon us in such immense
<U+FB02>ocks in the winter.           They are accompanied by the stock
dove, which I have never known to breed here. The home
bred wild-ducks are easily distinguished by the men who at
tend decoy-pods, by the meanness of their plumage, when
compared to the brightness of those birds which come from
              The former are taken some weeks earlier than the
1abroad.
  atter.
     The most conspicuous among the winter migrating birds
are the redwings and <U+FB01>eldfares.             These are regular and uni
form in their appearance and disappearance, and I believe
never risk the trial of incubation here, at least            I  never could
hear of a single instance.          The food of these birds has in the
works of every naturalist         I  have ever had access to, who had
written on the subject, been pointed out as the haw, the fruit
of the white-thorn *.
    This is an error that has long wanted a correction; for in
open weather they take                   in very scanty quantities, and
                                 them
       “ The
   '_        principal food of these birds, while with us, is the fruit of the
white-thorn, or haws, which hang on our hedges in winter in prodigious
plenty."--Ph1l. Trans. vol. xliv. p. 435. '
                                                                         feed

             Dr. Jenner         on the   Migration of Birds.                   95
feed on the ground on worms and such insects as they can
<U+FB01>nd.    Although repeated examinations of the contents of the
stomach have afforded the best proof of this, yet there is
scarcely any need of callino‘ in its aid in the present instance,
as we may be convinced            of,
                                 the fact, by seein    them in <U+FB02>ocks
feedin on the ground in open <U+FB01>elds and mea ows.                do notI
deny t   eir taking the haw and other vegetable food from the
hed es; but they do        in so sparing
                           it                  way, that
                                                  a          have re--
                                                                     I
maried, that redwings and <U+FB01>eldfai'es died through hunger
during the long continuance of frosty weather, while the haws
on the hed es were by no means de<U+FB01>cient.              The occasional
departure of these and some other winter birds during long               a
continued frost, must be very obvious.          The greater number
disappear soon after its commencement,               sets in very se
                                                      if   it
verely: some few are always left behind and are soon starved,
if not fortunately relieved by a thaw.        Those that are driven
to this necessitous migration, probably pursue a track that
         leads them out of the reach of frost.       Of these <U+FB02>i hts
guickly
  shall produce instances, which render           probable that
                                                      it           ey      t
are able even to outstrip its course.
   The approach of intense frost          often to a certaint made.
                                             is
known to us   b    the appearance of a numerous tribe 0 water
                ofy
birds, some       which are rare, and seldom show themselves
here on any other occasion.       We commonly see them three or
four days prior to the setting in of very severe frosty weather.
This was manifest at the latter end of the year 1794, at the
coming on of the severe season that ensued.              In the river
Severn, about a mile and a half to the westward of this place,
were seen and taken many species of water-birds, that gene
rally con<U+FB01>ne themselves to the more northern regions. Far
more pleasant   is    to see during the continuance of hard forst,
                      it
the return of those birds which had left us at the beginning.
These are pleasant omens, and most certame forebode a thaw.
The following example shows how soon they catch the <U+FB01>rst
opportunity of again seeking those countries from which they
were so lately driven by necessity.         The day preceding the
thaw, the frost being then intense, a gentleman who was
shooting observed a large <U+FB02>ock of <U+FB01>eldfares, birds that are
extremely common here in milder weather. They were as
much untamed as         no frost had appeared in our island.
                       if                                          He
had the good fortune to shoot one of them, which was
brought to me.    I    found       as fat and plump, and in every
                                   it
respect in as good condition, as           had remained here undis
                                          if it
turbed, and had found provision in the greatest plenty, though
it was without a particle of food in its stomach.        Its last meal
was digested; and the frost still remaining,            could   it
                                                                         <U+FB01>ncfl 00   mg

 96              Dr. Jenner   on the   Migration qf Birds.
  food for its present support.     Now it is very obvious that this
  bird, and its companions, must have taken a long <U+FB02>ight, and
  probably in a very short space of time; for the intense frost,
  that was of such duration and so severely felt here, extended
  far into the more southern parts of Europe, beyond which
  they must have resorted for that plenty of food which
                                                   -
                                                                     ave
  plumpness to the one I examined, and doubtless to the w ole
  <U+FB02>ock, from their appearing so wild and vigorous.            It clearly
  appears, that in their <U+FB02>ight they exceeded the progress of the
  thaw, as the northern birds did that of the frost.        This thaw,
 though it was again succeeded by frost, came on very rapidly,
 and occasioned, by the sudden                of the snow, those de
 structive inundations through themelting
                                       king om, that will not readily
 be forgotten.
     This account of the <U+FB01>eldfare sets the fact of mi ration,
                                                              ofg
 though from an accidental cause, beyond the reach               doubt.
 There was no support for      ithere; the ground was deeply co
 vered with snow, and the intense frost, by its long duration,
 had destro ed every thing that could afford            it succour;  it
 must there ore have taken a long <U+FB02>ight from this country,
 and returned to      it  again at the approach of temperate
 weather.
     Having already made so many digressions,           I  cannot add
 another without o<U+FB02>'erin      an apolog '; but as there       is some
 thing so like providentia     design in the order in which the
 song birds chaunt out their warblings during long summer’s
                                                    a
 day, I   trust the Society will pardon my laying before them
 the following observations on the subject.
    We must observe, that nature never ives one property
 only to the same individual substance.         Through every ra
 dation from the clod we tread upon to the glorious sun w ich
 animates tthe whole terrestrial system, we may <U+FB01>nd a vast
variety of purposes for which the same body was created.              If
we look on the simplest vegetable,        or the reptile it  supports,
how various yet how important in the economy of nature
are the o<U+FB01>ices they are intended to perform!             The bird,  I
have said,  is  directed to this island at a certain season of the
year to produce and rear its                 This appears to be the
grand intention which nature young. as in view; but in consequence
of the observation just made, its presence here may answer
many secondary purposes; among these            I    shall notice the
following.     The   bene<U+FB01>cent   author   of nature    seems to spare
no pains in cheering the heart of man with every thing that
is  delightful in the summer season.         We may be indulged
with the company of these visitors, perhaps, to heighten, by
the novelty of their appearance, and pleasing variety of their
                                                                 notes,

              Dr. Jenner    on the    Migration of Birds.               97
notes, the native scenes.         How sweetly, at the return of
spring,  do  the notes   of  the  cuckoo <U+FB01>rst burst upon the ear;
and what apathy must that soul possess, that does not feel a
soft emotion at the song of the nightingale (surely it must ,be
“ <U+FB01>t for treasons, stratagems, and spoils”) ! and how wisely is
it contrived that a general stillness should prevail while this
heavenly bird is pouring forth its plaintive and melodious
strains,—strains that so sweetly accord with the evening hour !
—Some of our foreign visitors, it may be said, are inharmo
nious minstrels, and rather disturb than aid the general con
cert.   In the midst of a soft warm summer’s day, when the
martin is gently floating on the air, not only pleasing us with
the peculiar delicacy of its note, but with the elegance of its
meandering; when the blackcap is vying with the goldfinch,
and the linnet with the woodlark, a dozen swifts rush from
some neighbouring battlement, and set up a most discordant
screaming.      Yet all is perfect. The interruption is of short
duration, and without       it,the long continued warbling of the
softer singing birds would pall and tire the listening ear with
excess of melody, as the exhilarating beams of the sun, were
they not at intervals intercepted by clouds, would rob the heart
of thergaiety they for a while inspire, and sink into languor.
                                                        it
There   is a perfect consistency in the order in which nature
seems to have directed the sin ing birds to <U+FB01>ll up the day
with their pleasing harmony. - 0 an observer of those divine
laws which harmonize the general order of things, there ap
pears a desi n in the arrangement of this sylvan minstrelsy.
It not in
   is        t
             e     haunted meadow or frequented <U+FB01>eld we are
to expect the grati<U+FB01>cation of indulging ourselves in this pleas
ing speculation to its full extent; we must seek for             it   in the
park,  the  forest, or some   sequestered     dell,  half  inclosed  by  the
coppice or the wood.
   First the robin, and not the lark, as has been generally
imagined, as soon as twilight has drawn the imperceptible line
between night and day, be ins his lonely song. How sweetly
does this harmonize with      t   e soft dawning of day      l   . He goes
on till the twinkling sunbeams begin to tell him his notes no
lon er accord with the rising scene.            Up starts the lark, and
wit<U+FB01> him a variety of sprightly son sters, whose lively notes
are in perfect correspondence with        t   e gaiety of the morning.
The general warbling       continues,     with  now    and then an inter
ruption, for reasons     before  assigned, by     the   transient croak of
the raven,   the screaming     of the   jay  and    the  swift, or the pert
chattering    of the   daw.    The   nightingale,       unwearied    by the
vocal   exertions   of  the  night,   withdraws       not  proudly   by day
from his inferiors in song, but joins them in the general har
   Vol. 6%. No. 816. Aug. 1824.                           N           mony.

98             Dr. Jenner  on the Migration qf Birds.
mony.     The thrush is wisely placed on the summit of some
lofty tree, that its loud and piercing notes may be softened by
distance before the reach the ear, while the mellow black
bird seeks the iniiirior branches.       Should the sun, having
been eclipsed with a cloud, shine forth with fresh e<U+FB01>‘ulgence,
how frequently we see the gold<U+FB01>nch perch on some blossomed
bough, and hear his song poured forth in a strain peculiarly
energetic; much more sonorous and lively now than at any
other time; while the sun, full shining on his beautiful plumes,
displays his olden wings and crimson crest to charming ad
vantage!         e notes ol the cuckoo blend with this cheering
concert in a perfectly pleasing manner, and, for a short time,
are highly grateful to the ear; but, sweet as this singular song
is, it would tire by its uniformity, were it not given in so tran
sient a manner.      At length, evening advances—the performers
gradually retire, and the concert softly dies away. The sun
is seen no more.      The robin again sets up his twili ht song,
till the still more serene hour of night sends him to e bower
to rest. And now to close the scene in full and perfect har
mony, no sooner is the voice of the robin hushed, and night
again spreads a gloom over the horizon, than the owl sends
forth his slow and solemn tones.      They are more than plain
tive, and less than melancholy, and tend to inspire the imagi
nation with a train of contemplations well adapted to the se
rious hour.     Thus we see that birds, the subject of my pre
sent inquiry, bear no inconsiderable share in harmonizing
some of the most beautiful and interesting scenes in nature.
    But let me here remark—how ill would the singing of birds
agree with the general appearance of winter—the lea<U+FB02>ess tree,
-—the snowy mead.—-the frozen rivuletl Yet it must be no
ticed here, that these rigors, in the midst of this dreary sea
son, are sometimes suddenly softened, and a temperate state
of the. air succeeds.    We are then so enlivened by the transi
tion from extreme cold to a temperature comparatively warm,
that we can listen with pleasure to the enfeebled notes of some
of the song birds. How admirable the contrivance ! There
are several birds which have he continued <U+FB02>ow of notes, but
a kind of chirp only, consisting of some variety of sounds.
During a long continued frost, the earth affords many of the
feathered tribe so scanty an allowance that they preserve
themselves with dif<U+FB01>culty from perishing; a sudden thaw takes
place,—plenty at once appears, and every crop is <U+FB01>lled.       ’Tis
then we see the redwing and starling assemble in large <U+FB02>ocks
among elms and apple trees, and, b uniting their voices, pro
duce a song not in the least discort ant, but, on the contrary,
extremely harmonious.        At this time the thrush, and even
                                                               the

              Dr. Jenner    on the   Migration      quirds.           99
the blackbird, will occasionally afford us a transient song;
but it may be observed, that the notes of these birds are rather
to be considered as plaintive, than lively.  The lark, too, will
sometimes mount in the air, beguiled, as it were, by the faint
rays of a wintry sun, but his notes are then as poor and feeble
as the beams that call him forth.     The robin indeed cheers
us with his song during the whole of the winter, unless driven
off by intense frost, and is the only bird I know, whose notes
at this time would fully accord with our feelin s, so perfectly
do they mingle with the surroundin       order 0 things.    The
  old<U+FB01>nch, were he now to open his ull song upon us, would                   _
<U+FB01>e as appalling as tones of the owl in the midst of a <U+FB01>ne sum
mer’s day.
                                  III.                 '
     Mr. John Hunter, my late valued friend and honoured
preceptor, under whose roof I <U+FB01>rst caught a gleam of that
light which so successfully conducted him through the obscure
paths of nature, <U+FB01>rst demonstrated the different sizes of the
testes of birds at di<U+FB02>'erent seasons of the year.      On a further
investigation of this subject, a fact presented itself to me, which
may not be unworthy of the attention of this Society, and, as
it is in some measure connected with the preceding observa
tions, I have taken the liberty of annexing it.
    In those birds that remain but a short time paired with the
female, there appears a vast disproportion in the size of the
testes, compared with those that live in the connubial state
much longer.      The cuckoo and the swift point out the fact
most obviously.      The common brown wren, which remains
united with its female from the early part of spring until the
autumn, exhibits testes very far exceeding in size either those
of the cuckoo or the swift. ' The cuckoo, although a
mist, may here be considered in the same point of viewpolyga  as t e
birds that pair. The time which he devotes to the female
being so very, short, more so indeed by some weeks than even
that of the swift, the testes are formed extremely small in pro
portion to the, size of the bird.     I never saw them exceed in
size the common vetch, while those of the wren were full as
lar e as a common sized garden pea. The medium weight
of t e cuckoo is about four ounces and a half, that of the wren
but little more than three drachms *2 The testes of the swift,
   4' Ornithologists might easily have given us the weight of a bird with
greater precision, by divesting the stomach ofits contents previous to_the
bird being we1ghed. For example: how very different must the weight
of the owl be, which, in its nocturnal <U+FB02>ights, had the luck to pick up a
mole or two, com ared with that which had met with opposite fortune;
or of the falcon, t at had picked the bones of leveret, or of the one that
                                             a
was killed with an empty stomach !
                                                                       _
              »             '                                      which

  100            Dr. Jenner    on the  Migration qf Birds.
 .which assume a singular oblong shape, somewhat exceed the
 cuckoo’s in bulk, though not so large as those of the wren.
  l have selected the wren as an example for this comparison,
 on account of its diminutive size.        The testes of all those birds
  which are capable of producing young more than once in the
 breeding season, become tumid, as far as             I  have seen, in the
 same proportion as those of the wren.
       As there are many birds, which, if unmolested, produce
 but one nest of young ones in the course of the season, it may
 be asked, why nature should cause as great an enlargement
 of the testes in these, as those which breed more than once;
 and why the should exceed in bulk those of the cuckoo or
 the swift?      The answer, I presume, is obvious. Should any
 ill accident befall the nestlings of the swift when advancin
 to maturity, the injury would be irreparable, the parent bir
bein destined to quit the country before another offspring
could be reared. The cuckoo is in the same predicament;
but the wide dispersion of its young ones (being placed singly
 in the nests of other birds) gives them such security as almost
to preclude the possibility of their general destruction ‘2 But
it'is not so with those birds which make a longer stay; should
similar accidents befall them, they can repair their losses.
 Nature, as long as incubation could serve their purposes,
would keep an accumulation of the proper powers in store,
which, in the case of the cuckoo and swift, would be entirely
useless.
     Whether there be a re ular gradation in the size of the
testes (that    of the bird itself being considered) throughout the
whole race, in proportion to the time taken up in pairing,                 I
cannot determine, not having had an opportunity of subjecting
the matter to a full investigation.            However, I thought the
fact alread shown of su<U+FB02>icient, importance in natural history,
to be wort y of communication, as it forms a kind of sequel
to Mr. Hunter’s paper on the subject.
     With due deference to the late Dr. Darwin, I am inclined
to think that the opinion he set forth respecting the pairing of
cuckoos, was taken up hastily, and that the birds which his
                                                                             '
friend saw were not cuckoos feeding their nestlings, but goat-
suckers, whose mode of nesting corresponds with the relation
given, and whose appearance might be mistaken for them by
one not perfectly conversant with the plumage and the general
    "‘
        May not this be offered as another reason why its eggs and young
ones are intrusted to the fostering care of so great a variety of birds ? It
could not have time, during its short stay, to rear so large a progeny; and
by no other means could it have placed its numerous brood so much out
of the way of danger.
                                                               appearance

            Dr. Jenner   on the   Migration   of Birds.         101
appearance of cuckoos when on the wing.        Is it probable that
the cuckoo, which is invariably a polygamist, and never pairs,
nests, or incubates in this part of the island, should fall into
                                                         '
opposite habits in another part?
    To recapitulate the substance of my observations.      I  have
<U+FB01>rst adduced some arguments in support of migration, the
fact itself not being generally admitted by naturalists of cele
brity, and also against the hypothesis of a state of torpor, or
what may be termed the hybernating system.           I have repre
sented that the swallow tribe, and many other birds that ab
sent themselves at stated periods, return annually to the same
spot to build their nests; and at the same time that any in
ference drawn from this fact in support of a state of torpor,
would be fallacious upon physiological principles.       That cer
tain periodical changes of the'testes and ovaria, are the in
citin causes of migration.      I have stated many facts, hitherto,
 I be ieve, unnoticed, chie<U+FB02>y with respect to the cause which
excites the migrating bird, at certain seasons of the year,
to quit one country for another, viz. the enlar ement of the
testes in the male, and ovaria in the female, an the need of a
country where the can for a while be better accommodated
with succours for t eir infant brood, than in that from which
 they depart.    It is also attempted to be shown that their de
parture from this country is not in consequence of any dis
agreeable change in the temperature of the air, or from a
scarcity of their common food, but the result of the accom
plishment of their errand, i. e. the incubation, and rearing of
their young, and the detnmescence of the testes and ovaria.
 That successive arrivals of migrating birds are attributable to
the                development of the generative system in the
 maleprogressive
       an female; that progressive developments are wise pro
 visions of nature; that premature arrivals and departures are
 frequently to be accounted for on the same principle; that the_
 departure of the spring migrators is owing to a change in the
 testes and ovaria, the very opposite to that which took place
 in the spring; that the departure of the young birds is not
guided by the parent, but the result of an unknown principle.
    In the second part of this paper, some observations are
 made on the winter birds of passage; that they quit their
 homes (this country) in spring, in quest of a country better
 suited to their intended purpose than their own; that they
 are actuated by the same impulse in quitting this coun        that
 causes the spring birds to come to    it,  and that want 0 food
 cannot be the inducement; that the emi ration of the winter
 birdsis  less complete than that of the 05181‘5 (the spring mi
 grators); that some species breed here, especially the
                                                               341d];
                                                                 uc

 102               Introduction to the Seventh Section
 duck and wood-pigeon; that the redwings and <U+FB01>eldfares are
 the most regular and uniform in their appearance and disap
 pearance, and most probably never risk the trial of incubation
 here‘; that the quit the country temporarin in severe and
 long-continued tilost through want of food, and return to it
 again at the approach of more temperate weather; that the
 arrival of water-birds forebodes the approach of intense frost,
 the usual return of the winter-birds, a thaw; that examina
 tions of the latter prove them to have taken long <U+FB02>ights be
 fore their return, and sets the <U+FB01>lClZ of temporary migration
 beyond the reach of doubt.
     I have then made a digression, and introduced some obser
 vations on the singing of birds; and in a third part, given some
 additional particulars respecting the different sizes of the ge
 nerative organs of birds, as they appear at different seasons
 of the year.
 XVI.      Introduction to the Seventh Section     of BESSEL'S Astrono
                             mical Observations.
                    explained    in the precedin      section the means
 HAVING  which I have employed        to give all (fesirable certainty to
 the observations for determining right ascensions, I now com
 municate the methods which I have pursued for ensuring an
equal degree of accuracy to the declinations.               It was neces
 sary for this purpose to examine both the instrument itself
 and the refraction; for, if the hope of advancin            further than
 has hitherto been done, by an accurate knowle ge of the in
 strument, be well founded, the refraction must likewise be
better determined than by preceding observations.                It is well
known that the refractions hitherto used in this observatory,
have been derived by me from Bradley’s observations; but
the meridian circle of Reichenbach possesses considerable ad
vantage over the mural quadrant both by the accuracy of
single observations, and the possibility of discovering all con
stant errors; and besides, it admits of any examination which
the observer may in future deem necessary; whereas for the
Greenwich quadrant the existing number of facts recorded by
Bradley in his observations is for ever closed.
    I   will endeavour to give a general view of the course of this
investigation before I~enter into the detail of every part. The
errors of the instrument which I have determined so as to be
   “'F I must be understood by the word “        to mean that part of Glou
                                          here,”
cestershire under my own observation.                               ,
                                                                   capable

                          of Bessel’s Astronomical   Observations.          108
    capable of being allowed for, are the errors of division, and
    the <U+FB02>exure of the telescope: on the <U+FB01>gure of the wires in the
'
    telescope there will be found in the Journal numerous obser
    vations of aUrsa: Minoris both at the ends and the middle of
                          I
    the <U+FB01>eld ; but have perceived no deviation of them from a right
    line.  I   have likewise in vain endeavoured to discover the in
    <U+FB02>uence of a chan e of temperature of the instrument on the line
    of collimation.       am not aware of the possibility of any other
    errors of the instrument.       The possible errors of computation
     I have sought in the refraction for the standard temperature'
    of the table and its changes.
        These errors are mixed together in the observations, and
    must be elicited by proper methods; the errors of division
    have been determined by direct microscopical examination;
    the <U+FB02>exure was investigated in two different ways by the
    images of stars re<U+FB02>ected from a surface of water. Although
    it is not necessary, in computing these latter observations, to
    know the refraction itself, yet its changes must be known, in
    order correctly to compare the observations made at different
    times. The determination of the changes of refraction must
    therefore precede; they may be obtained independently of
    the errors arising from <U+FB02>exure and imperfect division, by not
    mixing together the observations made in the two positions of
    the instrument.       The errors of division, the <U+FB01>exure and the
    changes    of refraction    being known, observations of circum
    polar   stars will  give   the refraction for the standard tempera
    ture of the tables.      I now proceed to the single parts of this
    investigation.
                    1.    Examination  ofthe Errors of Division,
     published in the          Phil. Mag. for May 1824-, vol. lxiii.   p. 34-8.
                          2. Examination
                                 oft/2e Thermometer
     published in the Phil. Mag. for April 1824, vol. lxiii. p. 307.
                   3.    Thermometrical Corrections   of Refraction.
        Gay-Lussac’s experiments on the expansion of air by heat
    would render the astronomical investigation of this subject
    unnecessary, if the atmospherical air were always perfectly
,   dry; but the aqueous vapour mixed with it produces a change
    of refraction, so as not to agree with the true expansibility of
    the air, but with a smaller one.    Laplace shows in the 4th
    volume of his Mécanique Céleste, p. 275, how to calculate the
    in<U+FB02>uence of vapour on refraction: supposing the constant quan
    tity of refraction for 0'76 metre height of the barometer,              t
               -          .                                                 aIlld
                                                                              to

104‘                     Introduction lo Me Seventh Section
the temperature of freezing water to be =60"'803, it is at the
temperature of 1 degrees of the centesimal scale.
   1. For perfectly dry air,
                                     _—   60”-303
                                                           '
                                          7177—00375
    2.    For air saturated with vapour,
                                     "
                                     __ GUI-224+ :.ll”‘629 '
                                          _'1_+Tr._o-00375
                                                                _
where according to Laplace log. Br. z = -0'0154-547(100—.r)
—O'00006258‘2(i (lOO—J‘f.
  These two h potheses give therefore for temperatures which
usually take place at Kiinigsberg, the value of the constant
quantlty                    I.             Hyp. i.                       n.
                                                               llylp.
                          -10°            62”'653              62 1m
                                 0        60 eos               60   cos
                  +10       58123     58 '189
                  +20       56 '096   56 -271
                  + so      54 -205   54 “568
from      which it is evident that refraction undergoes less
chan e by the second than by the <U+FB01>rst hypothesis: the num
bers      for
        the former might be nearly represented by the for
           60"'330   .
mula
    In order to preserve the common form of computation, the
tables ought, therefore, to be founded on this formula,           that             if
hypothesis were the correct one.         Without measuring, there
fore, the actually existing quantity of vapour which          not yet         is
introduced   in  observatories,      nearer approximation
                                               a             to  truth
may   be obtained  by adopting   for  the change   formula  in  which    a
the constant number         between 0003566 and 0'00875, than
                                     is
by using the latter number: the formula for the change which
ought to be used, depends on the mean ratio of the vapour
contained in the atmosphere, to that which          required for sa      is
turation; and as. there are no direct satisfactory observations
on this subject,     may most safely be derived from astrono
                           it
                                                                   '
mical observations.
    If we represent the mean refraction as contained in the
table of the Fundamenta Astronomiw by           the state of the ba g,
rometer and the interior and exterior thermometer by                               b.   'r',
                                                                                           1
(Paris lines, centesimal degrees, Fahrenheit’s degrees), the
refraction          by
                which the observations have been reduced,                                  is
calculated by the formula
 ,_             b 1+10.o-000184B4     A; 1-1° 25. 00020779                         a
                                                 3 1
         ,
9   '“9  I   333-28“       i+¢l      000018484         (   1+(s-5o)0'0020779i       .
                                                                                          If,

                   of Bessel’s    Astronomical Observations.                                    105
If, instead of 00020779, we put 00020779                                     + i) the calcu
                                                                        (1
lated refraction is thereby changed by
             —(a(¢-48'_7§)2920779.i___
            [1 +(rr—50)O'00‘20779]   [1
                                          -   1° 25-
                                                          ~
                                                     0-0020779]
                                                                    _"'      —mi,
and the polar distance of a star calculated from the obser
vations suffers the chan e
                                  the
         —(m+m')i for        upper passage south of zenith
         +(m —'m')i        .  .
                              .         north of zenith
         —(m—m')        lower
                         2'
where m'     the same for the Pole as m for the star.
              is
   In order to determine by observation,
                                  i              have calculated  I
by this formula all stars observed up to the end of the year
 1821, the zenith distance of which exceeds 60°;      have taken             I
the mean of all observations made in every position of the in
strument, and compared the single ones with this mean, and
thence, agreeably to the method of least squares, have formed             I
the following 56 equations of condition.
                                     No.          0=
        01    Aquilae                97            +   '5'-o+             1289~0i
         a Ursae       Majoris       22            +   8'7+                  119'3     ‘i
        a Hydrae                     47            + his-8+               1657'6i
        B     Orionis                36            + 1490+                1394'62'
              Draconis               17            +  396 +                  236'2
                                                                                     i i i
        n
        a.    Cephei                 23            +  19'6+                  192'0
        66     Draconis              19            —                         153'4
                                                      18'7+
        r]   Cephei                  20            +  31'2+                285'6i
        a Virginis                   65            + 106'7+               2613'5i
        10 Cephei                    19            —  15'7 +                 182-8
                                                   '-
                                                                                  i i i i i
        XX.        222               16                    61+               157'6
        o    Draconis                20            +      é8'6 +             204"!)
                                                          25'5               298'8
                                     18
                                                   _              + +
        9                                          '1"
        2     Cephei Hev.            18                   4-1'1              195'6
        48
        8
               Draconis
             Cephei
                                     20
                                     19           -
                                                  +        41 +
                                                           1'6+
                                                                             262'22'
                                                                             264'3
                                                                                  i i i i
                                     23           +       301 +              285'1
        53 Draconis                  20           +       259 +              261-2
          Cephei                     20
                                                  -
                                                  +        4'1 +             195'6
        &
        as Cygni                     18                    8'3+              294-2    1'
        a Cassropeiae                29                   59'0+              64:29
                                                  + + +
        49 Draconis                  20                   410'4‘+            306'3i i
     l    a Libra:                   25                    6'8+              198'2i
        2 a                          26           +       89'O+              892'4i
 Vol.   64.     N0. 316. Aug.        1824:.                   O                          'y   Ursae

 106              Introduction to the Seventh Section
                                  N0.     0=
           7 Ursze Maj.            26      +    7175+      748-72'
           a Canis Maj.            51      + 3498 + 1906'8 i
           XX.    391              17       +   2923+      24-0'4 i
           51 Draconis             20       +   53'9+ 413'4-2'
           x Cy      i             20      +    25'3+ 411'2i
           XXEnSQ                  l5      —               277'3i
                                                 10'8+
           20 Cygni                18      +     143+      392-5i
           <U+FB02> Draconis              21      + 252'7+ 1729'81'
           7                       22      + 5326+ 1939'3i
           r  Cygni                19      +    427+ 814-14
           3  Lacertae             18      +    85'7+ 34-3'51'
           l w Cygni               17
                                           —      l'4-+ 853'] i
           n Ursze Maj.           21       +    98'7+ 63l'0i
           c Cygni      przec.     10      +      1'8+ 34-7'62'
                       seq.        10      +    46~6+      5ll-Oi
           0 Cygni                20       +   100'3+      969'81'
           a Persei               22       +    4-0'2+    1027'91'
           l w  Cygni              17      +      2'9+     74-3‘9i
           a Auriga:              34       +    204+ 5506'6 i
          a Scorpii               45       +   107'3+ 8793'12'
                                               482'8 + 61041 i
          a Cygni
          s Auriga:
                                  30
                                  20       -
                                           -|-
                                                18'7+      4-47'7 i
          7 Andromedae             18      + 172'8+      2888'1i
          17 Auriga:               19      +    65'9+ 989'6i
          p Persei                20       + 2229+ 1961'7i
          a. Piscis austr.        36       +1825'5+8003l'0i
          7 Cygni                  15      + 3472+ 6582'8i
          : Persei                15       +    25'6+ 647'5i
          n
          )1
             Herculis
             Bootis
                                  12
                                    7     -+ 200-9+ 6958'4-2'
                                               2338+     2718-4-2'
          o' Cygni
          a Lyme
                                  11
                                  15      -+ 335'7+ 7288'82'
                                                50'2+19472-1 i
    I have taken       up, in these tables, even those stars by which
i  cannot    be   advantageously determined: when applying the
method     of  least   squares, this ma be done without danger, and
the ver excellence of this method consists in the possibility
of pro ting by even the smallest addition towards obtaining
an accurate result: but only where it is possible" correctly
   “ Examples might be given where this method has been erroneously
applied by neglecting circumstances, which would considerably have in
creased the probable errors; all objections which have been made to this
method, do not apply to the method itself, but to the dif<U+FB01>culty of correctly
determining the probable error.                                           to

               of Bessel’s Astronomical                Observations.            107
to appreciate the value of every addition, is it possible to de
rive a real advantage from this circumstance.       Each of these
equations gives 2' as accurately as the mean of so many obser-
vations, as there are unities in the coef<U+FB01>cient of i : but these
observations have very different probable errors; they are
the            the nearer the horizon the observations have been
      e, partly on account of the dispersion of light, which in
ma dgreater,
creases in proportion of the refraction, partly on account of
the tremor of the stars increasing near the vicinity of the hori
zon, and lastly, on account of the irregularities of the refraction
itself, from causes which cannot be taken into the account.
   In order to deduce these probable errors‘from the observa
tions, 2' must be known; they can, therefore, only be obtained
by repeated calculations.
   Calling the sum of the squares of the di<U+FB01>'erences between
the mean of n observations and every single one, s; and the
probable error of a single observation 2; we have
                              (n—l)   Eg=(0‘674<5)98
and therefore, for each star, for which an arithmetical mean
from n eastern, and another from                 12'
                                     western observations, has
been derived
                 (n+n'—2) e9: (0'674-5?                  (s   +s').
   By this formula the following probable errors have been
determined.
                                                   _
         Z. D.                                                             e.
           D                                                           n
         0          10        stars   293       observations          0'7126
        4613           4L             278                             0‘7613
        63'38                 -——     265                             0'794
                      9 9     ——
        67'19
                              —-
                                      174‘
                                      195          —--                0'892
                                                                      0'976
        700.
                              —-                   ——
                      7
         73'0       10                187                             0'990
         75'36                —--     100          ——-——-             0'907
                                                   ——
                                                   _-
                      6
        80'11                 ——      109                             1'190
                                                   ——
                      3
                              Star      20                            1'155
                                                   ---
         81'38        1
         83'41
         are
                     l
                      1       _-
                              --—
                              —--
                                        18
                                        19
                                                   ——
                                                                      1'693
                                                                      i-127
         84'52                          20                            2'155
                    l l l l
         85‘8                 ——        36         —-——-              1'850
         85'26                -—        l5         -———               2'53
         85‘38                ——        l5         ——--               1'87
         85'50                -—        l2         ——-                2'41
                              —-                   ——
                       1
         85‘59                                                        2'84'
                              —-
                                        6
         86'25      l l                 11         -———               3°55
         87'27         1      -——       15         —-—                3'79
                                       O    2                                   The

108                 Introduction     to thesevtntlz Section
   The probable error on which the <U+FB01>nal determination of i
is founded,     I
              have determined by drawing with the    eatest
possible approximation 8. continuous curve through a points
laid down from the values contained in the foregoing table:
by multiplying each of the 56 equations of condition by
              each has obtained that weight which it would have,
(o-gqy,
if   the observations had the accuracy of zenith observations.
In this manner the following table  was obtained.
                            Z. D.         i.     =0
        a Aquihe     4-6 18              0'76   +                                4'4-   +1133'3       i
        a Ursae Maj. 62 32               0'79   +                                71+       97']       i
        a Hydrte     62 34               0'79   +118'7+1348'8                                         i
        5 Orionis    63   6              0'79   +121'2 +1134'7                                        i
        n Draconis   63 20               0'79      3211+ 192-2                                        2'
        a Cephei            68 26        0'79      16'0+ 156-2                                        1'
        66    Draconis      63     4-7   0'80      14'9+ 121'7                                        1'
        1)Cephei            64-      7   0°80      24"7-l- 226"?                                      i
        a Virginis          64-    54    0'80      84-‘5 +2073'6                                      i
        IO Cephei           64-57        0'80                                   1225+      105'?)     i
        XX. 222             65 26        0‘80                                    4-‘9+     125‘1      i
        o    Draconis       66 5         0'81                                   37'5+ 157'2           i
        0                   66 12        0'81                                   19'7+ 230'7           i
        2CepheiHev.         66 54-       0'83                                   30'4-+     14-4-25    i
        48 Draconis         67 40        0'85                                    2'9+ 184'3           i
         s   Cephei         67 45        0'85                                    1-1+      185'8      i
         g   Cephei         67 56        0'86                                   20'6-i-    3331       i
        53    Draconis      68 44-       0-86                                   l7'8+      179'4-     i
        e    Cephei         69 6         0'86                                    2'8+      134-‘3     i
        33 Cygni            69 13        0°86                                    5'7+     202'1       i
        a Cassiopeia?       69 4-1       0'86                                   405+      441'4-      2'
             Draconis       69 50        0'86                                   27'7+ 210%            i
                                                 +|+++++++++|+++|+|++l|++|++
        4-9
         l at Libra:        69 54'       0'86                                    417+ 136'1 i
         2 a Librae         69 58        0'86                                   61'O-l- 612'8 i
        7 Ursa; Maj. 7O 32               0'87                                   4-7'8+ 502'4- i
        a Canis Maj. 71   8              0'88                                  2295+ 1251'0 2'
        XX. 39]      71 24-              0'89                                   18‘7+ 154'1       i
        51 Draconis  72             8    0'90                                   83'8+ 259'2i
         x                  72 12        0'90                                   15'9+ 257'8
                                                                                                    i i i
         X gylgni32
               .            72 24'       0'90                                    6'7+ 178'8
         20 Cygni           72 42        0'91                                    8'7+ 240'8
         BDraconis          72 4-8       0-91    +155-o+1061-2i
        7                   7s 45        0-93    +195'3+1138'6i
                                                                                                     |     Cygni

                 of Bessel’s Astronomical Observations.                    109
                          'Z. I).      2.      =0
       1Cygni              72?        0-94
                                 53           + 24'-5+ 468-2         1'
    s
       1
            Lacertae
         'wCygni
                          7s 54
                          74     52
                                      0-94
                                      0'96    -
                                              + 20-5    197'3i
                                                          +
                                                 o-s + 194-3i
     r)  Ursa: Maj.       75     0    0'97    + 50'6 + 340'51'
       cCygnipraec.       75      7   0'97    +  0'7+ 187'6i
                 seq.     75      7   0'97    + 25-1 + 275'9i
       0Cygni             75     25   0-97    + 541+ 523-4i
       aPersei            76     0    1-00    + 204+ 522-oi
       1 w Cygni          76 26       1'01    +   1'4 + 370'3        i
       aAurigae           79 24       1-13    +  8-1 +2190-0i
       a Scorpii          so 36       1-20    + 37-9 +1sa7-6
       u Cygni            so 39       1-20    +170-s +2152-6        i i
      EAurigae            81 28       1-27    -—
                                                      4-s+ 141-oi
     yAndromedae          83 41       1'55     +     374+ 507'2i
       v;   Auriga:       s4      9   1-64     +     12-5+ 177-4i
       p    Persei        s4 52       1'80     +     349+ 307'5i
       aPisc.austr.       85      8   1-90     +186-4+4224-5i
    y    Cygni            85     26   2-08     + 40-7+ 772'62'
     e      Persei        85     38   2'20     +      2'7 +       67'9i
     y
       1|   Herculis
            Bootis
                          85
                          85
                                 50
                                 59
                                      2-22
                                      2-50     -
                                               + 19-0+ 656-0i
                                                 19-0+ 220-1         i
       a"   Cygni         86     25   3'60     + 12-1 + 283-4i
       a Lyrae            86     27   3'70     —      l'8+ 722'3i
  These equations indicate very clearly a negative value of                i .
considering the small weight of most of them, their agree
ment   issatisfactory, which, the exponent
                                      if      had been negA
lected, would by no means have been the case.   The sum of
the equation        0=2007"'0+31745'3
                     is                  from which follows,
                                                     i;
        i:
                      s
           -- 0”'063222; probable error = 0"‘003981. i
                                 [To be continued]
XVII.        An Account of the Mesembryanthema                Ringentia.    By
                  A. H. HAWORTH, Esq. EL.S.               151:.
  To   the    Editors ofthe Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
     Gentlemen,
    EREUNDER          you will receive an improved account of
       the sessile-<U+FB02>owered Mesembryanthema Ringentia, which
form, perhaps, one of the most interesting divisions of the large
genus to which they belong.
                                                            some

 110     Mr. Haworth’s Account of Mesembryanthema Ringentia.
    Some of these extraordinary plants are now becoming fre
quent in our collections, and have ever been fancifully likened
 b gardeners to the chops of animals; and thence called Cat
 c op, Mouse-chop, Tiger-chop, 8cm"; and this from the fan
 tastical idea of each young                of leaves on the plants bear
 ing some resemblance to the gaping mouths of those well
known quadrupeds ; the ciliating teeth on the margins of the
 leaves not unaptly representing those of the animals.
    The addition of a new species to this singular group has
 induced me to reconsider the whole, and to forward to you
 the present communication respecting it for insertion, if you
jud       it proper, in your Magazine.
    <U+FB01>is      new species, from its long teeth, and followin             up the
 allusion    of  a     ping  mouth,    I haVe  called  lupz'num (thegVVolf’s
 chop), the su stantive rictum being understood, as usual, to
 accompany the adjectives constituting                  the speci<U+FB01>c names
 throu     bout    the    roup.
    This <U+FB01>ne an interesting plant was obligi ly communi-I
 cated to me by m              ood friend W. T. Alton, Eq- from the
 Royal     Gardens      0     ew,  in the year 1823, having been there
 raised the year before, from Cape seeds, along with a profu
 sion of other succulent and still more interestin                     plants;
 which, through Mr. Aiton’s successful exertions, iave de
lighted us with more of the <U+FB02>owery bloom of Africa than
 we have ever elsewhere seen.
                      I remain, gentlemen,
                                    Your most obedient servant,
Chelsea,    Al's- 1824-                                  A. H. Hawon'rn.
    MESEMBRYANTHEMUM                Linn.     Sectio RINGENTIA Nobis.
                             Section is Cbaracteres.
    Perennia, acaulia, subacauliave: foliis carnosioribus am
plexicaulibus semiteretibus, superne pedetentim dilatantibus,
apicem versus triquetro-carinatis, ciliatim ad oras dentatis:
<U+FB02>oribus magnis pomeridianis sessilibus luteis.
    Foliorum juniora paria animalium rictum reprmsentant
lusorié.
      "“
         Majora:                  foliis lmvibus magnis crassis dentibus
                       acaulia:
           margmahbus a,le setulé <U+FB01>nientibus, apice cartilagine
            albo-carinatis.
                            Specierum    Characteres.
tigrinum.        _M.    (The Ti      r-chop) virescens: foliis cordato
    l. ovatis albo crebre marmoratis, altissimé ciliatis, supra
   * The Dog-chop (M.
                             mninum) and Fox-chop     (M   vulpinum), being sca
pigerous plants, are removed to the section Scapigera.
                                                                        plains.

        Progress      of Science   respecting    Igneous Meteors in 1823.      111
           planis.—-Mesemb. tigrinum.       Nob. in Synops. Pl. Succ.
            216, dc. Bot. Reg. 260.
    <U+FB01>linum.       M. (The Cat-chop) foliis glaucescentibus parcé
        2.  altéque ciliato-dentatis, ad lucem creberrimé albo
            punctatis.—Mesemb. <U+FB01>linum. Nob. in Synops. Pl. Suce.
            216, (<U+FB01>e—M. ringens felinum.        Linn. Sp. Pl. 698.—
                 M
                 rictumfelinum repnesentans.    Dill. Elth. 230.
    lupinum.     M. (The Wolf’s-chop) foliis glaucescentibus, ciliis
       3.  marginalibus numerosis altissimis.
               Obs.     Nova species a Capite Bonae Spei.   Priori si
           millimum discrepantibus foliis longioribus angustiori—
           bus, dentibus duplo numerosioribus,longioreque      setula
           <U+FB01>nientibus.
            foliis viridibus.
           (5,
         ** Minora: subacaulia:      foliis creberrimé tuberculatim
                       asperiusculis, quam speciebus tribus priori
            punctatis
              us 4-plo plusve minoribus; dentibus marginalibus
            brevibus fere absque setula <U+FB01>niente.                       /
               Foliorum carina apicalis sine cartilagine alba.
    muslelinum.    M. (The Weasel-chop) foliis pellucenter mag
      4-.   ni unctatis glaucis, basi interné pustulato-gibbosis.—
               . mustelinum.   Nob. in Suppl. Pl. Succ. 86, (h.—
            Vespertini <U+FB01>ores pungenter suavissime spirant.
    murinum.     M. (The Mouse-chop) foliis glaucis turberculato
      5.    punctatis, marginibus carinaque apicali ciliato-den
            ticulatis.—M murinum. Nob. in Synops. Pl. Succ. 217,
                 c.                                                        .
                  Obs.    Foliorum      dentes    longiores   numerosiores an
             gustioresque quam         1n praecedente.
'
    XVIII. A      Sketch oftheProgress            of
                                         Science respecting Igneous
       Meteors and Meteorites during the Year 1823 including an ,-
       Account qf the principal thenomena of that Nature observed
       during the same Period: with Inquiries suggested        those   by
       Subjects.   By E. W. BRAYLEY, junior, A.L.S., and Member
                                                  -
       of the Meteorological Society“.
              arrangement and publication of an annual historical
    THE    detail of the progress of meteorological science, in its
    several branches, and of the atmospheric changes and phas
    nomena observed in the various regions of the globe during
    each successive year, appears to be an object well deserving
    the attention of the Meteorological Society.     A summary of
      " Read before the Meteorological Society, May 12, 1824; and published
    by permission of the Council: with additions       by
                                                   the author.
                                                                               t   h_
                                                                                    15

  112 Progress Qf Science respecting   Igneous Meteors in 1823.
 this kind,   I conceive, would be useful in various ways: the
 historical part would refer those who might be examining or
 making new researches upon particular subjects of meteoro
 lo , to the sources of the latest information respecting them;
 an     would point out, to a considerable extent, those divisions
 of the science which stand most in need of further investiga
 tion: whilst the comprehensive detail and comparison of the
 atmospheric changes and phaenomena observed during the
 past year, would indicate those subjects of observation, which,
 from time to time, m' ht appear more particularly to require
 the attention of those w o register the chan es of the weather.
     Various meteorological observers, both in this country and
 on the continent, are in the habit of drawing up and publish
 ing annual statements of this nature, as far as their own ob
 servations are concerned: but the only review of meteorologi
 cal observations which is in any degree of a general kind, and
 the only one also, I believe, that emanates from any scienti<U+FB01>c
 institution, is the Résumé des Observations me'te'orologigues
faites ti l’Observatoire Royal de Paris, arran ed by M. Arago,
 and published, from year to year, in the males de Ckimie.
  This summary, besides the observations forming its basis, the
 excellence of which is well known to those who have had oc
 casion to examine them, usuall contains a selection of the
 more remarkable phaenomena which have taken place during
 the year; as well as a calendar of earthquakes and of volcanic
 eruptions; and a catalogue of the spots on the sun observed
 durin that period, in order to furnish the means for a rigorous
  examination of the opinion that the have a sensible in<U+FB02>uence
  upon the temperature of the earth.     I he propriety of including
  the phamomena of earthquakes and volcanoes in such a review
  cannot be too strongly recommended; not so much, in the pre
  sent case, with a view to the discovery of their causes, as to the
 investigation of their in<U+FB02>uence upon and connexion with various
  phaenomena strictly within the province of the meteorologist;
  and which, there seems reason to believe, takes place to a
  greater extent than is usually imagined.      There are subjects,
  likewise, of a different kind, to which it would be desirable to
  attend, in the arrangement of this work; such as the times of
  the migration and return of certain birds, and in the higher
  latitudes of those of some other animals: the investigation of
  these subjects, in conjunction with observations on the weather,
  and with attention, in the case of birds, to the true cause of
  migration, as developed by the late Dr. Jenner in his admi
  rable paper on the subject sometime since read before theRoyal
  Society, would perhaps enable us, in process of time, to draw
  some just conclusions respecting the advance of the seasons,
                                                                  Ste.

                 Fire-balls seen   in America in 1819.         113
8m.    in countries where meteorological
                                 ’
                                              observations are not
commonly pursued.
    So extensive an arrangement of new facts and observations
as that which I have ventured to suggest, would obviously
be a work of considerable labour, and would require the con
joint attention of inquirers into the various branches of me
teorology: and as the expediency of its preparation, amongst
other matters of a collateral and subordinate nature, ma
herea<U+FB01>aer become a subject of consideration with the Counci ,
when the primary object of our association, that of “ establishing
a Meteorological Observatory, and instituting operations to
be conducted with undeniable accuracy, and with instruments
of standard excellence,” shall have been carried into effect;
 I shall here terminate these remarks; and proceed to lay be
fore you a sketch of the progress which has been made, during
the past year, in a branch of the science to which I have lately
devoted some attention, and a work on which I am preparing
for the press, viz. that which relates to the phaenomena of
                                                                   '
igneous meteors and their products.
    I shall <U+FB01>rst pass in review, in a succinct manner, the princi
pal new facts, and results of induction from them; respecting
igneous meteors and meteorites, which have been made known
to the cultivators of science during the year 1823; and then
proceed to describe the chief phsenomena of that nature ob
served during the same period.          Some inquiries of an inter
estin character will suggest themselves as we proceed: and         I
shall lave the pleasure of communicating various facts of foreign
observation which have not yet appeared in any of our philo
 sophical journals; together with a few results of my own in
 quiries.
 § 1.  Progress  of Science respecting Igneous Meteors during the
                              Year 1828.
    Accounts of the <U+FB01>re-balls which were seen in the States of
 Ohio and Pennsylvania in 1819, have been published by Pro
 fessor Silliman; together with a valuable collection of obser
 vations on the splendid meteor of that description which was
 beheld over a great extent of country in the United States,
 and also in Canada, on the 9th of March 1822.
    The <U+FB01>rst, which appeared in the evening of the 24th of July
 1819, is described by Dr. Henry Manning of Youngstown,
 Ohio, as a large meteor pursuing its course through the_at
 mosphere in a direction nearly north.         He had a clear ylew
 of it for a few seconds before its explosion, and at that time;
 and about three minutes, by estimation, after the vislble ex
 plosion, he heard the report, which resembled that of a heavy
    Vol. 64. No. 316. Aug. 1824.                 P          cannon

114   Progress   of Science   respecting     Igneous Meteors in 1823.
cannon <U+FB01>red in a still evening, at the distance of three or four
miles.    A gentleman who was in the township of Gustavus,
precisely twenty miles north from Dr. Manning’s situation,
saw the light, and thouo'ht the sound succeeded in something
more than a minute.       The distance from Youngstown to the
south shore of Lake Erie, Dr. M. states, is rather more than
forty miles, “ and much of the country south of the lake is
still a wilderness, making it uncertain whether any discoveries
will be made if meteoric stones have fallen *.”
   The only data for computation afforded by this account are
the times which elapsed between the explosion and the report
at the two stations; and from these we may infer that this
meteor was much lower at the period of its explosion than
many others have been; its elevation, probably, not exceeding
a mile.     The proximity of the lake renders it probable
that the results of the explosion, if massive, were lost in its
waters.
   The meteor seen in Chester county, Pennsylvania, on the
let    of November 1819, is described by the Editor of the
American Watchman; and by Mr. S. Turney, of some place
in the above county about 60 miles nearly south of Easton
on the Delaware; from a comparison of whose accounts its
characters and phaenomena appear to have been as follows:
It was a “ <U+FB01>re-ball,” appearing to be a compact mass of <U+FB01>re,
in which is said to have been combined all the redness of Mars
and thes ofter light of the moon; the entire phaenomenon being                           4
sublime beyond description.     At what hour it appeared is not
stated, but doubtless in the evening, for the <U+FB01>rst-mentioned
.observer says, “ While standing in the open air, we were sur
prised by a sudden <U+FB02>ood of li ht suf<U+FB01>cient to enableus to
read the smallest print :” Mr.      urney also states its light to
have been very vivid.     The former describes it as havin been
about half the size of the full moon, when <U+FB01>rst observed ; and
Mr. T. found that many competent persons declared that it
was of about one third of the apparent ma itude of that lu
minary.     A well de<U+FB01>ned conical tail exten ed from        to the       it,
length of 4° or 5°; but no sparks were observed.           When
<U+FB01>rst seen by the Editor (at Chester?),   was 50° or 60° above the
                                                 it
horizon; and when <U+FB01>rst observed         Mr. Turney, at the alti+
                                            by
tude of about 45° in the north-east: at the former place                            it
passed in an east-north-east direction, a little to the south of
the zenith; and   itwas estimated to have been about two se
conds in progression before       was observed, whence
                                  it                           in         it   is
ferred that it  <U+FB01>rst appeared at about 30° above the eastern
           “ American Journal
                                 of   Science,    vol. vi.   p.   315.
                                                                         horizon    :

           Fire-balls   observed   in Pennsylvania, in   1819.      1   l5
horizon: it travelled, whilst within view here, about            120°   in
the heavens, and that in a period of not less than <U+FB01>ve, nor
more than ten seconds; beginning to decline in brilliancy
when at about 80° below the zenith, and in two seconds be
coming invisible, at 30° above the western horizon; its tail,
in the mean time, lengthening to 10° or 15°, forming a nar
row red streak of evanescent <U+FB01>re. Mr. Turney states it to
have passed through his hemisphere in a very few seconds;
and near Easton, where a sound was heard in its direction.
It suddenly disappeared from him at about the altitude of 40°,
in the south or south-west. About three minutes after its dis
appearance, sa 5 the Editor of the American Watchman, a
noise was hear resemblin the discharge of cannon, or distant
thunder, and in a wester y direction: after the lapse of two,
three, or four minutes, Mr. Tumey observes, two reports were
heard, the sound continuing for many seconds.
     By comparing the observations made by various persons in
different situations, Mr. Turney estimated the height of this
meteor to have been at least twenty miles: and taking its ap
parent diameter at one-third of the moon’s, he computes its
actual diameter at more than one hundred yards.        The na
ture of the observations from which the height was determined
is not stated; but such vague'estimates of the apparent mag
nitude of a luminous body in rapid motion as those above
   iven, are evidently insuf<U+FB01>cient for a near approximation to
its actual size.  The sound heard at Easton, Mr. T. thinks,
could not have been the same with that heard at his station,
 “ which came from a point not less than thirty miles to the
 south ;” whence he infers, “ that the body must have been
 ignited a second time.”     This supposition, however, appears
to me-to be unnecessary; for the sound heard in the direction
 of the meteor at Easton probably arose from the velocity of
its passage through the atmosphere: thus, a whizzing sound
like that of a bomb traversing the air, together With a crack
ling noise, was produced in its <U+FB02>ight by the meteor which
 threw down a stone at Sales, near Villefranche, March 12,
 1798 ; also by that observed at Geneva, May 15, 1811, which
has been described by Professors Pictet and Prevost; as well
 as b several others.
    lVf'
       . Turney, in     aeement with the view of the nature of
 these phaenomena w ich has within these few years become
 very general amongst scienti<U+FB01>c men, and which, perhaps,                is
 the most satisfactory hitherto proposed, terms the meteor Just
 described a terrestrial comet and suggests that
                                    ,-              may be the
                                                          it
 same with that which passed over Connecticut and cast down
 a shower of stones in 1807, its course being nearly the
                                                          gme.
                                                            pon

  1 16      Progress of Science  respecting   Igneous Meteors.
  Upon this Professor Silliman remarks, “its size, as conjec
  tured by Mr. Turney, is much less than the estimated size of
  that meteor‘.”     As the examination of the conjecture would
  lead me into a question which I am not yet prepared to dis
  cuss, viz. whether, when a meteor of this description explodes,
  its entire nucleus falls to the earth in the form of meteorites,
  as Commonly believed; or whether a portion only of its sub
  stance is separated and cast down, so that the main body of
  the meteor still proceeds on its course, as some writers have
  contended, and in which latter case the same meteor may be
  seen repeatedly;     I must omit it for the present: some re
  marks howeVer upon a subject which is involved in Professor
  Silliman’s objection, will be found in a subsequent page of
  this section, where Professor Dean’s estimate of the magni
  tude of the great <U+FB01>re-ball of 1822 is stated.
     The collection of observations on the great meteor that
passed over several of the northern Anglo-American States,
 on the 9th of March 1822, together with the calculations
 founded on some of them b Professor Dean, are amon the
 most interestin of the kintf; and ma rank with the o ser
 vations and de uctions respectingthe Fpire-balls of 1719, 1758,
  1771, and 1783, given, respectively, by Dr. Halley, Sir John
  Pringle, M. Le Roy, and Mr. Cavallo and others. In some
 respects, indeed, they are peculiarly instructive.
     From a comparison of these observations, it appears that
,this meteor was seen over a tract of country including the
 space from Portland in the state of Maine, in long. 70° 20'
 W. to Oxford, in Chenango county, New York, in about long.
  75° 4-5'; and from some part of Rhode Island, lat. at most
  42° N., to Quebec, lat. 46° 50’. The tract was no doubt con
 siderably greater in extent, but the foregoin are the only de
 <U+FB01>nite limits for which data are afforded.         The path of the me
 teor was from north-east to south—west; or more accurately,
according to Prof. Dean, the direction of its motion was south
 34° west: and according likewise to his computations, it must
 have traversed a space of about two hundred and <U+FB01>fty miles,
 between the zenith of Wilkesbarre in Pennsylvania, and that of
 Essex, a village on the westernshore of Lake Champlain.
     Mr. Doty, who observed this meteor from a point of the
 Mohawk turnpike road, near Canajoharie, in the state of
1New York, and who appears to have had it nearly in his
 Zenith, estimated its diameter at from twenty to thirty feet.
 To other observers, according to their situation, and accord
 ing, likewise, as I shall endeavour to show in the sequel, to
 the actual change of bulk and of <U+FB01>gure in the meteor, it ap
                     ‘  American Journal, vi. p. 319.
                                                                pcared

                    Great American llleteor“ (#1822.                    117
peared of various sizes: some stating its apparent diameter
at six feet; many comparing its size to that of the moon:
whilst to others, who were still more distant from
                                                               it,
                                                               it    had
the appearance of a large shooting star.
    It     described by every one as having been of extreme
          is
brilliancy; and that     it    must indeed have been intensely vivid,
is evident from the circumstance, that the impression produced
by   iton the eye of one observer induced him to state, “ that           it
was more brilliant than the most vivid            ashes of lightning, or
even the meridian sun.”          And though  t    econtrast of its splen
dour with the previous darkness of night doubtless had its
 share in producing such an impression, yet there are various
instances on record of meteors displaying great brilliancy
even when opposed to the meridian sun.                 The meteor ob
served at Cambridge in 1818 by the late Dr. Clarke, and that
seen in Bretagne in 1684- by the Abbé de l’Anion, were of
this. description.       The most intense light of the American
meteor, as in other cases, appears to have been emitted at the
time immediately prior to the visible effects of its explosion:
thus at Quebec, from which place        it    must have been very di
stant, having been seen there and at Montreal nearly in the same
direction, and where “ the sky was clear, and the moon nearly
at full, in an opposite direction,—the light of the meteor when
it  divided was so strong as entirely to destroy the shadows
of the moon-ii ht and throw them into a contrar direction.”
The visible exp osion of this meteor variouslis           ( escribed by
the different observers.         Mr. Doty relates “ att       itsoon be
gan to extend itself to the north-east and south-west, increas
ing in extension, and decreasing in its <U+FB02>aming appearance,
until nothing was to be seen but two detached parts of             it ra
pidly moving in different directions towards the north-east and
south-west.”      A writer in the Sangers<U+FB01>eld (Qneida) Intelli
gencer states,
                  “ that it    burst with
                                        a    violence which seemed to
throw    all nature    into    convulsions.   It discharged its massy
balls  of  electric  <U+FB01>re  in   every direction,  when all disappeared
before they reached the ground.”               Another observer com
pares these appearances to the coruscations. of _ a rocket; and
at Quebec “    it   divided into numberless pieces, having the ap
pearance of the stars usually thrown from                          but of
a superior brilliancy and beauty, the wholesky-rockets,iSappearing be
fore they reached the horizon.”              When <U+FB01>rst observed by
Colonel Page, of Burlington in the state of Vermont,               it
                                                                        ap
peared like    a    common shooting star, which, moving sout -
westerly, passing    a     little south-east of Proeyon, when about
one-third of the way from Proqyon to Sirius, suddenly broke
out in great splendour, continued its course, <U+FB02>ashing and
                                                              spar/cling,

1  18     Progress   of Science respecting Igneous Meteors.
sparkling,    east of Sirius, and disappeared, apparently by ex
tinction.     The report produced by the                     is said by
Mr. Doty to have resembled         the  noise ofexlplOsion
                                                   'stant  cannon:     at
Troy in the state of      New  York    two  distinct  explosions were
heard, with a very short interval of time; and the sound
reached the ear of another observer at the same place in about
seven minutes and a half after the disappearance of the
meteor.     At Herkimer, in the same state, an explosion was
heard from the south, about four minutes after the meteor had
passed, which resembled the discharge of four or <U+FB01>ve pieces
of artillery. At Ballston Spa, two, and some say three, re
ports were heard on its disappearance.
    The explosion, according to Mr. Doty, sensibly affected
several houses, and was followed by a strong sulphurous smell
that lasted <U+FB01>fteen or twenty minutes.
    The luminous track left in the atmosphere b this meteor,
is among the most curious phaenomena               it displayed, and
 shows, in a particular manner, its af<U+FB01>nity with some other
 meteoric appearances.        At Troy it left a luminous track in
 the heavens, which was not totally extinguished in several
 minutes after the meteor disappeared: the Sangers<U+FB01>eld In
 telligencer states that it left in its train an astonishing mass of
 livid <U+FB01>re, which remained after the explosion for the space of
 ten minutes, and then gradually disappeared like the rain
 bow: accordin to the Bridgeport Courier, after moving with
                                                     “ it left a trail of
 great velocity rom north-east to south-west,
 immense size and peculiar brightness :” Captain Wardner of
 Windsor, in the state of Vermont, describes it as leaving in
 its passage a dusky reddish track, which continued, especially
 about the middle of its length, for two minutes.           At Quebec
 the track assumed the form of an arched chain of <U+FB01>re, vividly
 delineated in the heavens, and concaving towards the earth;
 which disappeared in a minute or two.
    The meteors with which these circumstances more particu
 larl connect the present, are those which were seen, respec
 tive , at Geneva and many other places, May 15, 1811; at
 Angers, London, and Poitiers, producing a meteoric stone,
 June 8, 1822; and at Paris, Caen, and other places on the 6th of
 August in the same year. The <U+FB01>rst, as described by Professor
 Pictet, was a kind of serpent of <U+FB01>re, bent back at the west
 end, so as to approach the <U+FB01>gure of the letter S; which be
 came spread out in the lower part, and then successively as
 suming the shapes of a horse-shoe and a parabola, diminishing
 in brightness every instant, became reduced in seven or eight
 minutes to two bright points; and was then concealed by a
 cloud.    The meteor of the 3d of June 1822, as seen from
            .                                                   Poitiers
                                                                11.“

  On the Structure, Distribution, and Functions     of the Nerves. 119
  Poitiers by M. Boisgiraud, had the appearance of a beautiful
  falling star, that left after it a luminous rectilinear train, con
  taining a bright point ; the inferior extremity of which took a
  spiral <U+FB01>gure, its brilliancy gradually decreasing, and became
  divided into two branches: one of these gradually diminished
 to the point just mentioned; and this became slowly extin
             in a quarter of an hour after the <U+FB01>rst appearance of
 gpished,
    e phaenomenon.        The third phaenomenon of this nature I
 have alluded to was observed at Paris by MM. Gay-Lussac
 and Berthier: it was a large and beautiful luminous serpen
 tine train of light, as thick as the wrist, occupying a space of
 about thirty degrees, and likewise containing a luminous point
 at the lower extremity; it continued full <U+FB01>ve minutes.             At
 Caen this meteor appeared to descend vertically, giving out a
 light equal to that of brilliant lightning, throwing out sparks,
 and leaving a long, luminous, undulating tail <U+FB01>lled with
 sparks.
                            [To be continued]
 XIX.     Analyses of a Series of Papers on the Structure, Distribu
    tion, and Functions of the Nerves ,- by CHARLES BELL, Esq. ,
    which have appeared in some late Volumes of the Philosophical
    Transactions.
                          [Continued from  p. 50.]
     ROM      the analysis which we have given of Mr. Bell’s <U+FB01>rst
       paper in the Philosophical Transactions, strong evidence is
afforded of there being two distinct sets of nerves in the body,
the one regulating the respiratory apparatus and all the mus
cles and parts which are brought into associate action with it;
the other being muscular nerves ordering the voluntary mo
tions of the frame, and endowin the surfaces of the body with
common sensibility.        This evi ence was supplied from a de
tail of his experiments and observations on the nerves of the
face; and as he con<U+FB01>ned himself as strictly as possible to these
nerves in particular, the following experiments and observa
tions on the nerves of the trunk are not a mere continuation
of the same subject, but also a con<U+FB01>rmation of his new views
respectin the arrangement of the nerves in general.           The at
tention 0 our readers must therefore be called to the nerves
of the trunk, or to those which associate the muscles of the
chest, in the actions of breathing, speaking and expression,
as distinguished from those nerves which, though intimately
blending themselves with them, are nevertheless destined for
a di<U+FB01>'erent function altogether : and that our readers may bear
with the detail into which it will be necessary to enter, they
                                                                  must

120       Analyses  ofa Series of Papers, by Mr. C. Bell,
must receive the author’s assurance,
                                          “ that already practical
bene<U+FB01>ts have resulted from the former paper; that the views
presented there, as connected with general science, being car
ried into practice, have enabled the physician to make more
accurate distinctions of disease, and the surgeon, in removing
deformity, to avoid producing distortion.”
Of the
'
        Motions qfthe Thorax, as afar-ding a Key to the Intri
            racy of its Nerves. (Phil. Trans. 1822).
    By  enumerating    the uses of the compages of bones and
muscles which constitute the walls of the thorax, we are made
sensible of the extent of the respiratory actions, and that they
in fact extend over the whole face and neck and trunk; and
how the mechanism of the thorax, or rather the respiratory
apparatus generall , affects the arrangement of the whole
nervous system.       l‘he uses of the thorax, independently of
affording support and protection to the heart and lungs, and
the viscera of the higher region of the abdomen, being, 1st, to
alternately oppose, and yield to the weight of the atmosphere,
thus producing respiration: 2dly, to manifest an occasional
increase and agitation commensurate to the excited state of
the animal frame when additional muscles are brought into
action: Bdly, to produce natural voice and articulate lan
gua e: athly, to exhibit the emotions and passions of the
min : 5thly, to join with the muscles which move the car
tilages of the nose in the act of smelling, which is as necessary
 to the sense of smelling as the act of expiration is to the
production of speech: 6thly, to give power to the arms in
voluntary action; seeing that this is in a great measure de
pendent upon the expansion of the thorax, inspiration being
always combined with sudden and powerful exertion.
                 Origins of the respiratory Nerves.
    In all animals which have ribs rising and falling- by respi
ratory  muscles,   we <U+FB01>nd a medulla spinalis and the distinction
of cerebrum and cerebellum: and experiment and observation
prove that the extended act of respiration is controlled by a
power seated in the lateral portions of the medulla oblongata,
and continued from thence through certain respiratory nerves
passing out from the neck, and through the intercostal nerves
also lower down in the spine.
    But the associated actions of respiration depend upon cer
tain nerves which arise very nearly to ether, though in a line
or series, from adistinct column of t e spinal marrow: this
column or track of medullary matter is a continuation of the
corpus retiforme, which is situated just posterior to the cmpus
olivare, and may be traced down the spinal marrow betwixt
                                                               the

  on the Structure, Distribution,  and Functions  of the Nerves.   121
   the sulci, that give rise to the anterior and posterior roots
   of the spinal nerves. From this narrow medullary column
   arise in succession from above downwards, the portio dam
   of the 7th nerve; the glosso-pharyngeus        nerve; the nerve
  of the par vagum; the nervas ad par vagum accessorius; the
  phrenic and the external respiratory nerves: these latter
   nerves, though coming out with the cervical, do in all proba
  bility take their origin from the same portion of the medulla
 spinalis with the accessor nerve. With regard to the inter
  costal nerves, or those w ich actuate the intercostal muscles,
  they by their relations with the medulla oblongata are equal
  to the performance of respiration as it regards the of<U+FB01>ce of
  the Inn 5; but they are not adequate to those additional func
  tions w ich are in a manner imposed upon the respiratory ap
  paratus, when they are brought to combine in other of<U+FB01>ces.
  Of    the Muscles of the Trunk, which are   brought  in aid   of the
                      common respiratory Muscles.
      It is not difficult to discover what muscles are best calcu
 lated by their situation and direction to assist in the motions of
 the chest, when there is increased or excited action; nor less
  so to assign a use to the nerves which supply these muscles
 exclusively.     These nerves are not only remarkble on. this ac
 count, but also from their having the same origin.
      In this inquiry it is necessary to observe, that the lif.v of
 animals is protected b a particular sense which gives rise to
 an instinctive motion 0 drawing the breath, by which the chest
 is suddenly and powerfully expanded, on exertion or alarm.
 The start on sudden alarm is accompanied with a rapid ex
 pansion and rising of the chest; and the voice, at such a
 moment, is produced by suddenly inhaling, and not by ex
 piration; and this expansion of the chest combines with the
 preparation for <U+FB02>ight or defence, since the extension of the
muscles 1 ing on the breast and back is produced by this mof
tion, an since they are thereby rendered more powerful in
their in<U+FB02>uence upon the arms or anterior extremities.
     It cannot escape observation that oppression and difficulty
of breathing is exhibited in gasping and forcible inspiration, in
drawing the breath, not in throwing it out:                        we
<U+FB01>nd that the muscles above alluded to are accordineg powerful y in
<U+FB02>uenced in deep inspiration, whether the action be voluntary
as in speech, or involuntary as in the last efforts of life, when
sense is lost; they are the mastoid muscle, the trapezius, the
                                                                 -
serratus magnus, and the diaphragm.
     1. Sterno-cleido-mastoideus. 'This muscle by being attached
Vol. 64. No. 316. Aug.                         Q                    to
                            1824-.

   122      Analyses   of a Series of Papers, by Mr. C. Bell,
  to the sternum or breast-bone, raises or heaves the chest; and
  the operation of this muscle is very evident in all excited states
  of respiration, in speaking, and still more in singing,
  and sneezing.      But there is something necessary to           e full
                                                           cortighing,
  effect of this muscle on the chest; for otherwise it will be a
                                                               '
  muscle of the head, and not of the chest.
     2. The trapezius must <U+FB01>x the head or pull it backwards be
  fore the mastoideus can act as a respiratory muscle; and how
                                                                 ‘
  the are combined We shall presently see.
       he position of the head of the asthmatic during the <U+FB01>t, as well
  as the posture of the wounded or the dying, proves the in<U+FB02>uence
  of the upper part of the trapezius in excited respiration.
     8. The serratus magnus anticus, being extended over the
  whole side of. the chest, and attached in all the extent from
  the 2d to the 8th rib, is very powerful in raising the ribs; but
  it cannot exert this power independently of the trapezius ,
  since, without its combination, its force would be exerted in
  moving the scapula, and not the ribs: unless the scapula be
  <U+FB01>xed, or pulled back by the trapezius, the serratus is not a
                                                         '
  muscle of respiration.
     In this manner do these three powerful muscles hang to
    ether in their action, combining with the diaphragm to en
   arge the cavity of the chest in all its diameters; and to these
  muscles are distributed in a peculiar manner the nerves which
  may thence appropriately be termed the respiratory nerves of
  the chest.
        The Anatomy     of the respiratory Nerves of the Trunk.
     1. The phrenic takes its origin or proceeds from the fourth
  cervical nerve, a more slender branch joining it from the
  third cervical; it also has connexions with the nervus vagus,
  the lingualz's medius, and at the same time gives off a branch
  to the larynx.     Its trunk descends into the cavity of the
  thorax, giving off no branches till it diverges and disperses
. itself in the substance of that muscle: the irritation of this
  nerve convulses the diaphragm, and cutting it across paralyses
  it; the connexions moreover which we have enumerated
                                                   '            would
  mark its relations.                                                  ~
     2. The external respiratory nerve of the thorax is a counter
  part of the former, or internal respiratory; it proceeds from
  the 4th and 5th cervical, like the phrenic, and is often con
  nected with it. This nerve descends as a distinct <U+FB02>at trunk,
  upon the outside of the chest to be distributed exclusiVely to
  the serratus magnus anticus. This muscle has nerves coming
  to it from the spinal marrow besides, because it has to com
                                                                    bine

 on the Structure, Dislributimi, and Functions ofthe      Nerves.   123
 bine in the motions of the frame in locomotion; the former
 nerve, however, by its in<U+FB02>uence renders it a muscle subser
 vient to the production of full inspiration.
    3. The spinal accessory nerve is particularly an object in
 this paper. It is called the superior respiratory nerve of the
 trunk, and its anatomy demands attention because it leads in
 a most conclusive manner to a knowledge of its functions.
    It arises from the cervical portion of the spinal marrow; but,
 different from the two former, which collect their branches to
 go out by the side of the vertebrm, it shoots upwards within
 the theca of the spinal marrow, enters the skull through the
foramen magnum, and joins the par vagum; whence it bears
 the name of accessory.- the roots of this nerve are seen issuing
 from the spinal medulla as low down as the 4th cervical nerve,
 not from its anterior or posterior column, but from that be
 fore mentioned which lies betwixt the posterior roots of the
 cervical nerves and the ligamentum ldenticulatum.         Its origins
 are therefore situated in one line, which is in the direction
 of the roots of the eighth pair and of the portio dura or respi
 ratory nerve of the face. It is attached in its ascent to the
 posterior root of the <U+FB01>rst cervical nerve.
    When it has entered the skull, it is associated with the
 nerves constituting the par vagum, being contained in the same
 sheath with them; they all go out through the foramen lacerum
 by the side of the jugular vein. In this course the accessory
 nerve divides into two branches, one of which joins <U+FB01>laments
 of the par vagum, and these again send nerves to the glossa
 pharyngeal nerve, and sometimes a branch is seen going to
 the lingualis medias.    The more exterior branch descends be
 hind the jugular vein, and comes forward and perforates the
 mastoidmuscle, to ‘which it furnishes <U+FB01>laments invariably.
     On escaping from the mastoid muscle, it communicates with
 a branch of the 3d cervical and receives one from the 2d: it
 now \descends upon the neck and disperses itself to the tra
 pezius, by many subdivisions, one of which is increaSed by a
 long descending branch of the 2d cervical nerve; this branch
 so enlarged passes under the trapezius, attaches itself exclu
 sively to the trapezius, and is again joined by branches from
 the spinal nerves behind the clavicle, .where it forms a sort of
 imperfect plexus, and is <U+FB01>nally dispersed among its <U+FB01>bres.
 Thus do we’see that this nerve may with strict propriety be
 termed 'the superior respiratory nerve of the trunk ,- for it lavishes
 all its branches on the mastoid and trapezius muscles solely,
 after taking a circuitous course to form a junction with the
 par vagum and with the                 of the tongue and
                                                             pharyna'é
                                                                    an
                               nerve(sQ 2

124         Analyses   of a   Series   of Papers,   by   Mr. C. Bell,
and sends branches to the larynx in company with the
branches of the par vagum.
   The author next proceeds to take a comparative view of
thes'e nerves, and shows that. they accommodate themselves to
the form and play of the organs of respiration, under all their
modi<U+FB01>cations, as presented by various animals, birds, and
<U+FB01>shes; whence he very justly forms a conclusion that they are
all respiratory nerves, even though they may be found to vary
in their course of distribution.    A remarkable example of
which is afforded by the nerves of the neck in birds.  In them
the bill precludes the necessity of the portio dura going for
ward to the nostrils and lips; the nerve turns backwards, and
is given to the neck and throat; and it is particularly worthy
of remark, that the action of raising the feathers of the neck,
as when the game cock is facing his opponent, is taken away
by the division of this nerve.
           The Fimctions   of   these Nerves <U+FB01>lrtlter illustrated.
   The lower extremit         of the mastoid muscle being <U+FB01>xed
when we move the head, and the reverse being the case when
we employ it in inspiration, render it evident to every one
that it has two motions.       The same is con<U+FB01>rmed by attending
to the actions of snu<U+FB02>in and smelling, as, by placing the <U+FB01>n
gers on the portions of t e mastoid muscles which are attached
to the sternum, we shall <U+FB01>nd every little motion of the nostrils
accompanied with corresponding actions of the sternal por
tions of the muscles in the neck.
    A man having complete hemiple ia, the side of his face
relaxed, the arm hanging down power ess, and the leg drag ed
in walking, we were curious to know if the in<U+FB02>uence (or rat er
the want of      pervaded all the nerves of the side, or only the
                it)
regular  or voluntary nerves. Some trouble was taken to make
him heave up the shoulder of the debilitated side; but to no
purpose. He could only do          it   by
                                     bending the spine to the other
side, and as    were weighing up the paralytic shoulder.
                it                                              But
on setting him           in front, and asking him to make a full
inspiration, bothfairlg oulders were elevated at the same time
                       5
that both the nostrils were in motion.      The respiratory nerve
of the face, and the superior respiratory nerve, were entire
in their of<U+FB01>ce; and, although the regular system of nerves
refused acting, the sterno-mastoideus and the trapezius partook
of their share in the act of respiration.
   The mastoid muscle being supplied with both sets of nerves,
that  isto say, voluntary and respiratory, the former would
appear tojoin in producing the voluntary motion of the
  .                                                           headi
                                                               an

   on the Structure, Distribution, and Functions  of the Nerves.  125
  and the latter in raising the chest; and this is con<U+FB01>rmed by an
 experiment consisting in the division of the superior respira
 tory nerves of the ass during the time of excited respiration,
 the consequence of which is the cessation of the increased
 respiratory action, and relaxation of the sterno- maxillaris
 and sterno-vertebralis muscles, which answer to the mastoid in
 man; and this relaxation continues until the animal brings
 them into action as voluntary muscles.
    An ass bein thrown, its phrenic nerves were divided, on
 which a remar able heaving of the, chest took place.         It rose
 higher, and the mar ‘ns of the chest were more expanded at
 each respiration.     'lhere was no particular excitement of the
 muscles of the neck, shoulder, or throat, at this time; so that
 to excite the actions of these muscles, it was necessary to com
 press the nostrils.     When they began to act with more vio
 lence, keeping time with the actions of the other muscles of
 respiration, the superior respiratory nerve was divided; im
 mediately the action ceased in the muscles attached to the
 sternum of the side, where the nerve was divided, while the
 corresponding muscles of the other side continued their ac
 tions.
    It is well known that on the division of the spinal marrow
between the cervical and dorsal vertebrae, the respiration is
continued b the diaphragm.          The phrenic nerves being <U+FB01>rst
divided, an then the spinal marrow cut across at the bottom
of the cervical vertebrae, respiration was stopped in the chest;
but there continued a catching and strong action at regular
 intervals in the muscles of the nostrils, face, and side of the
 neck.     These actions ceased also after a time, but were re
 newed upon reanimating the animal by arti<U+FB01>cial breathing,
which was done several times, the animal however remaining
 insensible.
    This class of nerves indicated, by stimulating them after
 death, a power of retaining their life the longest.
    To avoid the unnecessary repetition of experiments, the
 author states the facts which have been ascertained b the
exertions of others respecting the remaining nerves 0 this
class.     Thus the voice is destroyed by dividing the recurrent
branch of the par vagum.         The consent of motion between
the muscles of the glottis and those of the chest, is lost by the
 division of the laryngeal branch of the par vagum.          An in
jury of the par vagum produces dif<U+FB01>culty of breathing.
    Although the r ular succession of spinal nerves be equal
to the raisin     and epressing the thorax, and essential to re
 spiration, stil they are not competent to the performance of
 the motions of the glottis, pharynx, lips, and nostrils ;
 .        _                  ,                                 Wl'llcli
                                                             severa

  126     Analyses  qfa Series of Papers, ly'Mr. C. Bell,
 several parts are necessarily in<U+FB02>uenced in excited respiration,
 as well as in the acts of smelling, cou hing, sneezing, and
 speaking: for these, the co-operation of the whole extended
 class of respiratory nerves is required.
 Of   Pathology,  as illustrated by a Knowledge   of the respiratory
                           System  of Nerves.
    From all that   has been said, it may be seen of what import
 ance this system is to the continuance of life.         The infant
 born without a brain can breathe if the origins of these nerves
 be entire.    Wounds in the spine below these origins are not
 immediately fatal; but when in<U+FB02>icted on the part of the me
 dulla oblongata giving origin to them, they cause instant death
 by suppressing at once the act of respiration in the nostrils,
 throat and wind-pipe, and the action of the muscles both with
 out and within the chest.        A oung_man was taken to the
 Middlesex Hospital, Who had faflen upon his head.         He soon
 recovered, and lay for some time in the hospital without ex
 hibiting a symptom to raise alarm. He had iven thanks to
 the assembled governors of the hospital; an           when he re
 turned to his ward to bid adieu to the other patients, he fell,
 and in the instant expired.      It was found, on examination of
 his head, that the margins of the occipital hole had been
 broken ; so that on turning his head the pieces were displaced,
 and closed and crushed the medulla oblongata as it passes from
 the skull.
    A man was trundling a wheel-barrow in the street, and
 wishing to turn off the carria e way on to the <U+FB02>ag-stones, he
 met with that resistance which obliged him to make several
 efforts to overcome it; at length drawing back the wheel-bar
row ,he made a push, and succeeded: but the wheel. running
forwards, he fell, and remained motionless, and was found to
be quite dead.     The tooth-like process of the 2d vertebra of
the neck had burst from the transverse ligament of the <U+FB01>rst.
The impulse given‘ to the head had done this violence, and
had at the same time carried forward the spinal marrow against
the process, on which it was crushed.                .   ,
    Disease in<U+FB02>uences these nerves differently from the other
division of the nervous system.        Their functions are le<U+FB01>: en
tire when the voluntary nerves have ceased to act, and they
are sometimes strangely disordered, while the mind is entire in
all its ol<U+FB01>ces, and the voluntary operations perfect. In tetanus
the latter are affected, and locked up in convulsions; in by
drophobia the former; hence the convulsions of the throat,
the paroxysms of suffocation, the speechless agony, and the
excess of expression in the whole frame, while the voluntary
                                                            motions

on the Structure, Distribution, and Functions qftke Nerves. 127
motions are free.          Angina pectorz's would seem to proceed
from an in<U+FB02>uence extending over these nerves and inter
rupting the vital operations *; and since we have seen that the
division of a branch of the respiratory nerve of the face de
prives it of all participation in the act of respiration and of
all expression, we may ask, what would be the result of a
more universal defect in the actions of this class of nerves but
                                              '
sudden death?
    The par vagum being the great central nerve of :this system
and supplying the stomach, accounts for that extraordinary
e<U+FB01>'ect produced by a blow unexpectedly received on that re
gion, which is a            sping for breath, and in some instances
sudden death.             e position of a patient under a <U+FB01>t of asthma,
together with the other striking symptoms which mark its
presence, indicate that this system of nerves is under       '
                                                                    inordi
                                                               ‘
nate in<U+FB02>uence.
    The actions of sneezing and coughing, instead of being ir,
regular or of the nature of convulsion, are an admirable pro
vision for getting rid of irritating substances offending the. air
passages; the extremity of one of the respiratory nerves be
ing irritated occasioning all the muscles of respiration to be
brought into action; the consideration of the many little mus-:
cles which require adjustment to produce the necessary changes
in the direction of the stream of .air for the above-mentioned
purpose, must lead to the conclusion of the action being in
stinctive, ordered with the utmost activity, and very di<U+FB02>'erent
                                            ‘
from convulsion.
    It was shown in the last pa er, that the respiratory nerves
of the face were essential to t e actions of smiling, laughing,
and weeping, as expressed in the countenance: it only remains
to add, in the present one, that this applies equally to the same
order of actions which takes place in the trunk, these bein
produced so very distinctly under those conditions of the mindg,
and precisely at the same_time.                                            _
        These respiratmy Nerves are Organs            of Expression.
    We are now enabled to conceive why, in terror, a man
stands with eyes intently <U+FB01>xed on the object of his fears; the
   "  Hysterical disorders also in<U+FB02>uence this system; and admitting that ir
ritation reaches to the res iratory system, we may perceive how rapidly
the change may be produce , from the convulsions of laughter to those of
crying: this explains also the rubrisu: which arises from abdominal irrita
tion, and the sardonic retraction of the muscles of thé'face produced by'
wounds of vital parts, and particularly of the diaphragm, together with the
successive convulsive
                '       lifting of the shoulders accompanying wounds of the
latter muscle.                                   .
                                                                       eye

128       On theStructure, Distribution,   and Functions   of the Nerves.
eyebrows elevated, and the       e e-balls lar ely uncovered; or
wh    ,with hesitatin and bewil ering           is eyes are rapidly
and, wildly in search of something. steigs,is mind we know is
intent upon the objects of his apprehensionshand manifests a
direct in<U+FB02>uence upon the outward organs.        If we observe him
further, there is a spasm at his breast; he cannot breathe
freely; the chest remains elevated, and his respiration is short
and rapid: there is a                    convulsive motion of his
                           gaspingland
lips; a tremor on his hollow      c eeks; a gulping and catching
of his throat; his heart knocks at his ribs, while yet there is no
force in the circulation, the lips and checks being ashy pale.
   The same phaenomena are presented by grief: indeed the
respiratory nerves of the trunk, in like manner as those of the
face, are the instruments of expression, from the smile upon
the infant’s cheek to the last agony of life. It is when the
strong man is subdued by the mysterious in<U+FB02>uence of soul on
body, and when the passions may be truly said to tear the
breast, that we have the most a<U+FB01>licting picture of human frailty,
and the most unequivocal proof that it is the order of func
tions which we have been considering that is then affected.
In the <U+FB01>rst struggles of the infant to draw breath, in the man
recovering from a state of suffocation, and in the agony of
passion, when the breast labours from the in<U+FB02>uence at the
heart, the same system of parts is affected, the same nerves,
the same muscles, and the symptoms or characters have a
strict resemblance.
   Upon a careful review of all that has been said, the author
has made it appear, that instead of the par vagum being the
only respiratory nerve, it is in fact the central one of a system
of nerves of great extent; and, further, that the vital organs of
circulation and respiration do not, as has been supposed, de
pend chie<U+FB02>y upon the in<U+FB02>uence of the sympathetic nerve, but
that the have an appropriate system ; which, extricated as it
now is om the confusion that encumbered             it,
                                                  may be seen to
be superadded to the common animal attributes of feeling and
agency: through this system we see as       were engrafted upon
                                              it
and superadded to the original nature, higher powers of
agency corresponding to our condition of mental superiority:
these are not the organs of breathing merely, but of natural
and articulate lan age also, and adapted to the expression                  .
of sentiment, in      workin
                       t   e      of the countenance and of the
                                   s
breast, that     is,
               by signs as we as by words. So that the breast
becomes the or an of the passions, and bears the same rela
tion to the deviopment of sentiments, as the organs of the
senses do to the ideas of sense.                                       ‘
                                                        XX. On

                                     [129]
XX.     On lllr. SAMUEL SEAWARD’S Claim to the Invention of
     a Hydro-pneumatic Pump for compressing Gases, do. By
     Mr. JOHN MARTINEAU.
  To   the   Editors of      the Philosophical   Magazine and Journal.
       Gentlemen,
     OBSERVE       in our last Number a drawin      and descrip
      tion of a pump          flor
                         condensing gases, by     r. S. Seaward,
 which pump he states to be his invention.    _
                                                                      -
    As far as am myself concerned, Ishould have hardly thought
                 I
it   worth while to contradict his statement; but       cannot in
                                                           I
justice to yourself allow your respectable Journal       be made
                                                               to
 the vehicle for conveying a falsehood to the public.
    This pump was constructed at the manufactory of which            I
 am a proprietor, during the time that Mr. Seaward <U+FB01>lled              a
 situation as draughtsman in it.   In that capacity he made the
 necessar drawings connected with it; but do most positively
                                                     I
 assert,   tat he did not invent or suggest any one essential
part of    it.
 I     content myself with simply stating the above facts,
                           And remain
                                 Your most obedient servant,
City Road,       Aug' 10, 1824.                      JOHN MARTINEAU.
XXI.         An Attempt to explain the Action of the Voltaic Pile.
                     By Mr. THOMAS POLLocx.
              of the Voltaic pile as an instrument of
THEmicalpower
          analysis   owing to the in<U+FB02>uence its action
                             is
                                                                    che
                                                                    pro
duces upon the radiant matter which common matter contains,
and to which its various forms are owing, and which, when
in motion produces heat.
   The action of the pile may be readily explained when one
fact   previously assented to,—that a radiant matter capable of
      is
producing heat, when in motion, pervades all the matter, solid,
<U+FB02>uid and gaseous, of the universe; and that no motion whatever
can take place upon the surface of our globe without producing
a change in the distribution of this general pervading principle.
If a gas become a <U+FB02>uid, or a <U+FB02>uid a solid, there      diminution
                                                          is
                                                           a
of capacity for heat; there contraction of volume, and the
                                      is
form this matter has now assumed, owing to contraction, de
mands less of this general pervadin       prmci le, and heat          is
presented   to surrounding   bodies.      this   ange take place;
                                                 f    0
with rapidity, and bodies possessing     great capacity for heat,
                                                 a
   Vol. 64-. No. 316. Aug. 1824.                      R        as

  180               Mr. Pollock   on the Action
  as water ormoisture, be absent, light will frequently result;
  hence the electric spark.      While, on the contrary,if a solid
  become a <U+FB02>uid, or a <U+FB02>uid a as, there is an increase of capa-
  cit , there is expansion of vo%ume, and the form now assumed
  w' l, owing to this expansion, demand more of this pervading
  principle, and cold will be presented to, or their pervading
  heat abstracted from, surrounding bodies.       Moreover, if a gas
  merely contract or expand without assuming either the <U+FB02>uid
  or solid form, the same effect will be produced upon the per
  vading principle of heat in surrounding bodies.         Here, per
 haps, the explosion     of euchlorine may    be  objected as an in
 stance of expansion attended    b   heat and light; but this change
 takes place with rapidity, an the abstraction of the radiant
 principle from surrounding bodies will likewise be effected
 with rapidity, producing light and heat.
     There is no necessity for supposing the existence of heat,
 light, an electric, galvanic, or perhaps a magnetic <U+FB02>uid di
 stinct from this pervading principle; they are all branches
 from the same root.      Electric or galvanic attraction between
 bodies is the result of their containing different proportions
 of the pervading principle; and by the electric spark the ex
 cess is given off and an equilibrium is restored.         Thus the
 thunder cloud being formed from vapour in the atmosphere,
 there is a contraction of volume, an excess of the pervading
principle, which, by being transmitted to the earth beneath,
produces
            lightning.
     Previous  y to making an attempt to explain the action of
the Voltaic pile, it may be necessary to inquire upon what
conducting power and capacity for heat depend.          Conducting
power appears to be the reverse of capacity for heat, as the
best conductors have generally the worst capacity.           In con
ductors, as metals, attraction predominates; but in bodies pos
sessing the greatest capacity, as gases, repulsion of particles
predominates.       Metals are the densest bodies known, at least
those forming a component part of the pile.           Density must
depend upon a strong attraction between the particles of the
substance.                     »
     Conducting power appears, then, to be the consequence of
the strong mutual attraction existing between the particles of
matter, as in a metal; because if a metal, by exposure to a
bi her temperature, become expanded, yet, when exposed to
a ower temperature, it will again contract more. suddenly
than a non-conducting substance, because the attraction be-,
tween the particles of a conducting substance must be com
paratively             than that of a non-conducting substance,
             stronger
as the superior     ensity of the former demonstrates: and as the
                                                            particles

                          qf the Voltaz'c Pile.               131
particles of a metal must contract more suddenly than those
of any other substance, heat will be imparted to surrounding
bodies, and to that part of the metal which has not been
          exposed to the heat-making body, with greater rapidity.
 T us, conducting power appears to depend upon the particles
eqlllally
of the conductor being nearer each other, thereby producing
a more rapid contraction after being heated.
    Capacity for heat appears, then, to be the consequence of
the greater want of attraction between the particles of the sub
stance than of a conductor; for if a substance possessing a
greater capacity do expand by exposure to a higher tempera
ture, yet by exposure to a lower temperature, it will, owing to
the greater want of attraction, unlike the metals, not contract
in the same sudden manner they do, and therefore cannot be so
powerful a conductor.       Thus, owing to the greater mutual
attraction between the particles of a conductor, metals possess
the least capacity for heat of all the forms of matter. In water
these two powers are more equally blended than in any other
bod ; it possesses a greater conducting power than any other
<U+FB02>uid' of equal density, and has a great capacity for heat.      It
exists in three forms, solid, <U+FB02>uid and gaseous, at a less varia
tion of temperature than any other <U+FB02>uid compounds, and, by
the action of heat alone, di<U+FB02>'ers from all others in being unal
terable in composition.
    The Voltaic pile consists of a number of series, generally
about 200, arranged in the form of a pile; each series con
siting of zinc, silver or copper, both about the size of a half
crown, and cloth of the same size moistened with some saline
or acid solution, as of nitre, common salt, or sal ammoniac,
sulphuric, nitric or muriatic acid. This apparatus is vari
ously arranged for the sake of convenience, but the principle
is still the same; as by arranging the plates of the two metals
soldered together cross-ways in a wooden trough, and <U+FB01>lling
the interstices with the saline or acid solution; if the hands
moistened be applied to each extremity of the pile, a shock
will be perceived.
    If two platina wires, one in contact with the zinc extremity,
the other with the copper extremity, be connected by means
of a small piece of charcoal, the charcoal will be ignited.
 ‘
    If the wires be immersed in the same portion of water,
oxygen will be given o<U+FB01>' at the positive wire, that connected
with the zinc extremity; and hydrogen gas at the negative
wire, that connected with the copper extremity.
    If the wires be introduced into strong acid solutions, oxy
gen separates at the positive wire, and the in<U+FB02>ammable com
ponent at the negative wire.         Strong saline solutions are
                                 R                          acted

138                   Mr. Pollock   on the Action
 acted upon in a similar way. Solution of muriatic acid in
 water gives off chlorine at the positive and hydrogen at the
 ne tive pole.
      y the action of the Voltaic apparatus, the metals of the
 alkalies and alkaline earths, and boron, may be separated from
 their combinations with ox gen; sulphur and carbon, from
 their combinations with hy rogen.
    The greater the number of the series, the more energetic
 will be the action of the apparatus.                             I
    By keeping in mind that the pile itself is pervaded by a ra
diant matter which by its motion can produce heat, the cause
of its power may be traced out.
    The action going on in each series between the metals and
acid or saline solution, should now be considered.
    First, the water is decomposed, by the union of some of the
zinc with the oxygen of the water, and hydrogen gas given off
from the surface of the copper; the acid then combines with
the oxide of zinc, and remains in solution.
    That portion of the metal, zinc, forming the oxide, by
changing the conducting for the non-conducting form, as it
exists in the newly formed solution, under oes an expansion,
and an increased capacity for heat; and t e pervading heat
which this increase demands will be supplied from that sub
stance with which it is in the most intimate state of contact,
which is the remaining metal, zinc: this zinc will in its turn
instantly attempt to remunerate itself at the expense of that
conductin substance with which it is in contact, which is the
copper.       he oxide of zinc will unite as soon as formed with
the acid in the solution; there is now adiminution of capacity,
a contraction, and the heat thus liberated is seized upon by
that body present, which has the greatest capacity for     it, which
is the hydrogen gas.     This as containing an excess of what
the copper   is  de<U+FB01>cient in, t  ey attract each other; and the
equilibrium being restored, the hydrogen gas         given off from
                                                    is
the surface of the copper.
   Here, perhaps,   it  may be considered stran        that the hy
drogen, being produced in close contact with         e ezinc, should
be elicited from the surface of the copper in preference to that
of the zinc; but the very instant that the zinc suffers loss of
                                                           a
radiant matter, that very instant will this loss be supplied
by the copper, as metals are conductors, and the copper re
munerating itself at the expense of those bodies in its vicinity,
as the solution, the hydrogen will naturall        be attracted by
it, and repelled from that part where the sa ine compound of
zinc must be formed,which must be in contact with the zinc.
   Thus, as it  appears that in the series of the zinc, copper and
                                                            solution,

                          of the Voltaic Pile.                     133
 solution, the conducting metals suffer a loss of their natural
 quantity of radiant matter, capable of producing heat, it is
 reasonable to suppose, that when a number of these series are
 brought within the range of the conductin                in<U+FB02>uence of
each other, as in the pile, the e<U+FB02>'ects pro uced must be
 heightened; as the metals, such delicate tests of the presence
 of radiant matter, must be peculiarly sensible of the diminution
 of the radiant matter of those conducting bodies in their vi
 cinity; as in the adjoining series of the pile.
    The ener         of the pile as a chemical a nt increases in pro
 portion   to  t  e  number    of the series; an when the supply of
 radiant matter capable of roducing heat, which the metals in
 all the different series of   tlie pile demand, owing to the change
   oing   on  in   the  pile,
                          is     concentrated  by bein conveyed into
 it along two small platina wires, and when thls supply       is   de
 rived from a small mass of non-conducting matter, as the hy
drate of potassa, the action of the pile must be almost irre
 sistible, and the non-conducting compound will be as       it   were
torn asunder by virtue of two attractions, by the abstraction
of that radiant matter, or latent heat, upon which its very
existence in the non-conductin           form depends; and by which
two attractions its matter       is   givided into two parts, which
under other circumstances possess a strong attraction for each
other, but here are attracted by the positive and negative poles
of the pile.
    Thus, the change which matter undergoes in its relations to
temperature, when exposed to the action of the wires of the
apparatus,     is   the ver reverse of that going on in the pile    ;
there, the quantity 0 conducting matter      is     diminished by the
action of the menstruum upon the metal zinc: here, on the
contrary, by the action of the two wires upon the hydrate of
potassa, conducting matter            isformed, as potassium is  pro
duced.
                               ‘
    Why, may here be inquired, should metal, as potassium,
          it                                a
be separated at the negative, and oxygen at the positive wire       P
why should this preference be given by each body to each of
these wires? A current of radiant matter proceeds from the
negative towards the positive extremity, where,by an accumula
tion, a tendency imparted to bodies, such as metal, to enter.
                    is                            a
into _a state possessing a greater capacity for heat, or in other
words to form an oxide; while metallic matter, as potassium, is
separated at the negative extremity, because, instead of an ac-.
cumulation, there    is    a de<U+FB01>ciency. This circumstance of excess
of the radiant principle in one body, and its de<U+FB01>ciency.            in
another,  is     the cause of attraction in general.       To explaln
more fully: the potassium being formed from the non-con
                                                              ducting

134-             Dr. Wollaston      on Semi-decussation
ducting hydrate of potassa, suffers a diminution of capacity
for heat, while the oxygen gas gains an increase: thus the
potassium has an excess of radiant matter to impart, while at
the negative extremity of the pile there is a de<U+FB01>ciency; there
fore the potassium aud copper naturally attract each other.
The reason why oxygen should be attracted by that pole where
radiant matter is in excess, and thereby have a tendency im
parted to it of combining with metallic matter, may readily be
admitted.      Why in common cases do we beat a metal in order
to combine it with oxygen ? Is it to furnish the latent heat
which the increase of capacity of the newly formed oxide de
mands?       Yes.
   East Smith<U+FB01>eld, July 28, 1824.               THOMAS POLLQCK,
XXII. Of Semi-decussation of the         Optic Nerves.       By WILLIAM
               HYDE WOLLASTON, M.D. V.P.R.S.""
       HETHER         we consider the astonishing subtlety of that
         medium which renders visible to us objects existing
at the most immeasurable distances from us, or that delicately
constituted organ which, by its general structure, collects the
rays of light, and by a nice ada tation of its parts concen
trates their force on the sentient bres of the retina, ex anded
over its inner surface, we can feel no surprise that suc great
talents should have been devoted to investi ate the curious
properties of the one, or that the structure of t e other should
have been examined with so much assiduity.
    The keenness of inquiry manifested by the cultivators of
anatomy, in observing the most minute parts that have escaped
the notice of their predecessors, shows that any addition to
the common stock of our information on this sub'ect will be
gratifying to a certain portion of the members of t is Society,
and probably not uninteresting to the Society at large.
    It is not my object, in the present paper, to examine either
the <U+FB01>rst effect of the cornea in rendering the rays of light
conVergent, or the power of the crystalline lens in <U+FB01>nally
bringing them to a focus on the retina. It is not my intention
to investi te whether the adaptation of the eye to different
distances IS effected by alteration of the form of the lens from
its own muscular structure, or by alteration of its place, from
the agency of other muscles. Nor do I mean to consider
either the involuntary motions of the iris dependent on the
quantity of li ht present, or that voluntary contraction of it
by which we a<U+FB01>apt the aperture of the pupil for distinct vision
           * From  the Philosophical Transactions for 182-1,  Part I.
                                                                      at

                                                      '   '
                       Qf the Optic Nerves.                     1‘35
at different distances, limiting thereby, what in optics is
termed the spherical aberration of the lens.
    The subject of my inquiry relates solely to the course by
which impressions from images perfectly formed are conveyed
to the sensorium, and to that structure and distribution of the
optic nerves on which the communication of these impressions
depends.
    Without pretendin       to detect by manual dexterity as an
anatomist, the very      elicate conformation of the nerves of
vision,   Ihave been led, by the casual observation of a few
instances of diseased vision, to draw some inferences respect
 ing the texture of that part which has been called the dams-
sation of the optic nerves, upon which     Ifeel myself warranted
to speak with some con<U+FB01>dence.
   It is well known that in the human brain these nerves, after
passing forwards to a short distance from their origin in the
thalami nervorum opticorum, unite together, and are, to ap—
pearance, completely incorporated ; and that from this point
of union proceed two nerves, one to the right, the other to
the left eye.                                                    /
   The term decussation was applied to this united portion,
under the supposition that, though the <U+FB01>bres do intermix,
they still continue onward in their original direction, and
that those from the right side cross over wholly to suppl the
left eye, while the right eye is supplied entirely from bres
arising from the left thalamus.
   In this opinion, anatomists have felt themselves con<U+FB01>rmed
by the result of their examination of other animals, and es!
peciall that of several species of <U+FB01>sh, in which it is distinctly
seen t at the nerves do actually cross each other as a pair of
separate cords, lying in contact at their crossing, but without
any intermixture of their <U+FB01>bres.
   In these cases it is most indis utably true, that the eye
upon the ri ht side of the animal oes receive its optic nerve
              leg
               side of the brain, while that of the le<U+FB01>; eye comes
from the
from the right side; but   it    not
                                is   a just inference to suppose
the same continuity preserved in other animals, where such
complete separation of the entire nerves       not found.
                                               is
   On the contrary,   I   not only sée reason, from a species of
blindness which has happened to myself more than once, to
conclude, that a different distribution of nerves takes place in
us, but think my opinion supported by this evident di<U+FB02>‘erence
      I
of structure in <U+FB01>shes.                                              4
   It now more than twenty years since was <U+FB01>rst affected
     is
                                               I I
with the peculiar state of vision to which      allude, in conse
quence of violent exercise I    had taken for  two  or three hours
                                                            before.

136           Dr. Wollaston              on Semi-decussation
before.    I suddenly found that I could see but half the face
of a man whom            I
                        met ;_ and it was the same with respect to
every object   I looked    at.    In attempting to read the name
JOHNSON, over a door,                I
                                saw onl           son ; the commence
ment   of the name    being wholly      o  literated  to my view.      In
this instance  the  loss of  sight  was  toward    my  left, and was  the
same whether       I
                   looked with the right eye or the left. This
blindness was not so complete as to amount to absolute black
ness, but was a shaded darkness without de<U+FB01>nite outline.             The
complaint was of short duration, and in about a quarter of an
hour might be said to be wholly gone, havin receded with a
   adual motion from the centre of vision ob iquely upwards
toward the left.
   Since this defect arose from over fatigue, a cause common
to many other nervous affections,                   I
                                              saw no reason to apple
hend any return of             it,
                              and      passed away without need of
                                          it
remedy, without any further explanation, and without my
drawing any useful inference from it.
   It now about <U+FB01>fteen months since a similar affection oc
      is
curred again to myself, without my being able to assign any
cause whatever, or to connect             with any previous or subse
                                               it
quent indisposition.      The    blindness   was <U+FB01>rst observed, as be
fore, in looking at-the face of a person            met, whose left eye
                                                        I
was to my sight obliterated.          My    blindness   was in this in
stance the reverse of' the former, being to my right (instead of
the left) of the spot to which my eyes were directed; so that
I have no reason to suppose           in any manner connected with
                                         it
the former affection.
   The new punctum caecum was situated alike in both eyes,
and at an an       of about three de rees from the centre for,
                   le                                            ;
when any obJect was viewed at the distance of about <U+FB01>ve yards,
the point not seen was about ten inches distant from the point
actually looked at.
   On this occasion the affection, after having lasted with little
alteration for about twenty minutes, was removed suddenly
and entirely  b   the excitement of agreeable news respecting
the safe arriva of a friend from a very hazardous enterprise.
   In re<U+FB02>ecting upon this subject, a certain arrangement of
the optic nerves has suggested itself to me, which appears to
afford a  very probable interpretation of a set of facts, which
are not consistent with the generally received hypothesis of
the decussation of the optic nerves.
   Since the corresponding points of the two eyes sympathize
in disease, their     rInpathy        evidently from structure, not
                                         is
from mere habit         of 5
                        feeling together, as mi ht be inferred,       if
reference were bad to the reception of or inary impressions
                                                                  alone.

                                                      '
                          oft/w Optic  Nei'vés.                 [-87
  alone.    A'ny tWO corresponding points must be supplied with‘
  a pair of <U+FB01>laments from the same nerve, and the seat of a
  disease in which similar parts of both eyes are a<U+FB02>'ected, must
  be considered as situated at a distance from the e e's at some
  place in the course of the nerves where these <U+FB01> aments are
  still united, and probably in one or the other thalamus ner
  vorum opticorum.
     It is plain that the cord, which comes <U+FB01>nally to either eye
  under the name of optic nerve, must be re arded as consist
  ing of two portions, one half from the riért thalamus, and:
  the other from the left thalamus nervorum opticorum.
     According to this supposition, deeussation will take place
  only between the adjacent halves of the two nerves. That
  portion of nerVe which proceeds from the right thalamus to
  the right side of the right eye, passes to its destination with
  out interference; and in a similar manner the left thalamus
  will supply the left side of the left eye with one part of its
  <U+FB01>bres, while the remaining halves of both nerves in passing
  over to the eyes of the opposite sides must intersect each other,
  either with or without intermixture of their <U+FB01>bres.
      Now, if we consider rightly the facts discovered by com~
  parative anatomy in <U+FB01>shes, we shall <U+FB01>nd that the crossin of
  the entire nerves in them to the opposite eyes, is in per ct
  conformity to this view of the arran ement of the human optic
  nerves.     The relatiVe position of t e eyes to each other in
  the stur eon, is so exactly back to back, on opposite sides of
  the heazi that they can hardly see the same object; they can
  have no points which generally receive the same impressions
  as in us; there are no corresponding points of vision requiring
  to be supplied with <U+FB01>bres from the same nerve. The eye
  which sees to the left has its retina solely upon its right side;
  and this is supplied with an optic nerve arising wholly from.
  the right thalamus; while the left thalamus sends its <U+FB01>bres
'
  entirely to the left side of the right eye for the perception of
  objects situated on the right.    In this animal, an injury to the
  left thalamus might be expected to occasion entire blindness
  of the right eye alone, and want of perception of objects
  placed on that side.     In ourselves, a similar injury to the left
  thalamus would occasion blindness (as before) to all objects
  situated to our right, owing to inseiisibility of the left half of
  the retina of both eyes.
     A disorder that has occurred within my own knowledge in
  the case of a friend, seems full to con<U+FB01>rm this reasoning-as
  far as a single instance can be e ended upon. After he had
  suffered severe pain in his head or some days, about the left
     Vol. 64-. No. 316. Aug. 182+.              S            temple,
                     0

188              Dr. Wollaston   on Semi-demssalion
 temple, and toward the back of the left eye, his vision became
 considerably impaired, attended with other symptoms indi
 cating a slight compression on the brain.
     It was not till after the lapse of three or four weeks that I
  saw him, and found that, in addition to other affections which
 need not here be enumerated, he laboured under a defect of
 sight similar to those which had happened to myself, but
 more extensive, and it has unfortunately been far more per
 manent.     In this case the blindness was at that time, and
 stillis, entire, with reference to all objects situated to the
 right of his centre of view. Fortunately, the <U+FB01>eld of his
  vision     suf<U+FB01>cient for writin perfectly.
            is                                     He sees what he
 writes, and the pen with whici he writes, but not the hand
 that moves the pen. This affection          is,as far as can be ob
 served, the same in both eyes, and consists in an insensibility
 of the retina on the left side of each eye. It seems most pro
 bable, that some e<U+FB02>'usion took place at the time of the original
 pain on that side of the head, and has left a permanent com
 pression, on the left thalamus.     This partial blindness has now
 lasted so long without sensible amendment, as to make       it very
 doubtful when my friend ma recover the complete percep
 tion of objects on that side    0  him.
     In reviewino' the several phaenomena that have described,
                                                   I
 we <U+FB01>nd partial blindness occurring at the same time in both
 eyes.    This sympathy from disease    is   readily explained, on
the supposition that the parts which sympathize receive their
 nerves from the same source, while the opposite halves of the
 eyes, which are not at the same time similarly affected, are
 supplied from an opposite source; and the inference         is  im
 mediate, that in common vision also the sympathy of corre
 sponding points, which receive similar impressions from the
 same object,    isdependent on the arrangement of nerves thus
detected by disease.                                              -
     We <U+FB01>nd moreover in the sturgeon, (and               the same in
‘
                                                   it   is
 some other <U+FB01>shes,) whose eyes can scarcely see the same ob
ject at once, and have no corresponding points which ordi
narily sympathize, that the two eyes do not receive any ner
 VQus <U+FB01>bres from the same source; but one eye receives its
nerve wholly from one side, and the other from the other side
 of the brain.
     From the structureiof these <U+FB01>sh we learn distinctly, that
 the perception of objects toward one side         is  dependent on
nerVes derived from the opposite side of the brain; and in the
last case of diseased vision above related, -we <U+FB01>nd apparent
injury to one side of the brain, followed by blindness toward
the opposite side of the point to which both eyes are directed.
                                                            A series

                             of the Optic Nerves.                          139
      A series of evidence in such apparent harmony throu hout,
  seems clear] to establish that distribution of nerves                   have
  endeavouredvto describe, which may be called the semi-decus
  sation of the optic nerves.
                       On single Vision with two Eyes.
      So long    as our consideration of the functions of a pair of
  eyes   is con<U+FB01>ned to the performance of healthy eyes in com
  mon vision, when we remark that only one impression is made
  upon the mind, though two ima es are formed at the same
  moment on corresponding parts 0 our two eyes, we may rest
  satis<U+FB01>ed in ascribing the apparent unity of the impression to
  habitual sympathy of the parts, without endeavourin to trace
  further the origin of that sympathy, or the reason w y, in in
  fancy, the eyes ever assume one certain direction of corre
  spondence in preference to squinting.
      But, when we regard sympathy as arising from structure,
 and dependent on connection of nervous <U+FB01>bres, we therein see
  a distinct origin of that habit, and have presented to us a
 manifest cause why infants <U+FB01>rst begin to ive the correspond
 in direction to their eyes, and we clear y gain a step in the
 so ution, if not a full explanation, of the long agitated ques
 tion of single vision with two eyes.
     It  may perhaps to some persons appear surprising, that so
 many as three instances of         a disorder which they presume to
 be rare, should have been witnessed by one individual; but                    I
 apprehend, on the contrary, this half-blindness to be far more
 common than is generally supposed; and                  I  might with as
 much reason express surprise at its having so far escaped no
 tice“, were      I  not aware how many facts commonly remain
 disre arded, merely for want of explanation.                  It is evident
 that     once,     and  for  a long   time,   overlooked     the   inference
 that is to be drawn from this affection; and if the disorder
 had not happened to me a second time, I might never have
 reconsidered its cause.
     Even since the preceding pages were written,                I have met
 with two more cases of this disease.             One of my friends has
been habitually subject to it for sixteen or seventeen years,
whenever his stomach is in any considerable degree deranged.
    " Richter, in the third volume of his Elements of Surgery, has a
                                                                       chapter
on half-blindness, and part of it relates to what he terms amaurosis dimi
diata.    From one instance there given, he seems to have seen some cases
similar to those I have described; but he has not noticed the correspond
ing a<U+FB02>‘cction of the two eyes, or considered the sympathy between them—
Anfnngs-griinde    Der                      vol.   chap. 16, p. 478.
                        Wundm'lzeneyksunst,
                                         2
                                                             ~
                                                                           I 11

14-0   Mr. Bevan’s Observations        on the  Heights of Places
In him the blindness has been invariably to his right of the
centre of vision, and, from want of due consideration, had
been considered as temporary insensibility of the ri ht e e;
but he is now satis<U+FB01>ed that this really is not the case,            at t at
both eyes have been similarly affected with half-blindness.
This symptom of his indigestion usually lasts about a quarter
of an hour or twenty minutes, and then subsides, without
leaving any permanent imperfection of si ht.
    I have not seen the subject of the 5t case ; but am in       I
formed that he has had many returns of this affection, gene
 rally attended with head-ach, and always lasting about twenty
minutes, with very little variation.
 XXIII.        Observations on the Heights qf Places in the Trigo
    nometrical Suivey of Great Britain, and upon the Latitude
    of Arbmy Hill. By B. BEVAN, Esq. Communicated by
  I
    Sir H.     var,     Bart. P.R.S.'
           Trigonometrical Survey of Great Britain having from
 THEtime
  _             to time engaged the attention of the Royal Society,
 and circumstantial particulars of this great national under
 taking having occupied the pages of the Philosophical Trans
 actions,    I  beg leave to submit a few observations on that
 subject to the consideration of the Society.
    The result of the survey, relative to the different sections of
 the meridian, in this country, has not altogether proved so
 satisfacth as might have been expected.
    I haveiatel examined the calculations aifected b ' the ob
 servations m e at Arbury Hill in the county of Nor ampton,
 with some hope of discovering the means of reconciling the
 anomaly in that part of the meridian.
    I have been at the expense of having the height of this sta
 tion determined by accurate levelling to the Grand Junction
 Canal; from which, and the known difference of level of the
 various canals connected with this,           I have been able to <U+FB01>nd
 the relative height of this station, with most of the important
 objects in the counties of Northampton,              Buckingham, and
  Bedfbl‘d.
 v From this operation of levelling,        I found the country to the
 north   of  Arbur      station, suddenly  to  fall about 400 feet, and
 continue at the depressed state for 9 or 10 miles.                 Such a
 defect of matter, to the north of the station, was in itself a
 strong ground for supposing a de<U+FB02>ection of the plumb-line to
 the southward.          T0 ascertain if this supposition were sup
 ported by     the  trigonometrical operations, I calculated the la
          "'
              From the Philosnphical Transactions for 1823, Part I.   .
                                         .                           titude

            in       the Trigonometrical                    Survey                13/   Great Britain.                        141
titude of Arbury station, from the latitude of Blenheim, as
determined by previous observation, independent of any as
tronomical observation made at Arbury, and <U+FB01>nd                   seconds                                       it   5
LESS than shown by the zenith sector; giving countenance to
the probability of local attraction by the hi         lend to the south                       h
of the station, which will appear by the following calculation;
in Trigonometrical Survey, vol. ii. p. 137, the latitude of
Blenheim by observation          stated as 51° 50’ 24"'9, or nearly
                                                  is
51° 50’ 25".                                                        .
    The measured distance, on the meridian, from Blenheim
to Arbury,        139822, deduced from vol. ii. part
                          is                                     p. 107;                                           2,
dividing   this distance by 608817,     accordin to tablea          vol.                                                 in       i.
part  1,  p. 168, corresponding      to the midd       latitude  between                      e
 Blenheim and Arbury, and multiplying the quotient by 10',
 we obtain the difference of latitude . .            . .    = ° 22' 58'“           .
                                                                                   .          .
                                                                             ........
 this quantity added to     .         . . . .      .
                                                   .
                                                   . . .      51 50 25              .    .    .
 gives for the latitude of Arhury                             52 13 23
 being 5” less than by the zenith sector. It             true that Colo                           is
 nel Mudge corrected the latitude of Blenheim, from the Tri—
 gonometrical Survey, to 51° 50' 28”, and in this case the com
 puted latitude of 'Arbury would come out near.              seconds less                                  3
 than found by the zenith     sector.    In vol. ii. part       page 118,                                      1,
 the latitude of Arbury, as derived from Dunnose meridian,                                                                        is
given       .    .    .   . 52° 13' 26""6
afterwards                . .52      15 28 '2 from observation“
                                      second south of the observed
                                              1   '6       or       1%
latitude; all concurring to prove that the observed latitude by
zenith sector falls to the north of the calculated, or that the
de<U+FB02>ection of the plumb-line was to the south. Taking, there-~
fore, the table abOVe referred to in vol.       part        168, and                     i.                1,   p.
considering the latitudes    of  the  following    stations to be as
below   :                         \
                Dunnose     , i.        _. 51° 37'                   _.                                7"
                Greenwich .         .   . 51 28 39%         .
                Blenheim        .          51 50 28,L
                                                   .                 .        .
                               _Arbury                 .        .        .    .   52 13 26%
                                Clifton       .        .    .            .    .   53 '27 20%
 and calculating the length of      degree, in their respective      a
 middle points, they will    found to correspond with the said
                                                   be
 table, and maintain a regular increase to the northward,
 ing with 'the assumed general      ure of the earth: the alime
                                                             ove     <U+FB01>                                                        a
 assumption indicates an error        10%” at Clifton, and 1% at
   * Vol. ii. pm               ’2   ). 109,Dunnose   stated to he   is                            .    . 50° 37’           8" '2
                                      107, from Dunnose to~Arbury                                 is   .       1    36    19 '98
        t                                                                                                  52       13 28 '18
                                                                                                                         Arbury,

  142  Mr. Bevau’s Observatiqns on the Heights qf Places, &c.
  Arbur , neither of which is more than mi ht be expected
  from t   e visible inequality of the conti uous and.
     The result of the operations north 0 Clifton I have not had
  an opportunity of ascertaining; but it appears to me that a
  few more observations by the zenith sector, at other stations,
  would remove much of the apparent ambiguity at present at
  tached to this interesting question.
     Knowing the goodness of the instrument used in the Sur
 vey, and the great skill and attention observed by the persons
 engaged,     I have great con<U+FB01>dence in the general result of the
 terrestrial department.       I  should have been doubly grati<U+FB01>ed
     I
 if could have said as much on the determination of the
 heights of the stations.
     Availing myself of the levels through a long district of the
 Grand Junction Canal,        I  have been at the trouble of levelling
 from the following stations, viz.
                        Wendover Down,
                        Kensworth,
                        Bowbrick Hill, and
                        Arbury Hill,
 to the nearest point of the said Canal, and thus, by means of
 the known level of the different parts of the Canal, to obtain
 the relative heights of the above-mentioned stations.
     And as a comparison will be more readily made from a
 table of heights expressed in positive numbers, I shall assume
 the highest point of the summit of said Canal to be 402 feet
 above the level of the sea at low water spring tides: with
 this assumption, the heights of the several stations, in feet,
 above low water mark, will be as follows:
                   Wendover Station . . . 861
                   Kensworth ditto        .  .   . 809%
                   Bowbrick Hill       . .  .   .  571%
                   Arbury Hill . . . . . 740%
The heights of these stations published in the Philosophical
Transactions, are as below: in vol. iii. p. 302.
                   Wendover         .  . .  .   .  905
                   Kensworth        . .  .  .   .  904
                   Bowbrick Hill      .  .  .   .  688
                  Arbury Hill . . . . . 804
these   will average about 78 feet higher than in the table
above.
    1 have also levelled from the summit ofthe Regent’s Canal,
to the mouth of the <U+FB01>xed cannon at King’s Arbour, or the
upper end of the base on Hounslow Heath, and upon the
same data this point will be 90:} feet above low water mark.
                                                                   In

                  Notices respecting       New Books.              143
   In vol. i. p. 173, Colonel Mudge gives 91;,L for its height,
which differs only by half a foot.                                     ,
   But at page 266 it is stated to be 118 feet, being _27 feet
above the proper height.     Again, in vol. iii. p. 307, it is stated
to be 132 feet, or 441- too high.
   The grounds of my assumption of 4-02 feet being the height
of the Grand Junction Canal summit, near Trin , are these:
   The range of tide, from low water spring ti es at sea, to
high water near Somerset House, I presume to estimate 19%;
feet; <U+FB01>'om this point to the Regent’s Canal summit will be
found 832'; feet; from this level      I
                                    apply the revised section of
the Grand Junction Canal = 299% to the summit near Tring,
making to ether 402 feet as above.                                    -
   From t ese levels it will appear, that Wendover Station
above Brickhill is 861 —— 57ll2-=289%,,~.        Colonel Mudge’s
numbers give . . 905 — 68S =222
                                           TH;
         Arbury above Brickhill 74015 571%: 69
           Colonel Madge . . 804 — 683 =121
                                               -   error
                                                Error      52
         Wendover above Arbury 861 — 740%: 120%
          Colonel Mudge . . 905—804~ =101
                       '
                                                Error      19%,,
   Some fresh observations with the zenith sector made at
Blenheim, and Sutton, would offer a <U+FB01>ne check to the latitude
of Arbury; and also at Highbeach, and Botley Hill, a check
to the latitude of Greenwich would be readily obtained.
  Leighton, Bedfordshire, February 1822.           B. BEVAN.
               XXIV.       Notices respecting New Books.
   HE    Transactions of the Horticultural Society, vol. v.
     Part IV., have just appeared. _The following are the
contents:—-'                                         '              >
  On   the   Cultivation of  Yellow Rose, and of the tender
                               the
Chinese Roses, by budding on the Musk Cluster Rose.     By
John Williams, Esq.—On the Cultivation of the Arachis
hypogaea.   By Mr. John Newman, Gardener to the Hon.
Robert Fulke Greville.—On the Treatment of the Banyan
Tree ( Ficus Indica) in the Conservatory. By Peter Rainier,
Esq. Captain R.N.—Further Notes on the Utility of the
Graftin   Wax, described in a former Paper. By David
Powel, sq.—S01ne Remarks on the supposed In<U+FB02>uence
                                                                    lof
                                                                   tie

14-4-            Notices respecting New Books.
the Pollen, in cross breedin , upon the Colour of the Seed
coats of Plants, and the Qua ities of their Fruits. By Thomas
Andrew Knight, Esq. F. R. S. Ste. President—An Account
of a new Variety of Plum, called the Downton Imperatrice.v
 By the President—Observations upon the Effects of Age
upon Fruit Trees of different Kinds; with an' Account of
some new Varieties of Nectarines.      By the President.-—On a'
hybrid Amaryllis, produced between Amaryllis vittata and
 Amaryllis Regina-vittata.    By James Robert Gowen, Esq.—
On the Cultivation of the Pine Apple. By Mr. Alexander
Stewart, Gardener to Sir Robert Preston, Burt. at Valley<U+FB01>eld,
 Perthshire.—-Description   of a Pear Tree, on which the Ope
ration of Reverse Grafting has been performed.          By Mr.
William Balfour, Gardener to the Earl Grey, at Howick, in
 Northumberland.--Notice of new or remarkable Varieties of
 Fruits, ripened in the Summer and Autumn of the year 1822,
 which were exhibited at Meetings of the Horticultural So
cietyz—A Description of some new ,Pears.          By Mr. John
 Turner, Assistant Secretary.—Account and Description of
<U+FB01>ve new Chinese Chrysanthemums; with some Observations
on the Treatment of all the Kinds at present cultivated in
 England, and on other Circumstances relating to the Varieties
generally.    By Joseph Sabine, Esq. Secretary—A Note on
the Pears called Silvanges, and particularly on the Silvange
Verte (Green Silvange). By Mons. Charles Francis Pierard,
of Manjouy, near Verdun-sur-Meuse—On the Preparation
of Strawberry Plants for early Forcing. By the President.—
On Transplanting Peas for early Crops.         By Mr. Daniel
Judd.—— Some Account of the Edible Fruits of Sierra Leone.
 Drawn up by Joseph Sabine, Esq. from the Journal and
personal Communication of Mr. George Dom—Directions
for the Management of the Hot-house Fire-places, that are
constructed with double Doors and Ash-pit Registers.          By
William Atkinson, Esq—On Forcing Grapes, as practised
in Denmark.     By Mr. Peter Lindegaard, Gardener to His
Majesty the King of Denmark, at the Palace at Rosenberg.
On Fig-trees, and an Account of their Cultivation in a Fig-'
house, in the Garden of the late Earl of Brid ewater, ‘at
Ashrid e in Hertfordshire. By Joseph Sabine, Esq” Secre
tary.—- otices of Communications to the Horticultural So
ciety, between May 1st 1821 and January lst 1822, of
which separate Accounts have not been published in the
Transactions.   Extracted from the Minute Books and Papers
of the Society.—Description of a Vinery, and Mode of Train
ing practised in it. By Mr. William Beattie, Gardener to
the Earl of Mans<U+FB01>eld, at Scone, near Perth—Description of
                                                         a Pine

                   Notices respecting New Books.                145
 a Pine-house and Pits. By Charles Holi'ord, Es        .  F.R.S.—
 Description of an Apparatus for Ventilating Hot-        ouses. By
 Mr. George Mugliston of Repton, near Derby.
                        Recently published.
     Mathematical Tables: containing improved Tables of L0
             of Numbers, Logarithmic Sines, Tangents and
 garithms
   ecants.   By William Galbraith.
    De Interpretibus et Explanatoribus Euclidis Arabicis Sche
 diasma Historicum: auct. J. C. Gartz. Mo. Halle, 1823.
 Sumptibus auctoris.
    Lehrbuch der Reinen Clzrmie.     Elements of Theoretic Che
 mistry, by Dr. Bischo<U+FB01>', Professor of Chemistry and Tech
 nology at Bonn. 1824, Weber.
    Magazin for Naturvidenskaberne.       Magazine for Natural
 Sciences, by Professors Lund, Hansteen, and Maaschman.
 Two volumes and apart of a third of this Norwegian Journal
 have been published at Christiania.                   _
    Sulla Esislmza é Proprieta‘ del Calorico, Sac. A Physico
 medical Treatise on the Existence and Properties of Caloric.
 By Dr. Louis Forni.     Turin,  182+.
    Obsemations sur la Nomenclature et le Classement des Roses.
 On the Nomenclature and Classi<U+FB01>cation of Roses. "By J. P.
 Vibert. Paris, 1824.
    Me'moire sur un Niuean d Bulls d’Az'r et (i Lunettes de nou
velle construction. On a Spirit-Level of a novel construction.
 Paris,  1824-. Didot.
                           In the Press.
    Commentaries on the Diseases    of the Stomach and Bowels
'of Children. By Robley Dunglison, M.D. 8L0.
    Capt. David Thomson, Inventor of the L0 itude Scale,
has, in the Press, a Work on the Methods 0 <U+FB01>nding the
 Lon 'tude at Sea, by Lunar Observations and Chronometers.
    This Papers printed in the Transactions of the R0 a1 So
ciety, detaili v the Discoveries of the Functions of the erves,
will be imm iately republished, with Notes and a             neral
Introductory view of the Nervous System, by Mr.             harles
Bell, Professor of Anatomy and Surgery to the Royal College
of Surgeons, and Sur on to the Middlesex Hospital.
   Mr. Partington of t e London Institution has nearly ready
for publication, in a small Volume, :1 new Edition of that very
valuable little Work, the Mar uis of Worcester’s Century of
Inventions; from the origi          MS. : with Historical and
Explanator Notes.
   Vol. 64. o. 816. Aug. 182i.            T              ANALYSIS

  146      Analysis        of Periodical       War/rs on     Natural Histmy.
     ANALYSIS       01"    PERIODICAL        WORKS       ON NATURAL         HISTORY.
                      _
                             Curtis’s British Entomology.
                         No. 8. contains the following subjects      :
     Pl.3l. Buprestis nitidida. A species new to this island, taken in the
  New Forest from the <U+FB02>owers of the White-thorn.                  The brilliancy of the
  insect, as well as the rarity of all the individuals composing the genus, ren
  ders it an interesting and valuable acquisition to our cabinets and Fauna. —
  P1. 32. H drometra :tagnorum.            We do not recollect to have seen a good
  <U+FB01>gure be ore of this curious but common insect, the account and plate of
 which are here rendered more valuable by a <U+FB01>gure of the winged sex from
 the cabinet of the British Museum, the only collection where it is to be
 found—Pl. 33. Bupalusfmnllacearius (theGray Scollop                          A male and
 female of this rare and elegant species are here given; and        Mothp.
                                                                        a though Moses
 Harris had <U+FB01>gured the female, and Donovan the male under the name of
 Phalama mediqmm'taria (v. xiii. 461. 1.), as they were not aware of there
 being sexes of the same moth, this plate, which is remarkable for delicate
 execution, will be an acquisition to the Lepidopterist.—Pl. 84. Mama
 rpeciosa.    A splendid insect from the New Forest, of a genus to which
 more British species will very probably shortly be added, as there are se
 veral others described by Meiger in his work upon the European Diptera.
                     The Botanical Magazine.                  No. 451.
     PI. 2503. Astrapzz’a Wallichii, described in Lindley’s Collectanea. —
 Erinu: L clmidea, to which in preference to africanur, Burman's L. villosa
 is referre .—-I.z'ora barbata, from the Botanic Garden, Calcutta.—Pedicularis
canadensis: the leaves in the <U+FB01>gure are opposite, as also in two specimens
in the Banksian Herbarium, though Kalm describes them as alternate.—
 Fuchsia decusrata, raised in the Edinburgh garden from seeds sent from
Chili in 1822.—-Arum bulbiferum, “ acaule, radice tuberosa, foliis decom
positis bulbiferis; spatha cucullata spadice cylindraceo            parnm longiore.-—
 Rub. Flor. Ind. inedit.” A magni<U+FB01>cent Bengal species; the leaf spreads
over an area of several square feet.
                      The Botanical Register.                No. 114.
     P1. 817.   Aiz'rantlies  grandi<U+FB02>ora,     “ foliis apice bilobis valde   inasqualibus
scapo radicali vaginato        debili  brevioribns,    calcare emarginato :” a singular
Orchideous plant which Mr. Lindley considers as belongin                    to the same
section of Epidendrea:         with A'e'n'des, together with seven 0t ers which he
enumerates.        T 0 this new genus imposed by Mr. Lindley he also refers
two tropical species described b             .Petit-Th0uars.-Dendrobium        arachnitia,
and Angmcum sesquipedale. “ 0 little,” he says, “ has hitherto been done
in decribing the Orchideous plants of tropical countries, that new forms are
continually resenting themselves, and requiring the establishment of new
   enera for t eir reception.         The distinctions upon which these are to be
  ounded, however minute they may occasionally appear, are singularly per
manent and decisive.”-Iris nepalensis, “ cristata, scapo bi<U+FB02>oro, foliis fal
catis breviore, spatha diphylla perianthio violaceo appressa unguium sepav
lorum longitudine.” A handsome species received from Dr. Wallich.—
Preonia cretica.        Mr. Lindley states that after repeated com arisons of the
many supposed species in a living state, only twelve, which e enumerates,
can be considered distinct.          The present plant is var. {5 of the arietina of
Anderson, I/inn. Trans.—C'or0nillajuncea, a native of the south of France.
                                                                               _Zephy.

                                                                                   /
                                   Horticultural   Society.                 1 47
-Zepliyranthes          “ foliis humifusis linearibus scapo uni<U+FB02>oro brevio
                    rosea,
ribus, perianthio  expanse: sepalis ovalibus apiculatis, spatha bi<U+FB01>da apice
carnosa."     A beautiful bulbous plant brought from the Havannah by
Mr. G. Don. Mr. Lindley approves of the separation, from the old genus
Amaryllis, of the group to which Mr. Herbert has given this name, and which
“ may be safely characterized by their nearly regular<U+FB02>owers, which have
a vertical or nearly vertical position, and by their stamens not being bent to
one side and unequal in length, but equal and spreading equally, with the
exception of that which is opposite to what would be the u per segment of
the perianthium, if the <U+FB02>ower were horizonta .” After a handsome com
mendation of Mr. Herbert’s work, we have the following just remark:
“ This is one of the many genera which con<U+FB01>rm the opinion held by
Linmeus,    that a few well selected words are abundantly su<U+FB01>icientfor a
generic or s eci<U+FB01>c de<U+FB01>nition :        there can be no comparison between the
neatness an decision of his characters, and the unwieldy lumbering           de
scription: which are now too frequently mistaken for de<U+FB01>nitions.            The
latter are the consequence of an excess in multiplication of divisions, and
 would easily be avoided if it were only remembered that a difference is
not a distinction, nor prolixity precision.”——Daphne collina :        {3.
                                                                   neapolitam.
 This plant, published      as a distinct species under the latter name in
 Loddiges’ Bot. Cab., Mr. Lindley considers as          mere variety, ditfering
                                                          a
 chie<U+FB02>y in the want of ubescence under the leaves :—a           ort of Nature
                                                                  s
 “ which,     unmolested, upon its native hills, would quic
             if                                                    have passed
                                                                      ly
 away into the type from which            sprung.”-Spiraullze: cemua: Ophrys
                                          it
 Linn., Neottia Willd. Mr. Lindley enumerates 16 ecies of Spiranthcr,
                                                              s
of which M. Richard, by whom the genus was established, mentions only          6.
 —-Rosa Kamchatica:          (3.
                            niveus.  Some errors are pointed out in the ob
 servations of M- Trattinnick respecting this and other roses.
                  XXV.        Proceedings      of Learned Societies.
                             nou'rrciJL'runAL socm'rv.
                                                                                       ‘
      July   6.-—
                  A
                  Special General Meetin    was held ,for the
                  Election of a Member of the Council in the
 room of the late John Walker, Esq. when Sir Claude Scott,
                                                     ;
 Bart. was unanimously chosen.
    The following Papers were read:
   ~Description of an Instrument for effectually appl ing To
 bacco Fumigation for the destruction of Insects on   rees and
 Plants. By Mr. John Read.
    Observations on and an Account of     Collection of Seeds,
                                                         a
 formed in the neighbourhood of Constantinople, and trans
 mitted to the Horticultural Society of London. By the Rev.
 Robert Walsh, LL.D., and Corresponding Member of the
  Societ .
    Desiription of a remarkable Elruge Nectarine Tree in the
 Garden of Lord Selsey at Westdean House, Sussex. By Mr.
 John Bowers, Gardener to Lord Selsey.
    July 20.—The followin Papers were read:                 _
    Description of     Peac    Tree in the Garden of Miles
                               a
  .                           T                2     Stapleton,

14-8           Royal Academy of Sciences of Paris.
Stapleton, Esq. at Carlton, Yorkshire. By Mr. John Seymour,
Gardener to Mr. Stapleton.
   A Report u on the new or rare Plants which have <U+FB02>owered
in the Society s Garden at Chiswick, from its <U+FB01>rst formation
up to March 1824-.        By Mr. John Lindley, F.L.S. &c.,
Assistant Secretary for the Garden.                                ,
    Aug. 3.-—The following Papers were read:
    On the Advantages of Coating Garden Walls with Oil
Paint. By William Cotton, Esq. F.H.S.
    On the Cure of Disease in Onions. By Mr. Thomas Smith.
    Aug. 17.--On Arti<U+FB01>cial Climate considered with regard to
 Horticulture. By John Frederick Daniell, Esq., F.R.S. &c.
 In this highly               Paper, Mr. Daniell               the
whole phenomena      of R iation, and points out theexgiains
                 interestip‘g                            st means
of preventing the destruction of Plants, <U+FB01>re. by Frost. The
 arti<U+FB01>cial climate of the Hot-house is also treated of, and the
 errors of the usual modes of Heating fully explained.
            ROYAL ACADEMY or SCIENCES or PARIS.
    April 5.-—-M. Thenard, in the name of a Commission, pre
 sented a very favorable report relative to the ex eriments com
 municated b M. Sérulas, on the Cyanuret 0 Iodine—The
 Memoir of is able chemist will be printed in the Recueil dc:
 Savans e'trangers.—M. Cuvier read a Memoir on a new genus of
 Fossil Reptiles, discovered within these few years in England,
 and named Ichthyosaurus.-—-M. Frison communicated a de
 monstration of the Theorem of FermaL—M. Audouart read
        considerations on the origin and causes of the Yellow
   ever.
 iome
    April 12w-A communication was received from M. Ringler,
 who has invented two Machines representing the Movements
 of the Planets, requesting that a Commission may be ap
 pointed to examine them.--M. do Castel-Bajac requested the
 Academy would cause the conditions to be examined, to which
 it will be necesary to subject the plates of Fusible Metal,
 which the Government had in contemplation to adapt to
 the boilers of Steam-engines.--Professor     Simono<U+FB02>', of Kazan,
 presented a Memoir on the Integral Calculus.—M. Magendie
 communicated an observation which he had lately made on
 the effects of the lesion of the great cornmissure of the Cere
 bellum, above the passage of the <U+FB01>fth pair.         The animal
 subjected to this experiment fell down on the side on which
 the nervous tissue was divided, and lost the          reement of
 motion of its eyes.-—M. du Petit-Thoum‘s rend           <U+FB01>rst part
 of a Report which he had drawn up, in the name of a Com
 mission, on a notice of M. Romain respecting the Anatomy
                                                                 of

       Native Calcutta Society—Geology qftke Ganges.                169
of Plants.--M. Poncelet, Capt. Eng, presented amanuserip't
work entitled A Memoir on the General Theory Of Reci
procal Polarity, in continuation of his Memoir on the Centres
of Mean Hermonics.--M. Magendie, for himself and M.
Gay-Lassac, read a Report upon a Memoir of M. Chevreulg
on several subjects of Organic Chemistry.   The memoir was
approved by the Academy, and will be printed in the Recueil
des Savans e’tmngers.--M.     Bosc made a verbal Report on a
notice addressed from Moscow, by M. Fischer, relative to an
Insect known in Persia by the name Of Mianah.——M. Ampere
read, for himself and M. Bec uerel, a note on an experiment
relative to the Nature of the lectric Current.
                  NATIVE CALCUTTA SOCIETY.                         -
   A Literary  Society has  been  founded  at Calcutta, by  native
 Indians of distinction, the object of which is truly praise
 worthy.   It is intended to enter into discussions on all sub
jects connected with the progress of civilization and literature.
 Works of lear -'    and general utility are to be published in
 English; and litt c manuals of morals and science, tending to
impugn certain inveterate customs, and to lay down rules of
reformation conducive to the well-being of individuals in Ben
gal.   TO promote these ends, mechanical and mathematical
instruments, together with a chemical apparatus, are to be
procured.     A house is to be erected for the purpose of holding
 their assemblies, and containing their different collections. A
 College will be annexed for instruction in the arts and sciences.
        XXVI.     Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
             GEOLOGY OF THE GANGES AND JUMNA.
    ROM     a paper on this subject read before the Calcutta
     Medical and Physical Society on the 3d of January last,
it appears that the rocks met with on the banks of these
streams present examples of almost all the varieties of cal
careous, argillaceous, and siliceous compounds, from the se
condary concretions of calc-tu<U+FB01>' (kunlcur) found every where
in the river’s bed, to the green stone Of Pointy and the primi
tive granite of Colgo           J
                           and uangira.    Syenite and porphy
ritic masses are also ound at some points and fragments of
grey and white chalcedony.      It is remarkable that no rolled
or angular piecm of rock are found in the nullahs proceeding
from the hills, by which the formation of the higher ranges
might be determined.       The neighbourhood of Monghyr is
          in presenting ridges of quartz rock that rise
singular                                                     toia
                                                                cpllv
                                                          Slt era   ) e

150            Analyses 1y        Pro/I Gmelin Qf Tubingen.
siderable hei ht; and the old red sandstone formation is
                                                                                       -
<U+FB01>nely exempli<U+FB01>ed in the hills of Chunar and Mirzapore. The
subject of geological research is comparatively new in India,
and we therefore hail with feelings of real grati<U+FB01>cation any
attempt to make us better acquainted with the structure of a
country whose features and external con<U+FB01>guration di<U+FB01>'er so
widely from our own.               We trust the Society, in its physical
character, will often have to number among its contributors
such zealous and able observers of nature as the author of the
  aper of which we have now                         iven a slight outline.          The
funds of the Society, it          is     gratifying to remark, are in a very
<U+FB02>ourishin      state, and the institution altogether has hitherto
prosper       beyond the most sanguine expectation of its found
ers.—-Ind. Gaz.
             ANALYSES BY Paor. GMELIN or TUBINGEN.
    Essonite or cinnamonstone of Ceylon: sp. gr. 3'617, at
 76°   Fahr.
                   Silica . . . .                      .    . 4-0'006
                   Alumina . . .                       .    .  22'996
                   Lime        .        .     .   .    .    .  30'573
                   Peroxide of iron                    .    .     3-666
                   Potash       .       .     .   .     -    .    O'589
                   Volatile matter                .    .     .    0'326
                   A   trace    of manganese
                                                               98'156'
     Pinite of St. Pardoux in Auvergne:                             sp.   gr. 2-7575,    at
 47° Fahr.
             Silica      .   .7       .     .   .    .    .     .    .  55'964
             Alumina        .        .     .    .    .          .    .  25480
             Potash      .   .       .     .    .    .    .     .    .   7'894:
             Soda .      .   .       .     .    .    .    .     .    .   0‘386
             Peroxide of iron . . . . . .                                5'512
             Magnesia and‘oxide of manganese                             8'760
             Water, with animal matter                          .    .   1'410
                                                                       100'4'06           .
     Prof. Gmelin     states       that this mineral, when heated in a
   lass phial, emits    water      having an empyreumatic odour, which
 instantly  restores   the blue colour to reddened litmus, and there
 fore contains ammonia.               He thinks this alkali probably results
 from the decomposition of some animal matter contained in
 the pinite; and remarks that this mineral is never found in
 fresh rocks, but always, as in Auvergne, for example, in a de
 composed granite, upon which the volcanic rocks of that pro
 vince rest.     He has also discovered aconsiderable propor
                                                                                      tion

          Adulteration   of Tea.-—-Netv Analysis of Camplzor.         151
 tion of ammonia in the Natrolite of Hohentwiel, as well            as in
                                                                 '
 the Clay Porphyry in which it occurs in veins.
     Prof. Gmelin determined that the pinite he examined did
not contain any <U+FB02>uoric acid; and thinks that his analysis sub
stantiates such an affinity, with respect to chemical composi
tion, between pinite and mica, that they must no longer be
considered as generically separate.              The circumstance that
pinite contains no <U+FB02>uoric acid, cannot be considered as an
 essential difference; because H. Rose has shown that those
 varieties of mica which occur in primitive limestone, either
 contain only a minute quantity of that acid, or are altogether
 p. 221, 226.                  --—-
 free from it.—Kastner’s Archie.           d. ges. Naturlelzre. Band i.
                                                                          -
                        ADULTERATION or TEA.                             1
    To the Editors ofthePhilosopitical Magazine and Journal. ,
        Gentlemen,
     I know not whether you may deem the following worthy of
notice in your Magazine ; it appears to me a curious instance
of Chinese adulteration, which must upon the whole prove a
 considerable loss to the consumers of tea.
     I have for some months observed a black sand settle at the
bottom of my tea-cup, but more abundantly in the‘basin that
receives the water <U+FB01>rst poured out of the tea-pot: upon exa-~
mining it carefully a few days a o I found it to contain mag
netic iron in minute or stals.          he same substance was soon
observed adhering to t e leaves of the black tea in the caddy,
sometimes in quantity suf<U+FB01>cient to enable a magnet to raise
small portions of leaves.           Upon macerating some closely
twisted masses, a considerable portion of sand was separated
that had evidently been introduced while the leaves were fresh.
 It has been found in black tea of various prices.
                            Yours very truly,
    2, Mead Place, Lambeth,                       J. DE C. Sownmw.
         Aug. 20, 1824.
            NEW ANALYSIS      or CAMPHOR, BY on. charm.
     The results of Dr. Gobel’s analysis of this substance         are as
 follows:
                      Carbon      .   .  .     .  74-67
                      Hydrogen        .  .     .  11'24
                     .Oxygen      .   .  .     .  14-09
                                                 100'00
    According     to Saussure,   camphor      contains  a small quantity
 of nitrogen; whilst the analyses of Doctors Thomson and Ure
    ree with Dr. 'Giibel’s in not indicating the presence of .that
substance—Schweigger’s         Neues Journal, Band x. p. 356.             _
                            '                '
                                                          cou'rmc'rlons

   169          ,   Supposed   E<U+FB02>cts   if a Water-spout.
            CONTRACTIONS     PRODUCED      BY HEAT- IN CRYSTALS.
       M. Mitscherlich has observed that the mutual inclination
  of the faces of Iceland spar varied in a perceptible manner by
  the effect of heat, and that between 0° and 100°, the chan e
  of the dihedral      an les at the extremities of the axis of t e
  rhomboid amounted to 8%.            It thence results, that supposing
  no dilatation to take place perpendicular to the axis of the cry
  stal, its cubical dilatation would still surpass that of glass, by
  nearly one half; but, in measuring the cubical dilatation of
  Iceland spar with M. Dulong, M. Mitscherlich found that it
  was on the contrary less than that of glass ; which leads to this
  singular result, that though heat dilates the crystal in a direc
  tion parallel to its axis, it must cause its molecules to approach
  in the per endicular directions. This M. Mitscherlich has also
  con<U+FB01>rme        by measuring with a spherometer, at di<U+FB01>'erent tem
  peratures, the thickness of a plate of Iceland spar cut parallel
  to the axis.
       It is Very probable that sulphate of lime would present
  an analogous but inverse phaenomenon; namely, that the eleva
  tion of temperature would produce a perceptible contraction
  in the direction of its axis. (A. F.)-—Ann. de CIn'm. xxvi. 222.
  prnECTlon or THE axes or DOUBLE REFRACTION m                   CRYSTALS.
       It is known that the optical axes of the crystals improperly
  called crystals with two axes, do not coincide with the axes of
  cr stallization; but hitherto it has been regarded as a general
  ru e, that the ri ht lines which divide the angle contained be
  tween these optical axes into two equal arts must be equally
  inclined on the corresponding faces of t e crystal.             M. Mit
  scherlich has ascertained that these lines of symmetty with rela
  tion to the double refraction, are not always so as regards
  the faces of the crystal; and that in some salts, such as the
  sulphate of magnesia, they incline more to one side than to
  the other, without any defect of symmetry in the crystalline
  forms giving cause a        iori to suspect such a deviation. (A. F.)
  .._Ann. de Chim. v0 . xxvi. p. 228.
                  SUPPOSED   earners or      A WATER—SPOUT.
          Gentlemen,                   Strathinday Bleach<U+FB01>eld, July 8, 18924.
                                ‘
       My servants obServin the particular attention have paid I
  to the meteorological p aenomena of Loch Leven, its sur
  rounding morass and mountains, for years back have been on
  the alert to bring me the earliest notice of ever change, or
- the <U+FB01>rst
              appearance of any cloud, or vapour, like y to produce
  an indication of phenomena worth remarking.
       One of them came the other morning, wearing a physiog.
  fraught with matter of importance, told me, he was certain we
     '
                                                                       were

                 Supposed E<U+FB02>écts      of a Water-spout.               158
were to have a year of cheapness and plenty, for the very
clouds  had been raining herrings on Benard -hill.       He as
sured me it must be true, for the man who to (1 him saw the
man who heard Mr. Tod's servants tell, they had gathered
part of the fallen <U+FB01>sh, and that they were not youn trouts
frae the Loch, but real arvey (sprats) herrings free            <U+FB01>le
                                                             sea.
“ See (pointing to a dari
                            cloud) it’s black in the west, wha
kens but we may hae anether shower         them
                                            0’    ni ht yet '3”
                                                     ei
   In the course of the day, fell in with an indiVIdual from
                                I
the neighbourhood of Benardy, who assured me had himself
  athered part of the <U+FB01>sh, and that my friend Mr. Tod of
  innity had also gathered, and had, he believed,         few in
                                                               a
his possession. To      ut the matter beyond a doubt,        dis
                                                               I
patched    aservant wit a note to Mr. Tod, on whose property
they had fallen, and from him       received the following very
                                      I
satisfactory letter:—
                                                          "
         Dear Sir,
   In reply to your note of this date respecting, not our drauglzt,
but our fall of <U+FB01>shes :—On Wednesday last week, my servants
informed me that they had seen        quantity of small herrings
                                       a
lying upon the potato ground, where they had that mornin
been plou hing, and that they could think of no way by whic
they coul come there, except by the heavy shower that fell
the        before. Upon expressing my disbelief of this, they
said nightwould go to a particular spot, which was on the north
    i    I
of the public road, about three to four hundred yards to the
west of Finnity,     should probably <U+FB01>nd some still lying.
                     I                                                I
went accordingly, and picked up eight or ten small herrings from
 two to two inches and a half lon .        saw several more, but
                                           I
these were dashed by the fall.    'lhis was about eleven o’clock
 A. M., and the crows and sea-gulls had been very busy all
morning.     I examined the servants as to the quantity: they
said they were lyin very thick, along a tract of about <U+FB01>fteen
to twenty yards in rearlth, and one hundred in length across
the potatoe round, and as far as       can jud
                                        I           from their ac
                                                     e
count, in a direction from south-west to nort     -east.    should
                                                              I
have been very happy to have sent you           few
                                                 a    of them,  but
they were so soil: that they soon withered  to nothing.    A num
ber of individuals saw them, and a good many were taken
away.                             Iremain, dear sir,
                                                 Yours truly,
   Addressed to      Mr. G. Inglis.           (Signed)        WM. Ton.
   These garveys, as they are called in this country, must
have been taken up from the sea, somewhere o<U+FB01>' Culross, 01'
Kincardine', and carried on the nearest calculation <U+FB01>fteen to.
   Vol. 64. No. 816. Aug. 1824.           U            twenty

154              Explosive  Engine—Ri<U+FB02>e Rockets.
twenty miles.      I have written to a friend at Kincardine, to
inquire if there was any water-spout, or other remarkable
phmnomenon observed in that quarter on Tuesday evening.
                               "
                                             Yours truly,
                                                    GAVIN INGLIS.
                         EXPLOSIVE ENGlNE.
            '
   An en       e of a very remarkable kind is, we understand,
about to <U+FB01>brought into public notice; which, if it answer the
high ex ectation of its inventor, may ultimately supersede the
use of    e steam-engine.      The patents for England and Scot
land are, we believe, both completed, so that we may soon
expect to hear the particular details of its construction.        At
the lower end of a small cylinder is placed a minute a para
tus for producing oil gas.      As the gas is generated, it e evates
a piston so as to admit as much atmospheric air as when com
bined with the oil gas would render the mixture explosive.
When the piston has reached this height, the gas is exploded,
and the mechanical force of the explosion is employed to drive
machiner . Experiments have, we understand, been actually
made wit this power, which was employed to force up water
to a considerable height—Brewster’s New Journal.
                           RIFLE ROCKETS.
                                                  I
   In the last number of the Asiatic Journal, observe an ac
count (principally taken from the Calcutta John Bull) of an
experiment of rockets of Capt. Parlby’s manufacture, which
took place on the 13th December last.        I question whether. it
is fair to Sir W. Congreve, to call them “ Capt. Parlby’s ri<U+FB02>e
rockets,”   because   their construction does not di<U+FB02>‘er from the
original inventor’s;     and the credit that Capt. Parlby aspires
to, is not,   I  conceive, for having made a “ new discovery in
the department of projectiles,” but in havin been able to ma
nufacture in India, a w          n that has hitherto been proCu
rable only in England.         is proposition was submitted to the
Marquis of Hastings in 1815, when Sir W. Congreve was
considered as having established a claim .to provide war
rockets: and if since that period such pretensions be controg
verted, many considerations must be well weighed before En
glish rockets be superseded by those of Indian manufacture;
and   I might enter into a few of them now, but that a little de
lay may give us the means of doing so more satisfactorily. Of
twenty-four rockets withysha<U+FB01>s, <U+FB01>red by Capt. Parlby on the
above occasion, six exploded, and six hit the targets (the size
of which   I  have not seen speci<U+FB01>ed). vThere is no doubt of his
being able to make rockets that will range 3000 yards;       I  have
      .                                                         seen

            Rain, and Height   of Barometer in May.          155
seen some of Sir W. Con reve’s at only 25° elevation make          -
their <U+FB01>rst graze at two m' es;) but the extent of range is not
                                                  '
the principal point.
   It is to be regretted that Capt. Parlby, thought it expedient
to differ from Sir W. Congreve’s mode of desighatingthe va
rious sizes of rockets. It would be immaterial, but the system
of the latter having been established these 20 years, the inno
vation is attended with inconvenience: for instance, what on
Sir W.                 simple plan would be called a 5-pounder,
         Congreve’s
is designate    a lé—pounder by Capt. Parlby.      This may ao
cord with the “Liber Ignium” of Marcus Graecus; but can
not now be adopted without confusion.
                                  Your obedient servant,
June 1824.-A:iatic Journal.                               BAN.
   To theEditors qfthePhilosophz'cal Magazine and Journal.
     Gentlemen,
    On looking over the Meteorological Table at the end of
 your last number [May], I was struck on observing the great
 difference in the quantity of rain, which fell on or about the
 15th of May at Boston, compared with that of the same pe
riod at London and Gosport.        Also, the altitude of the ba
rometer, on the 14th, at Boston was greater than at Gosport,
 contrary to the averages of the 80 days there registered, which
is '24 of an inch less at the former place than at the latter.
 The quantity of rain at Boston at the time here mentioned
 was only §ths of an inch, whereas at Gosport it was 3'64:
inches, and at London 21 inches.       If that be the case, this
 great and almost unprecedented fall of' rain was not altogether
so           as might at <U+FB01>rst be supposed, from the very great
an (general
      rapid <U+FB02>oods it produced in many parts of the country.
These, together with other considerations relative to the at
mospheric phaenomena of that month, have induced me to
trouble you with a portion of my meteorological journal of
the month of May, leaving it to your judgement either to in-'
sert it, or rejectit  as may be thought proper._           .
   Should others of your meteorological correspondents be
inclined to communicate their journals for the same period,
or only for the <U+FB01>rst moiety'of the month, they will <U+FB01>nd, on
  if
comparing these registers, something more than usually inter
esting, especially as to the atmospheric pressure and the fall
of rain.   I  wish Mr. Veall would give some account of his
barometer and rain-gauge, and likewise the locality of their
situation.         _ ‘Yours truly,         THOMAS SQUIRE.
  Epping, June 7th, 1824.
                              U~2                         1824.

                                         84.1w                                                             2P.M.                                                           '6‘
                     u."<U+FB02>           --'--m                                s“                                                                             u-                '5
                                                                                                     'O.—-,~‘“
                     g                                     Wind-                                     it;                                   Wind.         ,jjg‘                                  Weather.
{iii        Barom.           385%    Egg”?                                 $7;   3......‘135                                                                      ngh
                     sagsis<        a:
                                             ~=
                                             Q     M.                 s   a?                   m
                                                                                               845: <      pq
                                                                                                                   ~73
                                                                                                                   Q       N.E.S.W.m
                                                                                                                                                         55       R41-
                                                                                                                                                                          55
                                                                                                                                                                           m
                                                                                                                                                                 |
            50-01     R.       56    56      71                           VL     2996          s.    57     64     66                  s      1                                  Fair      and
                                                                                                                                                                                                     bright.
May9                                              4 2 4
       10   29-73
                     S.       55     55      66                           VL     29-69         S.    59     68     54                                                            Fair      and
                                                                                                                                                                                                     bright.
       11   29-66    St.      54     50      69
                                                    2                     B      29-66         St.   53     55     64                                                            Fair,      cloudy.
       12            St.      49     4-6     69
                                                           4-             L                                        63    l
            29'57                                                                2957          St.   49     53           4 4 3 3 2 1
                                                                                                                                                        L‘L RBIL                 Fair,      cloudy.
       13   29'53    St.      48     44-     69                           VL     29'47         S.    48     50     66                                                            Cloudy,     some rain attimes.
   14       29-22             45    44       92
                                                  3 5 1                   RB     29-22         St.   48    46      82                                    RB                      Rain.
                     S. S.                                                                                                                               L)
   15       29-17             45    45       95                           RB     29-17         St.   47    45      96                                                            Much        rain.
                                                  1 1 3 4                                                                      1 2 s 4
   16       29'38    R.       45    45       89                           RB     29-52         R.    48    52      64                                    RB'2-982                SomerainA-M-m<U+FB01>emwnfnir
   17       29-66    St.      45    44       64                           L      29-44         S.    48    55      55                              4                004   '698   Fair.
   18       29'59    St.      49    50       66                           RB     29'57               50    5‘1-    6]                              4-                            Fair,    eveningsome          rain.
   19       29-49    R.       50    47       79                           VD     29-48         St.   50    54      61
                                                                                                                                                         LI L L   on                       cold       and
                                                                                                                                                                                 Fair,                         cloudy.
   20       29'38    St.     48     46       64                                  29-41               49            54
                                                                                                                                                   2 2   RB         609          Cold      and
                                                                                               R.          56                                                                                         stormy.
   2].      29'54            4-7    44'      63                                  29'55         St.   50    56      54-                                                           Frosty    morn',mostlybright.
                                                        1 2
                                                                           RL
                                                                          R5                                                         l2                  LL
   22       29-62    R.      47     45       68                                  29-62         St.   49    56      51                                                            Fair,     cold.                          4
   25       29-60    S.      48     47       67                           VL     29-57         S.    50    58      56                                    VL                      Fair      and
                                                                                                                                                                                                     bright.
   24       29'58    R.      51     51       8O                           VL     2961          R.    52    55      79                              1     VL
                                                                                                                                                                                 Cloudy,agentle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  rain.
                                                                                                                                                   ’
   25       2981     R.      49     4s       71                           VL     29-84         R.    52    59      63                                    VL       '081           Fair,      cloudy.
                                                  1 4 2 3 2 5 4 5 4                                                      2 2 3 2 4 5 4 4
   26       30-05    R.      52     55       74                           VL     30-12         R.    56    66      59                                   VL                5223   Fair     and    warm.

                               [157]
 Calendar   of Flora, Fauna, and Pomona, at Hart/fell] in            Sussex,
                     <U+FB01>om July 19 to August 13.
    July 19.—Fine warm summer weather seems at length set
 in, the thermometer averagin about 72° at its maximum, and
 58° at its minimum.       The so stitial plants in general are in
 full <U+FB02>ower, having opened somewhat later than usual this year,
 and the aestival Flora has already begun to display her gay
 wardrobe.      Of the solstitial plants, the Scarlet Lychnis,
 the abundance of Pinks, Roses, Campions, the Canterbury
  Bells, and the numerous Poppies, may afford an example; in
 no preceding year have they <U+FB02>owered more luxuriantly, with
 the sole exception of Papa-oer somng'ferum.              Of the aestival
 plants the Scabious, the Indian Cress, and various Campanulas,
 may be noticed as very abundant.              The China Aster and
 other tender annuals have been destroyed this season by the
 abundant ants and other destructive vermin; and I have only
 succeeded in raising a few seeds already young.               Inula Hele
 nz'um in full blow.
     July 20.—St. Margaret. The White Lily and the Cam
          rapunculoides in full blow.        The Elecampane also in
   ower.
]frlanula
    July 21.—C'onvolzmlus septum in blow in the hedges—To
 ni ht about a quarter past 10 RM. we noticed a remarkable
reg light in the clouds to the north, passing gently over from
 the east; the whole substance of the <U+FB02>imsy cumulz' seemed illu
 minated with a reddish li ht. The phaenomenon only lasted
 10 minutes, and was proba ly some peculiar re<U+FB02>ection of 1i ht
 refracted in the atmos here to the northward and proceeding
 from the sun, who, t ough set to us, might illuminate the
                                   '
 hi her atmosphere.
      uly 22.—St. Magdalen". Campanula Rapuneulus, C'. Tra
 ckelium, and several others, in full blow at Walthamstow.
    July 24.-—C/zironz'a Centaureum in <U+FB02>ower.
    July 25,—The Circtea alpine, which <U+FB02>owered in June, still
<U+FB02>owers in abundance, and also a large variety of it two feet
 high, which ap roximates much to Circrea lutetz'ana.
    July 26.-—A ter various signs of rain deduced from animals,
 from the sky, and from aches and pains, which prevailed du
 ring the last two or three days of the <U+FB01>ne weather, a copious
 watering from the north has set in this afternoon.
    July 27.—Cooler after the rain; breeze from the north.
    July 28.—Wind SW. and fair summer day. Soncims pa
   " I shall always notice the remarkable days of the                  in this
                                                            calendar
Journal, because reference is made to them in the old Botanical Calendars
(see Perennial Calendar, July 23, in which this is explained).                _
        '                                                             IUS t 7‘28

158             Calendar   of Flora, Fauna, and Pomona.
lush-is <U+FB02>owers     in my arden. The Scarlet L chnis and Sweet
William      begin to de ine, and Roses cast their petals in abun
dance  on  the  ground.        I
                              have observed that ants of all kinds
are very   numerous     and   destructive  in the garden this year.
Earwigs   are  less plentiful  than  usual.  _ Slugs and snails very
abundant.     Convolvulus sepiam and C. amensis very abundant.
   August 2.—Boletus bovinus grows in the orchard.            There
are now growing in my <U+FB01>eld a great quantity of Agarz'ci,
which form a sort of semicircle 1n which the             ass    rows
richer than ordinary, and looks like what is ca led a airy
Rin     .
   Agigust 6.—-C0nvolvulus tricolor <U+FB02>owering at Edenbridge.
   August 7.—Altlm:a rosea in full <U+FB02>ower in several varieties,
crimson, rose-colour, and yellow.
   August 9.—Small meteor seen; these phaanomena abound
particularly in August.
   August 10.—Much sbndercloud early: warm day, with
clouds at night.
   August      ll.—  Beautiful crimson sonderclouds and wane
clouds at sunset.
   The Pomona is backward; plums begin to ripen, and to
gether with apricots are very few in number. Raspberries
and strawberries are nearly gone.            Currants were late this
year,  but  decline early,    and   ripen very badly.   The wheat,
oats, and all kinds of grain are very late; nor has the harvest
     commenced here, not         sin
                                   a     <U+FB01>eld being cut yet.
                                            le                   The
 get
  at seen <U+FB02>itting about tonight tlll very late.
   August 12.—Fungi begin to appear. Agaricus integer already
grown in three varieties, the gray, the brown, and the crim
son.    Agaricus aurantius      also plentiful, as are Boletus luteus
                                   is
and B. boninus.
   August 18.—I ascertained today, as           have on several oc
                                                 I
casions lately, that the direction of the wind above, even only
300 or 400 feet from the ground, differs from the wind imme
diately blowing over the surface of the earth.           By tying a
kite to the back of another when 800 feet of string were out,
and then letting the second or lower kite have about 600 feet
of string,   I  caused the upper one to ascend very high, and
it got a direction somewhat different from the lower one, the
formerindicating wind from S.S.W., the latter W.S.W. and
                      a
sometimes S.W. according to the height; so that           I conceive
the wind <U+FB02>uctuated gradually according to the altitude, or
else blew in      asort of ascending spiral.     Kites thus attached
to each other will ascend to        prodigious hei ht, and may be
                                        a
come good indicators of wind.          Seven or eig  tmay be <U+FB02>own
alternately 300    feet above  each other.
     Hart<U+FB01>eld, Aug. 13,1824.                             T. Fonsran.

                                      [159]
                               LIST OF NEW PATENTS.
   To Charles Random Baron De Berenge, of Target Cottage, Kentish
Town, in the parish of St. Pancras, Middlesex, for his improvement as to a
new method or methods of applying percussion to the purpose of i niting
charges in <U+FB01>re-arms generally, and in a novel and peculiar manner, w ereby
a reduction of the present high price of <U+FB01>re-arms can be effected, and the
priming is also effectually protected against the in<U+FB02>uence of rain or other
moisture; such invention and contrivances rendering the percussion principle
more generally applicable     even to common pistols, blunderbusses     and
muskets, as well as to all sorts of sporting and other guns, by greatly re
ducing not only the charges of their manufacture, but also those impeding
circumstances   which persons haveto encounter whilst loading or dischar
ging <U+FB01>re-arms when in darkness, or whilst exposed to wet, or during rapid
progress—serious   impediments which soldiers and sailors, and consequently
the service, more particularl     and most injurioust experience.-Dated
27th Jul 1824.—2 months         lowed to enrol speci<U+FB01>cation.
   To     exander Nesbitt, of Upper Thames-street, London, broker, who, in
consequence of a communication      made to him by William Van Houten the
younger, a foreigner residing abroad, is in possession of a process by
which certain materials may be manufactured into paper or felt, or a sub
stance nearly resembling coarse paper or felt, which material so prepared
is a plicable to various useful pu oses.—27th July.—6 months.
       1P0
       Thomas Wolrich Stansfel        of Leeds, Yorkshire, merchant, for
                                           ,
certain improvements      in power looms and the preparation of warps for
the same.— 27th        July.—6   months.
  To   Edward Cartwright, of Brewer-street, Golden-square, in the parish
of St. James, Westminster, Middlesex, engraver and printer, for his im
provements on or additions to roller rinting presses—27thJuly.-2months.
   To Charles Je<U+FB02>'eries, of Havanah . ills near Congleton, silk thrower, and
Edward Drakeford, of Congleton, watch-maker, both in the county of
Chester, for their method of making        swift and other apparatus thereto
                                               a
belon 'ng, for the purpose of winding silk and other <U+FB01>brous materials.—
29th         uly.-—2 months.
  To William Wheatstone, of N o. 118, Jermyn-street, St. James’s, Middle~
sex, music-seller, for his method of improving and augmenting the tones
of iano-fortes, organs, and euphonons.-~29th July-2 months.
    0 John Price, of Stroud, Gloucestershire, engineer, for certain improve
ments in the construction of spinning machines.—5th August—6 months.
  To George Graydon, of Bath, esquire, captain in our Royal Engineers,
                                                   a
for his compass for navigation and other pu oses.—-5th August.—-'6 man.
    To William Johnson, of Great Tothan, ssex, gentleman, for means   a
of eva orating <U+FB02>uids, for the purpose of conveying heat into buildings for
manu acturing, horticultural, and domestic uses, and for heating liquors in
distilling, brewing, and dyeing, and in making sugar and salt with reduced
ex enditure of fuel.— 5th August—4 months.
   0     Jacob Perkins, of Fleet-street, London, engineer, for certain improve
ments in pro elling vessels.— 9th August—6 months.
    To John assell, of Mells, Somersetshire, edge-tool maker, for his im
  roved method of heating woollen cloth for the purpose of giving           it a
liistre in dressing—11th Au st.—2 months.                                .
    To Herman Schroder, of lackney, Middlesex, broker, for his new <U+FB01>lter.
—-I 1th August.—6 months.
                                                               A   METEORO

                                                                                                                                                                                       Mr.         CARY    in        London,     and Mr.     VEALL      at Bmlon.
A                                                                                         the Observations                Qf         Dr.       BURNEY             at     Gosporl,
 METEOROLOGICAL                                TABLE:                 comprising
                                                                                                           CLouns.                                                 of        Thermometer.                      RAIN
              Gosrowr,at           half-past       Eight        o’Clock,       5.11/1.                                                                  Height
                                                                                           \                                                                                                                                                Wat-11:11.
                                                                                                                                                                        in
                                                                                                        _                    _                                               LONDON
                          1:   d          18                                   ia                           °             £311                   limo}?er
                                                                                                                                                    nces,           C.                  'i'               :3
     D  ayso
              f           '53        Q              E E.                            ,    1.c                                                                                                                                     km          __--m
                                    E              byg                                                                                                                        -.-
                                                                                                                                                                                    a?                                58
      Month,                                   g;                               5513555123“                                    E                                             :3                       5E
                                     Q                     >‘      .5 g         g “      .56       E              E                              Land.            Best.           8  é o‘.                                       Lond on‘           B  05m"
       1824'              2'51                 Q   .                                                                    a                                                                     8w          "1           m
                                   i                   a:
                                                                               m                   SCQQQSZ                                        1?.M.          81,-Am- :Z'Ilm
                          mg               F53.                                          5%
                                                                                                                               l           1                                                                                     Fair       Fine
                                                                                                                 1..._1                            29-90         29-50                        64'5
Nuly           26         29'89      69   51-00        50            E.                  07151:.                                                                             66‘7052
                               -                                                                          1                      1...                            29-70       556658           58                                 Cloudy     Cloudy,showerp.m,
               27                                      67            N.                                          1...                              30-16
                                                                                                                          l1                                                                  60                                 Fair       Fine. 111.311.51.735
               28                                                  sw.                                           1...          ......              30-32         2987        59.7461
                                                       55                       040                                                                                                                                              Fair
                                                                                                                                                   30-10         29-70       607055           64'5                                          Do-Th.3§p.m.74-5
               29                                      50            E.                   ......    1..          l...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Cloudy     Fine            [night
                                                                                           020                                                     29-72         2930        556755           64
               30                                                    E,                             1..                            1 1 1
                                                                                                                                                                                              62-5                               Cloudy     Cloudy,   rain at
               31                                                    E.            48     650       1   l        1...
                                                                                                                 1...
                                                                                                                                     1 1
                                                                                                                                                   29-77         29-35
                                                                                                                                                                 29-40
                                                                                                                                                                             54167 60
                                                                                                                                                                                              60           0-25         -24      Rain       Cloudy
                                                                     E.                    -400......                                              29-80                     591|6154
     Augustl                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Fair        Fine, rainaznighg
                                                                    s.                                           1..                 1...          30-15         29-55       546760           61-5
                                                                                          ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        02       Fair        Cloudy,    do.
                                                                                                               1     ..                            30-11         2954        6117061          63
                                                                     s.            35      '380                                                                                                                                                           do,
                                                                                                    1111
                                                                                                                                                                             6116961          63                        -1s      F<U+FB02>il’       Cloudy,
                                                                   NW.                     015                   1.-.                                  29-90     2950
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -10      Fair        Cloudy,      do.
                                                                                                                 1...                                  29-83     2930        606860           59-5
                                                                   NW.                     -150
                                                                                                        l
                                                                                                    11111                                                                                     59                        '38      Showery     Cloudy,     ramme
                2 3 456
                                                                    W.             '40     '315                  1..                                   2975      2927        6076558
                                                                                                                                                                                              62                        -07      Showery     Cloudy
                                                                                                                          11111111 I1ll1
                                                                    N.                     045      1...         1...                                  29-96     29-50       58;6460
                                                                                                                                                                                              60                        '06      Cloudy      Cloudy,rain   9.1».
                                                                                                                                           11 11 1 1
                                                                                                                                                       29-91     2950        616460                        0-37
                                                                    SW.                    025                                                                                                                                   Fair
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -11                  Fine,mil1a_m.
         O     73 9                                                 sw.            -30    ......                 1...                1...              29-80     29-27        65l7l56‘64
                                                                                                                           1 1                                                                                                   Fair        Fine
               1°                                                   SW                     -140                  1...                11                29-95     2952         60706661
                                                                                                                                     1                                                                                   -41     Fair        Rain
               11                                                   sw.                    -010
                                                                                                    1 11 1 1 1   1...         1...                     29-82     29-26        667162-605
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Cloudy      Fine
                                                                                                                 1...                1...              2986       2938                   62-5
               ‘2                                                    w.            ~40 ......                                                                                 6617057                                                        Fine
                                                                                                                 1...                                  29-93      29-50       666555     59                                      Swrmy
               13                                                   SW.                 010
                                                                                                                                                                                         60                                      Fair        Fine
                                                                                                                                                                              556656
                                                                                                    1 11 1 1 1
               14                                                   NW.                    035                   1..                                   30-07     2960
                                                                                                                            1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1
                                                                                                                                                                              606355          64           1-66          -15     Rain        Fine,   rain at 1115111
               15                                                          .                                     1..                                   29-70     2930
                                                                                                                                                                                              62                                 Fair        Fine
               16                                                                                                1..                                   29-84     2930         576760
                                                                                                                 1..                                              2957        616560          60                                 Cloudy      Cloudy
               l7                                                                                                                                      29-77
                                                                                                                                                                              606450          60-5                               Showery     Fine, rain       p.01.
               18                                                                                                1...       111 1 1111                 29-68      2923
                                                                                                                                                                                              58                           -14   Fair        Fine
                                                                                                                 l-.                                   29-89      29-35       55'6559
               19                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Fine
                                                                                                                                                       29-92      2950        606561          60                                  Cloudy
               2°
                                                                                                                                                                              6216658         63                                  Rain       Cloudy
               ‘11                                                                                         .     1...                                  29-85      2936
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '15               Fine, rain am.
                                                                                                                           111 1 1 1 1
               22                                                                                                l...     l        l                30'10         29'70       585851          52'5
                                                                                                                                                                                              57
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0'32                   Cloudy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Fair       Fine
                                                                                                                 1...         1...                  30-19         2985        546850
               23
                                                                                                                                             .                    29'90       516353          57'5             ,..                Fair        Cloudy
         (1    24                                                                                                l.           l.                    30'27
                                                                                                                           1                        30-38         2995        557061          63                                  Fair        Cloudy
               25                                                                                                 1;-                                                         "‘ _ _                                                                                  ~~
__                                                                                                          :1            z                        5:55;         11K;-                        my           0.5“         mm

                               THE
   PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                  AND JOURNAL.
                80‘h  SEPTEMBER                  1824'.
 XXVII.      Remarks on the Experiments     of the Pendulum made
    by Captain    KATER, M. BIOT,     61'.    By WILLIAM GAL
    BRAITH, Esq.-   AM.
      HE   determination of the <U+FB01>gure and magnitude of the earth
       has long formed to the philosopher an interesting object
 of research. The attempts of the ancients were very rude
 and inaccurate; but still they kept alive that spirit of successive
 improvement by which each observer endeavoured to surpass
 his immediate predecessor, both in the accuracy of his instru
ments and the exactness of his results, till in our times it
would appear that a very high degree of precision has been
                                                 I
attained.
    This is sufficiently established by the extensive systems of
operations latel performed in this country, and in France and
 Spain ; by whic the Shetland and Balearic Isles have been con
nected by actual mensuration, comprehending an arc 'of
22° 5’ 29” of latitude.     In the execution of this survey, the
 British on their part have employed the largest and most ac?
curate instruments ever constructed; by this means cutting off
all those sources of inaccuracy not essentially involved in'thev
nature of the question: while the French have used instru
ments of small dimensions, but of            ingenuity, correcting
the errors to which they are thus greatiable, by ingenious expe
dients and appropriate formulae.
   In the prosecution of the survey, too, the length of the pen
dulum oscillating seconds at the more important stations, has
been deemed an object worthy of bein attained, in order to
promote the objects of science by unfo ding the laws that re
gulate the structure and <U+FB01>gure of the earth; and the instru
ments and methods employed by the men of science engaged,
were as characteristic of the genius and habits of the two na
tions in this case as in the former.
   Captain Kater, by selecting a particular property of the
pendulum, or of an oscillating body, was enabled to dispense
with formula: necessarily employed by Borda and Biot, by
that means avoiding the possibility of error to which the me
   Vol.64'. No. 317. Sep!. 1824-.              X              thods

162          Mr. W. Galbraith’s Remarks                          on the Experiments
 thods of the latter may be liable, going upon the generally
 received principle, that to remove all sources of error, how
 ever minute, is preferable to trusting to their correction.
     We believe that the results obtained by the French philo
 sophers merit great con<U+FB01>dence, from the ingenious devices to
 which the , in their researches on the determination of the
 length of t e pendulum, had recourse; though we cannot help
 thinkin   that the method of Captain Kater, generally speak
 ing,  is,
         both   on account of its simplicity and accuracy, justly to
 be preferred.     If Captain Kater’s apparatus, which may still
perhaps   be   susceptible of improvement, be more delicate than
 that used by M. Biot, from the irregularities in the density of
the materials constituting the exterior crust of the earth, its
 results may be expected, in particular cases, to be less con
sistent with each other, and with the generall received theory
of the oblateness of the spheroidal <U+FB01>gure of           earth.                 t   e
    When however observations are made on a considerable
 number of points in an extensive arc of the meridian,         may                                 it
be naturally expected that these small irregularities will tend
to  correct one another, so that an excess in one direction may
be very nearly counterbalanced by a defect in another, and
that a mean of the whole being properly obtained, will be
very near the truth.       For this purpose we have applied the
method of minimum squares to the experiments of Kater and
Biot, as best calculated to give a true mean result.
    It is demonstrated         the theor by  of attraction that the
length of the pendulum lS augmente from the equator to the
pole proportionally to the square of the sine of the latitude,
in such a manner that,         the length of the pendulum at the
equator      is
              represented                by if
                                z, and its absolute variation from
the equator to the pole by y,        its length in any other lati
                                                     1,
tude   A,will be represented by the following equation:
                           I   =    z
                                    +       y    sin“     A                            (1)
  If   we have two equations                         of this form, in which
                                                      and
                                                                                                        z A
                                                                                             I
are determined by observation, we can obtain the values of
andy,                                  =z+ysin¥A
                               l'      a:   z    +   y   sin2   A'
             l'—l =     y   sin‘l   A'-     y    sin2     A=y        (sin$2   2J-sin2        A).
                                  l’—l
  Hence       _y   =                                                                  (2)
                       sin (17+   A)   sin (Al—35
       andz==Z—-_y sin’).
                                                                I:
                                                                                      (:3)
At   the equator A=O, and therefore                                  2   as already observed;
consequently           %   expresses          the diminution of gravity from the                           1
pole to the equator.                                                                                          .
                                                                                                    Now,

       ofthe Pendizlwn'made'by Capt. Kater,'M. Biot,                          165
   Now, by the doctrine of central forces, if c denotethe cen—
trifugal force; 1: the circumference of a circle to diameter
unity; r the radius of the given circle in which a body re
volves ; t the time of revolution, and g the gravitating force;
                                                            Y '     i           i
               11er
then    45 =
                  [at
                       .   But by the theory of the pendulum,             if V1 is
its length, g = 1r2l; hence by substitution
                      ¢=r<U+FB01> -__'.__
                            4’
                                _(%)al
    The ratio of the centrifugal force to gravity may                     be   ex
pressed by                                (5)
                l—i?
    The     ellipticity or <U+FB02>attening of the earth is from theory
equal to g of the ratio of the centrifugal force to gravity, di
minished by the fraction obtained from dividing the difference
of the lengths of the pendulum at the pole and equator by its
length at the equator *. Wherefore          '
                                                    if 2 denote the ellipticity,
                                                                '
 we obtain
                                  (D
 But by substituting the value of             cp from equation      (44)
                      s=§    x                                      (7)
                               --—rt~-----9   —%
                               r+           1
                                     E)
    As t in our investigations denotes the time the earth takes
 to perform a rotation about its axis, and is found to be 23"“
 56a 4"0908=86164"0908‘; consequently §t=43082$'0lt54',
 and                                             whence
        <§>2=1856062635 nearly,
                         V                r
                         E=gx<U+FB01><U+FB01><U+FB01><U+FB01><U+FB01><U+FB01>_%                              @)
    Since 1" is the radius of the equator in this case, I the length
 of the pendulum there, and y the excess of the length of the
 pendulum at the pole above that at the equator, we must as
 certain the values of these quantities
                                     '
                                                     before the ellipticity can
 be obtained.
    Playfair in his Outlines of Natural Philosophy, vol. ii. gives'
 for the radius of the equator about 20921153 feet; and Col.
 Lambton in the Philosophical Transactions for 1818 gives
 60848 fathoms, or 865088 feet, for a degree on the equator.
 The_ radius is therefore =                         = 2091800      feet.  A  mean‘
 between this and Playfair’s is 20919576 feet,                    which may be
                                                                                  '
                         * Mécam'que Célesle, liv. iii. § 34;       Y
    'i -'                               X     2                        considered

164            Mr. W. Galbraith’s Remarks                        on the Experiments
considered as a very close approximation to the truth.                                          If this
                                                                             _ i,
is substituted in equation (8), it becomes
                             _.5 __             209l9576
                            2_-§X 20919576+1856062635                    z        2       (9)
Consequently it is now only necessary to determine y and 2:,
by means of equations (2) and (3) from the best observations
on the pendulum, to obtain 5.
   In the Philosophical Transactions for 1819, Captain Kater
gives the following series of experiments on the pendulum:
                                                                        he       hin
                       Places.              Latitude.                  Sigckf<U+FB01>gglf's
                                                                             Scale.
                                                             '
                                            0     ,     H              Inches.
                 1.    Unst           60 45 28 N.                      39'1714-6
                 2.    Portsoy        57 40 59                     \39'16159
                 8. Leith.            55        58 41               39'15554
                 4. Clifton           53        27    4-3              39'14-600
                 5. Arbury            52        12 55                  3914250
                 6. London            51        31  8                  39'13929
                 7.   Shanklin        5O        37 24-                 89'1361‘L
   If in formula (1) we substitute the values sin” A, it will give
the len h of the pendulum at each place where the experi
ments     ave been made, when y and z are known.          In, de
signating by e,, e” e,, 8m. the differences between the lengths
observed and calculated b the formula, we shall obtain the
following equations of con ition :
                       l.
                 39'17146—2—0'7613650y: e,
                  ‘
                 39'16159—z—0'7142003y= e,
                       2.
             3.  39'15554—z—0'6869t83y= e,
             4.  39'14600-z-0'64-55504y=                                          6.,
             5. 39'14-250-z—0'6246030y= e,
             6.  39-13929-z—0'6127966y= 86
             7.  39'18614—z—0'5975166y= 8-,
   Now, to determine the values of and      by the method ofy           z
minimum squares, that is, in such a manner that the sum of
the squares of the errors e1, e,, e, 8zc. ma be the smallest
                                                        ,
possible,       it    is    necessary to form the equations                             of minimum
  *   If   a   mean   of Kater’s, Biot's,   Sabine’s,       and Goldingham’s measures be
taken,     2   =0'008638—         ,   very simple expression,                though in our deter
                                 :2
                                  a
mination we have preferred            the values       of   y    and   z     deduced      immediately
from the observations.
                                                                                                 with

        ofthe Pendulum     made by Capt.         Kater,          Biot,   19¢.      16%
with relation to y and to z.  Since the coef<U+FB01>cient of 'z is unity
in all the preceding equations, the condition of the minimum
with regard to that unknown quantity will be given by making
their sum equal to zero; thus
            274'05252 —7 2—4'6429802y= 0                                 (10)
   This equation of the minimum can only take place in so far
as the sum of the errors shall be nothing.  The new condi
tion that it expresses, and which the errors ought to satisfy,
holdsth   with regard to the method of least squares, but to
the articular form of the equations above.
  y If)
     we multiply each equation of condition by the coefficient
of in that equation, we shall have the following results:
            29'8237787     — 0'7613650 z—O-5796767y,
            27'9692193     —-O'7l42003 z—0'5100820 y,
            26'8978315     —O‘68694<83 z—O‘4-7l 8980]],
            25'2707160     —O'6455504~ z-0'41 673.54%
            244485280      -0'624-6030  — 0~3901290y,
                                           z
            23'9844238     —O‘6127966 z-0'3755198 y,
            23'3844933     —0'5975161 z— 0'3570262y.
  The sum of all         these quantities equalled to zero               will give
181'7789856—4'6429802            z—3'1010671y=0                          (l   1)
  From equation (10)         we get z=89~15036—0'6632829y,                         and
from equation      (1
                   1)    z: 39'1513592— 0'6679045y.                   Equalling
these two values of 2, we et y=0‘2162022.                            Hence =       2
390069568 = the length 0 the seconds’ pendulum at the
equatOr, and 39in'0069568 +O'2162022r-‘39m'2231590 = the
length of the pendulum at the pole.              If
                                       in equation (1) we sub
stitute the values of andy   determined above, we shall have
           I: 39'0069568 + 0‘2162022
                                 z
                                                 sin“   A
                                                                         (12)
mm which we are enabled to <U+FB01>nd the length of the pendulum
by computation.                                             _
                     Length of the Pendulum                       Digerences‘
                    by   Experiment.   by Calculation.
           -             inches. -     inches.   -          ‘       inches.
  1.    [Inst            39'17146      39'171566                e,+0'000106
  2.    Portsoy          39'16159      39'161368                6,—0'000222
  3-.   Leith            3915554!      39’1554-77               83—0'000063
  4. Clifton             39'14-600     39'146526                84+0'000526
  5. Arbury              39'14-250     39‘141 997               6,70'000503
  6. London              39'13929      39139445                 86+0'000155
  7-    Shanklin         39'13614      391136141                eq-l-O'OOOOOI
                                                                                   The

166               Mr. W. Galbraith’s Remarks                       on the Experiments             ‘
   The sign + denotes that the value by computation is
greater than that by experiment, — less.
   Here we <U+FB01>nd, by                the column of differences, that
the greatest errors inspecting
                      fall on t e lengths of the pendulum at
Clifton and Arbury Hill. At the latter place the length by
experiment being greater than that by computation, shows
that the gravitating force is increased by some irregularity in
the structure of the earth’s surface, and thus speaking the
same language that the zenith sector of Mudge did about
twenty years ago.    The contrary takes lace at Clifton.       At
Shanklin  Beacon   the  error is almost no ing; it is very smalI
at Leith ; and at Unst, London, and Portsoy, it is but incon-l
siderable, di<U+FB01>'ering only about one or two ten thousandth Parts
of an inch.
   Returning now to equation (9), since we have found the
values of y and z we have
     E—          i
                 2    x
                                            20919576
                                                          X 3"1505779
                                                                        __   3/
                                                                             z,01’
                          20919576+ 1856062635
     s    = 0'0086386—                    lz—   =0'0086386—0'00554-35: 0'0030951,
or gag-Tnearly.                  This value, being derived by                      the principles
of minimum squares from the totality of the observations
made by Capt. Kater between Unst and Dunnose, will, as truly
as the observations can be depended upon, represent the ellip
ticity of the meridian passing nearly through these points,
If   we compare Unst and Dunnose together, which are the;
extremities of the series differing by 10° 8' 4"                                  of latitude, We“
should get [=39'007336      0'215565 sin2 A, and +                                11==0'0031 13::
 1                              .                                                  .
5m,              :1   compressmn nearly the same as that derlved from the
mean   of the whole, though rather greater.                                                   ,
     We shall now treat the experiments made                                       by   M. Blot in
the same manner.
                                                                 Decimal           Sex      esimal
                'Places.              nggg;          '        Pendulum in          Pendglllm in
                                                               Mllllnletres.      English Inches.
                  _                   o          ,    H      mm.                  inches.
     1. Formentera                  38 39            56N.     74-1'25200           39'0941187'
                                                                                                      -
     2. Figeac                      4:4-        36 4'5        74161228             39'113189
     3-.        Bordeaux            414-        50 26         741‘60872            392113002
     4-.        Clermont            4-5         4-6 48        74-1‘70518           39118088
     5.         Paris               4-8         50 14-        741'9174-9           39129285
     6.         Dunkirk             51     10   2             7412'07703           39’137700
     7. Leith                       55 58 37                  7&2‘4-134-3          39'1554-4-2
     s. Unst                        60 45. 25                 7412'723136         .39'171176          ll
           4'
                                                                                         Following

      ofthePendulum         made by Capt.    Kater, M. Biot,      &c.       167
    Following here the method pursued at page 164—5;
                l. 39'094187—z—0'3903417y= e1
                2.    89'1131.89—z—0'4932370y=-a2
                8.    39-1  13002~z-o-4972172y=            0,
                4.    39-1  18088—2-0'5186117y=            e.
                5.   ~39'129285-z-0'5667720-y=
                6.    39'137700-z—0*604|5723          y:   e5
                7.    39155442 -z--O'6869300          y: e.es
                8.    39'171776—z—0'7613528y: 8,
   From which is obtained z=39'129084‘—-0'564i2543y.
   Again,
           1.    15'2600918—0'3908417 2—0'1523666y
           2.    1 9'2920719    — 04982370
                                                z—O'24-32826y
           3.    19'44'76573    f0'4'972172 z—0'2472249y
           4-.  20‘0915076—0'51361 17           z— 0'26379703
           5.   22'1773831—0‘5667720            z—O'3212304y
           6.   23'6615693 —0°6045723           z—0'3655077y        .
           7.   26‘8970478 ~0'6869300           z—0'4-718729y
           8.   29'8285217—0'7613523            2—0'5796577‘9'v
 "
   From these we obtain z=39'133698—0'585937 y.
   Equating this and the preceding value of z, and we have
39’129084' — O'564-25‘L3y = 39133698 — 0'585937 y, from"
which it follows that y=0'212796, and hence z=39'138698
 —0'124~684=39'009014= the length of the pendulum at the
equator, and 39'009014+0'212796=39'221'81                   = the length
of the pendulum at        the pole.     _                       .
                                                                          '
                                                                             ..
 > These determinations differ at the equator by 000206 in.,
and at the pole by 000185 in. only, from tho$e of Capt Kater.
                                                              '         '       '
Whence l=39'009014+0'212796 sin52 A.                     _
   By substituting for sin’2 A their proper values at the di<U+FB02>'erent
points of observation, we shall have the len ths of the pendu-I"
lum by computation, which compared with t ose from experi
ment give the differences denoted by e,, e,, 'e,, 8L0.
                       Length of the Pendulum by
        Places.                                            Ermm
                        Experiment.   l
                                        Calculation.
                         Inches.        Inches.
   1.  Formentera       v89094487       39'092077      el—O'OOQI 10
   2. Figeac            89113189        39113973       e,+0'000784
   3. Bordeaux          39-113002       39-1 14820     e,+0-00.1818
   4.  Clermont         39'118088       39'118309      e4 +0-000221
   5.  Paris            39129285        89129621       e5+0-ooosss
   6. Dunkirk           39'137700       39'137665      85—0‘000035
   7- Leith             39155442        39'155190      eq—~O‘OOOQ52
   B.  Unst             39'171776       89'17102'7-    68—0'00074'9
                                                                  H               '
                                                                      Again,

  168        Mr. W. Galbraith’s Remarks          on   [/10  Experiments
            in, from these errors we see that the greatest deviation
 takes place at Formentera, and the next at Bordeaux with
 contrary signs. Indeed the length of the pendulum by ex
 periment diminishes from Figeac to Bordeaux; whereas, since
 the latitude of Bordeaux is greater than that of Fi eac, it
 ought to increase. Perhaps since the difference of atitude
 between these places is so small, being only 18' 41", the local
 irregularities and small unavoidable errors of observation may
 be su<U+FB02>icient to account for this.            Indeed it appears to be pre
 cisely of such a nature as that which occurred to the late
 General Mudge in the measurement of an arc of the meri
 dian, as well as Capt. Kater at Arbury Hill; and in either
 case it would be unfair to impute it totally to errors on the
 part of the observers or their instruments.
     The compression may now be determined by means of
 equation (9), thus: _
             e_—
                  ? x
                  5            _20919576
                        209l9576+1856062635x3'25075l
                                                            _   0012796
                                                               39-009014’
              =O‘008638—0'005455=0°003183=
     This compression          is  somewhat greater than             that deter.
mined from the experiments              of Capt. Kater, which         was
                                                                          375?.
 The compression resulting from a comparison of the lengths
 of the pendulum at the extremities of the arcs, namely, at
 Unst and Formentera, is           k,     or   a little    greater than
 This also occurred when              we examined         the experiments     of
 Ca    t.  Kater.
       wo more experiments" have been made which deserve
to be examined, namely, that made by Capt. Sabine at Mel
ville Island in latitude 74° 47' 12” N., and that at Ma
dras by Mr. Goldingham in latitude 13° 4" 9” N.                            The
length of the pendulum at the former place was ascertained
to be                                39-207000 inches
                                                                    4
at the latter                        39023380
from      which   we   obtain   z=39'012710,      y=0'208658,.
and     e = 0'0086372 —0'0053485 =0'0032887
    On considering the results that have
                                                             =
                                                               <U+FB01>.
                                                     been obtained from all
these experiments, it appears that the mean compression de
rived from all the experiments in each series of observations,
is smaller than that deduced from those made at the extremity
   '  The writer of this paper had not got the observations of Capt. Hall,
Mr. Foster, &c.     at the time it was written.  These will form another com
munication.                                   *                         -
                                                                              of

                 ofthe Pendulum              made by Capt.   Kater, M. Biot,      &c.       169
    of     each           arc.       Thus Capt. Kater’s      experiments        give on the
                                                             i
                                                           W,
                      1          .                     .                .
    whole                   while the extremes give              or   a little more than
                  5-25,
                                                                                       1       l
    the preceding.                    Again, M. Biot’s give for the whole          m,      and
                   . .                   1                     .                   .
    for the extremities ~— somewhat greater.  Mr. Goldingham’s
                        305                                  "
                 .           .    l
    compared With Capt. Sabme’s 364—, greater than the. mean of
     Kater and Biot, but little more than Biot’s extremes. Wheiice
    we may infer that the compression derived from the lengthof
    the pendulum at distant latitudes, does not correspond with
     that inferred from measurements made at intermediate points.
     This, therefore, leads to the conclusion that the earth is not
     regular either in its structure, or its <U+FB01>gure, or in both.
        The compression, so far as these experiments can be depended
     upon, appears to be LESS when derived from measures ofthe pen
    dulum taken at about the latitude of 45° N. than when deduced
    from measures obtained at higher and lower latitudes combined.
a
     This is the more remarkable, as from the measurement of arcs
     the contrary takes place, namely, that by the comparison of arcs
     not far distant from 45° N., the compression is greater than
     when those at high and low latitudes are compared.          It is
     shown by Delambre that the compression for the are passing
     through France, and nearly bisected by the parallel of 45°, is
         71—8,   about double of that derived from the pendulum;                           while
    the comparison of distant arcs, as those of Col. Lambton and
    Mr. Swanberg, from which the Colonel <U+FB01>nds compression‘                  a
    of Elia, not differing much from that derived from                           the pendu
    lum in latitudes considerably distant.
       It hence evident, that no mean result will correspond to
                 is
    all places on the earth’s surface; and as such curious anomalies,
    which, so far as we know, are noticed here for the <U+FB01>rst time,
    occur in the determination of the value of the same quantity
    when these di<U+FB02>‘erent methods are employed, no one quadrantal
    arc of - the meridian,        probable, will correspond exactly
                                             it   is
    with another, and the metre, the ten millionth part of this arc,
    which the French have adopted as their standard unit of
    measures, has no advantage over any other conventional stand
    ard well ascertained.                  .
       It     also quite clear that we can only arrive at the true
                  is
    <U+FB01>gure and structure of this globe from the measurenients‘of
                                                                                                   '
    many arcs in almost all latitudes and longitudes practicable,
    accompanied with corresponding experiments on the
    of the pendulum. The number of operations of this kin     lengthis
          Vol.        64.    No.     317. Sept. 1824'.            Y               constantly

  170              Introduction to theSeventh Section
  constantly increasing under the                    of the most liberal
  Governments of Europe, and particular  patronagey of our own.
     We have been informed that Capt. Sabine has been lately
  determining the length of the pendulum at various places on
  the earth’s surface; which, from their accuracy and import
  ance, cannot fail to be hi hly interesting in the inquiry to
  which we have now been dlrecting our attention.
     Edinburgh, July 18, 1823.
    XXVIII.      Introduction to the Seventh Section       of BESSEL’s
                          Astronomical Observations.
                            [Continued from p. 109.]
                       4-. Flex-are ofthe Telescope.
            effect of this <U+FB01>exure on the readings of the circle has
  THE    been determined by two methods: the <U+FB01>rst is founded on
  a comparison of the zenith distances of a Ursa Minoris obtained
  by reversing the instrument with those observed by re<U+FB01>exion
  from the surface of water; the second seems to be still more
  sure and advantageous, bein deduced from a comparison of
  the distances of northern emf southern stars measured both
  by direct vision and by re<U+FB02>exion, and therefore independent of
  the reversion of the instrument.         Both methods are inde en
  dent of the divisions of the instrument; the one position 0 the
  instrument being in the same relation to the zenith as the
  other to the nadir; so that the direct observations in the one
-
  position, and those obtained b re<U+FB02>exion in the other, depend
  on divisions of the Circle which are 180° distant from one an
  other; and consequently are in both cases the same, the ver
  niers being likewise diametrically opposite one another.            In
  order, therefore, to eliminate the possible errors of division,
  it will be proper to compare the direct observations in one
  position of the instrument with those obtained by re<U+FB02>exion in
  the other.
     These observations have some diliiculty, because the slightest
  draught of air will disturb the level of the water, and many
  are therefore lost; they rarely succeed when the wind is from
  the side of the star that is to be observed; and consequently
  the distances of northern and southern stars are rarely ob
  tained by re<U+FB02>exion from water on the same day. This dif
  <U+FB01>culty may be avoided by measuring the distances of the re
  <U+FB02>ected images of stars from a <U+FB01>xed point in the heavens, and
  by deducing the distances of the stars from the sums of such
  observed distances.
     The <U+FB01>xed point which I have used, not only in these but
                                                                likewise

                   qf Bessel’s Astronomical Observations.                                  171
likewise in all other investigations which are founded on ob
servations with the circle, is the pole as determined by the
mean of the upper and lower passages of a and 8 Ursge
Minoris. This <U+FB01>xed point                   I
                                have always endeavoured to ob
tain with such a degree of accuracy that     never reversed the     I
instrument before its determination had the weight of 30 ob
servations, <U+FB01>ve of which were usually made at each passage.
I  have thou ht such a large number requisite, in order that
the uncertainty which they leave might not too unequally in
crease the uncertainty of every single observation of a star in
the different periods between two reversions, even when there
are considerabl more than 30 observations in one period. This
arrangement 0 the observations allows, indeed, to assign an
equal value to every measured distance of a star from the <U+FB01>xed
point, as the inequality, which strictly taken still remains,
thereby becomes inconsiderable ; it would besides not be easy
correctly to estimate     as   it,
                               undoubtedly does not depend on
                                          it
the number of observations only.        have therefore used the
                                                       I
two polar stars only as the means of ensurin the same point
of comparison, not carin whether that pointdie the true pole
or not: the admission 0 other more distant stars would have
created the dif<U+FB01>culty of drawing into the investigation other
points of the division possibly a<U+FB01>'ected with different errors;
an inequality of this kind was not to be apprehended with re
gard to the two above-mentioned stars, as the verniers of the
circle cover spaces of 4-" 30', which are greater than the ' di
stance of these stars.
   The places of the pole were determined from the beginning
of the observations to the end of 1821 by applying the above
                                                          ,
determined thermometrical correction of refraction as follows                               :
                     PeriOd-                    gaifc‘j’; Place of the Pole. Weight.
                    March                        West         3:?
                                ’ 7, 6,
      1    1820.                                                    +25   55-12    10-0
                                          8 7
                                                 East     223    3966              10-0
     3 2
                                                                     8
                                          11     West      as 42 5768               2-0
     4                         16—17             West      33 4.3          1-20     5-0
     5                         19—28               East   323        a    36-29    10-2
     6              April        6,       7     West       33       412   52-76    28'0
    __!'
     7                          8—13               East   323        8    41-05    39-4.
     8                         13-17 West                  as 42          57-452   39-9
                                               Y   2                                 Period

                 PerlOd-              Place of the Pole. Weight.
  9 1820.      April     18—21  West    25 4é 55-42       19-0
10                       22—26  East  323    8   43'36    44'6
11                       27—33  West    33 43    00'4     54'0
12             May        4—15 East   323    8   43'37    85'8
13                       15—25 West     33 42    59'12    56'0
14                       27—42  East  323    8 41'16      40'1
15             June      12—27  West    33 42 57'93       83'6
16                       29—46   East 323    8 41°16      49'2
17             July      17—32  West    33 42 58'36       505
18             Aug.       1— 9 East   323    8 40'09      54'7
19                        9—19 West     33 42 58'05       39‘8
20                       21—38  East 323     8   40'60    524
21             Sept.      7—16 West     33  42   58°57    700
22                       22—34 East 323      8   41'07    54°23
23             Oct.      12—32  West    33 42 59'64       38'6
24             Nov.       4—15   East 323    8 43'03      15'0
25                       26—46   East 323     8 32‘30     82'0
26             Dec.      16—25  West    33 42 50'46       83'6
27                       29—34   East 323     8  29'54    412
28  1821.       Jan.     29—41  West    33  42 49'32      52'4
29             Feb.      11—28   East 323     a 32-28     45-2
30             March      3—25 West     33  42 48'97      340
31                           26  East 323     8  31'15    lO'O
32                       26—31   East 323     8 34'45     34'2
33           _           31—49  West    as 42 5008        54-5
34-            April     20-25 West as 44 2'69            37-5
35                       25—35 East 323 9 46'21           50'9
36              May       5—23 West 33 44 3'22            44'5
37         '
                         25—35 East 323 9 46'06           47‘5
33             June       9—17 West 33 44 2'98            5O'()
39                           18 West    33 44     1'66    10'0
40                       23-30   East 323    9 44-54      47-4
4.1            July       2—20 West     33 44     1'21    342
4.2            Aug.      18—36  West    33 44     2'73    61'9
43             Sept.      5—29   East 323    9 44'95      31'5
44             Oct.       1-23 West     as  44,   2'80    44-5
4.5                      23—69   East 323    9   4712     55']
46        .    Dec.      11—31  West 33     44    5'71    31-9
                                                             With

On the Seventh Section             of Bessel’s Astronomic‘alObservations.          178
 ; With r ard to this table, I observe that the greater di<U+FB02>'er
ences WilleCTl sometimes occur, as between the periods 11 and
13, 14 and 18, 43 and 45, 44 and 46, can hardly be ascrib
ed to accidental imperfections of the observations, for they
commonly agree very well, as may be seen in the journals;
these differences appear to arise from small partly temporary,
partly permanent changes of the line of collimation.                           Where
two periods are separated by a line, something in the instru
ment has been altered either by accident or by design. From
these data the height of the pole is found without further cor
rection for <U+FB02>exure, error of division and refraction, on the sup~
position of an equal value of each period.
   l to      3         54° 42’ 50”'80               weight = 2'0 periods
   7 —       s                 _
                                       51'81                      2-0
   9 —-    l3 -..                      51'92         000000.00    4'8
 14  I— 22 ...                         51 '32        "H"...       8'9
 23   -_ 24 ...            .           51 '70        000000110    2'0
 25   -— 26 ...                        50'92         "H"...       2'0
 28   —    31
                             '
                                       51 '29        "u..."       4'0
 32   —    33     ...                  52'18         -........    2'0
 34 — 38          ...                  51 '59        "H..."       4'8
 39 —- 41         -..                   51 '55       .........    2'7
 4-2  ——   46     on.                   51 '14       cool-loco    4'8
 Mean                   54        42    51 '456 probable        error =    i  0”-0365,
     The    same      observations           have given the correction of the
 declinations of my            tables    of the two pole stars, of which I am
                                   that of a Ursa? Mog'oris, which I shall im
 obliged here to give
 mediately have occasion to use,                  viz.
           663 observations on the               east side            —0"-4.52
            782 ......                           west side            —0"-219
 from    which      the declination lpr          1820     follows:
                       =ss°         20' 544157 and 544390.
     The re<U+FB02>ected image of the same star has been observed in
  64 passages, in each from 4 to 6 times, both above and below
  the pole; 16 times in the eastern, and as often in the western
  position of the instrument.
                                              It would_hav_e been impossible to
  make    so   many     observations          of this kind in about 18 months,
  were it not possible to see the star likewise in the day-time by
  re<U+FB02>ection from water.                In the following table of these obser
  vations the <U+FB01>rst column contains the results of the circle
                                                                                    cor-
                                                                                         '
  rected by the refraction of my table,                  and   the  above  determined
                                                                               to 1820;
  thermometrical correction; the second, the reduction
                 the place of        the pole;     the    fourth,  the distance   of the
  the third,
       '       ' '               '         '
                                                   -
                                                                               re<U+FB02>ected

174-               Introduction tat/1e Seventh Section
re<U+FB02>ected image of this star reduced to 1820 from that point.
To the arithmetical mean of each series the reduction of the
basin of water to the centre of the instrument has been ap
plied; for the latter is 5625 Paris feet higher than the former,
and therefore the reduction for the zenith distance z =
 —0'-ll82 tang z.
                       Upper Passage.—Circ1e           East.
        1820-         a   ,    ,.        ,.     o   ,   ,,          o      .   .,
     July      12 212    3 4947      -|- 6'66 323   8  41-16    111     4 45-30
     Sept.     29        4 10'34     —15'56         8  4107                  46-29
     Oct.        1       4 1075      —16 40         8  41-07                 46-72
                 4       4    13-72  —l7-55         8  41-07                 44-90
     Nov.        4       4 24-75     -29'17         8 43-03                  4745
         1821.
     April     28        5    18'62  —20‘69         9  46-21                 48 28
               29        5    19-33  —20‘41         9  46-21                 4729
     May         3       5    18'42  ——l9'40        9  46-21                 4719
     June        1       5    12-24  —-l4'36        9  46-06          1      4818
                 3       5    12-74  —14'22         9  46-06                 4754
               23        5    11-30  —13'32         9  44-54                 46 56
               27        5    12'13  —l3'40         9  44 54                 4581
               28        5    10'31  —l3-47         9  44-54                 4770
               29        5    11-09  -l3'56         9 44-54                  4701
     Oct.      27        5 4810      —47‘39         9 47-12                  46-41
               29        5 4869      —47-17         9 v47-12                 45-60
                       Mean - - - ,--- -           - - -        111     446-748
               Reduction of the water basin - -        -     -          -— 0-079
               Distance of the star from the pole      -    -   —l'39         5610
               Double altitude of the pole      - -    -     - 109 25 41-059
                       Upper Passage.~—Circle West.
         1820'        o     I     u         n   0    1     u      0      I      41
     June      23 144 47 55-24       — 8-12    33 42   5793    111      4 4919
      Sept.      9      47 38-50     + 8-11       42   58-57                 48-04
                13      47 37-88     + 949        42   58-57                 48-80
                15      47 36-77     +1030        42   58-57                 48-50
     Oct.      21       47 23-38     +23-99       42   59-64                 47-73
               22       47 21°50     +2434        42   59-64                 46-20
         182.
      May        5      48    31-43  +1898        44     322                 47-19
                 8      48    31-90  +18-41       44     322                 47-09
     June      13       48    3875   +1342        44v    298                 49-19
                16      48    37-21  +1342        44     298                 47-65
                17      48    37-39  +1343        44     2'98                47-84
     July        2      48    35-89  +l3-80       44     1'21                48-48
            ‘
                16      4833-75      +1523        44     1'2]                47-77
     Oct.       12      48      8-51 +4172        44     280                 4743
                13      48-     7'59 +4208        44    2-30                 46-87
               21       48      5'85 +4529        44    2-80                 48-34
                                 - ~  - -- -   - - - -
                       _Mean
               Reduction of water basin - - - - -                          —0-O79
               Distance of the star from the pole - -            —l    39 5843
               Double altitude of the pole - - - -             109 25 41-972
                                                                                  Lower'

                  of Bessel’s    Astronomical Observations.                            '175
                      Lower Passage.-—Circle            East.
                     O    l   1!        H           I      II                I     I!
     April    22 215 22      7-42   + 0-90 323     8 43-36 107 46 35-04
              23        22   6-57   +  0-62         8 43-36                     36-17
     May        8       22 11-25    -— 3-10         8 43-37                     35-22
                9       22 10-01    — 3-36         8 43-37                      36-72
     June       2       22 11-54    — 7-06          8 41-45                     36-99
                3       22 11-62    — 7-20          8 41-45                     37-03
                6
                9
                        22 12-83
                        22 13-50    -
                                    — 7-56
                                       7-81
                                    — 7-85
                                                    8 41-45
                                                    8 41-45
                                                                                36-18
                                                                                35-76
              10        22 1318                     8 41-45                     36-13
       [82'
     March    27        21  30-43   +3011           8 34-45                     33-91
              29        21  31-00   +29 53          8 34-45                     33-92
              30        21  29-68   +2923           8 34-45                     35-54
              31        21  30-08   +28 89          8 34-45                     35-48
     April    25        21  48-29   +21-67         9 46-21                      36-25
              29        22  48-55   +2055           9 46-21                     37-11
     May        4       22  50-02   +l9-30          9 46-21                     36-89
           .           Mean -     - - - -     - - - -             107     46 35-896
              Reduction of water basin      - - - - -             '
                                                                               -—0-089
              Distance of the star from the pole       - -        +1 39 5'610
              Double altitude of the pole      ~  -    -      -   109     25 41-417
                     Lower Passage.—Circ1e West.
       “220'                                                    '
     April     14
                      O I
                   141 29 34-58
                               u
                                    _  u
                                       3-00
                                              0      l    u
                                             33 42 57-42 107 46 34-16
                                                                      0            14
               15       29  34-07   — 2-70       42 57-42                       33-95
               17       29  35-07   — 2-18       42 57-42                       35-47
              28        29  3399    + 0-84       43      0-04                   34-79
     May        3       29  33-34   + 1-94       43      0-04                   35-24
              24        29  28-36   + 6-11       42 59-12                       35-35
     June     21        29  25-29   + 8-15       42 57-93                       35-51
        1821.
                                                                            '
     April    21        31    325   —-22-64      44      2-69                   37-92
              22        31   3-10   -22-41       44      2-69                   38-00
              24        31    2-05  —2l-93       44      2-69                   37-43
     May        5       30  58-26   —l9'09       44      322                    35-95
               15       30  58-21   —16-91       44      3-22                   38-08
     June'     12       30  51-50   -13-48       44      2-98                   35-04
               14       30  53-54   ~13-41       44       2-98                  37-15
               16       30  52-43   —l3-42       44       2-98                  36-03
     July       2       30 51-87    ~13-76       44       1-21                   36-90
                       Mean        - - - -    - - - -               107    46 36-061
              Reduction of the water basin - - - -                              _()-089
              Distance of the star from the pole -             —
                                                                    +   l  39      5-843
              Double altitude of the pole -       -      - -        109 25 41-815
    The deviation of        these determinations of the altitude of the
 pole   from    the   one   obtained above by reversing the instru
 ment, proves      a  sensible   farm-e. Supposing it to be of such a
 nature that it might be counteracted in every position of the
telescope with regard to the hori‘zm, by applying invariable
                                                       -
                                                                                   counter

176                   Introduction to       “Me Seventh                  Section
counterpoises, the correction of the result of the readings of
the circle u arising from this cause, has the following form:
             a sin (u+l° 83')+b cos (u+ 1° 33')
and the comparison'of the <U+FB01>ve determinations above given
produces            a:
                  + 1”'1636, probable error = i0”'1008
                    b=+o-2025                .    .         .       .          i0-0557
and next the altitude of the pole free from the error of <U+FB02>exure,
and therefore only affected by the errors of division and re
fraction, =54-° 42’ 50"‘783, with the probable error       0”'0455.
The probable errors here given are founded on that of a passage
                                                                                            i
observed byre<U+FB02>exion from water = 0'72? 7, as the above obser
                            —
vations give it. The agreement of the values of the altitude of the
pole obtained by the single sets of observations, is as follows:
   By reversing the instrument . . . . 54° 42' 50”"814~
                            -—
                   Upper Passage East . . . .            50 '720
                                 West . . . .       50 '9412
     By reflexion Lower Passage East . . . .         50 '7441
                                 West . . . .        50 '726
   The other method for determining flexure I have carried
into effect by combining the observations of a. Ursw Minoris
with 69 western and 55 eastern observations of 9 southern
stars.   The distances from the pole of these 10 stars I have
found for the year 1820 as follow:
             Observations by direct Vision.                       Observations by Re<U+FB02>exion.
                                Distance from ' 5                         Distance    5 Reduc
                                  the Pole.
                                              ‘2                       from the Pole. Z  tion.
                                            1,    l                             ,                    ,,
 a Ursae Min.              East 355 26 54-157,                  West 252013 ail-939    +0-089
 Lower Passage {           West                                 East        24104      +0089
                                        54‘590‘
 a Ursa? Min.              East    1 39   5'843                 West 248 55 12-106     +0'079
 Upper Passage i           West           5610'                 East        13-252     -_0'079
                           East  73 35 16-31           9        West 176 58 58-72   11 -0-09
 A    Lewis
                      {'   West          16-46        17        East        59'64    9 —0'09
                           East  74 25 17-90          13        West 176 8 56'54 lei-.010
 5    Lewis                West
                      1                 18'34         17        East        56-77
                                                                                            81-010
                           East  75 29 3800            8        ¥Vest    175   4 37-63
  Z Booth‘                                                                                  [OI—0'10
                     {     West                       10        East                38'69   11i—0'10
                           East  75 45 38'96          19        ‘VESI.   174 48 36'59        7 —0'10
  “ P9 g asi
                      2    West         39 23         ‘15       East            37-49       4|-0-1o
  7'_                %
                           East
                           West
                                 75       1‘90
                                          1-94
                                                  22
                                                  17
                                                                west
                                                                East
                                                                         174 45 12'64
                                                                                13-31
                                                                                            6     —0‘10
                                                                                            ll—O'IO
 l Leonis                  East  77    9'24‘48
                                           2460
                                                  22
                                                  28
                                                                West
                                                                East
                                                                         173 24 5162
                                                                            51-30
                                                                                            Bl—O'll
                     {                                                                      6—0-11
         .      .          gest
                            ast        8   2'52   11            West     16 12-6
                                                                         1
                                                                                            8'—0'll
      Olemhl
                                   7 l
 0‘                                7                                     7
                                                                         3
                     {     West            2'42   21            East        13:32           (ii—0'11
 I    Lewis,               East    82 59   7-28       7         West 167 35
                                                                East
                                                                             6-76           31—0-13
                     2                     7'60   1                          9'37                 -—0‘l3
           .               guest
                              st   8   0          21            West 167                    6 5
 ”‘ serpent“
                                   3                                        13'77                 -—-0'13
                    i      West            3~04 31              East        15-41           5-0~13
    ‘F The observations
                        taken by re<U+FB02>exion of this and the following star am
 somewhat less accurate than the rest;     was necessary to open the lower
                                                  it
 side shutter, which remained clesed when higher stars were observed, and
thus diminished the draught of air.                                                                   The

                          of Bessel’s     .{Ish'onomical     Observations.              177
     The sum of the distances from the pole, measured by direct.
 vision and by re<U+FB01>exion, is the supplement of the double alti
 tude of the pole to 360°; but it is' to be corrected for <U+FB02>exure.
            I
 Hence <U+FB01>nd
                   a:     + 1"‘0646, probable error:
                    1): +0 '3175
                                                        _
                                                                  i
                                                                  i0
                                                                     0”'0563
                                                                       '04-83
     The altitude of the pole free from the error of <U+FB02>exure is
 =54o 4-2' 50"‘794, with the probable error iO"'0911.                                  The
 basis of this computation is the probable error of a direct ob
 servation =O”'7613, and that of an observation by re<U+FB02>exion
 = 1”'026 ; from which follows that of the double altitude of the
 pole from a observations of the <U+FB01>rst, and a’ of the second kind
 _V       (0”-7613)‘1         (l"-026)1
        i           a              a'      l
     The following             table contains the single results with and
 without the correction, as also the probable errors.
                                       Double uncor-                      Corrected
                                                            PrObable      Altitude of
                                      rected Altitude
                                        of the Pole.         Error'        the Pole.
                                        0    /     u          ”           O     I    u
   aUrsae Minoris                  109 25 4-1'815            0'1819    54 42       50-70
                                              '
   Lower Passage. {                             4-1'4-17     0'1819                50'92
   a Ursm Minoris                               4-1'972      0'1819                50'77
   Upper Passage. {                             4-1-059      0'1819               50'74
                                                          -
                                                45-06        0'4-118              51-00
   6 Leon“
               -1
                              {                 43-99        03886                5087
               .                                45-66        0'3870               51-35
   B L eon“                                     44-99        04070                51-29
                              {
             .                                  44-47.       04219                5067
   g  B 00”
                              {                 49-64        05919                50-66
                  .                             44-55        04260                5071
   “  Peg“                                      49-98        0549:;               50-52
                              {
                  -                             45-56        0449:;               51-22
   7 Pegas‘                                     44-85 .      1-0423
                                                                              -
                                                                                  51-26
                              {
                .                               44-11        09975                50-48
   “ Le°ms                                                   044241               50-92
                              {                 44-21
            .           .                       44-90        0-4292               50-89
   “ Ophlucm                                                                      5096
                              {                 44-24        04499
                -                               46-09        06584                51-41
   " Le‘mls                                     42-66        0'5018               49-99
                      -                         49-12        0-4505               49-92
   “ Serpent“                                                0478?                49-50
                              {                 41-68
    The mean agreement of                    the result is obtained        by both me
thods; and the great number of observations from whlch they
   Vol. 64-. No. 317. Sept. 1824.                                 Z                   have

178              Mr. J. Farey    on the Velocity    of Sound ,
have been derived lead us to expect that no considerable un
certainty remains with regard to the quantity of this element,
which affects all determinations; for the following calculations
I  shall adopt +1”'ll sin 1u+1° 33')+0”'26 cos (u+ 1° 33');
and from this formula the above given corrections of the single
sets of observations have been deduced.
                            [To be continued.]
XXIX.       On the Velocity     of Sound ,- and on   the  ENCKE Planet.
                        By Mr. JOHN FAREY.
   To  the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
      Gentlemen,
I    HAVE felt much grati<U+FB01>ed by the perusal of Dr. Gre
     gory’s late Experiments on the Velocity of Sound in
p.  401   of your last volume; his practical Rule derived from
               I
which, may think prove of great use on many occasions; and
in the mean time, until the Doctor’s leisure will enable him
to complete his proposed series of Experiments, I be to pre
sent his practical Rule for calculating the Velocity 0 Sound,
in a somewhat simpler form than it is delivered in p. 411, and
to show its agreement with the mean results of all his Ex
periments; one of which, at 59° of temperature, viz. 1111 feet
(not 1113 as printed in p. 407), and another at 66°, viz. 1115;}
feet, have I <U+FB01>nd been omitted to be brought forwards, and in
cluded in the average velocities in his Table, but which now
I have supplied.
    Rena—To the constant number 1082-7, add half the num
      ber of degrees qf Fahrenheit’s scale, at the time of ob
      servinn' any distant Sound, the sum will be the velocity in
     jcet, ofits transmission through the air, in the climate of
      London.
        Temperature,     Pressure,      Observed         Velocity,
        Fahrenheit's    in Inches       Velocity in     calculated
          Degrees.     of Mercury.         Feet.      by the Temp.
              0              II               [I               ll
             27            2982           10942          10962
             33          . 29'87          1099'2         10992
             35            29'98         .1102'0         1100'2
             45            29'66          1107'7         11052
             59            29'67          1110']         11122
             60            29'68          1112'0         11127
             64            29'83          1115'1         1114'7
             66            29'82          1116'1         1115‘7
                                                                  According

                        and on the Encke Planet.                   179
     According to this Rule, a temperature of 118°'6 would be
  necessary to produce a velocity of 114-2 feet per second, as
  given by Dr. Derham’s Experiments, and adopted by New
  ton, but certainly his Experiments were not made at so high
  a temperature as this.
     I  have in column 2 added the mean pressures observed in
  Dr.Gregory’s Experiments, in order to examine, whether the
 would appear to bear (as it is evident they do not) any suc
 relation to the velocities, as seems indicated by Mr. Ivory in
 page 426 of the same volume, by the expression V 321‘; x l x g,
 01' Its equlvalent 6'54‘9
                             V l, for the velocity, in feet, of Sound
 per second; 1 being the height of a supposed homogeneous
                              ‘
 atmosphere, in feet.
     Now since mercury is about 11,262 times the weight of
 air, in a mean state, at the earth’s surface; we have I = T11, x
  11262 xm; m being the height in inches of the barometric
 column of mercury, balancing such an atmosphere; and the
 above expression becomes, 20063 4/ m, = the velocity of
 Sound per second, in feet.
     The pressures, or mercurial columns m, being the same,viz.
 29°82 inches, when the greatest and when the least velocities
 were observed by Dr. Gregory (the difference being 21'9 feet),
 it seemed useless for me to calculate, in a <U+FB01>fth column, the
 velocity of each of his observations, by the formula last men
 tioned: I will do so, however, for the mean of all the Doctor’s
 observations, as to pressure and velocity; and these I <U+FB01>nd to
 be 29°79 inches, and 1107 feet. Accordingly 200'63 X 4/ 29'79
 =1095'3; which is 11'7 feet less than the mean of the ob
 served velocities.                                   -
    If by this same formula we calculate, what must be the
 pressure, to occasion a velocity of 1142 feet per second, we
 have              32-4-0 inches;  which  is a barometric pressure,
         53316139:
not less excessive, than we have just found the temperature to
be (according to the <U+FB01>rst of these Rules, which are but em-.
pirical ones) for producing this velocity, which so long has
been received as the mean velocity of Sound.
    If we compare in p. 4-14 Mr. Goldingham’sTemperatures
with his velocities, we shall <U+FB01>nd his minimum temperature in
February, but his least velocity in December; and             aim, his
maximum temperature in May, but the greatest ve oc1ty_in
July; whence it is manifest, that no Rule on the same prin-,
ciple as Dr. Gregory’s wherein the velocities are directly as
the temperatures, can be applied to represent the velocities of
Sound at di<U+FB01>'erent seasons, at Madras.
                                     Z 2                           On

 180      Mr. J. Farey   on the    Eucke Planet,        on Satellitulce,  éj-c.
     On comparing the pressures at Madras with the velocities,
 a principal minimum of pressure appears in May, and an in
 ferior one in December; also two almost equal maxima in No
 vember and January, instead of one least velocity in Decem
 ber and one greatest in July, as above mentioned.                      Also, in
 the Table given in p. 178,1between 35° and 45° of Temperature,
 the pressure decreases '32 inches, whilst the observed velo
 city increases 5-7 feet; all which show the velocities, not to be
 in the direct sub-duplicate ratios of the pressures, although
 Mr. Ivory appears, in p. 426, to consider that this assumption
 “ agrees suf<U+FB01>ciently well with experiment :”—- perhaps this
 able mathematician, whose communications do so much ho
 nour to the pages of your Magazine, will oblige me and others
 of your Readers, by detailing the Experiments to which he
 alludes, or otherwise illustrating the subject.
    I  consider it very fortunate for Astronomical Science, that
 the discovery has been made by M. Encke, of a Comet,
movin in an orbit with so small a major axis, as in my hum
ble opinion, well to entitle it to be designated the Enclat-Planet ,
and    I  am particularly pleased that its sensibly decreasing pe
riods of revolution, has drawn the attention of                    M    Massotti
(see   p. 457  of your  last  volume)     to  consider     the  effects  of a pc—
culiar and very rare atmosphere of the Sun, as most probably
occasioning, by its resistance to this planet, when in perihelio,
the obvious loss of part of its motion on each return.
    I  think it extremely probable, that there are several other
small planets, having rather excentric, althouigh not large or
bits, yet undiscovered, but with which the laudable vigilance
of astronomers will ere long make us acquainted; and that
the di<U+FB02>'erent de rees of approach of these to the Sun, when in
perihelio, considered in connection with their periodic decrease
of orbit, respectively, will fully demonstrate the existence and
the law of density and resistance of the solar atmosphere.
    I  am sanguine also in thinking, that the multitudes of Sa
tellitulce which revolve round our planet *, in orbits which
though considerably excentric, do not probably carry them
beyond the orbit of the Moon, will ere long receive attention
from astronomers; by the united labours of two or three of
whom, the periodic return of some of theseSatellz'tulce might be
ascertained, and the length of course which each one periodically
makes through the higher part of our atmosphere-whilst ex
hibiting the appearance of a shooting Star, might be deter
mined; and its accelerated periods of return to perigeo, mi ht,
on similar principles of calculation to those lately applie to
                it See vol. lvii. p. 346, vol. lviii. p. 183, &c.
                                     ~                                          the

            Mr.  J. Walsh     on the Twelfth Book     of Euclid.         181
 the Encke Planet, be reconciled with the density and resist‘
 ance of our atmosphere, at the part traversed; whereby the
 theory of partially resisted planetary motion, in general, as
 well as the height and constitution of our atmosphere, would
 receive important illustration.
                                           I
    In p. 350 of your 57th volume, have endeavoured to point                 .
 out an important use which might immediately be made of
 the shooting Stars, in accurately settling the longitudes of
 places on Land: and          I   beg in conclusion here to mention,
 the instantaneous vanishing of these shooting Stars, and of
 satellitic Meteors, generally, on their passing the oaygenous
 limit of our atmosphere, as phaenomena, capable of being
 pretty accurately observed, by two or three observers acting
 in concert, at places rather distant, whose relative positions
 were known, trigonometrically ; and to hint at the importance
 which it might prove to science, to know the height of this
 ozygenous limit, under the various circumstances of Pressure,
 Temperature, Moisture, Electrical State 8w. of the Air.
                                  I am, gentlemen,
                                          Your obedient servant,
 Howland-street, July 3, 1824.                           J 01-1}: FARE“
   XXX.      Observations on the Twelfth        Boole       Euclid.     By
                               J. WALSH,   Esq.
“ This  I say to encourage those who are not far gone in these studies, to
    use intrepidly their own judgement, without a blind or a mean deference
    to the best of mathematicians, who are no more quali<U+FB01>ed than they
    are, to judge of the simple apprehension or the evidence of what is
    delivered in the <U+FB01>rst elements of the method.”-—Berk1ey,      Defence qf
    Free Thinking in Mathematics.”
       is true, the man who knows not A from B
 ITclearly    the  <U+FB01>rst principles of geometry,      as the
                                                              perceives as
                                                              most expert
analyst.     It does not require the aid      of deep science to per
ceive that the whole is greater than its parts; or that the line,
which is the shortest distance between two points, is a straight
line, that it does not bend more to any one side than it does
to any other.       But some one, not satis<U+FB01>ed with the immediate
evidence of his senses, that a straight line is shorter than any
curve line terminated by the same two points, thinks he can
prove the proposition in this way :—He makes the straight
line the base of a triangle, having its vertex in the curve line,
then the sum of the two sides of the trian 1e is greater than
its base; in the same manner he makes t e sides of the tri
angle the bases of other triangles having their vertices like
wise in the curve line, and so on; then he thinks he has
                                                                     proved

   182       Mr. J. Walsh   on the  Iwelfth Book ofEuclid.
  proved that a straight line is the shortest distance between
  two points, notwithstandin      that by such a way of reasoning
  the same proposition wonl always remain to be proved, that
  a straight line is the shortest distance between two points.       I
  shall observe that, exactly on a similar ground of reasoning,
  if the curve line he made the base of a triangle, having its
  vertex in the strai ht line, then the base or curve line is less
  than the sum of t e two sides; and if the sides be made the
 bases of other triangles, having their vertices also in the straight
 line, and so on as before; then it would appear that any
 curve line is the shortest distance between two points.           To
 attempt to prove that a straight line is the shortest distance
 between two points by any intermediate propositions, is to
 attempt to prove that the whole is greater than its part: it is
 to attempt to prove, in fact, that a straight line is a straight
 line.    It may be objected here, perhaps, that the calculus of
 variations proves the proposition under consideration.       I shall
 observe, in reply, that there seems to be a lack of intimate ac
 quaintance with some of the results obtained by it among all
 the writers on that calculus.      This will appear by an extract
 from the Calculus of Functions of Lagrange, page 4‘75:—
 “ L’équation générale donne tout de suite                 =  a   une
 constante; d’01‘1 l’on tire y'=b, et de la-y=bz+c, I) et r étant
 deux constantes arbitraires ; ce qui est l’équation générale de
 la ligne droite.”    The result here obtained is, that for all the
 points of the axis of m, which axis is the straight line termi
 nated by the given points, for all the values of a“, the co-ordi
 nate of the shortest line has a determinate magnitude; there
 fore, the shortest line between two points cannot pass but
 through one of them.       Such is the absurd conclusion to which
 the reasoning leads. Whether the defect is in the reasoning,
 or in the calculus,   I  shall not now inquire.      Quite the re
 verse of this is the binomial calculus, which is very explicit
on this subject.      The binomial of any curve line is          d w;
                                                            £—
and in the case of maximum           or minimum,  1'- is nothing;
                                                   3/
then 11 is nothing and y is nothin . The calculation does not
go‘further than to show that this appens when .r is nothing,
and when .r becomes the straight line terminated by the points;
proving only, that the shortest line must pass through the
given points ; thus endin       at the point at which we set out,
and leaving the mind to 51in for itself in determining, among
all lines terminated by two given points, which is the shortest.
I  interrogate the binomial calculus on the shortest distance
                                         '
                                                           between

           Mr. J. Walsh    on the Twel<U+FB02>lz Book      of Euclid.        183
 between two points; and it leads to the conclusion, that it can
 only be determined by the immediate evidence of the senses,
 that science cannot'aiford any aid.
    The man who knows not A from B, perceives as clearly as
 the most expert analyst, that when a straight line intersects
any one of two parallel straight lines, it will intersect the other
also, produced, if necessary.         The mind is mediately led to
this perception, by the idea that a straight line does not bend
more to one side than to another.         But some one more deeply
read in science, not satis<U+FB01>ed with the immediate evidence
of his senses, thinks he can prove the axiom mediately. He
talks of functions and homogeneity: he says angles are num
bers, and that lines are not numbers.          And then he thinks he
has proved by numbers and homogeneity,that two straight lines
that are not parallel to each other will meet when produced !           I
cannot perceive the real tendency of such reasoning.          It is se
verely reprehended by the illustrious Newton, page 17, M otte’s
Translation of the Principia: “ Relative quantities,” says be,
t‘ are not the quantities themselves whose names they bear, but
those sensible measures of them (either accurate or inaccurate)
which are commonly used-instead of the measured quantities
themselves. Those do de<U+FB01>le the purity of mathematical and
philosophical truths, who confound real quantities themselves
with their relations and vulgar measures.”             Surely angles
are no more numbers than are sticks and stones.               Physics
inquires into the nature of things; geometry into their rela
tions.    No magnitude can enter into calculation, but through
its relation to some arbitrary base of comparison.           The <U+FB01>rst
axiom   I  have here noticed      is,
                                    that the whole       greater than
                                                        is
its part.    The second, that the shortest distance between two
points is  a  straight line.    This axiom, though more complex
than the <U+FB01>rst, as depending 011          it,
                                       yet     not susceptible of any
                                               is
  roof beyond the immediate evidence of the senses. The
third, that when       a  straight line intersects any one of two
parallel strai ht' lines,  it   isnot parallel to the other.      This
axiom, thong        more complex still than the second, as de
pending on the second,       is  notwithstanding incapable of any
proof, but what   is  presented by our perception of a straight
line, that  it does not bend any more to one side than            does
                                                                 it
to another.      Here
                    I      would be understood to avoid all dis
cussion about the meaning of words.           If know the idea the
                                                    I
word  is  intended to impress, care not whence
                                  I                      was derived,
                                                        it
or why different nations make use of different sounds to im
press the same idea. My object          to free the <U+FB01>rst principles of
                                          is
geometry from sophistical cavilling; principles that are as
evident to the illiterate, as to the most profound mathemati
cians.                               "
                                                                  The

 184-       Mr. Haworth’s Decad of new                  Succulent   Plants.
    The <U+FB01>rst proposition of the tenth book of Euclid says, “ 1f
 from the greater of two unequal ma nitudes there be taken
 away more than its half, and from t e rémainder more than
 its half, and so on, there shall-at length remain a magnitude,
 less than the least of the proposed magnitudes.”         This pro
 position, on a slight view of             it,
                                      appears very specious.     But
 by examining       more deeply, we shall perceive that
                     it                                      asserts     it
 the absurdity, that     magnitude
                            a           less than itself.
                                                 is        In effect,
 let any indeterminate magnitude be the greater, and any in
determinate part of       be the less; then,
                               it                  from the greater
                                                            if
there be taken away more than its half, and from the remain
der more than its half, and so on, there shall at length re
main a magnitude less than any indeterminate part of the
whole: but the remaining magnitude            an indeterminate part
                                                       is
of the whole; therefore there shall at length remain mag                     a
nitude that      less than itself.
                is                  Such     the true nature of the
                                                      is
absurd lemma of the ancients, and of all similar propositions.
And such       the nature of the sophism,
               is                                           by
                                                  which Euclid has
attempted to demonstrate thechief propositions of the twelfth
book of his Elements.       The properties of the circle, sphere,
cone, and cylinder, were deduced by analogy from the like
properties, demonstrated to belong to <U+FB01>gures bounded by
straight lines- and plane surfaces.        These properties, with
regard to the round <U+FB01>gures, are demonstrated algebraically
by the binomial calculus        but they are not yet demonstrated
                                      ;
by elementary geometry.
    The excrescences that have accumulated on the sciences of
geometry and algebra should be pruned ;—sciences that have
tended more to the advancement of society than all others.
They should be freed from all empirical reasoning.            They
should be placed before young mathematical students in their
real state, that their judgements may not be warped, and that
aspiring    enius may with the more effect exert itself in dis
covering   t   yet latent principles of these sciences.
               e
  Cork, Aug.   2,   1824.                                           J.   WALSH.       \
XXXI.       Decas novarum Plantarum Succulentarum                        ;   Autore
     A. H. HAWORTH,            Soc.   Linn. Lond.—Soc. Horticult. Land.—
     necnon Soc. Carsar.       Nat. Curios. MoscoviensisSocio,           ($04512
     T0 the Editm's       ofthe Philosophical         Magazine and Journal.
        Gentlemen,
                have the satisfaction of forwarding to you,
HEREWITH
                       I
 \
  for your Magazine, a pretty complete description of ten
new species of succulent plants, belonging or allied to the genus
                                                          Crassula

            Mr. Haworth’s Decade of new            Succulent Plants.       185
  Crassula of Linnaeus, which have recently been discovered in
  the wilds of Southern Africa, and sent to the Royal Gardens
  of Kew b one of His Majesty’s most successful botanic col
  lectors,          Bowie, whose enterprising spirit has not only de
  tected, but successfully forwarded to those rich ardens in a
  living state, more succulent plants than any in ividual now
                                               '
  existing.
     Another new succulent plant allied to Aloe',             I  have called
  Bowié'a a<U+FB01>'icana ,- thus endeavouring to hand down the name
  of this meritorious discoverer, in one of the African plants which
  he alone has found, to the botanists and travellers of future
(days; a compliment he well deserves and has so arduously
  earned.        Of this new genus, now b100ming for the <U+FB01>rst time in
vEurope in our gracious Sovereign’s delightful collections at
  Kew,      I   hope to be able to send you a complete description
  for your next Magazine, favoured, as I- have ever been in my
  endeavours to advance the investigation of the succulent plants,
  by my kind friend W. T. Aiton,Esq., the able conductor of
  those celebrated gardens.
'                       And  I remain, gentlemen,             a
                                 With respectful esteem,
                                         Your most obedient servant,
                                                    '
  Chelsea, Sept. 1824.                                  A. H. HAWORTH.
              Classis et Ordo.        PENTANDRIA      PENTAGYNIA.
  KALOSANTHES Nab. in Revis. Pl. Succ. p. 6.;Dietrichia                Tratt.
             Arch. d. Gewa'clzslc. n. 449.— Crassula Linn. 51'.
                 In<U+FB02>orescentia involucratiin subcapitata. Corolla 5
             <U+FB01>da, infundibuliformis,      laciniis tubo triplo brevioribus.
             Caetera ut in Larochea genere, Crassulave.
                 Plantae Africanae valde succulentae, foliis opposite de
                                    '
             cussatis.
  bioonvexa.        K. (convex-leaved) foliis angustioribus linearibus
      1.    supra subtusque distincté connexis.               .Florebat Julio
                                                                         ‘
             A.D. 1824, in Regio        Horto    Kewense.     G. H. I2 .
                   Obs.   A<U+FB01>inibus minor, in omnibus atque graci
             lior, foliorum marginibus cartilagineo-asperiusculis.
             Flores emortuos post <U+FB02>orescentiam duos insuper vivam
             plantain solum vidi terminales altéque tubatos (a<U+FB02>inium
             more), tubo calyce duplo longiore.            Styli in sicco (an
             semper ?) usque ad apices quasi coadunati.
          “
                  Prope Crassulamcapitatam Lamarckii, in_Enc.Metk.
             (quae bona species) locanda, sed duplo plusve minor
                                                          I         -‘
               quam illa.         ,
               '
                 Obs. In the year 1821     I published
                                             '
                                                         the genus Kalosan
      Vol.   64.   No.   317. Sept. 1824.              A    a              tiles

186    Mr. Haworth’s Decade of new            Succulent    Plants.
       thes in the Revis. Pl. Sum, not being then aware of
       some of the same plants having been given by Trat
       tenick under the name of Dietriclzia in 1812, nor that
       the name of Dietrickia itself had been given to other
       plants by Raeuschel in 1797.    Wherefore the name of
       Kalosanthes may remain.     The genus is sound, and             I
       suspect will differ from Laroehea in the formation of
       the stigmata, but without recent <U+FB02>owers I cannot say to
       what extent: from every other it is far apart.
                      CRASSULA        Linn.   3-0.
         Infloreseentz'a   cymosa.      Corolla 5-petaloidea ex
       pansa, s. campanulatim erecta, laciniis basi ipsae, solum
       coalitis imbricantibus.     Germina 5 cum stylis continu
       antibus subulata.
          Suli'rutices s. Herbae succulentae, eCapite Bone Spei
       praacipue; foliis (paucis exceptis) opposite decnssatis,
       corollis albis, roseis, luteisve.-—N0b. in Revis. Pl. Save.
       11.   9.
bz'planata.   C. (<U+FB01>at-leaved) ramosa, foliis suberectis laevibus su
   2.    bulatis acutis, utrinque planis, subtus subcanaliculatis.
            Floret Septemb. G. H. 12 .
            Planta: juvenes, semipedales laeves 'erectae; at fere           ’
        <U+FB02>oriferas solum vidi <U+FB01>neAugusti A.D. 1824. Rami sub-
        patentes teretes, afe're aperto rufescentes. Folia semun
        ciam longa, superiora erectiora, inferiora subpatentia,
        internodiorum longiora.        Flores terminales in cymis
        capitatis pauci<U+FB02>oris a<U+FB01>inium more, incipientes inaper
        tos solum vidi.     Bractere fere ut in Cr. acutifolia De
        eand. at majores.     Corolla quoque af<U+FB01>nium, petalis ob
        longo-ovatis filamentisque niveis.      Antbera' crassa: 0b
        tuso-cordatae, longiores quam latte, (in lente) ruberrimae.
          Ordinaria squamula quadrata minutissima luteola.
        Pollen non vidi. Prope Cr. acutifoliam loeanda.
bibracteata.     C. ,(double-bracted) e<U+FB02>'uso-decumbens, radicans:
   3.   foliis subulatis expansis supra planis sulcatisve,bractaeis
        pedunculi communis semper duabus.
            Flore-t Aug—Sept. G. H. ‘2.
            Obs. Su<U+FB01>i-utex' dodrantalis glaber dumosus.        Folia
         perfoliata acuta,viridia, extus convexa, saepius superné
         canaliculatim concava; expanse, sive incurva, s'eu in
         curvo-recurvula, vel in senectute recurva, internodio
         rum lougiora, subuncialia.      Flores minuti, prime ter
         Imnales, vmox laterales, pedunculo communi» 4-5-un
         ciali, et per lentem lineolis punctisve longitudinaliter
         con<U+FB02>uentihusnotato, supra medium bibracteato. Brac
                                _.s                  3    ,@         tete

               Mr. Haworth’s Decade qf new              Succulent   Plants.     187
               tel?   minutae      lato-subulataa supra sulcatae pedunculo
               adpressae.       Alise  quoque adsunt bracteolae minutissimae
               per paria, ad dichotomiarum basin, ut in af<U+FB01>nibus.
               Calyx parvus 5-partitus campanulatus, foliolis parabo
              licis viridibus, apicibus a'e're aperto saepe plus minus
               fuscis, purpureove-fuscescentibus.             Corolla campanula
              \m‘5-partita nivea, laciniis erectis late ovatis obtusis, basi
         m solum coalitis, unoque latere aliquantillum                   imbrican
              tibus.        Stamina 5, <U+FB01>lamenta, nivea, corolléi parum
              breviora, antheris polliniferis sulphureis;                 de<U+FB02>oratis
              fuscis. Styli (cum gel-minibus) obpyriformes, extt‘ls gib
              buli, interné planiores.           Squamula ordinaria, brevis,
              emarginatim sublunuliformis si optimé visa per lentem.
                  "Obs.      Planta parum variat, ut feré‘ omnes. succu
              lentae plantae 'e spontaneis-semi'nibus 'ex Africa ortis.
              a. minor.- saepe rufescens: foliis supemé 'tninus sul
              catis planisye, subinde subtus rufo-punctatis.
              6. major; virescens:v           foliis,su emé saepius sulcatis,
              saepeque mfo-punctatis,             ram is paulo-longioribus
              quam
                4
                         var.  a.    , .
                   Obs. vPraecedenti'a <U+FB01>inis, at CrassMae'acutifoIim'proxi
              ma, sed multb major, robustior, et inde erectior; nec
          ‘   non nihilominus omnino decumbenter-radicans                       un
          ‘
              dique     ; rursumque assurgentibus ramulis.             In  Crassula
              acutifblia pedunculi communes gerunt semper brac
              tearum duo paria remota, infra. dichotomiam, at par
              alium, dichotomiam- amplectens.                   Verbo tenus, haec
              planta speci<U+FB01>co          nomine    SOll‘lm,‘  ab  a<U+FB02>inibus'proximis
              certissimé distinguitur.
<U+FB01>li'caul'e.          C. (thready-stemmed) e<U+FB02>’uso-dichotoma: foliis pa
     4'.      henti-recurvulis parvis; raniis radicantibus <U+FB01>liformibus.
     '
                   Flo'rebat in Regio Horto Kewense autumno 1822.
              G-H-        '215-   8-.      .                  ,
                   Obs.     Fruticulus vix semipedalis ramosissimus de
              bilis: sive Herba 2-3-ennis, Vaé're apertp _rubescens.
              Rami et ramuli tenuissimi teretes, erecto-e<U+FB01>'usi decum
              bentes intertexti, et undique           alté radicantes, elongatis
              simplicibus <U+FB01>bris.            Folia adults lanceolate-subulata
              4-5-1inearia, patenti-parum- recunfula laavia viridia,
              sive rufescen<U+FB02>a, internodiorum sub longigudjne; subtus
            ‘
              convexa; juniora confertiora ,incurvar subcanaliculata.
              Flores subCymosi terri<U+FB01>nales                   pentapetaloidei albi,
              sbellatim       expansi, pedunculis   (Hil<U+FB01>lli
                                                           ongitudine foliolorux'n
              bracteaceorum.           Stamina <U+FB01>lamentis quinque, anthems
              pollinosis luteis. Styli totidem quinque.
                                             Aa2                        Praeceden

188       Mr. Haworth’s Decade qf new        Succulent  Plahts.
            Praacedentibus multoties minoi', sed fortassé af<U+FB01>nior
         Crassulaa acutifoliae.
             Caetera non examinavi.
revolvens.       C. (recurving-leaved) foliis linearibus macris
   5.   acutis revoluto-re<U+FB02>exis arcuatisve subdistantibus: cau—
        libus gracilibus longulis subramosis.
            Floret autumno, ni fallor, apud Kew. G. H. ‘2 .
             Obs. Su<U+FB01>'rutex gracilis fete pedalis tantillum ramu
        losus, ramulis erectis sub<U+FB01>liformibus et per lentem pu
        berulis, at per {Btatem cum debili caule 'decumbentibus
        plus minusve.         Folia basi, quasi connato-tumidula,
        utraque     plana, sive inferné aliquantillum tumidula, re
        mota, vel sine dubio inter remotos internodiorumque
        lon iora. Flores ni malé memini (necnon apud Kew
        audlvi) parvi albi, in capitulis densiusculis tei'minali
        bus; sed non examinavi.                           -
                                                             .
             Fortasse ad Crassulam fruticosam Linnaei accedit
        proximam, sed caulibus corvi calami longé tenuioribus,
         nec “ digiti crassitie,” ut in Cr. fruticosa.           In aliis
         characterlbus proculdubio longé recedit.
rotundg'fblia.     C. (round Orpine-leaved) subherbacea s. per
   6.    ennis: erecta: foliis petiolatis subrotundis <U+FB01>rmis pau
         cidentatis, imis inte errimis.
             Florebat in RegioiIortoKewense autumno A.D.1822.
             Obs.    Caules simplices terebes crassi virides fere ut
         in Sedo Telephio Linn., at minores, humiliores. Folia
         opposita expansa orbicularia crassa nitentia subglauca
         viridiave, internodiorum longiora; ima magis rotun
         data integra. vel quam caeteris integriora, planiora:
          superiora, supra in<U+FB02>exo-concava ovato-rotunda tri—
         plinervia sescuncialia in petiolos         8 -1ineares supra
         sulcatos sensim desinentia ; superné saape obsoleté den
          tata, sive subrepando-dentata:        ad lentem lucemque
         tenuissime pallido marginulata.         Hares parvi albi in
         capitulis cymosis terminalibus.
              Caetera non examinavi.
              GLOBULEA-      Nob. in Synops. Succ. 60. —Alz'0rum
           Crassula.    Corolla  petala 5 inaperto-erecta, apice glo
          bulum sive glandulam cerinam ferentia.            Caetera ut in
        . Crassula.
 impressa.      G. (impress-dotted lance-leaved) acaulis: foliis
    7.
          loratoflanceolatis viridibus impresso-puncmtis, punctis
           magms sparsis numerosis.        Horebat in Regio Horto
           Kewense autumno A.D. 1823.
              Obs.   Habitus Turgosiae pertusae Nob. in Ram's.
                                                                      Pl.

                                           \
        Mr. Haworth’s Decade of new         Succulent Plants.         189
       Pl.    Succ. p. 14- et 12. 291.     Folia subquadriuncialia
       crassa cespitosé decussata, ima saepe glandulosé sub
        ciliata, ciliis (per lentem) albis falcatim recurvulis.
       Scapus bracteatim foliosus subpaniculatus,ramulis dense
       capitulatim cymosis ; <U+FB02>oribus parvis pallidis.
            Caetera non examinavi.
       6 minor. duplo, impressis punctis obsoletioribus.
            Obs.     Sectionem novam formavit, foliis lanceolatis,
                                                   '
       loratisve.                ,
atropurpurea.        G. (The dingy purple) foliis oblique cuneato
       obovatis cultratis atropurpureis; scapo cauleve <U+FB02>ori
       fero lon issimo paniculato.
            Flore at in Regio Horto Kewense A. D. 1824,
        Augusto mense.         G. H. It. s. ‘2 . .
            Obs. Caudex s. caulis 3-4-entalis.           Folia fere ut in
        Crassula cultrata Linn., at aére aperto plus minus atro
       purpurea.        Flores dense glomerati in paniculae distan
       tium ramorum apicibus sesquipedalis aphyllee.                  Pe
       tala valde erecta alba s. pallida, apicibus caudato-pro
       ductis globuliferis, subpatentibus, demum recurvulis.
           Est Crassula obliqua, B. Nob. in Revis. Pl. Succ.
        204-.
            Pone Globuleam (Crassulam Linn.) cultratam lo
        canda, cui proxima forte, cum alio modo <U+FB02>orendi.
mesembryantboides.        G. (Hedge-hog <U+FB01>coid-like) Su<U+FB01>'rutex
   9.  dumosus erectus dodrantalis:           ramis, ramulis, foliis
       subulatis, calycibusque hispidis.               .
        Florebat apud Kew autumno A.D. 1823.                 G. H. F) .
            Obs.    Variat.
        a.   foliis   semiteretibus subulato-incurvis        succulentis,
            sive subaquose pulposis confertis, <U+FB02>oribus
                                                               terminali
           bus glomeratim capitatis sessilibus confertlssimis.
        B. parum altior foliis remotioribus, <U+FB01>orum capitulis
            cymose congestis, minus fortasse confertis.
            Obs. In ambabus varietatibus pili albi densi in ramis
         ramulisque sunt expansi Vel horizontales; sed in foliis
         semper resplcientes.
              Obs.     Flores in a. sessiles,        formantes cymas
        densissimas dichotomas capitulatas hirsutas, quasi
        absque proprio pedunculo communi.                   Corolla ina
        perta, sed ante anthesin solum examinavi, 5-petala.
        Petala erecto-adpressa oblonga lutescenti-alba, mar
        ginibus (ad lentem) puberulis, apicibus angustate
        productis, et pelta minuta rufescente, potius quam
        globula <U+FB01>nientibus. Filamenta alba. Anthem?
                                                                 inguptaa
                                                                  o tuso

l90     Mr. Haworth’s Decade qfne'w               Succulent   Plants.
        obtuso-cordatae lutese, longiores quam lataa. Styli (in
        cipientes) cum germine breves <U+FB01>gura seminis vitis
        viniferw, at lon e minores.     Squamula ordinaria trun
        catim quadrata atior quam lata luteola.
subincana.    G. (hoary shrubby) foliis semiteretibus subu
   10. latis acutis patenti-incurvulis,   ramulisque molliter in
        canescentibus.
           Florebat in Re io Horto Kewense mense Augusto
        A.D.       1824.   G.         I? .
               Obs.   Variat.
        a. decumbens       .- Su<U+FB01>'rutex: erecto-decumbens;      dodran
               talis; ramulis teretibus gracilibus irregularibus; more
               al<U+FB01>nium saepe radicantibus insuper terram; rnrsum
               que tunc assur entibus; internodiis folio brevioribus.
               Flores termin es cymoso-capitati conferti albi a<U+FB01>i
               mum.
         ’3.   erecta :   foliis confertioribus    brevioribus
                                                     '
                                                                  minus in
         .     curvis.
                 Forte propria species. Cum 0:. crescit et <U+FB02>oret.
               Obs.
                 Proximé a<U+FB02>inis in habitu et charactereCrassulae
               Obs.
        molli, Aitoni, quae hujus eneris est,et major: cum dua
        bus przecedentibusspecie us sectionem novam formavit.
           Hujus generis futuras Sectiones, ut infra et aptas, sed
        di<U+FB01>identer propono.v
                                       '
  l.   CULTRATI-E, foliis cuneato-obovatis             cultratis, caule suf
        fruticoso:
           l. cultrata (Crassula) Linn.
           2. atropmpurea supra.
  2.   LINGUATJE, foliis    loratis obtusis subtus convexis, sive
        angusté linguiformibus, quadrifariam exacté imbrica
        tim cespitosis, caule nullo herbaceove, scapis <U+FB02>ori
        geris, defoliatis.             I                .
           3. lin      Nob. in MS.
                          ,
           4. lingula, Nob. in MS.                    .    .
           5. capitata, Nob. in Revis. Pl. Sues. cum descript.
              —§alm. Cat. Hort. Dyein, nonien solum, sine de
              script.      ,      L  .                        _
           Obs. Flores ut in sequente.         Non est Crassula ca
        pitata, Lam. in Encyclop. quae cel. Schultes reduxit
        1n    us Syst. Veg. 5.. v708, ad varietatem Crassula: cymosa'
               ej
           _
        Lmn., et quae est bona species generis Dietrichiw
        supra.
           6. obvallata, Nob. (Crassula Linn.)
               canescens, Nob. in Synops. Sara.
               7.
                                                          3. LORATIE,

  Mr. Knight      on the   In     uence Qf Pollen in Cross-breeding.            191
   3. LORATIE, foliis loratis, apicem versus sensim angustiori
        bus, subtus convexis, quadrifariam imbricatim cespi
        tosis, caule herbaceo, scapis foliosis.
           8. impressa, supra.
           9. hispida, Nobis MS.
   4. ANGUSTATE, foliis linearibus semiteretibus sulcatis tere
       tibusve.    Herbaa I cespitosae scapis defoliatis. Haec
       sectiofortassé melius ante priorem?
          10. sulcata, Nob. in Revis. Pl. Suce.
          11. nudicaulis, Nob. Crassula nudicaulis Linn.
   5. SUBULATIE,         Su<U+FB01>'rutices dodrantales ramosi, foliis subu
          latis, carnosis, supra planiusculis; <U+FB02>oribus dense cy
          moso-capitatis terminalibus.
              12. Mesembryanthoides,     su ra.
              1‘3. :mollis.  Crassula mol       Aitoni- alionumque,
                                                 is,
               ‘                              '                   -
                 sedr        generis omnino.                        .
                                                                         i
             M. subincana, supra.
    Pos'rscmP'r.—O_f the new species in the above list marked
MS.‘you     may expect     further account as soon as they pro
                              a
duce their fructi<U+FB01>cations.
   It may probably excite some surprise to see so many new
Crassulman plants here enumerated; and yet they are not all
the unrecorded species the writer         well acquainted with.
                                                is
And more still, ma be expected soon from abroad, especially
from Southern Africa (Nature’s reatstore-house for succulent
plants), and where, perhaps, full half as many of the present
tribe actually exist, as of Mesembryanthema     which last vast
                                                           ,-
group may at length be found to rival or surpass in number,
if not in elegance and beauty, the more extensively discovered
Heaths for Mr. Bowie assures me that he has seen in Africa
         :
a great number of native succulent plants of various ‘kinds,
which he has not been able to send to England in a living
state.
XXXII.     Some Remarks on the supposed In<U+FB02>uence of the Pollen
   inCross-breeding, upon the Colour  the Seed-coats of Plants,
                                                of
  langlthe Qualities of their Fruits. By THOMAS Annaiaw
   KNIGHT, Esq. ER.S., .Sw. President."’
     has been long ago ascertained               by
                                        physiologists, that "the
IT'seed-coats, or membranes Which     cover the cotyledons                          of
the s'ee'dsbf plants, with the receptacles which contain‘such
  '   From the Transactions     of the Horticultural   Society, vol. v. Part
                                '       '
                                                                  .            se   -

 192       Mr. Knight’s Remarks        on the supposed In<U+FB02>uence
seed-coats,   are visible some time before the blossoms acquire
their full growth; and the existence of these organs is there
fore obviously independent of the in<U+FB02>uence of the pollen upon
the growth of the internal and essential parts of the future
seeds.     The seed-coats also, and the fruit of some species of
plants, acquire nearly, if not wholly, their perfect growth
when the pollen has been entirely withheld, or when, from
other causes, it has not operated; and from these circum
stances, and other observations, it has been inferred, that
neither the external cover of the seeds, nor the form, taste, or
<U+FB02>avour of fruits, are affected by the in<U+FB02>uence of the pollen
of a plant of a different variety or species. There exists,
however, some difference of opinion upon these points; and
the experiments of Mr. Goss upon the Pea, of which an ac
count is given in a paper recently printed in the Transactions
of the Horticultural Society *, appear strongly to countenance
the opinion, that the colour of the seed-coats at least may be
chan ed by the in<U+FB02>uence of the pollen of a variety of a differ
ent c aracter; and hence he infers, with ap arent reason, the
probability that the taste and <U+FB02>avour of ruits may be also
 affected.
    The narrative of Mr. Goss is unquestionably quite correct;
but   I believe that there is an error in the inference which he
has drawn; and        I  am anxious that such error, if it exist,
should be pointed out; because it may occasion many experi
ments to be made to prove that which                 I conceive to have
been already suf<U+FB01>ciently proved; and, consequently, cause the
useless expenditure of time and labour, which might be ad
vantageously employed in similar investigations upon other
plants in the wide and unexplored <U+FB01>eld which lies open to the
 experimental horticulturist.
    The numerous varieties of strictly permanent habits of
the Pea, its annual life, and the distinct character in form,
 size, and colour of many of its varieties, induced me, many
        ago, to select it for the purpose of ascertainin , by a
years
  ong course of experiments, the effects of introducing the
pollen of one variety into the prepared blossoms of another.
My chief object in these experiments was to obtain such in
formation as would enable me to calculate the probable effects
of similar operations upon other species of plants; and be            I
lieve it would not be easy to sug est an experiment of cross
breeding upon this plant, of which          I  have not seen the result,
through many successive generations.             I  shall therefore pro
ceed to give a concise account of some of these experiments,
        * See Horticultural Transactions,  vol. v. page 234, Part IV.
                                                                        01'

                    thlze Pollen in   Crossibreedz'ng.            193
  or rather (as I wish not to occupy more than necessary of the
  time of the Society), to state the results of a few of them, be
  lieving that   I shall be able to explain satisfactorily, the cause
  of   a coloured variety of the Pea having been apparently
  changed into a white variety, by the immediate in<U+FB02>uence of
  the pollen in the experiment of Mr. Goss.
      When, in my experiments, the pollen of a gray Pea was in
  troduced into the prepared blossoms of a white variety, no
  change whatever took place in the form, or colour, or size, of
  the seeds; all were white, and externally quite similar to
  others which had been produced by the unmutilated blossoms
  of the same plant. But these when sown in the following
  year, uniformly afforded plants with coloured leaves and stems,
  and purple <U+FB02>owers;         and these produced gray peas only..
   When the stamens of the plants which sprang from such gray
   peas were extracted, and the pollen of a white variety, of per
   manent habits, was introduced, the seeds produced were uni
   formly gray; but many of these a<U+FB02>'orded plants with perfectly
   green leaves and stems, and with white <U+FB02>owers, succeeded, of
   course, by white seed.       In these experiments the cotyledons
   of all the varieties of Peas employed or produced were yellow;
   and, consequently, the Peas with white seed-coats retained
   their ordinary colour, though they contained the 'plumules
   and cotyledons of coloured Pea plants.           The cotyledons of
   the Blue Prussian Pea, which was the subject of Mr. Goss’s
   experiments, are, on the contrary, blue; and the colour of
   these being perceptible through the semi-transparent seed—
_  coats, occasioned those to appear blue, though they are really
   white; the whole habits of that plant are those of a white
   pea. The colour of the cotyledons only was, I therefore con
   ceive, changed; whilst the seed-coats retained their primary
   degree of whiteness.       I must consequently venture to con
   clude, that the opinions of Mr. Salisbury, quoted by Mr. Goss,
   which have also very long been mine, viz. that neither the
   colour of the seed-coats, nor the form, taste, or <U+FB02>avour of
   fruits, are ever affected by the immediate in<U+FB02>uence of the
   pollen of a plant of another variety or species, are well
   founded.                                                          ,
      I  need not add, that Mr. Seton’s experiment mentioned in
   the note to Mr. Goss’s paper, is also most perfectly accurate;
   though the results differed from those obtained by Mr. Goss,
   owing, I ima ine, to the reater permanence of colour in the
   cot ledons o the Green mperial Pea, which was the subject
   of is experiments.
      Vol.  64. No.  317. Sept. 1824.    a    Bb       XXXIII.     Ob

                                       [194]
XXXII I.          Observations        on the   E<U+FB01>cts quge upon Fruit Trees
   of diferent Kinds ,- with an Account of some new Varieties
   qf Nectarines. In a Letter to the Secretary. By THOMAS
   ANDREW KNIGHT, Esq. ER.S. ($0. President.‘
         MY DEAR Sm,
             new varieties of fruits of different species having
MANY
  been      sent from my garden to the Horticultural Society
in the last and in preceding seasons, and some others having
been seen by you in the short visit which                  I
                                                  had the pleasure
to receive from you in the last autumn,                I
                                             feel desirous to offer
 a few observations upon the expediency of obtaining such
 productions;    or rather, upon the question, whether each
 variety have its period of youth, of maturit , and of old age,
 and be formed for a limited period of uration only; or
 whether each be capable of eternal propagation, with undi
 minished health and vigour.
    The fact, that certain varieties of some species of fruits
 which have been long cultivated, cannot now be made to grow
 in the same soils, and under the same mode of management,
 which was a century ago perfectly successful, is placed be
yond the reach of controversy.            Every experiment which
seemed to afford the slightest prospect of success, was tried
by myself and others, to propagate the old varieties of the
 A ple and Pear, which formerl constituted the orchards of
    erefordshire, without a single healthy or ef<U+FB01>cient tree hav-.
ing been obtained; and, I believe, all attem ts to propagate
those varieties have, durin some years, who ly ceased to be
made. I have detailed in        e Philosophical Transactions       an         1-,
account of some experiments, which          repeated, with the hope
                                                  I
of being able to ascertain which, amongst the various organs
of trees of acted varieties, <U+FB01>rst fail to execute their proper func-~
tions and fcame to the conclusion, upon the followin
       ;                                                         and
other evidence, that        the leaf.                                        %a
                            it   is      Having obtained by       ers
or cuttings, small plants of several of the most diseased 0 the
old varieties of the Apple, these were grafted within         couple    a
of inches of the surface of the soil with scions of new seedling
and luxuriant varieties; and under these circumstances the
roots of the most debilitated and diseased varieties executed
their of<U+FB01>ce perfectly well, and were found, upon examination,
at the end of several years, wholly free from every symptom
of disease.    This process was reversed, and scions of old va
rieties were employed as grafts; but into the young growing)
 it    From the Transactions    of the Horticultural   Society,   vol. v. Part IV.
  1-   For   the year 1810, page 178.
                                                  -
                                                                            shoots,

         Mr. Knight     on the E<U+FB02>é-cts .quge   upon Fruit Trees.  195
   shoots, which sprang from these, many 'buds of new and lux
   uriant varieties were inserted, and in the autumn every na
  tural bud of the old varieties was destroyed.         The inserted
  buds vegetated in the following spring, and by these ef<U+FB01>cient
  foliage was given; when every symptom of debility and dis
  ease disappeared, and the wood and bark of the most ex
  hausted and diseased varieties now constitute a part of the
  stems of lar re apple trees, and present, at the end of thirty
 years, as mutcah apparent health as other parts of the stems of
  those trees.                           I
                  From these results have inferred, that the de
 bility and diseases of such old varieties arise from the want of
 'a properly prepared circulating <U+FB02>uid; and that when such is
 given by e<U+FB02>‘icient foliage, the bark of the most debilitated vvt\.~
 riety possesses the power to occasion the necessary ‘secretibns
 to take place, and the albumum is enabled to execute all its
                                                                       ‘
of<U+FB01>ces.
     It has been urged         ainst the conclusion,“ that old age is
                                                                         '
the cause of debility mid decay of those varieties of fruit 'which
have been very long cultivated, that many of the seedling
offspring of such varieties are as much diseased as their'paa
rents; and it is contended, that the failure of our best old
varieties of fruit has arisen from a succession of tmfaVourable
seasons. The fact, that many of the seedling offspring of Old
diseased varieties of <U+FB01>'uit are as much diseased as the parents
                                                           I
from which they spring, is unquestionable; but this, conceive,
proves nothin          more than that diseases are hereditary in the
vegetable as t ey are in the animal World; and it is scenery
reasonable to expECt that healthy and robust offspring Gilli be
obtained from parents, whOSe lives have been extended be;
    and their natural periods by preternatural means, and writes
bodies are yearl falling to pieces under the operation "of
ease; and in which the whole of the circulating <U+FB02>uids <U+FB01>re in
a morbid state.                              1                       .
     If a deterioration have *mken place in our climate, and this
have occasioned the decay of o<U+FB02>r fruit trees, at what period
did this deterioration take plaCe? It is more than forty years
since      I commenced experiments with the hope of being able
to raise healthy trees of the old varieties of the Cider Fruits of
Herefordshire; and          I know that the prOgressive debility of
those had been ointed out some years before my birth by my
father, who di         an old man when     I Was an infant; and who
Was an extremely competent judge of the subject.                   r
     Parkinson also, who liVed in the reign of Elizabeth, com
plains of the unfavourable seasons in the latter part of his life.
The grapes did not then ripen as they had formerly done; or
more probably,       I believe, he did not <U+FB01>nd them so sweet as he
 -       .                '
                                   B b 2                     though

196     Mr. Knight      on the   Ejects qf Age     upon   Fruit Trees.
thought them when he was aschool-boy. That some change may,
however, have taken place in our climate, owin to the Opera
tion of many concurrent causes, is not improba 1e, but not in
a de ee equivalent to the effects produced.              A'ny considera
ble c ange of climate must also have affected alike the new
and the old varieties of fruits, and the decay of the latter alone
seems therefore to prove some constitutional change to have
 taken place in those.                                                    .
    If the leaf graduall fail to execute properly its             o<U+FB02>ice,  a
 progressive degree of ebilit , preceding a state of disease and
decay, must necessarily fol ow; and this I have noticed in
 some moderately old varieties of the Apple and Pear.                They
remain free from disease; they blossom frequently, and some
times freely; but they rarel           afford much fruit; and their
recovery,     from   the  exhaustedv  state  in which even a moderate
 crop   of  fruit  leaves   them,  is very  slow.    If this state be in
 duced, as  I    am well satis<U+FB01>ed that it    is,  by the  inef<U+FB01>cient ope
 ration   of   the  foliage,
                           it    becomes    an  interestin   question at
 what period of the age of each variety such de ective opera
 tion commences. The observations which             I  have had oppor
 tunities of making, lead me to believe that               commences at
                                                          it
 the period when the original tree becomes, according to the
 ordinary course of nature, debilitated by          a  e; and  I   suspect
 that much the greater part of the varieties 0 fruit, of di<U+FB01>'erent
 species, which are now named in the catalogues of nursery
 men, have already outlived the periods at which they best de
 served the attention of the planter.          This remark     Iwish par
 ticularly to apply to the Peach and Nectarine; varieties of
 which, of equal excellence and much superior vigour and
 hardiness, may be easily obtained from seeds ripened in the
 forcing-houses,   if    not upon the open walls, of our gardens.          I
 sent to you, in the last autumn, many new varieties of Necta
 rines raised in m Peach-house from seeds of the Elruge and
 the pollen of the arly Violet Nectarine.            They were the pro
 duce of buds inserted into the bearing branches of old Peach
 and Nectarine trees growing upon my walls, the original
  seedling trees not having been retained in my garden.                .
     Every attention was paid to make the fruit from which the
  seeds were taken attain the highest state of perfection, and
 the crop of fruit of the trees which bore them, and from which
  the _pollen was taken, was sacri<U+FB01>ced almost wholly in the pre
  ceding season, that both those might be in the most e<U+FB01>icient
  and Vigorous state; and       1  preferred the forcing-house to the
  open wall, that the wood and blossoms might attain the most
  perfect state of maturity.      Of the merits of the Nectarines ou
  received,I      Wish to decline giving an opinion; and           I   s all
                                     ~
                                                                 therefore

     Mr. Herapath      on the Solution     of Functional Equations.    197
therefore only remark, that in eVery unfavourable season, such
as the last,‘ the stones are always found larger, relatively to
the bulk of the fruit, than in favourable seasons.            But of the
habits of the trees, or rather of the branches, (for few of the
trees have been preserved,)          I can speak with much satisfaction.
The wood of many has ripened more perfectly, and offers a
much stron er and more abundant blossom than is found on
any of the ranches of the parent varieties: and               I feel per
fectly con<U+FB01>dent that some of the new varieties, and particu
larly one Of them, will succeed in forming blossoms, and ri
penin fruit in seasons and situations too cold for either of
the 01 varieties from which they sprang.
     Buds of any of the varieties, which you may think deserv
 ing culture, shall be sent in the proper season.           Having pre
served and iven a place to the original tree upon my wall of
 one (which% believe you              reed with me in thinking the best,
 and to which you propose‘if to give the name of the Downton
 Nectarine)    I shall be able to supply a much larger number of
 buds of that, than can be wanted.
                             I remain,   my dear sir, sincerely yours,
 Downton, Feb- 28. 1824-                   THOMAS ANDREW KNIGHT.
                            Note by the Secretary.
     April  17,  1824.—Mr. William Christie, the Fruit and Kit
 chen Gardener of the Society, having been at Downton du
 ring part of the last week, was much struck with the appear
  ance of the blossoms‘ of the new nectarines mentioned b the
  President in the above paper; they were particularly p ump
  and strong, and their colour very bright and lively, all indicat
  ing vigour of constitution in the branches producing them.
  XXXIV.       On the complete Solution of certain FunetionalEqua
                  tions.      By JOHN HERAPATH, Esq.
  LET us take the well-known              equation
                            \lw +f.r.xl/a.z' =f‘a'                  (1)
  the conditions being “2.x =m, fanfax = l, and<U+FB01>aa' =
   Substituting u¢x+ bow for 4w wherein u = l, and b = 0,                or
  being any arbitrary function, we have
                       min: + box +             =_/;.z'.            (2)
     Then changing       .r  into can,  our conditions give
              vfx.¢a.r+bfw.rpux+\ll.r=j;a.r.fx=j;.r                 (3)
                                                                        an d

     198                 Mr. Herapath                    on the complete Solution
     and eliminating               ' time
                                                between (2) and (3) there results after
     due reductions
 ‘
                              ¢z=§<U+FB01>x+ C{<px—f.z'.cpa.r}    (4)
 C being     arbitrary
                   an  constant which of course  may  be changed
 into an arbitrary symmetrical function of .r and am, or, which
 is the same, into such a function of a: that it does not change
 by the substitution of ax for .1. Let *¢"11' be such a function,
 then,                             =
                           + 4>w.¢",x —fw.oax.¢“,a.r.
                            the                                (5)
    Now  since 45  is perfectly arbitrary, it is evident  that the li
 mitation of      to        45',
                        mmetry does not prevent the product
                                        s
 451. Ix from being ikewise perfectly arbitrary.
           o"                                            Hence
                       the = Qi<U+FB01>a' + ow —fx.zp-a.z'                 (6)
 isas eneral       a solution   as (5).
   ThlS indeed might easily have been deduced from (4-) by
includin    the constant         in the arbitrary function e; but have
                                              C                                                     I
chosen    lis    train  of  argument for the sake of showing that the
introduction of an arbitrary symmetrical function does not add
to the enerality of the solution.
   Mr.                 has obtained the general solution of (l) in the
          abbagIe‘ ransactions for 1817, under a more
Philosophical                                                  complicated
form than (6) “by” what Mr. Herschel’justly observes “a
most singular and ingenious consideration.”                    In Spence’s
Essays too, p. 163, Mr. Herschel has givenvfor thevcomplete
solution                 \l/x = ghla: + illill'.     at}            X“     {.r,
“ where           and         are   any  particular   solutions of the re
          \II‘J‘        the
spective equations                                  v
                   41.2.“+f.r.\l/a:c =jl'a' and                   411'   +fz.\llu.v= 0.”
 By taking
                    \plx:                     +   x—ux and               {<U+FB01>x- ==      .r-aw.
         Mr. Herschel’s
                    solution coincides with our
                                                  (5)    <px=13                                if
But    we compare the solution so obtained with our (6), we
         if
shall <U+FB01>nd, the former much inferior in point of generality. For
instance, Mr. Herschell’s
                        41x: lex-l- {x—ax}.x"(.z',a.r),                                             (7)
whose <U+FB01>rst term                    is
                      the same as the <U+FB01>rst of ours.
                                                                                               Supposing
therefore this solution complete,                                                                           .
                                             xx”   (m,    at)   >   W,
     I
using the symbol                    >       to signify greater, and                  <   less generality.
Of course           also
                                        I    we w)            >1},
 *       a”   or   x"
                   is   employed            to signify   a   symmetrical          function of what follows,
for the convenience                of the printer.
                                                                                        '
                                                                                                    which

                                                                                          7
                              of certain Elmtional                  Equations.                             199
which is impossible.    For x” being con<U+FB01>ned to symmetrical
forms, X“          {1,
                 cannot comprehend unsymmetrical forms, nor
            our}
therefore every function of 0:, however numerous the forms of
X' may be; but       being perfectly unlimited includes both
                                   q:
symmetrical and unsymmetrical forms, or, in 'fact, any func
tional    form whatever.                                                 Q:
                                                 Consequently                     is   much more ge
                                                                         1‘
neral than     (w, ax), and hence (6)
                         x"             more general than (7).      is
It seems to me Mr. Herschell has fallen into error'in the in
ference he has drawn at the end of p. 162 Spence’s Essays.
“ Let P.r and Qw,” says Mr. H., “ represent
                                               any two parti,
cular solutions ” ofxllm = — Slldl'. Then we must have
                                               Pa: = — Paw
                                               Qa: = —            an.
                              Pm   _ 6;, and Pa' ____ Qm.
                                               Qz‘                                 Pa“.     Paw            '
Consequently                 PM
                                   __
                                                                                  mn-             ,
                                                                                                   _
                                                                                                        and as
this latter factor  symmetrical function of a, am,
                               is
                               a                    appears                                       .it
that the expression Qz.   {at am} necessarily includes any
                                                         x"
other solution as P.z'.”
   Now,     my views are right, this inference
              if                                   much too ge                         is
neral for the very limited condition of the premises. The true
de<U+FB01>nition of       mmetrical function such as
                         as                      (x, xx) appears                   X"
to me to be,       at the form of the function
                          t                         variable and                        is
utterly independent of the form, relation, or change of the
variables; and that these variables simultaneously circulate
by a certain substitution made at the same time in each with
out any necessary relation of their values. In the factor
     Pm.           a“                                         .          Pw
\/   Q2.
           P   a
              07         however, which is equal to
conditions appears to have place.
                                                     .
                                          For the form of the
                                                                              ,
                                                                              1
                                                                                    neither         of   these
function     invariable and dependent on the change of the va
              is
riable, and the variables themselves Pa', Qa',     they may» be                        if
so called, do not change in magnitude or circulate, but sim
ply change their signs; so that the property of symmetrical                               a
function, namely, to retain the same value during the SUbStl'r
tution,    here preserved by the quantities not changing their
          is
values but their signs; which change, too,    neutralized by the         is
invariable and peculiar form of the function.
   It may be asked, What the complete solution. of (1.)? “I
                                                         is
have reason to believe that the very simple solution        have                                   I
given     both a
         is               and complete one, as well as thetsolu
tions given by 1general
                   r. Babbage in the Philosophical Transactions
for 1817, and in the “ Examples on the Calculus of Finite
Differences, 8w.” p. 22, or perhaps any other that contains an
arbitrary function, of and pm.          .1."
                                                               n                                         I

200         Mr. Haycraft             on the Specific               Heat      of   the Gases.
  In  eneral it appears, too, from ideas that have occurred to
me, 0 which         I
                may say more hereafter, that any equation, as
                  Fix,    \liw, \lldd‘,     wa’x,          . . .                  =    0
                                                                       waf<U+FB02>e}
has n arbitrary functions, provided however that                                           a’z = x and
r >n ; and that an equation of the form
                        F{.z',   \111',   this", . . .      .xii".r}=0
            _
has the same number.            My ideas, however, on this subject
are not su<U+FB02>icientl        matured    to enable me to speak con<U+FB01>dently.
   The method        0   substitution    pursued in our solution of (l)
which is   taken    from    Mr. Babbage’s     solution of 41m = \l/aa‘, ap
plies very  successfully     even  in  cases where   it is introduced but
partially.    Thus     in  the equation
                       1
                          +fx{slrx+¢az}=¢x.¢a.r                      8)
which Mr. Babbage has solved by a very neat process of dif
ferentiation and integration, but ultimately bringing out a
transcendental solution, it may be applied partially to the evo
lution of an algebraic solution.            By chan 'n .rinto am, we
<U+FB01>nd that far =fa.v when                     air:
                                          1, which 15 t e condition of
the problem.         For 411' on the left side only of the equation
substitute 'lMlI-Z‘ + hem, and equate the result with the same
result, having .2: changed into aw; and we shall <U+FB01>nd
                        q/ax'    =   time   +     45.2:
                                                          — paw,
which substituted for tildl' in (8) gives ultimately
  ¢x=       1;   “(oar—pqu                + 4-(fw2          -|—    1)   +fx-           lZ-(om—oax)
for the complete solution of (8).
   Had      we substituted for              411*   on the right side only of (8), we
should have found
                                  wax=%;—I.¢z
andtherefore                                 .
         ¢w=%\/—i+(‘”
               par  (pm:
                           41¢
                                                      +1)
                                                                   2
                                                                       fr +     f7
                                                                                   I
                                                                                            Lu)
                                                                                              a:
                                                                                            pm:
which is a solution equally general, but not so simple, as the
preceding.
XXXV.            On the Speci<U+FB01>c Heat                of the        Gases.          By W. T. HAY
                                          cmrr,           Esq<U+FB01>'e         ,
     experiments                 which           I now submit to the Royal Society
THE
  are repetitions                of those           I made many months ago, for
the purpose         of ascertaining the speci<U+FB01>c heats of the gases.
   *-‘
         From the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, vol.                             )1.
                                                                                                         he

         Mr. Haycraft    on the Specg<U+FB02>c   Heat oft/m   Gases.       201
 The importance of the subject so impressed my mind, that             I
 determined to spare no pains in the prosecutiOn of the inquiry,
 and therefore I willingly withheld my <U+FB01>rst experiments from
 the public eye, until, by a fresh series, I might present them
 with the greater con<U+FB01>dence. The apparatus employed in these
 experiments was calculated to operate upon greater quantities
 of the gases than the former one, and as every precaution
                                                      have, perhaps,
 which had been suggested was adopted, they
        even more decisive results than the last.        The results
 given
 t emselves, however, are in every important particular exactly
 the same.     It is also but justice to myself to state, that the
 conclusions which the former experiments led to, were exactly
 the reverse of what I had anticipated, and that they seemed
 at the time totally opposed to the doctrines of Black and
 Crawford, which I am still disposed to credit to a limited de
                                                                     >
 gree.
-
    Before I enter into the detail, it will be necessary to take
notice of the modes in which former experimenters have pro
ceeded in these inquiries, and to point out what I conceive to
have been the sources of fallacy in some of their conclusions.
Of all theSe modes, none were more ele ant than that adopted
by _Professor Leslie; but as he himse f states that their re
sults were discordant with each other, it seems unnecessary
to enter into a description of it. Dr. Crawford’s method con
sisted of inclosing two different gases (previously exposed to
muriate of lime, for the purpose of depriving them of their
watery vapour,) in two close vessels of equal size and weight;
these being heated to exactly the same temperature, by a very
ingenious contrivance, were at the same time plunged into two
vessels, containing water of a lower temperature: these vessels
were also of the same size, form, and weight: then, by means
of accurately adjusted thermometers, he ascertained the com
parative rise of temperature occasioned by the two gases, and
hence he determined their speci<U+FB01>c heats.
   I  know of no imperfection in this mode, excepting that the
 quantities of the gases were so small, that the results could
not be obtained with suf<U+FB01>cient accuracy.
    This defect is entirely obviated by the method adopted by
 Messrs. De la Roche and Berard: their apparatus consisted
of a column of water, so adjusted'as to act with a constant and
equal pressure in a close vessel containing air; which being
                                                                   on
gradually exPelled by the superincumbent water, pressed
the outward surface of a bladder     containing   the  gas whose  ca
pacity was to be examined.         From this bladder the gas was
 propelled through     the calorimeter:   this con51sted  _of
                                                                a
                                                               vessel
 containing water   of a low temperatm'e,   through which a spiral
    Vol. 64'- NO. 317. Sept. 1824.
                                                -0              tube

202      Mr. Haycra<U+FB02>'.   on the Speci<U+FB01>c     Heat qf the   Gases.
tube passed to conduct the gas.           Previous, however, to     en
                                                                   its
tering the calorimeter, the gas was heated, by             a partlcular
contrivance, to the boiling temperature.            After leaving the
calorimeter,   it  was conducted,      by   means of turn-cocks, into
another bladder; the latter was acted upon in the same way
 as the former.    By means of this reciprocating action, Messrs.
 De la Roche     and  Berard could cause 225'2 cubic inches of
 gas, heated    to  the    boiling temperature, to pass through the
 calorimeter every minute.           The temperature communicated
 was ascertained by a thermometer, and from comparative
 trials the capacity of the di<U+FB01>'erent gases was inferred.
     This last method was superior to that of Dr. Crawford, in
 asmuch as greater quantities of gas could             employed.      In
 other respects was far inferior, because the experiments were
                 it
 not, strictly speaking, comparative.          Atmospheric air, whose
 capacity was their standard of comparison, was subjected to
 trial, and the results were remarked.         The other gases, at dif
 ferent periods,   with    the  surrounding   media  of different tem
 peratures,    and  under      different  barometrical pressures, were
 examined; this plan involved endless and ver di<U+FB02>icult calcu
 lations, in order to adjust those di<U+FB01>'erences.         ut the greatest
 imperfection in those experiments, was the neglect of depriv
 ing the gases of their watery vapours previous to their exami
 nation.    The apparatus itself would not admit of this, because
 the water employed in the process would necessarily keep the
 gas and the whole apparatus in a state of moisture.           Besides,
 this very great source of error was materially increased by the
 high temperature to which the gases were exposed, being a
condition in which they are disposed to unite with a greater
   uantity of watery vapour than at ordinary temperatures.
    onsidering the subject in this point of view, therefore, the
 experiments of Messrs. De la Roche and Berard may be sup
 posed to determine the capacities of the different gases united
 with watery vapour at the boilin point, but by no means of
 those gases in their dry state, an at ordinary temperatures.
     The apparatus now to be described will perhaps be found to
 unite the advantages and avoid the defects of both methods.
     It consisted of two hollow brass cylinders (see Plate 11.),
 in'each of which was a piston attached to        a  spindle by means
 of two levers of equal length to the spindle was attached an
                                  ',
 other lever, terminating in  a      handle, to be moved by an assist
 ant.    Each cylinder was closed at each end, excepting where
 the tubes were attached, which served to conduct the gases.
 By means of four valves to each cylinder, <U+FB01>xed in such a way
 as, though dif<U+FB01>cult to describe in writing, may be easily un
 derstood by reference to Plate IL, each action of the piston
                                                         >
                        -'              l                        forced

         Mr. Haycralt    on the Speci<U+FB01>c Heat   of the Gases.     203
forced a quantity of air through the tubes; thus, by means of
one additional valve, the apparatus would act upon exactly
twice tlie'quantity of air that could be acted upon in a pump
of the ordinary construction.
    The pipes immediately connected with the four valves ter
minated in two tubes; through one of which the air, duri
the action of the apparatus, was propelled with a constant an
almost uniform current, while, through the other, the same
air having passed through the heating apparatus and the calo
rimeter, returned to the cylinder, to be acted upon again in
the same way.       The heating apparatus just mentioned con
sisted of a metallic vessel, about 16 inches long, containing
hot water, throuoh which the tubes passed, containin the air
propelled from the cylinders: those tubes traversed t e heat
ing vessel three times before their exit, more' effectually to
secure the gases arriving at the temperature of the water con
tained in the vessel.    By means of a lamp placed under this
vessel, I  could raise the temperature of the water to any point
required. This last arrangement, however, was rather a mat
ter of convenience than necessity, as it will be easily perceived
that, from the mode of conducting the experiments, a <U+FB01>xed
point of temperature was not required.
    There were also two calorimeters, similar in construction to
those of Messrs. De la Roche and Berard before described.
Each of these was connected with the tube containing the gas,
            by its cylinders throu h the heating apparatus, and
propelled
 ikewise with that through whic the air <U+FB02>owed to the cylin
der ; these tubes were all of metal, and air-tight.
    The apparatus, then, must be considered as consistin of
two distinct parts, exactly the counterparts of each 0 er,
each conveying an equal quantity of gas through the same
heating medium, but through separate calorimeters.
    The tubes communicating between the heating vessel and
the calorimeters were one inch in length.      In these tubes there
was an opening, through which      could be  introduced   a delicate
thermometer,    for  the purpose  of ascertaining  the temperature
of the gases as they entered the calorimeters.
    Each of the calorimeters was inclosed in a polished metallic
case, for the purpose of preventing, as much as possible, the
 absorption or escape of caloric during the process. These
latter were also placed in a box containing water, which was
repeatedly agitated, that the calorimeters might not be affected
by the unequal temperatures of the walls of the apartment.
    For the purpose of facilitating the operation of <U+FB01>lling the
apparatus with the gas operated upon, there was a tum-cock
<U+FB01>xed in the course of each returning tube, by which the cur
                              C c2                              ren

204-       Mr. Haycraft     on the Specg<U+FB01>    Heat ofthe       Gases.
                                                               Two smaller
 rent of gas through the tube was interrupted.
 turn-cocks also were <U+FB01>xed        in the  same   tube,   one   on each side
  of the larger turn-cocks:        these,   when    open,   communicated
  with the external atmosphere. When, therefore, the large
  turn-cock was closed, and the small ones open, the air would
  necessarily, during the action of the machine, rush in at one
  of the small turn-cocks, and be forced out of the other, so that
  the air contained in the apparatus would be constantly re
  newed. In order, then, to <U+FB01>ll the machine with the gas,
                                                                            be
  nothing more was necessary than to form a connection
  tween the asometer or receiver containing the gas                   and   the
                 y means of a tube connected to       the  small   tum-cock
     rst mentioned, throu h which the air rushed in.
  ?paratus,                                                             In per
  forming this operation,      owever,    I usually   made     use  of   an air
  pump to exhaust the apparatus,            and  then   opening      the  turn
  cock communicating to the gasometer,             <U+FB01>lled   it  with    the  gas
  required : after this operation     had   been  several   times   repeated,
   I  found the gas contained in the machine to be nearly as pure
   as that contained in the gasometer.
       By a slight consideration of this description of the appa
   ratus, which may be deemed rather prolix, and by an inspec
   tion of the plate, it will be perceived that two gases, contained
   in the two parts of the machine, will be under circumstances
   precisely similar; the quantities of gas transmitted through
   the calorimeters in a given time will be the same; the tem
   perature of the surrounding media and the barometrical pres
   sure will be equal; the temperature also of the oases them
   selves must be the same, because they passed through the
   same heating medium.         In <U+FB01>ne, the size of the tubes, cylin
   ders,   calorimeters    and  valves,  was the same in the two parts
                         '
    of the machine.                                                            .
       Therefore, the temperature communicated by the two gase
    submitted to a comparative trial, will be the direct ratio of
    their comparative capacities for caloric, provided there be no
    disproportionate escape by absorption in the calorimeters,
    arising from the different temperatures of surrounding bodies.
       ThlS source of fallacy was obviated by the arrangement of
    Count Rumford, who contrived that the temperature of the
    surrounding medium should be as much above that of the ca
               at the beginning, as it was lower at the end of the
    lorimeter
                                                                   .
    experiments.
        The quantity  of gas propelled through         the  calorimeter     was
     12 cubic inches during the action of the piston. Those actions,
‘
    as regulated by a second pendulum, which was suspended in
    the a artment, being 120 every minute, the whole quantity
    woul be 1440 cubic inches of gas propelled through the ca
                      ‘
                                                                      lorimeter

            Mr. Haycraft     on the Speci<U+FB01>c  Heat qftlie Gases.     205
 lorimeter every minute.          There was no occasion, however, to
 take these quantities into the account, because they were pre
           the same of each gas subjected to trial.
  cisilayy thermometers were adjusted by Mr. Adie of Edinburgh.
 Each degree was divided into 5 parts, which were su<U+FB01>iciently
 large to be divided by the eye into 4 parts; so that the tem
 perature could be ascertained to a 20th part of a degree,
 making allowance for the imperfection of all instruments.
  Each calorimeter was furnished with its thermometer, the bulb
 of which was placed equidistant from its four sides: two smaller
 ones were placed so as to ascertain the temperature of the
 gases before entering into or coming out of the calorimeter.
 One was attached to the heating vessel, and another to the
 vessel of water which served as the surrounding medium of
 the calorimeters.
     Having <U+FB01>lled both the calorimeters with water of the tem
 perature of 42°, and the heating vessel with it at a temperature
 of about 180°, I admitted atmospheric air into each part of
 the a paratus.          The pistons were put into motion, and con
 tinue      till each of the calorimeters arrived at a temperature
 of 84°, with a variation of little more than one-twentieth part
of a degree. Thus the temperature of the calorimeters was
raised 42° each, with a correction of §%Uth part of the whole.
 Much greater allowances may very properly be made for the
 imperfections of the instruments.           This experiment was de
 signed to prove the accuracy of         the apparatus, and was often
repeated,       at  different periods,   with the same event.     I was
 assisted    in  the following experiments by my      friend  Dr. Clen
 dinning, to whom I am much indebted for their success.
                       Experiments on Carbonic Acid.
                                    No.   l.
     The part of the apparatus which I call A was <U+FB01>lled with
carbonic acid, obtained from carbonate of lime; the part B
with common air.           In each of the cylinders was placed, in a
proper receptacle, a quantity of very dry muriate of lime, for
the purpose of perfectly freeing the gases from watery vapour.
 The calorimeters being <U+FB01>lled with water at a temperature of
42°, and the heating vessels with water at 149°ég, the following
results were obtained.
                                                                  Tem

    206       Mr. Haycraft       on the Speci<U+FB01>c       Heat of the       Gases.
                     Temperature of Calori-   Temperature of Calorl- The comparative spe
                       meter A, throth           meter B, through     ci<U+FB01>c Hentof'Carbonic
                       which the Carbonic        which Atmospheric     Acid inferred from
                       Acid passed.             Air passed.           the com rative Rise
                                                                      gf<U+FB02>ig‘hir
  I
    At  the beginning
                              42° Fahr.                42°     Fahr.
       of experiment,
    After 15 minutes,         68,9a                    68.1,?j              9730
                .   .                       No.   2.
    At the beginning          42 W  1                  4‘2 g61
       of eXperiment,
    After  15 minutes,        66%%                     663%                 9919
                .   .                       No.   3.
    At the beginning          42
                                      -
                                                       42
-      of experiment,
    A<U+FB02>aer 40 minutes,         71%;                     71,817              10085
                .   .                       No.  4-.
    At  the beginning
                              45                       45
       of experiment,
    After 35 minutes,         68,5;j                   685%                10021
                 .   .                      N 0.  5.
    At the beginning              14
                              45 “7                    45 2515
       of experiment,
    After 25 minutes,         63,56                     63,56              10000
       In these experiments it will be perceived, that the two <U+FB01>rst
    indicatethat carbonic acid has a less capacity for caloric than
    common air.        The three last, however, which do not differ
    materially from each other, will indicate an equal ca acity, if
    we take the average of their results.                   The cause 0 the two
    <U+FB01>rst experiments indicating a lesser capacity, I suppose to
    arise from the gas not being perfectly freed from watery va
    pours.    In the experiments I made last year, I observed that
    it was necessary to expose this gas to the dryin in<U+FB02>uence of
    muriate of lime, for 85 minutes at least before it indicated the
    same speci<U+FB01>c heat as atmospheric air.                      This is not the case
                                                       I
    with all the other gases : from hence would infer, that it has
    a    eater affinity with watery vapour.
         he gas contained in the gasometer, as indicated by lime
    water, contained 99 per cent. of carbonic acid; that taken from
  - the apparatus alter the experiments were concluded, by the
    same test, contained 90 per cent. The temperatures of the gases
    while entering the calorimeters were equal, as indicated by the
    thermometers.        It is worthy of remark, however, that these
    temperatures appeared several degrees lower than that of the
    water contained in the heating apparatus through which they
                                                                                passed.

        Mr. Haycra<U+FB01>     on the Specg<U+FB01>c       Heat qftlie      Gases.        207
passed.   This will be easily explained, when we consider that
a thermometer can never indicate the true temperature of any
gas or vapour, which is itself pervious to the radiation of heat
or'cold from surrounding bodies. On this account the ther
mometers indicated a temperature of the gases much lower than
the true one, they being necessarily placed so near the calori
meters, which usually contained water of a temperature nearly
100° lower than that of the gases.
                                             '  In the same manner, the
gases issuing from the calorimeters appeared to have a tem
perature something lower than that of the calorimeters them
selves, bein surrounded with objects of a lower temperature
than that o the calorimeter.
                  Experiments on Oxygen Gas.
                                 No.     1.
   Having <U+FB01>lled the part A with .oxygen gas procured from
the black oxide of manganese,            and every arrangement being
made as before, the following results were observed:                           -
                  Temperature of Calori-    0f Calorimeter B,
                   meter A, containing        containing ,At»  Inferred Capadtiel.
                    Oxygen Gal.               mosphenc Air.
At the beginning           0                       O
                                               4'5 555
                        4'5 @566
   of experiment, }
After 5 minutes,        61%,?                  615%                10000
After 10 minutes,       67126                  67?6                10000
After 15 minutes,     I 71                     70%g-               10019    I
After 20 minutes,       74-7?6                 74%;                  9982
                                 No.     2.
                             A
At the beginmng                                564°
                        566°                                       10000
   of experiment,
In' 10 minutes,         66'16                   66'14-             10000
In 1 5 minutes,         71                      7 0'1 8            10000
In 20 minutes,          745%                    74:;U              10000
   The temperature of the           gases entering the calorimeters
was equal, being each 137°.           The gas contained in the gaso
meter before the apparatus was <U+FB01>lled, indicated 98° per cent.
of oxygen, by the test of sulphuret of lime. After the expe
riment was concluded, that contained in the apparatus indi
cated 91° per cent.
                             [To be continued]
                                                              XXXVL.          On

                                    [208]»
      XXXVI.           On Comparative Barometric Obsmutions.
                         By \V. BURNEY, LL.D.
  To   the    Editors (ft/zeth'losoplzical Magazine and Journal.
      Gentlemen,                                                              .
I HEREWITH         inclose you the simple results of the Me
   teorolo ical Table at the end of the Numbers of your Ma
gazine an   Journal, from the 25th of August 1823 to the
25th of August 1824, which are as follow :—
                     Barom.                     Temp. of i            Evaporation.    Rain.
                     Inches.   Therm“                                   Inches.      Inches.
                                              Sp.Water:Hygmm'
                                          I
At Gosport 29-909              50°'121 50°-5s                66°'1        28'86      37'17
In London         29-915 46                                   —           -—         24'63
                                    '80l '77!
At Boston         29652        47                -—
                                                        x
                                                              —           -—         25'28
I    have taken the trouble to re-calculate these 12 months’
observations, in order to ascertain the comparative results
since the table was so far completed in August 1828, with
the addition of rain caught in London and at Boston.        Hav
ing devised the table in its present form, with     hope that             a                it
would be <U+FB01>lled up at the other places with observations From
a similar set of meteorological instruments to my own,     could                  I
wish to see     still more complete; and
                it                              were possible for
                                                              if     it
Messrs. Cary and Veall to register the state of the wind and
the hy ometer at half-past      A.M., and the evaporation about
                                           8
every  t ird morning at that time,     would add valuable infor
                                                      it
mation towards its completion.        shall have no objection to
                                                   I
withdraw the daily state or names of the clouds, when the
may think proper to make such additions, so that the whole
may be comprised in the last page.      Were the rain caught in
Mr. Cary’s pluviameter to be measured every day when fit                                   is
measurable,      would certainly be more convenient for com
                  it
parison.      shall not now make any remarks on the compara
              I
tive results, but reserve the monthly averages till the end of
the    ear.
  \z'ith respect to the great difference in the amount of rain
and the state of the barometers at Gosport and Boston in the
Meteorological Table in the middle of last May, as pointed
out by Mr. Squire in your last Number, page 155, the cirq
cumstance did not escape my notice at the time. But         was                      I
not surprised to <U+FB01>nd that the altitude of the mercury in
Mr. Veall’s barometer in the morning of the 14th of May,
was 1% of an inch more than in mine, or about 11°- of an inch
higher than its annual comparative level with my barometer,
having seen a still greater difference in his on the lst of Oc-.
                                                         tober,

                         minim-i            7,  Iii-Ii? ,I-Jiai' ,  -
                  Dr. Burney in reply   to  Mr. Squire.            209
  tober 1823.     I observed also that the mercury in Mr. Veall’s
  barometer, and in Mr. Cary’s, was pretty regular in its descent
  from the 9th to the 15th of May, and that it was a day later
  in arrivin   at the minimum pressure in that change than in
  mine.      he Conclusions    I  drew on these phenomena at the
  time, to satisfy myself of the probable accuracy of the Boston
  observations, were these :—-I <U+FB01>rst considered the position of
  the wind here, which had blown very strong from the N.E.
  from the 9th to the 14th; also the latitude of Boston, which
  is upwards of two degrees north of Gosport, and thought that
  the difference of 31- inches depth of rain between Gosport and
  Boston, from the 9th to the 15th of May, would account sa
 tisfactorily for the greater altitude of the mercury in Mr.Veall’s
 barometer, viz. ~19?of an inch more than its mean altitude in
  comparison of mine. If the wind, which accompanied this
 unprecedented fall of rain here, had blown from the north or
 west, the difference in the quantity of rain and the state of the
 barometer at Boston, would undoubtedly have been very dif
 ferent.    Considering the position of the wind N.E., and the
 latitude of Boston, it is very probable that the rain-cloud was
 so much attenuated over the latter place, as to afford but' little
 rain; for it sometimes happens in travelling that we see very
 awful thunder storms at a distance of 10 or 12 miles, while we
 enjoy a dry air with scarcely a cloud.
     I believe it can be easily proved by calculation that the pre
 cipitation qf 3} inches depth qf min <U+FB01>om the atmosphere, is
 nearly equal to a depression of % of an inch of mercury in the
 same place, or a rise of that quantity where the water is held
 in solution, as was the case at Boston.
     The area of my pluviameter is 6 square inches, and the
 weight of 3} inches depth of rain in that square, allowing 20
ounces avoirdupois to a perpendicular inch, is élbs. loz. In
the area of 6 square inches are contained 36 square inches,
bein the square of six, and by dividing 4<lbs. loz. by 86, the
quotlent is loz. légdrs.      Assuming the pressure of the incum
bent atmosphere to be 15 pounds wei ht u on every square
inch of surface at the level of the sea, t e fol owing proportion
may be adopted for ascertaining the additional pressure at
Boston over that at Gosport on the 14th of last May, after an
exhaustion of 3} inches of rain in the, latter place more than
in the former.
    As 151bs., the weight of the atmosphere on a square inch of
surface, is to the mean altitude of the barometer, 80 inches ;
so is loz. Midis, to '24 inch of mercury, which is within '06
inch of what Mr. Veall’s barometer indicated too much at that
time.     My barometer is <U+FB01>xed 50 feet above low-water mark.
    It now remains for Messrs. Cary and Veall to make any ad:
Vol. 64'. N0. 317. Sept. 1824-.       g        Dd           ditional

                                                                  /
210                   Mr. Cooper        on Mean       Solar Time.
ditional remarks on this subject that may have come within
their notice, for the satisfaction of Mr. Squire.
        I am, Gentlemen, your obedient servant,
Gosport, Sept.       16, 1824.                              WILLIAM BURNEY.
 XXXVII.             On <U+FB01>nding the exact Mean Solar Time.                         By Mr.
                             SAMUEL COOPER.
   To     the   Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
       Gentlemen,
      S I have for some time been in the habit of              celes
                                                      makingl e rate
      tial observations for the purpose of ascertaining
of an excellent astronomical clock which shows mean solar
time; for this purpose I have usually calculated the time from
altitudes of the sun taken a few hours before or after noon,
having the latitude and sun’s declination          iven. Now my
motive for troubling you on this subject is or the purpose of
<U+FB01>ndin the exact mean solar time, that           to the fraction of a
                                                            is,
secon     .  In the <U+FB01>rst place have my doubts whether should
                                        I                                         I
use the apparent latitude, or that found by meridian altitudes
of the sun taken with the re<U+FB02>ecting circle on an arti<U+FB01>cial ho
rizon corrected for semidiameter, refraction and parallax, or
the same when reduced to that at the earth’s centre.            shall             I
here give. an example for the purpose of more fully illustrating
my meaning.
   On August 25, 1824, at 28 minutes after PM. mean solar             3
time according to the clock, and which        know to be near the
                                                           I
true time,      found the visible altitude of the sun’s lower limb
                I
to be 31°       7'
                34"“7.  Required the mean solar time, supposin
the visible latitude of the place = 52° 13’ 30", or the reduced
latitude 52°         2'
                   37"?
                                Solution.
          First, for the visible latitude 52° 13' 30"
             C0. lat. 37° 46' 30”       sine = 9'7871502
                                               l.
             Co.dec. 79 20
             Co. alt. 58 37 58
                                        sine
                                         8      9'99243'13
                                               l_.
                                                                  --—
                           175    44‘   31                        97795815
                           87 52 15'5          l.    sine = 9'9997001
                          —58 37 58
                            29    14'   17'5   l.    sine   = 9‘6888125
                                                              9'6885126
                                                             —9'7795815
                                                             2)9'9089311
                             25° 46' 51"‘8          cos.    = 99544655
                                               2                              .
                             51    33   436 =         3" 26'"     l,‘4<"9,»
                                                                                  Visible

         Geographical Distribution       of Plants in Yorkshire.           211
    Visible altitude of the    sun’s lower    limb        31°    7' 34"‘7     »
    Sun’s semidiameter          .                     =         15 51 '8
    Sun’s parallax in altitude                        =                7 '2
                                                          31    23   83 '7
     Ref. corrected for bar', ther', &c.            =  —-        1   31 '7
                                                          31    22     2
    True altitude of the sun’s centre               = 58        37     58
    * AS 360° : 51° 33' 43”'6 :: 24h— 16"8 : 3"                 26‘“  12"6
    Eq. of time at the instant of observation =                  1    47 '9
                                   Mean time            = 3 28          0 '5
    Secondl . For the reduced latitude, the mean time by the
above met 0d of calculation is found equal to 3h 28" 34-"4'.
So that it appears even in this instance there is a difference of
33"9, and in some cases it would be much greater; this is of
material consequence where great accuracy is required, and
therefore I must repeat that I should be much obliged to any
of your scienti<U+FB01>c correspondents to inform me which latitude
I must invariably use, and whether the process in the above
solution is in every other respect perfectly correct for obtain
ing the re uisite accuracy so much desired.
                 remain, Gentlemen, with great respect,
                            Your obedient servant,
   Pertenhall, Kimbolton,                           SAMUEL Coorilm.
        Sept. J,  1824.
    RS. Is    the sun’s right ascension as given in the Nautical
Almanac, expressed in solar or sidereal time?
    In using Dr. Tiarks’s tables for <U+FB01>nding mean solar time
(given at pages 280 and 281 of vol. 62 of your Journal), should
not the variation of the equation of time, in the interval of the
sun’s passing the meridian, and that of the star, be applied to
the computation, when we wish to obtain the exact mean solar
time ?
XXXVIII.          Sketch of the Geographical Distribution of Plants
   in Yorkshire. By      J.  ATKINSON,     Esq.    EL.S.    4w.   Leed$1u
           county of    York,   situate in parallel 53° and 54° N., is
THE    not less distinguished for its      siZe than for its varied sur
   " I conceive this proportion necessary, because the solar days are        all
                                                                         not
accurately equal to 24 hours, but to 24"i the variation of the equation
                                                                             of
time for that day.                       _       _
   1‘ From the Memoirs of
                             the Wernerian Society, p. 277, vol. v. part I.
                                    D  d 2            »                   face,

   212                Mr. J. Atkinson’s     Sketch    ofthe
   face, possessing almost every varie           of soil to be found from
   the leVel of the sea to the altitude o 2568 feet. Its Flora con
   sists of about 1400 species, of which upwards of 600 are Phae
   nogamous, the remainder C            togamous.         They may be ar
   ranged under the following         atural Orders.
   Alismaceze . . 15        Campanulaceze           6    Papaveraceae        .    8
   Apocyneae . . 2 Dipsaceae              .    .   9    Polygoneae.         . 12
   Amaranthaceae       2    Ericea: . . . 11            Plan      ineae .        .5
   Amentaceae       . 31    Euphorbiaceae          9    Primu    aceze      . 14~
   Amaryllideae . 6 Filices . . . 28                    Plumbaginea: .           l
   Aroideae      .     6    Gramineaa . . 65            Rhamni          .  .    3
   Asphodelea:         8   Gentianea: . . 9             Rubiaceze . . 11
   Aristolochiae .     1   Geranim        .   . 14      Rosaceae        .  . 40
  Acerae . . . 2 Hypericinae                  .    8    RanunCulacese 28
  Berberides .         l Hydrocharidea:            2    Solaneae        . .     7
. Boragineae . . l4- Iridese . . .' 2                   Scrophularinae 24
  Capparides           5   Junceae . . . 7              Smilaceae      .  .     4
  Cisti      .  .  .   l   Lentibulariae      .  11     Saxif'ragea:      .    l2
  Cruciferae . . 84        Lycopodineae       .    5    Sempervivae       .    18
  Cichoraceae      . 24    Levuminosae        .  454‘   Salicariae .      .     2
  Cynarocephalae 14        Labiatae      .   .   4-7    Thymelaese.       .     1
  Corymbiferae . 4-0       Malvaceae .       .     5    Tiliaceae      .  .     1
  Cyperaceae       . 34-   Melanthacea:       .    l    Umbellif'erea:    . 36
  Cucurbitaceae .      1   Naiades . .        . 12      Violeae . .       .     8
  Coniferae . .        1   Oleinae .     .   .     2    Verbenaceae       .     l
  Chenopodeae . 18 Onagrariae . . 7                     Musci . .            200
  Cacti . .        .   4-  Orobrancheze . 3             Lichenes       .     207
  Caryophylleae . 37       Orchicleaa    .   . 18       Hepaticw . . 24
  Caprifoliaa . . 9 Portulaceae              .     2    Algae      .   .     100
  Convolvulaceae       4   Pediculares       .     ]    Fungi . .            290
      Ma not the general type of the ve etation of a country be
  consi ered as indicative of its eology —Were the Ericae ever
  found upon chalk or limestone —-Are not the following species                     .
  always found upon these?         Chlora perjbliata, Astragalus gly
  qyphyllos and hypoglattis, Neattz'a spiralis, Orchis pyramidalis,
  Cistus Helianthemum, 8w. ? Is not Arenaria verna found on
  every lead-mine in England?            Do not the Pinguicula vul
  garis, Vaccinium ozycoccos, Empetrum nigrum, 81.0., indicate
                  Where can we <U+FB01>nd a single rare plant on alluvial
  sanldpstone?
  SO] .
      Beginning at the Spurn, and following the coast of York
  shire as far as Bridlington, and proceeding up the Humber to
  a little above Hull, including the whole of Holderness, the
  vale of York, and from South Cave to Selby, as well as part
  of the plain of Cleveland to the Tees, the whole country is
  composed of alluvial soil: here the botany presents nothing
                                                                     peculiar,

        Geographical Distribution q/‘Plants in Yorkshire.          213
  peculiar, having the same plants as the Lowlands of other parts
  of England.     We no sooner cross the river Ouse, at Selby,
 than we approach an extensive magnesian limestone formation,
  extendin    across the count , from Doncaster, Ferrybridge,
  Kippax, gI‘horparch, Knares       rough by Rippon, to the county
 of Durham: this district is rich in botany. At Kippax may
 be found, in about a square mile, Orchis Moria, mascula, ustu
 lata, militaris, wramidalis, maculata, conopsea; Habenaria
 viridis; Oplzrys apifera, muscifera; Neottia spiralis; Listera
 ovata; Allium arenarium, oleraeeum; Antkyllis vulneraria; As
 tragalus glycyphyllos, hypoglottis; Carlina nulgaris ; Cerastium
 arvense; Chironia Centaureum ; Chlora perfoliata; Cistus Heli
 ant/zemum; Cole/zicum autumnale; Dap/me laureola; Erigeron
 acre; Galeopsis versicolor; Gentiana amarella ; Hedysarum
 onobiyclzis; Ornithogalum umbellatuin; Potentilla verna; Rimm
 nus catharticus; Sanguisorba q<U+FB02>ieinalis; Sedum telephium; Pim
pinella magna: Antiwhinum minus; Cir-cam lutetiana ; Campa
 nula glomerata, latifolia; Cauealis daucoides: Parnassia pa
lustris, 8m. 8w.    Throughout the whole of this district, most
 of the above plants are to be found more or less abundant.
 At Thorparch a few rare ones may be added: such as, Ane
mone pulsatilla ;' Silene noeti<U+FB02>ora; Galium tricm‘ne; Aspemla
qynanckiea: Narcissus bi<U+FB02>orus; Pyrus aria; Epipactis Nidus
avis; Acteea spicata; Melisa nutans; Cichorium lntybus; Car
duus eriophorus; Atropa Belladonna;          Opkrys arani era? and
api/‘era; Ornithogalum luteum, 81.0- 81.0. About Knaresborough,
Chara <U+FB02>ezilis, hispida; Dipsacus pilosus; Geranium sangui
neum; Lepidium latifolium; Silene nutans; Helleborus viri
dis, 8w. Passing over this limestone, which ma extend about
 10 miles in breadth, from Selby, we approach Illeeds ; the im
mediate vicinity of which is all clay.        A few plants, not very
common, may be found towards Knostrop, near the river Aire,
such as, Sisymbrium sylvestre; Cardanime amara; Stellai'ia ne
morum and Hottonia palustris.         Passing Leeds, to the north,
the sandstone formation begins.         (It contains, in the neigh
bourhood of Bramley, Woodhouse, Chapelton, 83c. many or
ganic remains of vegetables: we have noble specimens of the
Phytolitizus verrueosus, parmatus, stellatus, striaticulmis, sulcicul
mis, cancellatus, imbricatus, and tessellatus. )The sandstone forma
tion occupies an extensive district, by Otley, as far as-Green
how Hill, where it meets the compact limestone: it then passes
south, forming a range of alpine moors, by Ilkley, Keighley,
and Halifax, to meet the ran e of the like formation dividing
Yorkshire from Lancashire.          an of these heaths are of con
siderable elevation, as, Bardon         ell, 1663 feet; Draughton
Moor, 1074- feet; Foxstone’s Moor, 1518 feet; Otley Chevin,
                                                            921 feet;

 214-                Mr.  J. Atkinson’s  Sketch  ofthe
 921 feet; Cow Rock,          Rumbles    Moor, 860 feet. The rarer
 plants are, Botrjychium     Lunaria;   Osmunda regalis; Poigqiodium
 phegopteris, dryopteris; Aspidium oreopteris, aculeatum, loba
 tum, dilatatum; Asplenium viride, tric/iomanes,         Adiantum ni
 grum, Ruta muraria, Bleclinum boreale, Ptcris crispa,
fragilis, Hymenophyllum tunbridgense, and 80 Musci, Clyatlzea  al near
  Halifax: Veronica      montana, Scandiz odorata, Narcissus pseudo
  Narcissus,     Pyrola   media and minor, Prunus padus, Rulms
  idceus, chamamiorus;     Trollius europa’us, Geranium pyrenaicum,
 E i     actis lati olia, Crocus nudi<U+FB02>orus, 8w.
    p’lgiie moors‘fin general, are clothed with the three species of
  Heath: the Empetrum nigrum, Vaccinium ozycoccos, and Vitis
 idcca are also common; the more elevated parts furnishing the
 Rubus ckama’morus, saratilis, Lycopodium rlavatum, selago, al
 pinum; and, at the highest part, Arbutus uva ursi.
     Retracing our steps to Greenhow Hill, and proceeding
 north-west, we come to the mountain district of Craven, chie<U+FB01>
  consisting of compact limestone. Here we are presented wit
 many most magni<U+FB01>cent scenes,                  pleasing to the lover of
 landscape and to the botanist. T     eiually
                                         e rocks at Gordale Scar and
  Malham Cove, rising several hundred feet perpendicular, are
 probably not to be equalled in England.           The mountains are
 of great elevation; In leborough, 2368 feet; Pennigent, 2281
 feet; Great Whemsi e, 2309 feet; West Simon-Seat, 1598
 feet; Beamsley Rock, 1310 feet; Spode Hill Bank, 1223 feet;
  Sutton Crag, 1161 feet.        Many of the summits of the higher
 parts of these mountains are covered with sandstone, producing
 ling and other plants common on that soil. The undisturbed
 woods, particularly about Bolton Abbey, a<U+FB01>'ord a rich harvest
 for the botanist. Here trees of great a e and immense mag
 nitude may be seen literally covered wit a profusion of cryp
 togamous plants, resembling a garden in miniature; Lichens
 hang in festoons from the branches, whilst the bark is hidden
 from view by innumerable mosses, on which vegetate Hepaticce
 and Filices.       The plants upon or near Ingleborough are,
 Rubus ckamazmoms, Actcea spicata, Sedum villosum, Sesleria
 coerulea, Poa glauca, Festuca oivipara, Primulafarinosa, P0
 lemonium cariuleum, Ophrys cordata, Serapz'as longifolia, Rho
 diola rosea, Convallaria Polygonatum, Sazifraga stellaris, oppo
 sitifolia; Thalictrum minus, Draba muralis, Thlaspi aroense,Co
 clllearia q<U+FB02>icinalis, Geranium syloaticum, sanguineum ,- Gnapha—
 lium dioicum, Solida virgo aurea 'y, Scrapias ensifolia and rubra.
 In the district are found, Chara liispida, Galium boreale, Viola
 lutea, Gentiana campestris, Ornithogalum luteum, Convallaria
 multi/Iora, Epilobium alpinum, Poiygonum vivipamm, Sangraga
 aizoides, hypnoides, Stellaria nemorum, Arenaria verna, Po
                                                                tentilla

        Geographical Distribution    of Plants in   Yorkshire.     215
tentilla aurea, Geum rivale, Dryas octopetala, Actiea spicata,
 Thalictrum minus, mzy'us, Trollius europeeus, Draba incana,
muralis, Thlaspi alpestre, Cochlearia q<U+FB02>icinalis, Cardamine im
patiens, Tarritis hirsata, Geranium phreum, sylvaticum, san
guineum, Hieracium paludosum, Hypochreris maculata, Carduus
heterophyllus,   Senecio sarracenicus, Satyrium albidum, Ophrys
'nidus avis, Cyprzjedium Calceolus, Salim myrsinites, herbacea,
reticulata; Tawus baccata, Osmunda lanaria, Lycopodium sela
ginoides, inundatum, alpinam; Asplenium viride, Scolopendrium
ceterach, Pteris crispa, Hymenophyllum iunbridgense, Sac.
     The high range of hills called the Yorkshire Wolds, be 'n
 ning at the coast near Bridlington, is composed of chalk.          his
formation extends by Dri<U+FB01>ield, forming a bow betwixt Beverley
 and Pocklin on to the Humber.            In this part the Ericre are
 not found.       he only rare plants are a few common to lime
 stone, viz. Festuca pumilis, bromoides, Gentiana amarella B,
 Chlora perfoliata, Astragalus hypoglottis. Passing the Vale of
 Pickering (lately rendered notorious by the fossil bones disco
 vered in the Kirkdale Cave), we come to the oolite, extending
 from Scarborough, by Kirkby Moorside, Hemsley, to meet
 the alluvium near Easin       old; it then takes a turn to the east,
 and passes Malton, an we <U+FB01>nd on it the following plants;
 Chara hispida,jle.rilis, Veronica montana, Utricularia minor,
 Schwnus mariscus albus, Scirpus pauc<U+FB02>orus, ar'ticularis, syl'va
 ticus, Bromus pinnatus, Arundo epigejos, calamagrostis, Lolium
 arvense, Elymus europaeus, Galium tricorne, Potamogeton gra
 mine'um, Viola hirta, lalea, Gentiana pneumonanthe,           Bupleu
 rum rotundi<U+FB01>rlium, Caucalis daucoides, Pimpinella magna, Li~
 num perenne, Drosera anglica, longifblia, Paris quadrifolia,
 Pyrola rotundifolia, Potentilla verna, Geum rivale, Papa'ver
 hybridum, Ranunculus Lingua, parvi<U+FB02>orus, 8:0.
     The only district which    I have not been able-to examine is
  the Alum-shale, risin on the coast, from Whitby to the Tees,
  including the Valeongsk. The small line of basalt found in
  Yorkshire passes through the above.
   Plants found in the southern counties of England, which are
        not in Yorkshire :
      Clematis vitalba.             Campanula patula.
      Orobanche minor.                           Trachelium.
      Tamarix gallica.
   Northern plants, not found:
      Ligusticum scoticum.          Aira levigata.
      Cerastium tetrandrum.              ina maritima.
   Plants which appear    to have  reac   ed their northern limits:
      Butomus umbellatus.            Viacom   album.
                                                                 Plants

 216                Mr. J. Atkinson’s  Sketch thlze
 Plants which appear to have reached their southern limits:
    Trientalis europaaa.
 Native Swiss plants found in Yorkshire:
    Malaxis paludosa.              Impatiens noli tangere.
   Cistus marifolius.              Arenaria verna.
   Geum rivale.                    Campanula latifolia.
    Ribes petreum.                 Thlaspi alpestre.
   Thalictrum majus.               Solidago virgaurea.
   Sedum villosum.                 Ornithogalum luteum.
   Epilobium alpinum.              Melica nutans.
   Pyrus aria.                     Sedum Telephium.
   Pyrola rotundifolia.            Allium arenarium.
            minor.                 Convallaria majalis.
   Stellaria nemorum.              Fumaria claviculata.
   Geranium lucidum.               Thalictrum minus.
                sanguineum.        Astr alus h 0 lottis.
   Gentiana pneumonanthe.          Lepi<U+FB01><U+FB01>um latitl'olgm.
   Osmunda regalis.
Rare plants, natives of Lapland and Yorkshire:
   Rubus chamaamorus.              Salix rosmarinifolia.
   Draba incana.                   Thalictrum alpinum.
   Rhodiola rosea.                 Andromeda polifolia.
   To<U+FB01>eldia palustris.
Rare plants, natives of Switzerland and Yorkshire:
   Cerastium alpinum.              Serratula alpina.
   Potentilla aurea.               Dryas octopetala.
   Bartsia alpina.                 Aspidium lonchitis.
   Gentiana verna.                              viviparum.
   Viola lutea.                    Polyfgonum
                                   Saxi raga stellaris.
   Salix herbacea.                            aizoides.
   Galinm boreale.                 Equisetum hyemale.
   Lathrwa squamaria.              Scandix odorata.
   Rubus idwus.                    Ribes alpin um.
            saxatilis.           . Asplenium viride.
   Trientalis europaaa.            Circaea alpina.
   Salix pentandra.                Epilobium angustif'olium.
   Ophrys cordata.                 Narthecium ossi<U+FB01>'     m.
Rare plants, natives of Lapland, Switzerland, an<U+FB01>orkshire:
   Papaver cambricum.              Bartramia arcuata.
   Salix Croweana.                 Asplenium adiantum
   Alisma natans.                  Hymenophyllum tunbri  nigrum.
                                                            gense,
   Scolopendrium Ceterach.              8w.
                                                      '
                Plants indicative of great altitude:
Arbutus uva ursi.
   Hutchin Moor, near Todmordon                  Yorkshire.
                                                         Cronkley

          Geographz'cal      Distribution Qf Plants in Yorkshire.              217
     Cronkley Fell           .    .  .     .  .   .   .    .   Yorkshire.
     Kinder Scout            .   .  .     .  .   .   .    .    Derbyshire.
     Dale Head         .     .   .   .    .  .   .   .    .    Westmorland.
     Near Hexham             .   .   .    .  .   .   .    .    Northumberland.
     Martindale, Dale Head                 .  .   .   .    .   Cumberland.
                                                             '
Saxg'<U+FB01>aga oppositg'folia.
    Ingleborough,        Hinklehaugh, and Mal
           ham Cove                  .    .  .   .   .         Yorkshire.
    Cader Idris, and other high mountains in Wales.
    In a ravine of the Screes, near Wastwater Cumberland.
Rubus Chameemorus.
    Ingleborough, Hinklehaugh, Kirby Fell,
           8w.     .   .     .   .   .    .  .   .   .    .    Yorkshire.
    Mountains of- Wales, VVestmorland, Cumberland,                             and
        Durham.
              -             Plants extremely local.
    Dryas octopetala.-On Arncli<U+FB02>‘, Clowder, in Littendale;
and near Settle, Yorkshire; and Cronkley Fell *2
    Gentiana verna.—Found in Teesdale in most surprising
quantities, and, luckily, cannot be extirpated, in consequence
of its sending out innumerable runners, each of which becomes
a plant on digging up specimens. Gardeners from all parts of
England have visited this spot, and attempted its destruction,
after removing quantities for sale—Goths indeed l
    Cypripedium Calceolus.—In several parts of Craven, York
shire; Castle Eden Dean, Durham; Borough Hall Park,
Lancashire.
    The Ladies’ Slipper used to be found in tolerable plenty
about Ingleborough; the greediness of <U+FB02>orists has, however,
rendered it scarce.            The great secret in its cultivation appears
to be rest.       A poor man in Craven has made a considerable
sum annually by the sale of this plant: he possesses a small
garden surrounded with gooseberry trees; in the centre, he
planted some years ago some plants of the Cypripedium Calceo
lus; they were left undisturbed for a long period, and have
<U+FB01>lled the garden, <U+FB02>owering freely, and <U+FB02>ourishing under the
partial shade of the gooseberry-bushes.
   Leeds, Oct. 1823.
   4* Cronkley  Fell is'ol'ten cited   as in Durham,     but certainly on the York
side  of the Tees.
    Vol.   64. N0. 317. Sept. 1824.                 E   e        XXXIX.       No

                                  [218]
                XXXIX.        Notices respecting            Books.
llIeleorologz'cal Essays and         Observations, by J. F. DANIELL,
                   ER.S.    London 1823. Svo. pp. 4-64.
[We have been induced to republish the following review of Mr. Daniell’s
     Meteorological Essays, from an American periodical publication in which
    it has very recently appeared, not only as a very clear and concise analysis
    ofthe work in question, but also as it may not be unserviceable in show
    ing'the attention and intelligence with which the progress of science in
    this country is viewed on the other side of the At]antic.-—We have been
    informed that the article is understood to be from the pen of Professor
    Renwick of Columbia College in‘New York_;]
             atmosphere that surrounds the globe we inhabit              is the
THE     scene of numerous and important phenomena. With these
our comfort and health          is most intimately connected; and yet,
although they take place in our immediate vicinity, and are
 continually producing marked effects upon our senses, we are
 much less acquainted with the laws that govern them, than
 we are with those that direct and regulate the motions of bodies
 situated at distances from us so remote as almost to ba<U+FB02>‘le hu
'man conception.           Yet this is not because a suf<U+FB01>cient degree
 of attention is not paid to the changes that occur in the atmo
 sphere ; for they form an object of constant observation and re
 mark to all classes of mankind; but our ignorance arises from
 the want of regular and correct registers of the more obvious
 appearances, and of instruments by which the more hidden
 phenomena may be discovered and observed.                    This last defect
 bids fair to be soon obviated.           The labours of several power
 ful minds have of late years been devoted to the science of
 meteorology.          Much has been thus accomplished in the dis
 covery of causes that affect climate, and in the contrivance of
  instruments to observe and register them ; but by far the most
  important work that has yet appeared on this subject is that of
  Daniell. We shall endeavour to give our readers an analysis
  of this interesting volume.                                            '
      The earth, as is well known, is surrounded by an atmosphere,
   whose principal constituent part is a permanently elastic <U+FB02>uid,
   that may, as far as its effects upon climate are concerned, be
   considered as homogeneous.            The temperature of this, at any
  point of the earth’s surface, may be observed by means of a
   thermometer, and its mechanical pressure by the barometer.
   These instruments are so familiar as to need no description;
   their use and construction are both Well known to all persons                 \
 '                                                 '
                                                                   pretending

                  Daniell’s Meteorological Essays.               219
pretending to the appellation of scienti<U+FB01>c.          It ma not, how
ever, be irrelevant to remark, that no standard t ermometer
is known to exist; and that most barometers are carelessly
made, and <U+FB01>lled with mercury from which the air has not been
suf<U+FB01>éiently extracted.
    Were the earth a sphere of uniform temperature, and at
rest in space*; its atmosphere a perfectly dry and permanently
elastic <U+FB02>uid; the height of the latter would be constant over
every point of the earth’s surface, and its density and elasticity,
at equal elevations, every where the same.              The column of
mercury that it would support in the barometer, would there
fore be the same at every point on thesurface of the sphere;
and equal at equal heights above the surface.          The athSphere
would be absolutely at rest; and as its elasticity isproportioned
to the pressure, the density would decrease in geometrical pro
gression, while the distance from the surface 0f the sphere in
creases in arithmetical.       When air is rare<U+FB01>ed, itstcapacity for
heat    is increased,    and vice versa ,- the sensible heat of the at
mosphere must, therefore, decrease as the altitude increases;
and as this changes the volume of elastic <U+FB02>uids, even under
equal pressures, the barometer alone will no longer be the
exact measure _of_ the progressive density, but must be 355.0
ciated with the thermometer.         Any change of temperature that
affects ever part of the sphere, would cause an increase in the
            ofy
elasticity       the atmosphere, and in its consequent height,
withoutproducing any motion in the lateral direction, or any
change in the pressure upon the surface but the pressure will
                                                ;
be changed at all other altitudes.
    If the temperature of the sphere, instead of being equal at
ever point, were greatest at the equator, and decreased to
war  s    the poles, - the pressure on every point of the surface
would still continue the same; but the altitude of the atmo
spheric column would become greatest at the equator, and its
speci<U+FB01>c gravity at the surface less there thanat the poles.
‘The heavier <U+FB02>uid at the poles must, by itsvmechanical action,
press upon and displace the lighter, and a current _willbe es
tablished in the lower part _of the atmosphere from the poles
 towards the equator.        The difference in the speci<U+FB01>c gravity of
the polar and equatorial columns becomes less as we ascend
into the atmosphere; while the elasticity, which      is   constant at
 the surface, varies with theheight, and the barometer stands
 higher at equal elevations     in the equatorial than in the polar
 column.      It will hence happen, that, at some de<U+FB01>nite height,
 the unequal density of the lower strata will be compensated;
 and a counter-current will take place in the higher regions
                                                                 ‘
                         *   Essay lst, part lst.
                                     Ee   2                     from

220               Notices respecting New Books.
from the equator towards the poles.        Our author has investi
gated the height   at which    this would   happen, under certain
circumstances, and calculated the velocity of each current at
different elevations. The velocity and direction of these cur
rents may be affected by the partial rarefaction or condensation
of any of the columns; and such chan e of densit will na
turally take place, in consequence of t e vicissitu es of the '
seasons, and the alternations of day and night.
    If the sphere be set in motion, and made to revolve around
its polar diameter, as an axis, an apparent modi<U+FB01>cation will
take place in the direction of the currents.       The lower cur
rent, coming from a point whose velocity of rotation is less
than that at which it arrives, will appear to be affected with a
motion, in a direction contrary to that of the revolution of the
sphere; while the upper current, being under opposite cir
cumstances, will be apparently affected in an opposite manner.
Hence we <U+FB01>nd, in'the equatorial regions of the earth, winds
that blow continually from N.E. on the northern side of the
equator, and from the S.E. on the southern.         In this region,
the temperature is subject to little variation, and the general
causes that have been described are more powerful than the
local action; but, as slight irregularities of temperature are
capable of producing great disturbances, that would act un
equally on the antagonist currents, accumulations in some parts,
and consequent de<U+FB01>ciencies would arise, and cause temporary
and variable winds, that in the higher latitudes would modify
the regular currents, and often reverse their courses.
    The atmosphere is not composed entirely of a homogeneous
and permanently elastic <U+FB02>uid, but always contains a considera
ble portion of aqueous matter.       It has been supposed by some
that this is chemically combined with the air; by others, that
it exists there in the form of vapour. The experiments of
Dalton have established, conclusively, that the latter is the
true theory; and that every given portion of space is capable
of containing, at a given temperature, a certain amount of
 aqueous vapour, whether there be air present, or not.         Mr.
 Daniel] proceeds, in the second part of his <U+FB01>rst essay, to inL
 vestigate the phaenomena of an atmosphere composed entirely
 of aqueous vapour; and the third part treats of one composed
 of permanently elastic and condensable <U+FB02>uids mixed. It would
 occupy too much space to follow him in this most ingenious
 and interesting inquiry; we shall therefore content ourselves
                in his own language, the results at which he
with stating,                 -
 arrives.
    “ The speci<U+FB01>c gravity and elasticity of the air is but sl' htly
affected by this intermixture of aqueous vapour; so slilgitly,
                                                            indeed,

                                                               l
                  Daniell’s   Meteorological Essays.               221
                                                    '
 indeed, that the course and velocity of the currents may be
 considered, without any chance of disturbing our main argu
 ment, as unaltered.       It will also be remarked, that while the
 great  aerial ocean  is divided   into tw distinct strata, <U+FB02>owing in
 opposite directions from south to north, the aqueous part, which
 is nearly con<U+FB01>ned to the lower current, presses in a contrary
 direction.    The adjustment of these particulars remaining as
 now supposed,‘the compensatin winds <U+FB02>ow on in the courses
 which have been described, an           the balance remains undis
 turbed.”                                  .
    Although the general currents are so little affected by the
 mere presence of aqueous vapour, the variations of tempera
 ture that are produced by its evaporation and condensation
 will tend to produce changes in their direction ; these will be of
 great importance, but modi<U+FB01>ed by local circumstances.            The
 surface of the earth is not uniformly composed of one sub
 stance, but is partly covered by land, and partly by water. The
 evaporation from surfaces of these two different natures will
 be very different, and the changes of temperature arisin from
 this source must vary with every modi<U+FB01>cation of local ClI'CUIIl—
 stances. The quantity of moisture, then, that the air of any par
 ticular place contains, will have an in<U+FB02>uence upon its climate;
 nor can any set of meteorological observations be complete,
 when this is-not employed as an element. The increase of
 weight acquired by deliquescent salts, the tension of cords, the
 shortening of whalebone, hair, and of some vegetable sub
 stances, have all been applied to this purpose, but with little
 success.    Aware of the great importance of this subject, Mr.
.Daniell has planned and constructed a hygrometer that must,
 when its merits shall be fairly appreciated, supersede all others.
  Hygrometers, constructed of the substances we have already
 mentioned, indicate merely the presence of different portions
 of vapour, without affording any means of determining its abso
 lute quantity. Leslie has indeed proposed a modi<U+FB01>cation of his
 differential thermometer as a hygrometer; and observations
 with this may be applied to the tables of vapour existing in
 space at a given temperature, as deduced from the experiments
 of Dalton ; but his instrument, althou h beautiful and ingeni
 ous in the hivhest degree, is liable to objections from which Mr.
 Daniell’s is ree. It requires abstruse calculations, and deli
 cate corrections, on the nature of which philosophers are by no
 means      reed; and it has the disadvantage of having an arbi
 trary sd<U+FB01>e, instead of adopting one of those sanctioned by
 usage in the common thermometer.                          .
    If a vessel containin    a cold liquid be exposed to air of a tem~
 perature considerably       igher, it will be covered with a <U+FB01>lm of
                                                             condensed

222                  Notices respecting New Books.
condensed vapour, whose quantity will depend partly upon the
moisture existin in the atmosphere, and partly upon the differ
ence in sensible eat between the air and the liquid in the ves
sel.    There are certain saline substances that lower the tempe
rature of the water in which they are dissolved; if one of these,
in <U+FB01>ne powder, be added gradually to a portion of water con
tained in a vessel, the temperature may be lowered by slow
degrees, until it reach that point at which deposition will just
begin to take place. A thermometer placed in the liquid will
show this temperature, and mark the degree of heat at which
saturation would occur, with the quantity of moisture then con
tained in a given bulk of atmospheric air.        This degree of the
thermometer     is called the  dew  point, and  will,  by mere refer
ence to tables deduced from the experiments of Dalton, give
the absolute quantity of moisture that is presentl
    This experiment would be attended with some dif<U+FB01>culty in
practice.    Mr. Daniell has therefore adopted another method
of performin it. If water he placed in one of two balls, con—
nected toget er by a tube bent twice at right angles and ex
hausted of air, the immersion of the empty ball in a freezing
mixture will cause the congelation of the water contained in
the other; for the aqueous vapour that rises rapidly in vacuo
will be as rapidly condensed by the cold application; its place
will be supplied by a fresh evaporation from the surface of the
water, and the formation of this new vapour will carry off so
much heat from the mass, as rapidly to reduce its temperature
to the freezin point.      If ether be substituted for water in the
balls, and if t e ball that contains no liquid be coated with a.
bibulous substance, moistened also with-ether, the evaporation
of this last will produce a great degree of cold; and this will not
be manifested in the loss of heat by the ball to which the ether
is applied, but by the rapid passage of the inclosed ether in the
state of vapour from the other bulb, the temperature of which
is lowered in consequence.        The loss of temperature in the
naked bulb may be rendered evident by inclosing within             it,
and the contiguous stem, a very delicate thermometer; as soon
as the surface of this bulb   is cooled down to the point at which
the aqueous matter contained         the atmosphere would be pre
                                    in
 cipitated,it  becomes clouded with a thin <U+FB01>lm of moisture; a
 practised e    _e will readily seize the precise instant at which
 this takes piece, and will at the same moment read the tempe
 rature Shown by the included thermometer.          In the whole cir
 cle of physical science there      no instrument more simple and
                                   is
beautiful in principle than this hygrometer.        Its useis  not at_
 tended with any dif<U+FB01>culties; and       fully satis<U+FB01>es all the condi
                                         it
 tions laid down     by Saussure, as essential to theperfeotion of
                                                         hygrometric

                  Daniell’s Metem'ological Essays.               2233
by rometric instruments.        Did it furnish us only with an easy
and certain method of ascertaining the quantity of moisture
present, at any given time, in the atmosphere, it would be of
the utmost importance in keeping registers of the weather,
with a view of comparing the climate of different countries, and
seekin for those causes of atmospheric phaenomena which are
yet hi den ; and it would, when joined to observations of the
barometer, furnish the most certain indications of the proba
ble state of the weather, so important to those - engaged in
many of the active pursuits of life. But in addition, it gives
us a measure of the force and quantity of eVaporatiOn ; a ques-~
tion that has never yet received a satisfactory solution; and
which, when settled, could at once he applied advantageoust
to many practical cases ; and it supplies the desideratum that
has hitherto prevented the complete success of the barometric
measurement of heights.                                           ‘
                                                                     _
    It is to be recorded, to the disgrace of European Science,
that this instrument, so simple in theory, and so beauti<U+FB01>il
its practical application, has, from causes of local jealdusy,
not yet received the notice and distinguished approbation ‘156
which it is entitled.     In Edinburgh, Professdr Leslie, bigoted
to his own inventions, and full of his views of applying his
differential thermometer to this, among a variety of other
uses, has, in his article on meteorology, in the supplement
to the Encyclopedia Britannica, entirely passed over the in
vention of Mr. Daniell ; and, after stating casually the principle
on which it is founded,- contented himself with saying, that it
might be of value could it be
                                    “ easily and
                                                  nicely reduced to
practice.”     In  Switzerland,   the  editors of  the Bibliotlzeque
  Universelle affect to think that Mr. Daniell could not have
been acquainted with Saussure’s hygrometer, or he would not
have thought it necessary to Construct a new one; although
 Saussure’s papers may be quoted as 'the evidence of the im
perfections of his own instrument. The philosophers of France,
with a blindness of national prejudice, almost equal to that
 manifested by the mathematicians of England, when, f0r a
 quarter of a century, they disdained to pro<U+FB01>t by the brilliant
 inventions of Laplace and Lagrange, have passed Mr. Daniell
 and his discoveries without notice; while in'London he has to
 contend with the whole weight and in<U+FB02>uence of the President
 and Council of the Royal Society, in consequence of his having
 pointed out the extreme negligence with which the meteorolo
 gical register, published under the sanction of their authority,
 was kept.      Mr. Daniell has,'h0wever, had the good fortune
 to meet with a coadjutor in his'interesting experiments, who,
 for scienti<U+FB01>c acquirements, and skill as an observer, ranks se
                     I                                        i
                                                                cond

224v              Notices respecting New Books.
 cond to none at present living.      The name of Captain Sabine
 is so well known among      us, that  it is sufficient to mention it,
 in order to enable   our  readers to  appreciate the great value of
 his aid and zealous support to our author.          His communica
 tions form a considerable portion of the volume before us, and
 have all that clearness of detail, and philosophical precision,
 for which his papers in the Transactions of the Royal Society
 of London are so remarkable.
     The Third Essay is upon the subject of the radiation of heat
 in the atmosphere.      We have already devoted so much space
 to the preceding topics, that we can only state a few of the most
 important facts that are there detailed.       It is shown, conclu
 sively, from a comparison of observations, under the equator,
 in temperate climates, and within the arctic circle, that the
 excess of the heat derived from the direct rays of the sun, above
 the temperature of the air, is much greater in high than in low
 latitudes.   This is evidently a most bountiful provision of Pro
 vidence, in equalizing the effect of different climates, and <U+FB01>tting
 them all to be inhabited by the human race.          We may in this
 way account for the facts, that the hottest days in high lati
 tudes are nearly as oppressive to the mere senses, as in low
 latitudes, where the thermometer stands much higher; and
 that vegetation is so very rapid in cold countries after the ice
 and snow are dissipated.      Mr. Daniell has given a very inge
nious hypothesis, by which he accounts for this curious phae
 nomenon.      The air, as we have seen, exerts a pressure on
 every part of the earth that, taken at a mean, is equal ; in high
latitudes, however, the air is the most dense, and the atmo
 sphere assumes in consequence the <U+FB01>gure of a spheroid very
 much <U+FB02>attened towards the poles. Our author supposes that
the depth of this atmosphere, at each particular place, has an
in<U+FB02>uence on the quantity of heat that is transmitted.
    The heat that is communicated by the sun to the earth again
radiates; the rate of radiation will be affected by a variety of
circumstances, such as the presence or absence of the sun, the
temperature of the radiating surface, and the state of the hea
vens.    Dr. Wells, it may be mentioned, has made a most im
portant use of this subject in explaining the formation of dew.
Mr. Daniell <U+FB01>nds, that radiation from the earth follows the
same law as the direct radiation from the sun, being propor
tionably less in low than it is in hi h latitudes; and he applies
the same explanation to this as to t e other circumstance.        He
lastly details an experiment by which he shows, most conclu
sively, not only that the rays of the moon do not communicate
any sensible heat, but that its li ht does not affect the terres
trial radiation, even as much as    tEe slight cloud that hardly 0b—
                                                              SCHI'BS
                                              '

                  Daniell’s Meteorological Essays.                225
'scures its illuminated surface.     We state this result, inasmuch
 as it completely disproves the reasonin founded on a late ex
periment made in this country, by which it was attempted to
 be shown, that the lunar light was capable of affecting a very
 sensible differential thermometer.
    Besides the irregular <U+FB02>uctuations in the altitude of the ba
 rometer, a patient and careful investigation shows that there is
 a horary oscillation“, apparently produced by tides in the at
 mosphere.      By a series of observations, at seven different sta
 tions, one extreme being under the equator, and the other in
 50 degrees north latitude, it appears, that while the irregular
 movement of the atmosphere and general ran e of the barometer
 increase, in going from the equator towards t e <U+FB01>fty-second de
 gree ofnorth latitude, there is a regular concomitant <U+FB02>uctuation,
 that augments-as we proceed from the higher latitude tOWards
 the equator.      Accordino‘ to an hypothesis laid down by our
author, there must be aIatitude, where the causes that pro
 duce the tides will just be in eguz'lz'brz'o ,- and in latitudes still
 higher the <U+FB02>uctuations will be in an opposite direction.          In
 support of his theory, he adduces the register of the barometer
 kept in the second northern expedition, and compares it with
 that kept by Major Long’s party during the same season.            It
 may trul be said, that no step in science is unimportant, and
 that triwal circumstances may frequently produce great good;
for we thus see distant observations, taken by scienti<U+FB01>c men of
 different nations, and without any previous concert, made use
 of in the investigation of a subject, that had probably not oc-_
 curred to the minds of either of the observers, at the time of
 instituting their experiments.      In the new expedition that is
 about to sail from England, to pursue the discoveries on the
 northern shore of the American continent, this subject will be
 made a special matter of research: to furnish the means of
 comparison, simultaneous observations will be made in Lon
 don, and arrangements have been made by the British Board
 of Lon itude, to place a similar set of instruments in Colum
 bia Col ege in the 'city of New-York.          In this way, four sets
 of observations will be made, viz. at London; at Hammerfest,
 near the North Cape of Europe, where corresponding instru
 ments have been sent;‘ at New-York; and at Prince Regent’s
 Inlet; these observations will be made under two different me
 ridians; that of London bein the same with that of Ham
 merfest, and that of New-Yor         with Prince Regent’s Inlet.
    In making a series of meteorological observations, the regi
 ster will be of little importance, unless the instruments be of
 good quality, and much attention begiven by-the observer
                              it Essay 4th.
    Vol. 64. No.   317. Sept. 1824-.        Ff                 himself

226               Notices respecting    New Books.
himself to their accurate adjustment, and to applyin       the pro
per corrections“.   The instruments commonly so]          are mere
 playthings, and not at all adapted to the present advanced state
 of physical science.    It very rarely happens that two thermo
 meters agree, and when it became necessary, for some impor
 tant purposes, to procure a standard thermometer, none was
 found to exist in the hands of any of the artists in London. The
 case is still worse with the barometer; in those constructed by
 the same maker, discrepancies of a quarter of an inch may be
 detected ; and even in those to which the names of the <U+FB01>rst art
ists are af<U+FB01>xed, it rarely happens that the mercury has been
 puri<U+FB01>ed by boiling. On this subject our author enters at length,
 and gives full instructions for the choice and construction 01 in
 struments. We regret that we cannot, consistently with our li
 mits, enter fully into these interesting details.
     From this brief and meagre anal sis, some idea may be form
-'ed of the talent and ingenuity displayed by Mr. Daniell in his
 important work.      It must, for many years to come, furnish to
 the observers of atmospheric phaznomena the text book by
 which they are to be guided in their researches. By the ap
 plication of his rules, and by simultaneous registers, kept in
 different parts of the world, the science of meteorology, that
 is now in its infancy, may soon be brought to a comparative
 degree of perfection.     N0 difficulty need any longer attend the
 measure of atmospheric pressure and temperature, of the heat
 of radiation both from the sun and from the earth, of moisture
 in the air and evaporation from the surface. The quantity of
 rain and the course of the winds may be readily determined,
 and the only desiderata that will remain are the phaanomena of
 atmospheric electricity, and the absolute force of the a'e'rial
 currents.
     This paper will be considered as having attained its object,
 should it render the work to which it relates known to the
 scienti<U+FB01>c portion of the American community, and should it
 awaken some interest in the subject, among persons whose ac
 quirements and leisure would _qualify them for observers.
   .The Monthly Critical Gazette, No. I. for June lst, con
      a review of Sir J. E. Smith’s English Flora. No more
tains
impudent
           and obvious falsehoods ever appeared on paper.
   The rewewer says on the subject of Graminm’, that the
       has “ not once quoted Beauvais:” but the reader may
author
see in vol. i. the list of authors quoted, and then turn to
page 83, line 5 from the bottom; p. 85, l. 6; p. 94, l. 8 from
the bottom; p. 96, l. 2; p. 109, l. 9 from the bottom; p. 111,
                                                                        '
                           *
                               Essay 8th.
                                                             l._   10

                                                                            _   i    i
                      'Sir   .l.   E. Smith’s English Flora.                              227
l. 10 ditto;     p.115,    19; p. 131,
                               l.          2; p. 135,1.10; in all
                                                           1.
which places that excellent writer       cited as he ought to be.
                                                      is
    In the Umbelllfevw, the reviewer says that Sir          E. Smith            J.
“ criticises the labours of Sprengler and Hoffman, and yet never
makes a single reference to their works.”           Whereas in the
list of books quoted in vol. ii., both these writers are indi
cated, at least Sprengel and Ho<U+FB01>'mann, which are the true
names ;—Sprengler was a conchologist.         See also, with respect
to the latter assertion, p. 42 of this 2d vol. line 24; p. 44,                           l.8
from the bottom; p. 4-5 in two places; 46 to 52; in every page,
both authors are once or twice quoted; in pp. 54, 59, 62, 65,
66, 68, 71, 72, 77, 84-, 87, 91, 92, 94, 96, 97—103, 105, one
or both may be found cited, and Sprengel’s Prodromus, or
his Species Umbellg'femz, or both, are always mentioned with
respect by our learned President, whether agreeing with them
in opinion, or not.
    With regard to his quotation of authors in general, his
plan seems to be not to burthen the work with the name or
page of every author in every country who has mentioned each
plant, but to quote such as are useful, and likely to assist an
 En lish reader.                            _
       hat we have said        enou    to expose such a barefaced
                                       is         h
calumny.      The rest of the artic      no less false and injurious:
                                                  e   is
but   it
      is   unnecessary to refute what every person conversant
with the subject will see in its true light.      The writer abuses
Mr. Greville’s Flora for being arranged alter the Linna'an
method, which          peculiarly obnoxious to those who can get
                       is
no credit but by attacking it.
    Nothing can be more false than what         said of Sir James in
                                                                  is
this Review about his copying Ray and Tournefort, as he                                    is
undoubtedly the <U+FB01>rst who arranged Umbellata: by all the parts.
of fructi<U+FB01>cation alone.                           '
    We have long seen enough of Reviews to convince us that
very little regard       to be paid to their critiques on works of
                             is
 science or research, as the writers employed are either not
 capable of understanding them, or have some personal in
 terest in misrepresenting them. Thus             happens that the it
 very best works of this description which appear from time
 to time are either not noticed in the Reviews, or are misre
 presented and abused.
     ANALYSIS    OF PERIODICAL               WORKS              ON NATURAL          HISTORY.
                Curtis’s Botanical Magazine.                           No. 452.
   P1. 2509.   Azalea indica, var.          ,6.
                                      ‘plena—Omithogalum narbonense, con“
sidered by some authors       varietyol' pyrenaicum, from. Wthh however-1t
                                   a
differs in many particulars.—Bellis sylvestris, the distinction between
                                            Ff    2                     whlcg
                                                                         an

228        Analysis     of Periodical Works             on    Natural History.
and Antics Bellidiustmm      is represented as not quite certain.-—Coreopn's
tinctoria, discovered by Professor Nuttall in the Arkansa territory, North
America.--—Monnrda      Russell/ma, “caule acutangulo bisulcato, foliis ovatis
acuminatis    hzlsi rotundatis; inferioribus serratis, labio inferiore revoluto
   ttato.”—Eupl|orbia carinala, one of the species of the section which
<U+FB01>r. Haworth has made into a genus under the name Crepidan'a.—
Malva prostratn, belongin to the fourth of M. Decandolle’s sections, of
which Mwnch has formed             his
                                  genus Modioln.—O llrys Araclznites, from the
collection of C. H. Turner, Esq., who brought         rom Switzerland.
                                                         it
                    77w        Botanical Register.            N0.    115.
   P]. 825. Isocbilus prolifer,      West Indian plant very rare in this country,
                                     a
belonging to the section Epidendree of Mr, Brown’s arrangement of Orchide
pus plants.—-Leucadendron       tortum, described by Mr. Brown in his account
of the Proteacerr, Linn. Trans. x. 56.—Ardisia punctata, “ foliis lanceolatis
coriaceis sinuatis versus basin attenuatis, corolla subcampanulata punctata               :
lobis obtusis:” brought from China in 1822 by Mr. John Potts,                    meri a
torious collector, who died in the service of the Horticultural Society.—
 Cunonia capensis.
                       “ The natural order Cunoniacear,” Mr. Brown remarks,
“ several of whose genera have been referred to Sanfragm,              more readily
                                                                            is
distinguished from that family by its widely different habit, than by any very
important characters in its fructi<U+FB01>cation.”—Ro:a moschata, var. nepalemis.
 -—Doliclzos    urpureus.—Arum crinitum,       most singular
                                               a                 lant, native of Mi
                                  organ,” observes Mr. Lind ey, “ which in this
norca.     “ he
                  remarkable
genus represents the <U+FB02>ower, and by botanists           termed spat/1a,
                                                         is                   leaf un;
                                                                                 is   a
der   a peculiar form of development, assuming the colour, and probably the
of<U+FB01>ce, of corolla. It    one of those deviations from the usual order ofN ature,
                        is
which assist the philosophical botanist in understanding the origin of similar
organs which have departed more completely from what may be called their
primitive forms, and which, with cohesion of               and alteration of <U+FB01>gure,
take on new appearances and functions, by w parts    ich they are so far disguised
as to be recognised only in the few plants in which their transition from
one form to another has been, as          were, arrested in the middle, and re
                                         it
 mains incomplete.
   “ The
            spatha of the Arum, which         is
                                              manifestly    coloured leaf, oes far
                                                                a
in support of the ingenious theory of M. du Petit-Thouars’l‘, that               partsa
                                                                                      1
of the <U+FB02>ower and fruit are modi<U+FB01>cations of leaves, or leaves in an altered
form; or, to employ his own expression.—‘ que la Fleur n’est autre chose
  ue  la transformation d’une Femlle et du Bourgeon qui en depend               quela ;
  euille donne Calice, Corolle, et Etamiue, et que            Bourgeon devient le
                                                                le
Fruit produisant      laGraine      and that the bud of
                                   ;’                        tree and the seed of
                                                                a                         a
tree di<U+FB02>'er chie<U+FB02>y in this, that the former      an EMryon<U+FB01>re,’
                                                   is    ‘
                                                                           stationary
                                                                                 a
embryo, and the latter an ‘Embryon mobile,’ or moveable embryo.                   The
points upon which this curious speculation depends for support are, that
there are no limits between leaves, bracteae, calyx, and corolla; that, in
double or monstrous <U+FB02>owers, the stamens and ovaries become foliaceous;
that anthers occasionally secrete ovula; that ovaries are known to become
polliniferous; that every compound calyx, corolla, or ovary, can be shown
to be made up of determinate and relative number of simple parts; and,
                    a
<U+FB01>nally, that all these organs, in regular <U+FB02>owers, in which no abortion or
obliteration has occurred, are produced about their axis, as the leaves
about their stem, in       spiral, or, by depression and approximation, verti
                           a
cillate, manner.”
                                 *   See above,p. 81. . .
                                                                                 XL. In

                                      -
                             ~[   229   ]
           XL.    Intelligence and Misrellaneous Articles.
               DISRUPTION OF A BOG IN YORKSHIRE.
      REAT     interest and some alarm have been excited in Leeds
        and its neighbourhood by the disruption of a ho on
 Crow-hill, on the borders of Lancashire, the contents of w ich
 have been poured into the river Aire, to the extreme inconveni
 ence and annoyance of the manufacturers upon its banks. On
 Friday morning, the 3d instant, the river at this place, which
 was rather swollen, appeared of a colour unusually dark, and
 which deepened so much in the course of the day that the ma
 nufacturers found it impossible to use the water for any pur
 pose of business ; and on Saturday morning it was still worse.
 The water, when taken into a glass, appeared nearly as black
 as ink; and on being analysed, was found to leave a large re
 siduum of vegetable matter resembling peat.       In consequence
 of this state of the river, it became necessary to suspend en
 tirely many processes in the woollen manufacture, and when
it was found that there was no alteration on Monday for the
better, much uneasiness was generally expressed as to the pro
bable duration.       On Sunday, a letter was received at this
 of<U+FB01>ce from the Rev. Mr. Bronte, a Minister of the Established.
 Church, residing at Haworth, which gave some explanation of
 this extraordinary phzenomenon: this communication stated,
that about six o’clock on Thursday evening, the high lands, on
the Moors, about four miles from Haworth, had opened. into"
chasms, from which issued two immense volumes of muddy
 water, which had inundated the valle through which it <U+FB02>owed
 to a considerable extent, doing much amage in its course. The
 Rev. writer concluded with expressing it as his opinion, “that
it was the effect of an earthquake, the most considerable too, as
to its immediate results, that has taken place in this kingdom
for many generations.”        This communication, which was ex
tensively circulated, rather increased than allayed the public
anxiety, as it was generally supposed that some vast subter
ranean reservoir of water, the accumulation of centuries, had
been laid open, which might continue for a period of inde<U+FB01>nite
extent to pour its turbid waters into the Aire.     The Commis
sioners of the Leeds Water Works, <U+FB01>nding that the water
could not be applied to any culinary or domestic purposes
whatever, gave notice to all the inhabitants by printed hand
bills, that they should suspend the distribution of water so
utterly useless to them. Under these circumstances we thought
it right to repair to the spot, and from inquiry and personal
observation, endeavour to ascertain the real facts of the case, and
we present the following as the result of our investigation
        .                                                      row

280                    Disruption qf a Bag.
    Crow-hill, the scene of this unusual phaenomenon, is about
nine miles from Keighley, and six from Colne, at an elevation
of about 1000 feet from the former place. The top of the moor,
which is nearly level, is covered with peat and other accumu—
lations of decayed vegetables, of a less <U+FB01>rm texture: the whole
appeared saturated with water, and in most places trembled
under the tread of the foot. The super<U+FB02>uous water, at the
east end of the moor, drained into small rivulets at the bottom
of a deep glen or gill, down a precipitous range of rocks, which
presented the appearance of a igantic staircase; this rivulet
passes down the valley to Keig 1e , and enters the Aire near
Stockbrid e, about a mile below t at town.
    At the distance of about 500 yards from the top of the glen,
the principal discharge seems to have taken place; here a very
large area, of about 1200 yards in circumference, is excavated
to the depth of from four to six            and at a short distance
from this chasm, there is a simi yards;
                                    ar excavation, but much less
in extent. These concavities have been emptied not only of
their water, but also of their solid contents—a channel, about
twelve yards in width and seven or eight in depth, has been
formed quite to the mouth of the gill, down which a most
amazing quantity of earth and water was precipitated, with a.
violence and noise of which it is dif<U+FB01>cult to form an adequate
conception, and which was heard to a very considerable di
stance.    Stones of an enormous size and weight were hurried
by   the torrent  more than a mile.   It is impossible to form any
computation of the quantity of earthy matter which has been
carried down into the valley; but that it is enormous is evident
from the vast quantities deposited by the torrent in every part
of its course, and from the immense quantity which our river
still contains.    This destructive torrent was con<U+FB01>ned within
narrow bounds by the high banks of the len through which it
passed, until it reached the hamlet of        onden, where it ex
panded over seVeral corn <U+FB01>elds, covering them to the depth of
several feet; it also <U+FB01>lled up the mill pond, choking up the
water courses, and thereby putting an entire stop to the works.
A stone bridge was also nearly swept away at this place, and
several other bridges in its course were materially damaged;
we feel, however, happy to state, that it was not fatal to life
in a          instance. The torrent was seen coming down the
glen single
       be ore it reached the hamlet, by a person who gave the
alarm, and thereby saved the lives of some children, who
would otherwise have been swept away. The torrent at this
time presented a breast seven feet in height.       The tract and
extent of this inundation of mud may be accurately traced all
the way from the summit of the hill to the con<U+FB02>uence of the
                                                             rivulet

                          Disruption  of a Bog.‘                  231
rivulet with the Aire, by the black deposit which it has left on
its banks.     The <U+FB01>rst bursting of the bog took place about six
o’clock in the evening 'of Thursday, the 2d instant; but another
very considerable discharge occurred on the following day,
about eight o’clock in the morning; and it is highly probable
that other extensive portions of the bog will from time to time
be hereafter discharged into the Aire in a similar manner.
    The water which drained from the moss on Tuesday, the
day on which we visited Crow-hill, was inconsiderable in quan
tity, and very little discoloured; on Wednesday the appear
ance of the river at Leeds was much improved, and it was
hoped that the heavy rain which fell that day would have had
the e<U+FB02>'ect of cleansing its channel; but from the turbid appear
ance of the water on Thursday morning, we think it highly
probable that there has been a further and very considerable
discharge from Crow-hill.          The Rev. Mr. Bronte, to whose
kindness we were indebted for the <U+FB01>rst information upon the
subject, states it as his opinion, that this disruption of the bog
was the effect of an earthquake, but none of the appearances
countenance this supposition.        There has been no irruption of
water from the interior of the earth, and the strata of the rocks,
as far as they could be observed, did not appear to have been
disturbed, nor were any of the springs in the nei hbourhood
in the least affected.      We would further observe t at the sink
ing  in of the   surface   of the earth was the effect, and not the
cause, of the disruption of the bog. No human being was upon
the spot to witness the commencement of this awful phaenome
non, and of course we cannot arrive at any absolute degree of
certainty as to its cause: the most probable one is the bursting
of a water-spout. The suddenness and violence of the disrup
tion strongly favour this supposition. It would evidently require
a power acting with a great degree of momentum to move and
break in pieCes the immense and almost solid masses of peat
and turf which were forced down the hill, to say nothing of
the immense stones which were moved.             The state of the at
mosphere about the time when the disruption took place, also
renders this solution highly probable, the air being fully
Charged with electric matter.        “At the time of the irruption,”
says Mr. Bronte,
                       “ the clouds were copper-coloured, gloomy,
and lOWering; the atmosphere was strongly electri<U+FB01>ed, and
unusually close.”       These appearances, as they indicated, were
followed by     a severe   thunder storm, during which it is more
than probable      that  some   heavy loaded cloud poured its con
tents upon    the spot.     We   may add, as a further reason in sup
port  of this  hypothesis,     that more water seems to have been
                                                                 con
sent  down
         ‘
             the  glen'  than  could have been supplied by the
                                                                tents

 232                     Disruption of a Bag.
  tents of the two bogs which have been evacuated.                But, per.
  haps, a still more important inquiry        is,  What can be done to
  prevent   a recurrence of similar irruptions.?          Thisis    rather a
  di<U+FB02>icult question; there   is,however, no doubt that the drainage
  of the moss would remove the danger, as no instance exists of
  either the bursting or <U+FB02>oating away of a drained bog.                 Pro
  bably the channels now made, should the remain open, will
  give the requisite stability to the peaty so'     .     This inundation
  of hog water has been very       fatal  to  the <U+FB01>sh,  which    have been
 poisoned    or rather  su<U+FB02>'ocated   by  it  in large quantities.
     The <U+FB02>oating away of     a   portion of Chat Moss, in the six
 teenth century, and of Solway and Pilling Mosses, in the years
  1772, and 1744-5, have some remote resemblance to this phas
  nomenon; but the case most analogous to           it   is  that furnished
  by  the mighty discharges     from    Pendle-hill,   in  the  neighbour;
 in county of Lancaster, of which Camden says, “ This hill               is
 chie<U+FB02>y remarkable for the damage which             it   lately did to the
 country    below   (about  the   year 1580) by      the    discharge of a
 great body    of water ;”  and   Mr.    Charles   Towneley, in a com
 munication to Richard Towneley, Esq. in the year 1669, de
  scribes a mighty torrent which issued from “ the butt-end of
  Pendle” on the 18th of Au<U+FB02>ust, 1669, as so overwhelming
 that  it presented a breast       ofwater of a yard high, and set
 a<U+FB02>oat furniture in the houses of the village of Wooston, at a
 distance of two miles from the point of disruption.
     Since writing the above, we have received           a  letter from our
 correspondent at Colne, dated the 9th instant, which con<U+FB01>rms
 our conjecture as to there having been a further considerable
 discharge from the bog at Crow-hill.            He states that “ a reat
 quantity of rain fell in that neighbourhood yesterday             (     ed
 nesday), and the water again <U+FB02>owed violently from the bog."
 Our correspondent adds, that           itwas apprehended that much
 further injury would be done to the mill dams, Ste.
     On Thursday, there were not fewer than four irruptions.
 A gentleman who witnessed the last of them, thus describes
it  :—About a quarter to o’clock in the evening, he says, the
                             7
 phenomenon began to exhibit itself. On approaching the ca
vity or canal made by the former-irruptions, and which             is   now
 about three quarters of a mile in length, himself and his
friends perceived a vast body of peaty earth in motion, im
pelled by the water in the rear, and <U+FB02>oated to that which gave
the impulse.      Soon the substance became stationary, and re
mained in that state for about ten minutes.            By and by, was
                                                                   it
again in motion, and moved very gradually down the channel,
all the while receiving fresh accessions of mud and peat, till at
length the whole cavity was <U+FB01>lled with enormous masses,
     '
                                                                   partly

       Earthquakes.-—Imp1'0ved Copper Sheathing, 5w.           288
partly at rest and partly in motion.  Having at length reached
the brink of the precipice, it rushed over the steep with a trer
mendous noise, and the discharge was heard distinctly at a
distance of four miles.      How long the <U+FB02>ow continued our
friend cannot say, but he heard it for an hour at least after he
had quitted the ground, frequently making a noise like the
plunge of large bodies precipitated from a considerable eleva—
tion into the deep.    From the examination which he gave to
the summit of the bog, he conceives that a body of peat moss
is loosened by these disruptions to the extent of a mile in cir—
cumference, and the prevailing opinion on the spot, in which
he concurs,  is, that this enormous mass will come away before
the discharges from Crow-hill <U+FB01>nally cease—The water in the
river Aire, at Leeds,      esterda evenin was as turbid as
                                                                  -
                                                                  it
has been at any perio    since            ese        commenced.
Leells Mercuiy.            ----— discharges
                         EARTHQUAKES.
  A    smart shock was felt at New Brunswick on the 9th of
July, accompanied by a loud report similar to the discharge
of heavy ordnance.           _
    On the morning of Sunda         the 8th of August,    a smart
shock of an earthquake was       fellt'
                                   at Comrie, Perthshire, and its
neighbourhOOd. Some houses were perceived to shake, and <U+FB01>re
irons 8w. were overturned, but no serious mischief was done.
The noise heard has been compared to that caused by heavy  a
waggon rolled rapidly over a paved causeway.
    On the 18th of August, a shock was felt at Harderwyck, in
Guelderland.     It proceeded in       south-west direction, and
                                           a
the noise accompanying    it   resembled that of several loaded
waggons in rapid motion.       In some houses the doors suddenly
<U+FB02>ew open, and in others the inmates thought the roofs were
coming down.       Twenty soldiers, who were sleeping on the
grass in a plantation near the place, were roused from their
slumbers, and much alarmed by the noise and the tremor of
 the earth.                     ---——
s1a n. navr’s IMPROVED COPPER SHEATHING, AND DR. TIARKs’s
                  TRIGONOMETRICAL suavnys.              ,
    We laid before our readers in our number for July, Sir
 Humphry Davy’s paper on the means for preventing the cor
 rosion of the copper sheathing of ships.    Since that paper was
 read before the learned Society of which he       president, his
                                                    is
 discovery has been put to the test of experience;
    Sir Humphry has just returned from voyage to Norway.
                                                a
 During the months of July and August he was engaged        inpur
 suing various philosophical researches, for which the Admiralty
 granted him the use of the C‘omet steam—boat.     He has as_cer~
    Vol. 64. N0. 317. Sept. 1824.       G       g           tamed

 234        Triangulation.—E.rperiment       by M. Da’bm‘einer.
 tained that his principle of protecting the copper sheathing of
  ships by the contact of 1-200dth of iron, is perfectly success
 ful, even in the most rapid sailing and in the rouvhest sea;
  and Dr. Tiarks, by direction of the Board of Longitude, has
  connected, by chronometrical observations, the tri onometri
  cal surveys of Denmark and Hanover with that 0 England ;
  so that the triangulation of a great part of Europe may be now
  said to form one system, M. Arago and Captain 'Kater having
  two years ago connected the surveys of England and France
  by observations between Calais and Dover.            In the course of
  this last expedition to the North Seas, the longitude of the
  Naze of Norway, a point of great importance in navi tion,
  has been accurately ascertained, and some other usefu data
 for correcting the nautical maps of Europe gained.
  CONVERSION OF THE OXALATE AND FORMIATE OF AMMONIA
          INTO HYDRO-CYANIC ACID: BY M. DEBEREINER
      Professor Dcebereiner has proved by experiment the ex
  istence of a phaanomenon whose possibility he had inferred
  from calculation.      This phaenomenon is the conversion of the
  oxalate of ammonia (NH3+POS) into cyanogene and water
  (CN+"HO).          If this salt is mixt with oxalate of manganese,
  and heated with a spirit lamp in a glass tube closed at one
  end, we obtain, besides carbonic oxide and carbonate of ammo
  nia, water and cyanogene ; but the cyanogene is speedily con
  verted, by the action of the carbonate of ammonia and the
  water, into hydro-cyanic acid.
      The formiate of ammonia (NH3+ COSH) decomposed in a
  glass retort is also converted into hydro-cyanic acid and water
   (CNH+3HO).—-(Repert.f12'r           die Pharm. vol. xv. p. 424-.)
            ON THE TOTAL ABSENCE       or   WASPS THIS SEASON.
     To  tlze Editors qft/ze Philosophical    Magazine and Jaurnal.     I
      Gentlemen,—Among the many curious and at present un
  explained circumstances in the natural history of insects, we
  may consider the total absence of particular tribes in certain
  seasons, while in others they appear at their wonted‘ time in
  vast and unusual numbers.          Wasps in this district have of- late
   a<U+FB01>‘brded a striking example of this irregularity.         For many
  years past these troublesome insects have been very numerous
  in the early part of the autumn.        They usually appear in Au
. gust,
         vbecome   Very  plentiful  in September,    and disappear by
  degrees in October.        Towards the close of the summer 1821,
  they were so numerous as to become quite a pest; during
   September every window was full of      '
                                               them, and several thou
                                                                  sands

               Absence   qf Wasps.-—~Cure  jbr  Glanders.         285
sands of nests were destroyed-in the surrounding neighbour
hood.     Hornets were likewise more common than usual. In
1822 the wasps again appeared at the usual time, but in no
very prodigious quantities.       Last year both wasps and hornets
were again plentiful.       The country abounded with them far
and wide, and- as usual a great many nests were destroyed.
This present season has not produced above one single wasp,
at least as far as m observations have extended.              Havin
travelled during the ast fortnight on the continent,        I noticed
the same total absence of wasps and hornets. .A sin he in
stance occurred of a wasp entering the carriage in w ich'I
was travelling in Flanders, which was noticed as a curiosity,
no others having been seen.         On my return     I found that not
a single wasp had as yet been seen here.           Whether or no the
same scarcity of insects usually so troublesome at this time
has been observed in remote countries,       I am unable to say; but
the observations of your correspondents in different parts of
Europe would be interestin : for there is an old saying that
plenty 'of wasps indicates p enty of fruit; and this has cer
tainl been a very bad year for most sorts of fruit both in the
 British Isles and on the Continent, at least in France, Flan
ders, and the more temperate parts of it. I could relate si
milar failures in the expected appearance of other sorts of in
 sects in particular seasons, if it were necessary. The cause of
                                                                       '
their absence is curious.       Are they gone elsewhere?       Or do
 wasps sometimes remain dormant over a whole season, or,
what is more robable, are they obnoxious to some epidemi
 cal distemper        I  have noticed the failure of bees in some
 years,  when   whole   hives of them have been found dead on the
   round without any apparent cause.
    Hart<U+FB01>eld, East Grinstead,            Yours,  8m,          T, F,
         Sept. 20, 1824.
     RS. It   may be remarked that ants, and also the whole tribe
 of limaceous reptiles, have been very numerous and destruc
 tive all this season.
                CURE FOR THE CONTAGIOUS        GLANDERS.
     Mr. Sewel, Assistant Professor of the Veterinary College,
 Camden Town, well known                       for his happy _disco
                                    especially
 very of curing in many cases, and in a1 relieving, that hitherto
 irremediable disease the foundered <U+FB02>eet of horses by excismn of
 nerve, has been equally fortunate in another hitherto incurable
  disease, the contagious glanders. For this formidable malady
 he has found a remedy in the use of sulphate of copper given
 in the form of bolus or ball daily for several weeks.             The
 dose was one to two ounces        of sulphate  of copper.
                                  Gg2                          vIThe

2'36               Tame Saab—Gooseberry Plant.
    The Committee of the Veterinary College, duly sensible of
the value of Mr. Sewel’s discoveries, have already voted him
their thanks, with a handsome augmentation of his salary,
and a promise of further rewards.
       LOCAL causes or CARIOUS TEETH AND ODONTALGIA.
    It has been lately remarked that caries and pain of the
teeth prevail locally, more or less in different districts: about
 East Grinstead, Tunbridge Wells, Hart<U+FB01>eld, and all that part
 of Sussex, it is particularly common, scarcely any person above
 30 having many sound teeth, while in other places this malady
 is very rare.    T 0 what is this to be ascribed?
                         DOMESTICATED SEAL.
    On Friday the 13th of                 Mr, Peter Cooper, salmon
 <U+FB01>sher, of Gavan (on the Cly   August,
                                    e , cau ht a <U+FB01>ne young seal in
 one of his nets.    He took it home wi§h great care, and put it
 into a large tub full of water.      At <U+FB01>rst it was very backward
 to feed, ,and afraid of the people who went to see it.         By de
grees it acquired more con<U+FB01>dence, and is now apparently
reconciled to its con<U+FB01>nement.        It frequently leaves the tub to
frolic about in its own awkward way. It is most attached to
 Mr. Cooper: it follows him constantly while in the house, and
is fond of feeding from his hand—Edinburgh Observer.
        -        REMARKABLE      GOOSEBERRY     PLANT.
    Mr. Thomas Ayres, of Du<U+FB02>ield, near Derby, communicated
 to the meeting, on the 27th of August 1821, a description of
a remarkably lar e gooseberry plant growing at Du<U+FB01>ield, and
 of two others in t e arden at Overton Hall. That at Dui<U+FB01>eld
is in the garden of       r. William Bates, a market gardener; it       ~
is planted on the east side of a steep hill, the substratum of the
$011 being a hard grit stone.         It is ascertained to have been
planted at least forty-six years; the branches extend to
twelve yards in circumference, and have produced several peeks
of fruit annually for these last thirty ears.        It is usually ma
nured with soap suds and the drainlngs from the dung-hill.
 The two others in the garden at Overton Hall, near Chester
<U+FB01>eld, the seat of the late Sir Jos h Banks, are both nearly of
the same size.       The younger p ant is trained to a building,
the north and west sides of which it has entirely covered ; It
was planted thirty years ago.       It measures <U+FB01>fty-three feet four
inches from one extremity to the other, and yields on an
average from four to <U+FB01>ve pecks of fruit annually.          The other,
whose a e is not ascertained, is planted against a north wall;
it exten s <U+FB01>fty-four feet, and is now beginning to decay. The
                                                                   soil

          Early Celery—Mr. Veall in reply        to Mr. Squire.         237
  soil in which these grow is a brown or hazel coloured light
 loam.     Mr. Ayres was not able to ascertain the name of the
 variety in the garden at Du<U+FB01>ield; those at Overton are said to
  be the Champagne.-— Trans. of Hortic. Soc. vol. v. p. 490.
                METHOD OF GROWING EARLY CELERY.
     Mr. John Anderson, Gardener to the Earl of Essex at
 Cassiobur Y, communicated in a letter to the Secretary, dated
 the 5th of November, his method of growing early celery.
  He forms in the ground a trench six feet wide and one foot
 deep ; into this he puts six inches of rotten dung mixed with
 a little road grit, and mixes the compost well with the soil by
 digging it together; the celery is then planted in cross rows
 six inches apart, and eighteen inches from row to row; as the
 plants advance they are earthed across the trench.                 By this
 means a much larger quantity of cele             can be grown in the
 same space of ground than in the usua way; but the method
 is only applicable to early celery, for late crops so grown
 would be liable to rot and perish—Trans. of Hortic. Soc.
 vol. v. p. 492.
 MR.-  VEALL ON THE QUANTITY OF RAIN AND ON THE HEIGHT
      OF THE BAROMETER IN MAY, IN REPLY TO ME. SQUIRE.
         [For Dr. Barney’s remarks on the same subjects see p. 208.]
     Mr. Squire of               having noticed the              disparity
 in the quantity of Epping
                       rain allen at Gosport and great     oston, as ex
pressed in the Meteorological Table for the month of May,
 wishes to have some account of the instruments                I use, and
likewise the locality of their situation.
                                          I
    In compliance with his request have to inform him, that
my rain       auge is of the construction recommended by Dr.
 Burney ongosport. It stands in an open situation in a garden:
the up er rim of the gauge stands exactly 18 inches from the
   roun . If any rain, in the course of the 24 hours,            I   note it
down at g past 8 every morning.            This instrument formerly
belonged to the late President of the Royal Society.
    The barometer is a common one and hangs constantly in a
 countin -house. The word “ Fair” on the face of it is 6 feet 6
inches      om the ground; maker’s name, Dollond, London;
the time of observation 15 past 8 A.M. Instruments, if made
with the greatest care, will however di<U+FB02>'er more or less. .
    Certainly the quantity of rain fallen at Boston during the
days alluded to was nothing extraordinary; and indeed 1n no
part of i this summer have we been here much incommoded           ’
with wet.                                     -
                                                      SAMUEL VEALL.

238            Calendar qulora, Fauna, and Pomona.
               PRETENDED FOSSIL MAN AND HORSE.
    Last year we had our mermaid: it is now the turn of our
neighbours.—-An        attempt has been made to impose on the
public    credulity at   Paris, by the exhibition of the pretended
fossil remains of an ante-diluvian man and horse. M. Barruel,
one of the dupes by whom it was at <U+FB01>rst sanctioned, now keeps
silence, and neither defends nor disavows his original opinion.
M. Huot has discussed the questions arising from the inspec
                                                                  “ Notice
tion of these stony masses, in a pamphlet, intitled
géologique sur le pretendufossile
                                        humain, trouve' pres    de  Moret,
au lieu dit le Long-Rocker (Seine et Marne).”
                    LEARNED socm'rms AT CAEN.
    A  Society of Antiquaries of Normandy has just been esta
blished at Caen, where there is also a Linnaean Society for the
 study of natural history.
                                LECTURES.
    On Monday, October         11th,  Dr. Pearson’s Medical Lectures,
 and on Tuesday,October       5th,    Mr. Brande’s Chemical Lectures,
 will commence, at 9 o’clock        in the  morning, at No.9, George
 street, Hanover-square.
 Calendar    of Flora, Fauna, and Pomona, at Hart/’ieZd in          Sussex,
              continued from August       H   to September 14-.
     Aug. Lia—Swifts (Ifirundines apodes) still very numerous,
 whirling round in a'érial gyrations and screaming. The small
 meteors called falling stars very common this evening.
     Aug. 19.-—The last Swift seen: these birds have been mi
 grating ever since the 14th, and are now all gone.              Showery.
     Aug.  22.—The     Sun<U+FB02>ower      (Helianthus   annuus)  is in <U+FB02>ower in
 a neighbour’s garden: with me this plant has failed, the young
 plants, to ether with many China Asters and African Mari
   olds, having been devoured by the numerous vermin that
 gave swarmed this season in unwonted numbers.
     Aug. 28.—Weather _hot with variable breezes.
     Sept. 3.-We have as yet seen no wasps: it is therefore
 probable there will be none this year.              In 1821 they were
 particularly numerous, several hundreds of nests having been
 destroyed in one week; and for the last four or <U+FB01>ve years they
 have been very plenti<U+FB01>ll from the end (if August through Sep
 tember.          ,                                       v            _
     Sept. 4a—- Weather cooler and showery.              I   travelled to
 Dover, and noticed swallows and martins to be very numerous.
     Sept. 5.--Crossed     the Channel to Calais; weather <U+FB01>ne: a
                     ‘
                                                               remarkable

                            Lz'st  qf New Patents.                             >239
 remarkable swell of the sea without wind occurred about noon;
 it was followed by          a gale from the west, of which such a
 phenomenon was considered to be a certain prognostic as
 long ago as the time of Aratus.
     Sept. 6. —- Ciclzorz'um Intybus and Papaver Rhazas by the
 roadsides going to St. Omers.
     Sept. 7.—I noticed the extreme scarcity of plants in <U+FB02>ower
 all the way to Douay.            Fine moonlight night.
     Sept. 8.—Proceeding from Douay to Valenciennes and
 Mons, I had occasiOn to notice the greater luxuriance of Ive
 getation, particularly of trees, when              I  entered the Flemish
 territory.     The horses and cattle in general, too, are larger
 than those of France.
     Sept. 9.—~Travelled to Tournay: weather <U+FB01>ne.
     Sept. lO.—-Weather very <U+FB01>ne with light breezes.                      I    saw
 the Crepz's Meluni in <U+FB02>ower in a ditch between Tournay and
 Courtray. We passed through Ypres, and slept at Dunkerque.
 The hops seemed very <U+FB01>ne and abundant in Flanders this
 year". China Asters, African Marigolds and Michaelmas Daisy
 in <U+FB02>ower in various places.
     Sept. 11.—-Violent gale from the SW.                  The packet how
 ever sailed from Calais.
     Sept. 12.—High wind, rainy morning and fair evening. The
 wind fell at ni 'ht and got more westward, and                   I  distinctly
 saw the South        oreland light-houses from the pier at Calais.
     Sept. 18.—_Fine day, but a stiff breeze: slept at Dover.
     Sept. 14.-—-At Hartwell        I found Crocus autumnalz's in <U+FB02>ower
 in abundance. Nasturtium still abundant. Stocks and many
                                                                           '
 other <U+FB02>owers still ornament the gardens.
     Througllout all France, I learn that this has been as bad a
  '
fruit year as in England; the same 'is the case in Belgium.                  '
 Cholera and other autumnal complaints prevail much.
                                   -————                       T. Foas'rnn.        ,
                          Lrs'r'or NEW PATENTS.
    To‘ John Vallance, of Brighton, Sussex, esquire, for his improved method
 or methods of abstracting or carrying off the caloric of <U+FB02>uidity from any
congealing water (or it may be other liquids).        Also an improved method
 or methods of producing intense cold.        Also a method or methods of ap
plying this invention so as to make it available to purposes with reference
to which temperatures about or below the freezmg point, may be rendered
 productive of advantageous e<U+FB02>'ects, whether medical, chemical, or mechani
cal.—Dated 28th August 1824.—6 months allowed to enrol speci<U+FB01>cation.
    To James Neville, of High-street, Southwark, Surry, engineer; and
 William Busk, of Broad-street, London, esquire, for certain improvements
in             ships, boats, or other vessels or <U+FB02>oating bodies.—16th Sept.—
    propzlling
6 mont    s.                                ‘- '
    " Last year we found the hops as scarce and bad at Poperingue and in
the' neighbourhood of Ypres as they were in KEIIL—EDIT.
                                                                A METEORO

                                                                                                                   k
A                                                                                          the Observation:                   0f      Dr.      BURNEY        at                        Mr.        CARY    in London,       and    Mr.    VEALL      at Boston.
 METEOROLOGICAL                                    TABLE:                  comprising                                                                               Gosporf,
                                                                               11.11.                       CLouns.                                                   Thermometer-l                        RM,“
            Gosrom,at                 half-past       Eight       o'Clock,                                                                            Height of
                                                                                                                                                                in                                                                      WEATHER.
                                              k               _                                                                    _               Barometer,
                            G     d                h.                                                     _                                                           m—                   S
                                       o-                  g                             s-g           E           i            2                   Inches, &c.                  __'     is“
    Daysof                  "1°21              f;                                  e              .
                                                                     '6 .5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    "
                                                                               ‘ a jag
           ‘                 20
                             *-                   53%:                              “     Eg§§g33.'§i——géé§<"1:1                        .-.                             -    Q     '     O
    11:33:11.
           .                          ga                   a          g        I;                                                      z                                         5       00$
                                                                                                                                                                                                     2‘ g 5       c B £1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           London.              Boston.
                            £2                                                                                                                                         0:2
                                       64    52-20         59        NE.                                                              1...         30-42    30-00      010760            59                                Cloudy       Cloudy
Aug-ww<U+FB01>                     30-37                                                                                 1
                                                                                                          1 1     1                                                    606760            61                                Fair         Fine
               ‘27          30-29      62                  60        NE.                          ..                                               30-30    29-98
                                                                                                                                                                       007061            64-5                              Fair         Fine
               28           30-05      64                  57         E.        055                                                                30-05    2973
                                                                                                                                                                       657966            63                                Fair         Fine
               29           2994       68     .....    .   58        'E.                                  1 1                  1mm;                2998     2965
                                                                                         — .
                                                                                                          1                    1...                                    007665            025                               Fair         Cloudy           rain,
               30           29-93      67              .   65         E.                                          1...                             29-95    2955                                                                                 {with
      )1                                                                                                  11                   1...                30-02    2952       657064            625                        -02    Fair         Cloudy,  llght‘ atnt.
               31           29-96      67     ......       64        NE.           -55
                                                                                                                                                            2960       668069            64                                Fair         Fine. Th.3p.m.81'5
    Sept.                   3004       70    52-60         57        SE.                                            _____                          30-10
                1 2                                                                                       1                                                                                                                Fair         Fine. 111.311.171.84
                            30-08      69     ......       62        E.                                                                            30-12    29-55      68;7969_70
                                                                                                                                             1                                                           0-00              Cloudy       Fine. Th.3p.m.82
                            30-04      67     ......       60       NE.            '36                     1-1      _____ ,‘1                      30-05    29-50
                                                                                                                                                                       667768i67                                           Fair         Fine, thunder
                                              ......       61       NW.                                           1...1                            29-95    29-35      667462.645                                   -79                                   p.171.
                            2994       67
                                                                                                                                                            29-36                        58-5                       02     Fair         Fine, rain p.171.
                            29-84      62    5280          59        sW.                                          1.,,‘1                           29-78               60‘6960
                                                                                                                                                                       636960            62                             Showery         Cloudy,   uiunriera
                            2955       65     ......       64        sw.            45                            1...   1-1                       29-55    2907
                                                                                                          1 1 1                                                                              00                     -10 Showcry         Fine      [11.111rum.
                            29-55      62     ......       60        sw.                                          1..                              29-59    29-15
                                                                                                                                                                       00l0760                                                                      rain mm.
                                                                                                                                                                                             61                     '32 Showery         Cloudy,
                                                                                                                                   1 11 1 1 11 1
                            2944       57     ......       68        NW.                                          1...                             29-55    29-05                                               '
      0                                                                                                                                                                60‘6650                                                                        <10.
                                                       .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~10 S1100-er        Cloudy,
               3 456 78 9
                            29-08      00                  0s        sw.           ~30                            1...                             29-75    29-30
                                                                                                                  1                                                    534635561                                                        Fine
                                                                      E                                   1              1
               10
                                                                                                                           llll 1‘ 1               29-86    29-53      536657157                                        Showery
                            29-82      58     ......       69
                                                                                                                                                                                                         280        -06 Showery         Cloudy,   rain Mi.
               11           29-68      62     ......       72         s.                                                                           29-74    29-33      61666061
                                                                                                                   1                                                                                                                    Rain
                                                                                                                                   1 11 11 1 1
               12                      60                             8.                                                 .l1                       29-70    2923       606650    57-5                    ...‘       ~46 Rain
                            29-65            53-20         73                     ~35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -04 Fair            Fine
               13           30-08      01     ......       71        sw.                 ......                    1...;...           1...         30-10    29-70      55l0857158
                                                                                          '020         l          I...l...         l         1     3012     ‘29-64                                                         Cloudy       Fine, brisk wind
               14           30'06      63     ......       64          S.                         ..                                                                   57}6666,6‘2
                                                                                                                  1           1-      1...                             65-7561‘62                                          Fair         Cloudy
               15           30-10      69     ......       70         w.          -40    ......    I...                                            30-17    29-65
     a                                 00                                                ......
                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                  1               1...                             30-22    2990       566960     59                                       Fair         Fine
               16           30-24             ......       66        NE.
                                                                                                                                                                                  6o                                       Fair
               17           30-20      00     ......       04         E.                                         1                                 30-22    29-85      57|6960                                                          il-‘ine
                                                                                                                11                                                               63-5                                      Fair          (Cloudy.    Th.3p.m.
               18           30-09      62     ......       70         E.          -25     1120......                           1...                30-10    2970       60.7160
                                                                                                                                             1 1                                                                           Cloudy       Foggy             [73-5
            19              2997       63    53-20         68         W.                   180                    1...                             29-97    2950       5816660160
                                                                                                                              1                                                  53-5                    0-70       -14    Rain         Rain
            20              29 85      58     ......       81        NW.                 ......                   1...                1...         29-91.   29-50
                                                                                                  1 1 1                            1                                   5216052                                                          Rain
            21              2990       56     ------       69       NW.           ‘94     '055                                     1               30-10    2950       566656    53                                 -45 Showery
                                                                     N.                  ......   1 1 1           1...                                      29-80                                                   ~11 Fair            Cloudy
     Q      22              30-04      57     ------       70                                                                                      30-10              54l6
                                                                                                                                                                            50|6l
       '                                      ......                N‘V-                           l......-                           .            3001     2967       546056,57                                    '58    Fair         Rain a.m.andp.m.
            ‘23             3000       58                  65                        '030......
            24              3004       58                  09        N.              -030          1...                       1    1         1 1   30-10    2975       566255158                                    -14    Stormy        Cloudy
            25
                        ,_3007        £5315
                                       *7 ‘ ""~
                                                           68
                                                                ”
                                                                     N.           30  010
                                                                                -—- ~‘M
                                                                                                  l
                                                                                                  l1......
                                                                                              “11—51::
                                                                                                                                   l
                                                                                                                                   l            29‘99
                                                                                                                                               0...»:
                                                                                                                                                            ‘29'70
                                                                                                                                                            3TI'
                                                                                                                                                                       565745156
                                                                                                                                                                       ra-mzalrnui                       mm        M,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Showery       Cloudy -

                                 THE
  PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                  AND         J OURNAL.
                  31st    OCTOBER               1824.
XLI.    On the Theories Qf Vegetation       qf Sir J. E. SMITH and
                     M    DU  PETIT-THOUARS.
    T0 theEditors qftlzePlzz'losoplzieal   Magazine and Journal.
      Gentlemen,
     Y   friend Mr. John Lindley has, in your Number for
       August last, given a very clear and comprehensive de
tail of the theory of vegetation proposed by the ingenious
 M. Aubert du Petit-Thouars, which I have there perused for
the <U+FB01>rst time, with peculiar pleasure.       It is highly satisfactory
when the observations and speculations of di<U+FB01>‘erent physioloé
gists con<U+FB01>rm each other, without any communication between
the parties; and     I  cannot but congratulate myself that the
theory of the French philosopher in question, whose high
character    I well know, establishes, in every essential point,
that published in my Introduction to Botany, of which the
<U+FB01>rst edition appeared in 1807.           The old hypothesis of Du
 Hamel and      others,  of the  sap being conve ed through the
woody   <U+FB01>bres,   had   never  satis<U+FB01>ed   me, and  I   ave been accus-  -
tomed, in my earlier Courses of Lectures, to show its insupe
rable deflects. Dr. Darwin, and'especially           Mr. Knight, by
their remarks and experiments, con<U+FB01>rmed by my own 'obser
vations, have long ago convinced me, that the spiral-coated
vessels of plants convey their sap, or blood, into the leaves,
there to be acted upon by air, light and heat, so as to form
secretions of wood, bark, and stud propriz', by the returning
vessels. I believe I <U+FB01>rst suggested, in the above work, that
the supposed vernal <U+FB02>owing ot the sap is altogether an error,
and that there is no running of that <U+FB02>uid along the vessels of
a plant, 'before the leaves open, and then no real circulation;
the discharge of sap from a wounded tree in sprin being no
more than what is caused by the accumulated irrltability .of
the vegetable body during winter.          But I be leave to refer
your readers to the work itself, of which a <U+FB01>fth edition, cor
rected and enlarged, is now printing.
   Mr. Lindley must have read my book, and I should have
Vol. 64-. No. 318. Oct. 1824-.               Hh              expected

        242            Mr. Sturgeon   on Electra-Magnetism.
        expected that he might have recollected so much of           it,
                                                                      at
        least, as to have indicated the points of agreement    between
         my theory and that of M. du Petit-Thouars.      But am very
                                                               I
         sure my young friend has here been guilty of inadvertence
        only, and of no disrespect towards me; any more than in his
        preface to the work of M. Richard on Fruits and Seeds, where
         Mr. Lindley overlooks all that has been done in En land for
         the advancement of botany, and the correction of       innaeus,
.       for 30 or 4-0 years past, particularly through the use that has
        been made of the Linntean herbarium, and the labours of the
        Banksian school, whence all Europe has been enlightened
        and improved in natural science. The arti<U+FB01>cial system of
        Linnaeus has indeed facilitated the acquisition and the diffu
        sion of botanical knowledge; but the chief good which all.
        natural science owes to this philosopher consists in his prin
        ciples of de<U+FB01>nition, description, and nomenclature, as well as
        in the ideas he <U+FB01>rst suggested of natural orders and af<U+FB01>nities,
    '
        always protesting, as he did, against forcing such orders into
        arti<U+FB01>cial systems.
           By the preceding observations     I am far from claiming any
        prici'ity of discovery o'ver M. du Petit-Thouars. Mr. Lindley
        does not <U+FB01>x the date of his works, nor have    I  ever seen them.
        _Ifeel myself suf<U+FB01>ciently honoured by the coincidence of our
        opinions.    His ideas of buds are new ‘to me, and elucidate
        the rest of his theory.  I   should however be cautious in ad
        mitting all his analogies, however ingenious.        Analogy  is a
        treacherous guide in philosophy, and metaphysics are out of
        place in natural science.     It is far easier to speculate inge
        niously, than to observe accurately and reason wisely.
                         Iremain, gentlemen,
                                Your very obedient servant,
'
        Norwich, Sept.   ‘30,
                        1824.                JAMES EDWARD SMITH.
             XLII.   On Electra-Magnetism.    By Mr.   W.     STURGEON.
         i
             To the Editors ofthe Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
               Gentlemen,
                               hitherto recorded in the whole history of
        INelectro-magnetic
            no experiment
                               rotations, do we <U+FB01>nd employed, at the
        same time, both poles of the straight bar magnet.      Hence all
        the rotating phaenomena yet elicited, by employing that mag
        net, are on  y such as obtain  by the reciprocal action of one of
        its poles, and   portion of the conducting wire (under various
                         a
        forms)  joining the copper and zinc sides of the battery. And
             '
                                                                    when
                                                                           Q

              Mr. Sturgeon   0n Electra-Magnetism.            243
when the poles of the magnet or the direction of the force in
the wire is changed, the results of the experiments in every
case appear to be reversed.       And in explanation, these, as
well as every electro-magnetic phaanomenon, are generally con
sidered to proceed from a reciprocal disposition, of the wire
and magnet to place themselves at right angles to each other,
for, when so situated, and at or near the centre of the latter,
nothin      further can be obtained; for both wire and magnet,
when ree to move, will .in this position remain at rest.
    Convinced as it were that the rotations are in different di
rections on the opposite poles when employed singly; it would
seem as if experimenters had been fully persuaded of the im
possibility of obtaining rotations, by bringing into action at
the same time both poles of the above-named magnet; or,
whatever else may have prevented them, we have never' yet
heard of any thing of the kind being attempted.
    By referring the reader to a Postscript in my last paper on
thermo-rotations, and which appeared in your Journal for
April last, it will be there seen that a rotation had been ob
tained under the above circumstances; and that I had at that
time rotated the wire or system of wires in the form of a sphere
around and by the in<U+FB02>uence of both poles of an internal mag
net.
    This experiment, it was observed, <U+FB01>rst suggested itself on
reading Dr. Halley’s theory of terrestrial magnetism, and was
instituted with a view not only to be somewhat imitative of
that philosopher’s hypothesis, but likewise to serve in part to
                                                                  ‘
exhibit the earth’s rotative motion on its axis.
    It is by no means intended from this experiment to assert,
that the rotatory motion of the earth and planets is really
the effect of electro-magnetism, or that the variation of the
compass-needle depends upon the/theory alluded to; but merely             ,
                                                                      ‘
to detail an experimental fact as exhibited by the apparatus
 in its present imperfect state, the mechanism of which con
 <U+FB01>nes the experiment greatly within the limits it might have
been extended to.       However, it already proves that a galva
nized sphere, when free to move and containing within it a
 magnetic nucleus or kernel, will rotate by the influence of that
 central magnet; and that also, were the magnet free to move,
a probability is manifested that it would rotate at the same
 time, 2'. e. they would both rotate at the same time by the reci
 procal action of each other.
                                                                 '
    Having during my leisure hours been busily employed in
<U+FB01>tting up an apparatus for other new experiments, have not,
                                                     I
till now, had an opportunity to describe that by which this
is  made.      The experiment, however, has been witnessed du-'
         -                      H   h   2                     ring

244-            Mr. Sturgeon on Electra-Magnetism.
rin   that time by                 eminent in this branch of philo
sop 1y, and who gentlemen
                       ave uniformly acknowledged it to be an
imposing and pleasing spectacle.         It is now offered, with some
others which it is presumed are the <U+FB01>rst of the kind, and which
possibly may not be thought uninteresting to some of your
readers.                                         \
                     Description ofthe Apparatus.
    Fig. 1 (Pl. II.) nNn, sSs, a brass cylindrical tube contain
ing seven bar magnets, each of which is eight inches long.
These m nets are placed in a frame in the lower part of the
cylinder, t e upper end of which being moveable can be taken
off at any time to change their position for the purpose of
varying the experiment.         Fig. 2 is a transverse'
                                                        section of the
cylinder   with  its magnets.
    As the like poles of the m nets are all placed in the same
end of the who when used, t e latter with its contents may
be considered as a compound cylindrical magnet. At the
lower end S of the cylinder is a stout brass stud T, which
stands <U+FB01>rm in a socket on the top of the foot A. Around this
 socket is a cell for the purpose of holding quicksilver.         An
other cell eee <U+FB01>ts gently on the outside of the cylinder, and is
suSpended over its top part by a stout brass wire to w, the ex
 tremities of which communicate with the mercury in the cell
 éee; another connecting wire                communicates with the
mercury in both cells.         Cc Cc is a copper vessel made in
the form of an Ampere’s rotating cylinder, seven inches in
diameter; in this vessel is placed a cylinder of zinc, as repre
 sented by the dotted lines zz.       On the outer rim, and at 90°
 from each other, are soldered four brass studs; to the ex
tremities of which are soldered two brass wire circles (one
 only of which is shown in the <U+FB01>gure) that cross each other at
right angles in the ole P; from which junction descends a
pivot that runs in a ole made to receive it in the upper part
of the connecting wire row. The two circles are each 912: inches
diameter, and form two reat circles of the sphere they are
intended to represent.       T 1e lower parts of thecircles are left
open    and  the   points of  the wires bent downwards till they
come in contact with the mercury in the lower cell. Two
Other wires proceed from the upper edge of the zinc cylinder,
and terminate in the mercury in the upper cell eee, as shown
in the figure.                          ‘
 .. Things being thus arran ed,        when dilute acid is poured
into the copper vessel, the ga vanic action takes place through
out every part of the great circles which represent the sphere ;‘
ascending from the copper in the upper hemisphere  '
                                                            HH from
                                                                   the

             Mr. Sturgeon        on Electra-Magnetism.                   245'
the equator EE to the pole P; and descending in the lower
hemisphere lzh from the e uator to the mercury in the lower
cell, which is the place of t e other pole of the sphere. From
the poles it is transmitted to the mercury in the upper cell eee,
by the conducting wires raw and          ff; and both circuits
completed by the wires from the zinc cylinder terminating in
                                                                  are
this cell.    Thus two alvanic circuits are formed by one ap-~
paratus; and hence liiewise is solved the apparent anomalous
phenomena of galvanized wires or cylinders rotating in dif
ferent directions on the opposite poles of a magnet.             This
delusive appearance is completely relative, and similar to our
notions of up and down,- but with respect to the ma et, and
in reality, the rotation is the same on ‘both poles:             Foli-
                                                               exam
ple, let any person turn <U+FB01>rst towards the north, and then
towards the south; by observing the heavenly bodies, they
would appear to revolve to the left in the former, and to the
right in the latter case; yet the rotative motion of the earth.
(which  is   the cause of their apparent motion)            is
                                                          constantly.
the same way.        In this experiment both poles of the magnet
are acted on at the same time by similar galvanized wires, and
the machine rotates by the joint in<U+FB02>uence of the former on the
excited wires of the latter. Owing, however, to the weight and
size of the machine, the rotation        but slow at the be innin .
                                        is
of the experiment, but soon acquires considerable veloclty, an
 the momentum, added to the generating force, keeps            in mo
                                                                 it
tion for a length of time.
    Well aware of the dif<U+FB01>culties that would arise at the pre
 sentday in any endeavour to support an hypothesis of the earth’s
 being hollow, and containing within         a spherical magnet, as
                                              it
 was the opinion of Dr. Halley,    l have con<U+FB01>ned myself to a de
 tail of the experiment only, without obtruding either remark
 or opinion.     The success of this experiment, however, so sa
 tisfactorily con<U+FB01>rmed my expectations that the principle upon
 which it   was made could hardly fail to intimate its applicabi
 lity to others of a like nature; one of which being intimately
 connected with'the one      I have just described, this may per
 haps   be  considered  no  improper place for its detail.
     The experiment for rotatin the magnet on its axis,                  it   is
 well known, was <U+FB01>rst made by          Ampere; but the manner in
 which as yet has been exhibited, like all the other similar ex
              it
 periments, shows the action on one half only of the magnet at
 one time ;—and by reversing the poles (every                 else re
 maining as before)     itappears to rotate in         thing irection.
                                                 contrary
                                                   a
 I     hope, however, that have satisfactorily proved that this
                             I
 apparent contrariety of rotation         merely relative, and that
                                         is
 the real motion   is 'the same     both cases.
                                   in                  If
                                                      possible, how
                                                                         ever,

24-6          Mr. Sturgeon       0n Electra-Magnetism.   _
ever, the experiment    Iam about to describe will con<U+FB01>rm this
property in a more satisfactory manner.                  _
The rotation of the magnet on its axis by subjecting both poles
  at the same time to the iii/[acme of similar electric currents.
    Fig. 3 is a representation of the apparatus; and, with the
exception of the magnet NS, is entirely of brass-work.          A is
a round foot, from which rise the two cheeks BB, for the
purpose of supporting the annular cell q holding quicksilver;
and likewise the cross piece R, which is screwed tight down by
the knobs his, and thus the apparatus is kept <U+FB01>rm and steady.v
The magnet passes through the opening in the centre of the
cell q, and communicates with the mercury there contained
by means of a wire soldered to its equator, and at right angles
to its axis.    The poles are furnished with pivots; the lower
of which at S runs in a small cup on the top of the foot A;
and the upper one at N runs in the lower extremity of a screw
nail passin through the cross piece R, and whose head is
made into t e form of a cup for holding mercury.            ZC are
two wires. proceeding respectively from the zinc and copper
side of a battery: the former communicating with the mer
cury in the cell q, and consequently with the equator of the
magnet; the latter communicates with the upper pole N in
the manner shown in the <U+FB01>gure.         Thus, one half of the mag
net forms part of the galvanic circuit.      The other half, from
its equator to the lower pole S, forms likewise part of another
like galvanic circuit, by means of the wires Z’ (1' which pro
ceed respectively from the zinc and copper side of another
battery, and communicate with the equator and pole in the
same manner as the former.        By subjecting the magnet in this
manner to the in<U+FB02>uence of like electric currents, it is rotated
with an astonishing velocity, but which may in a moment be
retarded by interrupting the circuit of either battery; and
again accelerated by renewing the contact.        This variation of
the experiment proves to demonstration the utility of employ
ing both poles at the same time, and is another proof of the
rotations on opposite poles, in the old experiments, bein
merely relative; for the poles of the magnet are here bot<U+FB01>
connected with the copper side, and the equator with the zinc
side of the respective batteries.      Another advantage in the
manner of making this experiment        is,
                                          that the glass vessel and
mercury for <U+FB02>oating the magnet are here not used; therefore
the whole of the magnet     is in view; whereas in the old mode
on]     a small portion of the m net, about the thickness of a
qui was visible above the surlace of the mercury.
       l,                                                  It can be
no small grati<U+FB01>cation to those who are in the habit of giving
      '
                                                             public

              ,  Mr. Sturgeon 011EleetroéMagnetism.       _   '247
,public lectures, to be enabled to exhibit this experiment to the
 satisfaction of a large audience; for as the lecturer can now
have his rotating magnet of almost any size he pleases, and
 likewise of any <U+FB01>gure, this interesting experiment may be
 viewed from the remotest part of the lecture-room.       Another
 inconvenience I have almost entirely removed both in making
 this and every other electro-magnetic experiment.        My bat
 teries are of such a ‘peculiar construction as not to annoy
 the experimenter by the escape of hydrogen; neither is the
 expense of makin        the experiments more than one-fortieth
 of any other me od 'yet made public; yet the apparatus in
 general is of large dimensions; for instance, the sphere in
 the former experiment is 9—2Linches diameter; and the mag
 ‘net in the latter is 8 inches long.
     I should now proceed to the description of other new ex
 periments, were I not con<U+FB01>dent that I have already intruded
 upon your valuable pages.        That task must therefore be de—
 ferred for the present.      Some of the minor of those experi
 ments are,—-The rotation of the cylinder by the in<U+FB02>uence of an
 external magnet;—Ampére’s cylinders rotated independent of
  each other’s weight ;—Therrno-rotation on both poles of the.
 magnet ;—Electro-magnetic bells, &c.               .
     In summing up the results of the two detailed experiments,
  it appears from the <U+FB01>rst,—            ..
                                                        >
      That similar electrized wires rotate in the same direction
  round both poles of the magnet;
      That both the copper and zinc cylinders are here'carried’     ,
  round the m net in the same direction;
     That a sp ere conducting, similar currents of electricity
  from its equator to its poles, will rotate by the in<U+FB02>uence of an i
  internal magnet.
     And from the second it is evident that, had the magnet in
  the <U+FB01>rst experiment been free to move, it would likewise have
  rotated at the same time with the sphere containing it. This
  property would seem somewhat conformable to the opinion
  of Halley, who supposed the earth to contain a spherical mag
  net, which rotated within ’the shell that we inhabit.       And,
  what is more fortunate to the analog , it is proved by the ex-     _
  periments that when the electric currents are of the same kind
  from the equator to the poles of both nucleus and shell, they
  both rotate in the same direction.       The rotation would like
  wise be as e<U+FB01>'ectual, were the magnetic poles removed to some
  distance from the axis of motion.            ,
      Another hypothesis mi ht be advanced to account for the
   rotatory motion of the cart , and which would not require the
   supposition of its being hollow; but only to be regarded
                                                               ass
                                                             gran

L
24-8            Mr. Sturgeon       on Electra-Magnetism.
         natural magnet, possessing        capacity for conducting
                                           a
grand
I  e electric <U+FB02>uid.   The former of those properties is admitted
b y almost every writer on magnetics; and the latter it is pre
sumed will be as readily conceded.
    From the second experiment we see the magnet rotate on
its axis by the in<U+FB02>uence of electric currents from its equator
to its poles. Had the magnet been a sphere instead of a bar,
it might have represented the earth or planet more
but its <U+FB01>gure, it is presumed, can make no difference    perfectly;
                                                             in t e
result of the eXperiment.
   It is now well known that electricity can be excited by heat,
and the success of thermo rotations in the manner that       I  ob
tain them would, if formed into a sphere, depend upon the
difference of temperature between the equator and poles. This
property is obviously analogous to the natural state of the
earth; for the sun exerting his greatest in<U+FB02>uence a few de
grees only on each side of the equator, the polar regions are
constantly kept at a very low temperature; so much so, that
every attempt yet made to explore them has been rendered
abortive in consequence of a prevailing intensity of cold;
 whilst the equatorial parts, it is well known, are as constantly
kept in the other extreme. That thunder and lightning are
by far more prevalent in the torrid than in the frigid zones, is
a fact that cannot be denied; and that this difference of elec
trical phaenomena is principally caused by the superior action
of the sun in those parts, appears more than probable. Hence
it may be fairl concluded, that the action of the sun either
partly or who] y governs the general electrical phaenomena of
nature; and, either by producing or exciting this wonderful
agency in the equatorial regions, dispenses its in<U+FB02>uence from
thence to the poles of the earth.
   Another circumstance that would be something in favour
of the hypothesis   is,that    magnetic body free to move in any
                               a
direction, (a   sphere suspended in space, for instance,) and
having currents of electricity passing over its surface to its
poles, would not only rotate, but would likewise maintain its
parallelism.    This may be easily demonstrated upon the prin
ciples shown in Professor Barlow’s
                                         “ Magnetic Attractions,”
second edition, p. 24-9,  under   the head  Electra-magnetism.
   Let NZC'Z', <U+FB01>g.        4,represent the magnetic sphere. NS
its poles. Likewise suppose ZC and Z'C’ to proceed from
the zinc and copper sides of two batteries of equal power.
Then the electric force in that part of the magnet between
Z  and C, or in the northern hemisphere, will tend to carry
the pole N towards 12. And the electric force in the southern
hemisphere between Z' and C' will at the same time have a
                                                                 like

 On the SmenthSection ofBessel’s Astronomical Observations.            249
 like tendency to carry the same pole N towards 11'. But the
 pole N being acted on by the two equal and contrar forces,
 can have no tendency to either of these points, therefgre must
 of necessity remain in its original position.
    That pole of the magnet which possesses the same kind of
magnetism as the north magnetic pole of our globe, being new
properly called north; when the zinc sides of the batteries are
applied at the equator, the magnet rotates from east to west .
or, in the same direction as the earth.
    Having pointed out these particulars, most of which are
facts deducible from experiment, there can appear no ex
treme improbability that most of the phaenomena which are
observed to obtain with the heavenly bodies in our system,
are physically produced by the powerful agency of electricity.
And experiments may, in my humble opinion, be instituted,
that would satisfactorily exhibit the whole; for we have al
ready seen that rotation and parallelism are producible by
electro- ma netism ; and the thermo experiments serve to
prove that       the
                  in<U+FB02>uence of the sun may be su<U+FB02>icient to excite
continual electricity.     Hence magnetic bodies placed within
its in<U+FB02>uence may not only rotate and keep their axes parallel,
but probably may likewise obey every other observed astro
nomical law with regular mathematical precision.
                 I  am, gentlemen,
                              Your most obedient servant,
Artillery-Place, Woolwich, Aug. 1824.          WM. STURGEON.
   XLIII.   Introduction to the Seventh Section            of   BESSEL’S
                    Astronomical Observations. _
                         [Continued from p.   178.]
            5.    Observations   of the Circumpolar Stars.
          to enable us to judge what agreement in the results
INoforder
     observations has been produced by the corrections now
 investigated, and what remains to be done,       haVe calculated
                                                      I
 the polar distances of 59 circumpolar stars for 1820, from all
 observations made from the time of putting up the instrument
 to the end of 1821.    This calculation has been made with the
 application of the refraction noted in the journals; but the se
 cond column of the following table contains the correction
          from the thermometrical factor; the third the correc
 tions or the errors of the division; the fourth the effect of
 arising
 <U+FB02>exure and the last the zenith distance resulting from the ap
       ;
 plication of all these corrections. The observations made in
'each position 5f the circle are given separately.
    Vol. 64. No. 818. Oct. 1824.                      Ii     East

                                                    EAST.                                                                                           WEST.
                                                                                                                                                                                         098
                                                                       Errors      Corr        c-    Cor-                      Calcu-              Err                      -       'r
                                   calmlated                Thermo'                           For                                       Thermo'
                                                                          of      tions             rected    o' Z             lated                     a?“   taxed);          rgged
                            d2     RD           1820-        men"-                                  P.                                   meter-
                                                                      Division.   Flexure.               D.                     P. D.             Division.    Flexure.          P. D.
                  i                    o        .              u                          H           //                          n         n            4,           .1           //
                                                      n                  11
 a                          10    51       22       41°61   —0'01     —0°33       +0°99             42'26     20               40‘56    +0'03     +0'20            +0‘91        41°70
         Lyrae
6        Cygni
                             7    51       21       2128    +0'11         0°33        0°99          22°05                      19'39    +0'l2        0'20            0°91       20'62
         Bootis             12    50       53       58°87   +0'03         0°34        0°98          59°54                      57'84    +0'02        0°20            0'90       58'96
'y n sHerculis              12    50       43       48°19   +0'06         0°34        0'98          48°89                      45°60    _0°04        0°20            0'90       46°66
      Persei                ll    50       31       12°35   _0'12         0'34        0‘97          12°86                      12°06    --0'10       0°20            0°89       13'05
 yCygni
                             9    50       18       52°83   +0'10         0°35        0'97          53°55                      51'73    +0°13        0°20            0°89       5295
{3  Persei                  11    49       44       44°44   _0'03         0°35        0°96          45°02                      43°40    +0°06        0‘19            0°88       44°53
                                            1
                                                                                                               9 8 8 9 9 9 6                                                             uoympoqul o;
17                          14    49                13'47   —0°04         0°37        0°94          14°00                      13°10       0°00      0'19            0'86       14°15
      Auriga:
'yAndromedtB
                             9    48       32       21'10   —0°01         0‘37        0'94          21'66     12               20°39    +0°06        0'18            0'85       21°48    211]
22    Auriga:               10    46       27       16°15   _0'08         0°38        0'90          16°59      5               15'60    _0'05        0°17            0°81       16°53
                            23    45       21       30°71   _0°03         0'37        0'88          31'19     22               30°80    _0'04        0'17            0°79       31'72
 aCygni
a                           24    44       11       50°05   _0'06         0°37        0'86          50°48     18               50°23    -0°03        0°16            0'77       51°13
      Aurigae
                            10    41       12       34°71   +0°09         0'34        0°80          35°26                      34°16    +0°11        0°19            0°71       35°17
 IwCygni
a Persei                    11    40       47       18°64   —0'O3         0°33        0°79          19°07
                                                                                                               99              18°38    —0°03        0°20            0°70       19'25
                                  40       11       28'71   +0°O8         0°32        0°78          29°25     13               28'42    +0'11        0°21            0°69       2943
 QCygni
                                                                                                                                                                                         qguaaas uoyaag
                                  39       53       45°47   +0'07        0°32         0°78          46'00                      45'09    +O°10        0°22            0°68       46°09
                   seq.
c c                         737   39       53       18°81   +0‘08        0°32         0'78          19°35
                                                                                                               6 9             17‘98                 0°21            0'68       18°98
                   priBC.                                                                                                               +0'11
11   UI‘SEB                 11    39       47        6'07   +0°01        0°32        0°78            6°54     10                 5'47   +0'03        0°21            0°68        6'39
                   Maj.
     m'
           Cygni
                            5     39       37       44°16   +0'05        0'31        0°77           44'67      9               42°51    +0'03        0'22      \     0'68       43'44
1 3   Lacerta               10    38       40                            0°29                       12°25     10                                     0°25
                                                    11'75   +0'O4                    0'75                                      11'79    +0°06                        0°66       12°76
A'Cygni
                            7     38       38       58°70   +0‘08        0'29        0'75           59'24     13               59'06    +0'11        0'25            0'66       60°08
)1    Draconis              14    38       29       10°08   —O°Ol     —0°29       +0'75             10°53     14                8'84    +0'04'    +025         +0‘66             9‘79

    [3     Draconis              40'32    -0'03        —0'27
                                                                +       0‘73   40'75         41'26     —0'01                +     0'28   +   0'64   42'17
    2O                           54'40    '1'   0'08     0'27           0'73   54'94    12   54'02   “1'         0'1    1         0'28       0'64   55'05
             Cygni
     XXI.        32               6'21          0'05     0'26           0'73    6'73    10    6'10               0‘03             0'28       0'63     7'04
    x                            35'27          0'08     0'26           0'72   35'81    13   34'98
                                                                                                     + +         0'10             0'29       0'68   36'00
           Cygni
            Draconis                            0'08                    0'72   34'85    12   32'68   '1'         0'1    1         0'30       0'63   33'72
    51                           34'31                   0'26
    XX.           '391           12'99          0'08     0'24           0'70   13'53    10   11-75               0'09             0'32       0'61   12'77
                                                                                                     + +                                     0'59   17'15
           Ursw                  15'94          0'00     0'22           0'69   16°41    19   16'22               0'01             0'33
                          Maj.
    -y c
           Draconis              22'46          0'07     0'21           0'68   23'00    11   21'64   '1'         0'10             0'35       0'58   22'67
    XXI.            336          60'84          0'08     0'21           0'68   61'39         58'63   +           0'07             0'35       0'58   59'63
    49       Draconis            46'50          0'08     0'20           0'68   47'06    12   46'01   '1'         0'10             0'35       0'58   47'04
    a Cassiopeia                  4'45          0'02     0'20           0'67    4'90    15    4-07               0'00             0'35       0'58    5'00
    14                           19'05          0'03     0'20           0'67   19'55         17-94               0'07             0'36       0'58   18°95
           Cephei
    33       Cygni               47'93          0'08     0'19           0'66   48'48         46'11
                                                                                                     + +         0'1    1         0'36       0'57   47'65
l   s                                                                                                                                                4'69
                                  5'00          0'05     0'19           0'66    5'52    10    3-71    +          0'05             0'36       0'57
           Cephei
    53       Draconis            40'55          0'07     0'18           0'65   41'09    12   3895                0'10             0'37       0'56   39'98
                                  0'81          0'02     0'16           0'64     1'31   l4    0-01               0'03             0'39       0'54    0'97
           Cephei
    K8     Cephei                18'51          0‘06     0'15           0'63   14'05    12   13-22               0'04             0'39       0'54   14'19
    48       Draconis            l 7'13         0'07     0'15           0'63   17'68    12   15'62   + + + + +   0'09             0'39
                                                                                                                                  0'41
                                                                                                                                             0'54
                                                                                                                                             0'52
                                                                                                                                                    16'64
                                                                                                                                                    55'76
                         Hev.    55'64          0'06     0'13           0'62   56'19    10   54-74               0'09
     2Cephei
    0    Draconis                 4'63          0'03     0'12           0'61    5'15          4-59    — 0'01                      0'42       0'51    5'51
                                                                                                                                                             [5 sJassaH [vagumuonsy wuoymuasqo
    0                            45‘09          0'07     0'12           0'60   45'64    12   44-45   +           0'09             0'42       0'51   45'47
     XX.          222              5'38         0'06    011             0'59    5‘92          3'69    + 0'08                      0'43       0'49    4'69
     10
             Cephei              26'91          0'04     0'1    1       0'58   27'42    12   25-98               0‘04             0'44       0'49   26'95
    <U+FB02>        *                   28'30          0'05     0'08           0'56   28'83    11   28'76               0'05             0'45       0'47   29'73
     66      Draconis            30'01          0'06     0'07           0'56   30'56         29-19               0'08             0'46       0'46   30'19
                                                                                                     + + + +
     a Cephei                    28'60          0'05     0‘06           0'55   29'14    15   27'78               0'02             0'47       0'46   28'73
    v;     Draconis              34'60    +     0'02   —-0'06       +   0'55   35'11    11   32-91    —0'07                 -l-   0'47   +   0'46   34'77          198

                                                    EAST.                                .,                                                    WEST.                                     ZQZ
                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                   ‘
                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                                                               ‘     .
                                          calculamd
                                                                                 rrors        orr          or-             Calcu-                                                            -
                                                                   Thermo'   Eof                    gr                              Thermo'
                                                                                          tgms           rgcted   52       lated                   hrgfqrs    $3;            rigid
                           6Z             P-D-           1820-      meter-                                                           mete“
                                                                             Division.    Flexure.       RD                P. D.                 Division.    Flexure.       P. D.
     “Ursa;                11
                                         27        16      46-24   -0'-03    -0-06        +053           4063
                                                                                                                      9    4621     +004          +0147       +044           47103
                    Maj.
    3                      11            20        13              +003      —0-09        +039           41-27    13       40-71    +002          +0-47                      41-51
         Cephei                                           4094                                                                                                +031
    ADraconis                            19        40      36-37      0-00   —0-09                       37-16    11       36-36    —003                      +030           3709
                                                                                          +033                                                    +046
    x                          3 7       19                 6-65   —0-01     —-0-10                       6-91    14         5-13   +003                      +030            5-34
                                                   13.                                    +037                                                    +044
                           10            17        31      31-63   +002      —0-11        +034           31-33    12       30-91       0-00       +039        +027           31-57
     yUrsaeMin.
    ,8               -         9         15         6      31-45   +005      —0-14                       31-65    11       30-36                  +030                       31-44
,                                                                                         +029                                      +005                      +023
                                         13        22              -0-02     —0-17                                13                   000
                                                                                                                                                                                         uoyanpouul
    'y   Cephei            23                              17-37                          +026           17-94             17-94                  +023        +020           13-37
    {Ursae         Min.        6         11        39     25-01    +001      -0-19        +022           25-05    11       23-97    +002          +016        +017           24-32       0;:
a                          _                       25      13-43     —       —0-15        +006           13-34    -        13-23        _         -0-01       +005           13-27
    a         -_           _'                               5-34      —                                           —          5-61       -_             000
                                                   39                        —0-07        +002            5-79                                                +002            5-63
    2         __           _       -                                  —                                           —                     —-
                                                   39       5-34             +003         —003            5-34               5-61                      0-00   —002            5-63
8             -            _       —                                  —                                           -                        —
                                         3 1 1 3
                                                   25     13-43              +007         —006           13-42             13-23                       0-00   —-o-03         13-26
t                          12      —1139                  25-53       0-00   +010         +020           25-63        9    24-94       0-00            000    —013           25-07
                           13      —13             22     19-16       000    +010         -0-24          19-30    22       1004     +001         +001         —0-15          19-19
    yCephe1
    BUrsaeMin.             7     '-15              6      31-43    -0-12     +011         -0-26          31-75             32-05    _012         +003         +017           32-31
                                                                                                                                                                                         qiuaaagaq; uoyaag
                   Min.    10      —17             31     32-23       000                 -0-30          32-42
                                                                                                                      59   31-90       000                    -0-19          32-01
    'yUrsa:                                                                  +011                                                                 +007
2       Draconis           10      -19             13      ‘6-07   -0-02     +011         -o-32           6-30    11         019    -003                      —0-20           6-32
                                                                                                                                                  +010
A                          13      -19             40     37-19    —0-02     +0-11        _0-33          37-43        6    37-15    -0-01        +011         -0-20          37-25
3        Cephei
                           3       -20             13     40-33    +022      +011         -034           40-39    11       41-72    +005         +013         _021           41-95
    a Ursa:                12      +27             16     4047     +004      +003         -0-44          46-79    10       46-73       000                    +025           4064
                   Maj.                                                                                                                           +034
n       Draconis           10      _23             4      33-34       0-00
                                                                             +007
                                                                                          -0-44          34-21        6    34-71                  +034        -0-26          34-45
                                                                                                                                    +013
‘
    51vCe'phei             10      -23             10     23-20    +029      +007         -045           23-29    13       23-43    +010          +035        -0-26          23-24

                                -                                            -— 0'45     29'01                28'62                       _0'26     28'25
66      Draconis           11       28    28'90     +     0'29    +0'05                                                +0-29     +064
                                                                  +   0'04       0'46    29'28                29'03       0-20     034       0'26   28'75
v;                                  28    29°21           0'35
      Cephei
                                                                             .   0'47    2004                 25-4-6      0'18     0-22      0'26   25'22
 10                        11       29    2589            0'31    +0-01
                                                                  _0'01          047       4'73                4-08       0-31     0-32      0'27     3'72
XX.           222                   30     4'52           0'27
                                                                                 0'4-8   46'95                45-66       0-27     0-31      0'27   4-5'35
o     Draconis             10       30    4-6'89          0'4-5   _0'03
                                                                                                               4-62       0'16     0-21      0‘27    4'42
6                          11       30     4-‘74          0'09    _O'03          0'4-8     5'16
                                                                                         56'34                55-42      0-34      0'29      0'27   55'06
‘2                  Hev.            81    56'16           0'37    _O'06          0'49
     Cephei
                                                                                         1                    16-79       0-32     0'28      0'27   16'46
4-8 Draconis               10       32    17‘35           0'52    _O'09          0'50      7'4-2
                                                                                 0'50    14'02                13-84       0-26     0'28      0'27   13'57
8                          l3       32    13'67           0'24    —0'09
      Cephei
                                                                                                                                                             jb s‘lassag
                                                                                           1'14                0-55       0-01     028       0'27    0'58
§                          18       32     0'64           0'30    —0'10          0'50
                                                                                 0'51    4-0'4-4'             40-52       0'36     0-27      0’28   40'17
58      Draconis           10       33    40‘39           0'60    _O'l‘l'
                                                                                 0'52      5'26                4-94       0-29     0'26      0'28    4'67
s                          14       33     4'87           0'29    —0'16
      Cephei
                                                                                                              47-26       0-39     0'26      0'28   4-6‘89
 33                        10       33    46'59           0'40    —0'16          0'52    4-6'87
          Cygni
                                                                                         18'4-0               16'65       0'31     0'26      0'28   16'36
                                    344   17'96           0'25    _0'17          0'52
p.     Cephei
                                                                                           6‘45                516        0-11     0'26      0'28     5'07
 a Cassiopeise             10       34      5'86          0'12    _0'19          0'52
                                                                                 0'52    4-6'99               47-60       0-37     0-25      0'28   4-7'26
 49     Draconis           10       34    4-6'91          0'63    _0'19
                                                                                         58'38                6035        0-20     0-25      0'28   60'18
 XXI.           386                 34’   58'18           0'51    _0'19          0'52
                                                    '                                                                                        0'28   16'00
                                                          0'17    _O'23          0'53    16'96                1618        0-22     0'24
'y    Ursa:                11       35    16'37
                    Maj.
                                                                                                              14-46       0-45     0-23      0'28   14'06
 XX.          391                   36    14'18           0'61    —-0'26         0'54    14687
                                                                                         3429                 34-78       0-44     0-22      0'28   34'40
 51     Draconis           10       36    34-‘20          0'75    _0'29          0'55
                                                                                                                                                               Ivagwouousy :suoymwsqo.
                                                                                         34'57                8622        0-46     0-22      0'28   35'82
x                          10             84'50           0'77    _0'29          0'55
    Cygni
                                                                                 0'55      5'00                6'55       0-47     0-22      0'28    6'14
 XXI.     82                        37      4-‘76         0'60    _0'29
                                                                  -                      55'24                55-42       0-51     0'20      0'28   54-‘99
 2O                                 37    544'94          0'55        0'30       0'55
        Cygni
                                                                  -O'31          0'55    4-1'38               41-67       0-17     021       0'28   4-1'27
{3    Draconis             15             40'81           0'29
                                                                                           9'87                9-46       0-22     0-21      0'28    9'31
                           15       38      9'26          0'28    —0'33          0‘56
                .                                                                                2                                           0'28   58'03
                                                          0'78    —~0'33         0'57    60'1                 58-42       0-46     0-21
                           11       38    60'00
       Cygm                                                                                                                                                   89'5
                                                                                                                                                    12'53
                                                                                                     moods»
7| 3                                                '1'                                  12'82                1287               +0-2o       0'28
      'Lacertte            13   —38       12'28           0'36    -—O'33     -0‘57                                     g+0~42

                                                              EAST.                                                                                     WEST.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      +95
                                                                                  Errors      “or       -      ‘or-                 Calcu-                  ‘rr        -                -    Cor
                                                                      Thermo'                                                                 Thermo'
                            6Z                    calculated                        of      tionsrfdr       rdhted    o' Z           lated                 hot?“           Sgrizetiir       rected
                                                  P' D' 1520'          mewr'                                                                   meter“
                                                                                Division.   Flexure.         P. D.                  P.   D.               Division.        Flexure.         P.   D.
                                                 O     I      II         n          1/                         I/                        u        I              u                               1:
    1w
            Cygni                          -39        37    42-32     +O'68     -0-ss       -(i'-58         4-2'58     8            42-92     +622        +0-19            _6'-29           42-70
        Ursa:                                    39   47      3'4-8   —0'04~       0'36        0'58           4'46    12              5'74'   —0'03             0'19          0'29           5'87
                Maj.
 ‘0 C
        Cyng       praec.     9 9 6 6            39   53     18'97    +1'O7        0'37        0'58          18'85                  17'79     +0'55             0'19          0'99          17'34
                                                                                                                       4~ 4-
                                                 39   53    45'95     +0'74        0'37        0'58          46'“;                  47'02     +0'69             0'19          0'29          46°43
                   seq.
9                           12                40      11    29'61     +0'87        0‘37        0'58         29'69      8            29'36     +0'66             0'19          0'29          28'80      uayanpouuj
 a Persei                   10                4'0     4'7   18'45     +0'36        0'37        0'59         19'05     12            19'45     +0'09             0'19          0‘29          19'46
    leygni
                              9               4-1     12    33'99        0'72      0'37        0'59         34"in      8            33'99     +0'71             0'18          0'29          33'39
 a                          14-               4:4-    11    4-8'54    +0'37        0'37        0°61         49'15     20            49'78     +094              0‘17          0‘29          49'66
         Aurigae                                                                                                                                                                                      07 2111
 a:                         14                45      21    29'87     +0‘75        0'37        0'62         30'11     16            29'76                       0'17          0'28          295%
         Cygni                                                                                                                                +0'33
E                           10                4-6
        Auring                                        27    13'73     —0'11        0‘36        0'63         14-‘83    10            15'26     —0'16             0'18          0‘28          15'52
yAndromedae
                             9                4-8     32    19'50     +0'23        0'35        0‘65         20'27                   20'30     +0'02             0'19          0'28          20'37
11      Auriga:             10               4'9       1    11'47     “0'17        0'34        0'65         12'63
                                                                                                                      9 9           11'64     —0‘23             0'20          0'28          11'95
 BPEI‘SQi                                    49       44    41'20     “0'23        0'33        0'65         4:2'4'1   11            42'81     —0'01             0'21          0'27          42'88
        Cygni                                50       18    53'19     +299         0'31        0'66         51‘87                   55'46     +2'39             0'22          0‘27          53'12
                                                                                                                                                                                                      iguanag uogpag
)1 5
       Persei                                50       31      8'87    +016         0'31        0'66           9'68                    8‘46    +0'18             0'23          0'27           8'32
                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
1';    Herculis                              50       4-3   48'17     +4-‘OS       0‘31        0’66         45'09                   49'63     +2'93             0'23          0'27          4674
'y      BOOtlS                               50       53    60'45     +612         0'30       0'66          55'29                   60'20     +3'66             0'24          0'27          56'57
0'                                           51       21    19°73     +344-        0'29       0'66          17'24'                  23'90                       0‘25          0'27          20'79
        Cygni                                                                                                                                 +3'13
                            9 9 9 72 6 8
a
                                                                                                                      6 6 5 5 5 7
        Lyrae                          --51           22    42'44     +3'37     —0'29'      —0‘66           4'0'04-                 4-5'35    +2'7l       +0'25            —-0'27           42'66

                                                               ‘
               of Bessel’s   Astronomical Observations.            255
  If    the errors of division had not been taken into account, it
is evident from this comparison that the upper passages would
have given the polar distances sensibly greater in the eastern
position of the circle, than in the western position: with re
         to the lower passage the contrary would take place; the
   ilference is indeed not very great, but I am con<U+FB01>dent that
gard
this excellent instrument can determine still smaller quantities;
and    I  consider the correction obtained by the investigation of
the errors of division, though it never exceeds 0"'6, as an es
sential addition to the accuracy of the declinations, the esta_
blishing of which is the object of this investigation.       A<U+FB01>er
allowing for the errors of division and of <U+FB01>exure, the agree
ment is as satisfactory as the accidental errors of observations
and the errors of the curve that undoubtedly still remain
would allow us to expect.
 '
     The errors of division applied for the place of the pole
are taken from the table in Art. I. in the eastern position at
+O”~21, in the western at +0”'32: but it cannot be supposed
that the curve should give them quite correctly; and if they
are not correct, a constant difference of the polar distances
observed in both positions of the instrument will be produced,
which may be determined to advantage by the comparison of
several stars, the observations of which depend on di<U+FB02>'erentparts
of the circle. Calling the true errors of division +0"-21 +x
and +0"'32 +x’, we have for the upper passages
  .1- +11   = East Polar Distance—West Polar Distance.
And for the lower    passages                              .
  n+1" =West Polar Distance—East Polar Distance.
By a mean of 100 comparisons I found
                         .z'+.r'= — 0"‘028.
The comparison of      the upper         with the lower ones
                                      passages
will give (in the next article) .r—z’, by which
                                              1‘ and .2" maybe
determined in such a manner that if the places of the pole ob
tained by the two pole-stars be thereby corrected, these may
be considered as having been derived from a mean of all stars
that have been observed.
                             6.   Rg<U+FB01>'action.
   The polar distances observed in both passages, and cor
rected for the change of the thermometrical factor, the errors
of division and <U+FB02>exure, as given in the precedin article, still
involve the error of the mean refraction.   This ? shall so de
termine as to obtain the greatest possible      eement for both
passages.    Let the refractions employed in t e calculation for
the upper passage of a star be called 9, for the lower               g',
                                                          onel lat
                                                 '
                                                               t

 256                            Introduction to the Seventh Section
 that for the pole r: again, let the corresponding true refrac—
 tions be denoted by g(1+lr), g'(l +lr), 1'(] +k); and let the
 polar distances calculated from the mean of all observations of
 the upper passage be =P ; the same from the mean of the ob
 servations of the lower passage be = P', the true polar distance
 is     =P-1.~<w-w'>+<1¢Q>k=P'+s(~v-w'>+<e'—r)k
 and hence the equations of condition for the refraction
                               0=P'—P+(.z'—.1:')+(g'ig—Qr)k.
      In order to give a proper value to these equations, and in
 general  more   accurately to determine the capability of the in—
 strument, I must begin with the investigation of the probable
 errors with which the results of the circle, when corrected
 by the table of the errors of division, are still affected. This
 investigation may be grounded on the differences of the polar
 distance in both positions of the circle; if the probable con
 tingent error of observation be expressed by s, the probable
 error of division, after applying the correction in the table by
 e, the probable difference of the results of a eastern, and a'
 western observations is = 4/                        2e2+   i—l   +
                                                                  g            ,   and we have,
                                                 2                             g
if    the really existing di<U+FB02>'erence be called                        0,
         (0074572 [ui0"-02812=2ne+2(§+
 where n signi<U+FB01>es the number of polar distances that have                                  been
 compared.     ASSuming      as determined in the 3d article, all
                                          a
 the stars from the pole to a         inclusive give
                            = Cygni“2794. ei   o
    This       the limit of the probable accuracy of polar di
                 e    is                                                             a
 stance observed in one position of the circle only, which by
 ever so great    repetition of observations never can be further
                           a
 diminished; for a determination made in botlz positions of the
 circle the same limit               is
                                          =35:       iO”'1976.             _
      If  result be required which
           a                           to have much smaller pro
                                                     is               a
  bable error,      can only be found by employing for its deter
                           it
  mination observations depending on distant points of the limb
  of the circle: the nature of the instrument requires, therefore,
  to have recourse to that means, wherever           possible to do
                                                                       it
                                                                       is
  so, for determining refraction, latitude, &c.
     The equations of condition for refraction have the probable
_
  errors
                                      b’-b
                                                      m)“ m+
                        a'-—a                    r"-      s"!
       V {62+ é"’i(../+.) + J2“?          a
  _where       e',signify the same for the lower passa
                     b,   b'                               which                     e       a,
  a,  a' express for the upper one.        From this ormula the
  numerical values of the errors which are containedin the fol
                                                         ‘ '
  lowing table have been computed.

                                   qf Bessel’s Astronomzcal                            Observations.                     257
                                                    P                 P,       P
                                                                                   ,
                                                                                       “P       ,
                                                                                               e +2—2r'
                                                                                                            Probable
                                                                                                             Errors.
                                                       I      u       u                u           M          II
                        Um Min.
                        __
                  7.                        ‘1’   39        5-71     573        +002               0'2       0279
                                            3     25       1830     18'33       +003               0'5       0"279
             s                           11 39 24-58                25-33       +075               5'9       @374
                        Cephei           13 22 18'13                19'23       +010               7‘0
               1’ B 7
                                                                                                             0'330
                        Ursa: lWin.      15    31'53
                                                  6                 31'98       +0215              8'2       0'390
                                         17 31 31-71                32-23       +0'52             13-0       0362
                n Draconis                      6'20
                                         19 13                       6'31       +011              15'l       0‘365
             71 A
                                         19 40 37-12                37-37       +025             16-4        0373
                Cephei                  20 13 41-40                 4150        +010             20-1        0-374
              2 Ursa: lWaj.             27 16 46-86                 46-72       -0-14            36-0       0362
            1]  Draconis                28     34'92
                                                  4                 34'30       —062             40'0
              2 Cephei
                                                                                                            0'379
                                        28 10 28-88                 28-26       -0-62            43-9       0359
              66 Draconis               28 31 30'38                 28'69       -—|‘69           47'5       0'376
           n    Cephei
               10        _-             28 51 29-28
                                        29 42 27-09
                                                                   28-99
                                                                   25-69
                                                                                —0-29
                                                                               _1-40
                                                                                                 48-2
                                                                                                 51-4
                                                                                                            0-365
                                                                                                            0383
              XX.          222          30 11 5-34                  4-23       -1-11             54-7       0381
          n            Draconis         30 49 45‘53                46'15       +0'62             60'3       0'378
                                        30 57 5'31                  4'89       —0'42             54'3       0'376
              2Cep. Hev.                31 37 55-96                55-70       -0-26             63-9       0‘377
             48 Draconis                   25 16-99
                                        32                         16-94       _0-05             69-4       0382
              SCephei                   32 30 14-13                13-88       _-o-25            65-9       0382
           3
                                        32 41   1-13                0-87       -0'26             654        0-362
             53 Draconis                33 26 40-35                40-31       -0-04             75-9       0983
             Cephei
                                                                               -0'03
        4
                                        33 51  5'11                 5'08                         74'9       0'381
           33 Cygni                        58 47-91
                                        33                         46-88       -1-03             78-3       6396
           p. Cephei                       14 1913
                                        34                         1789        —1'24             77‘8       0'453
           27 Cassiopeia:               34 27 4-96                  5-55       +0-59             75-5       0365
           49 Draconis                  34 35 4705                 47-13       +008
             XXI. 336                   34 37 60-44                59-28       -1-16
                                                                                                 74-1
                                                                                                 81-8
                                                                                                            0383
                       Ursa; Maj.                                                                           0437
         7                              35 18 16-88                16-41       -0-47
       'XX.      291                    36 10 13-15                1419        +104
                                                                                                 79-6
                                                                                                 96-4
                                                                                                            0-358
           51 Draconis                                                                                      0382
                                        36 52 34-10                34-35       +0-25            104-2
           :- Cygni                                                                                         0389
            XXI.            32
                                       36 57 35-94                 35-20       -0-74           106-4        0-389
                                       37 10  6-92                  5-53       -1-39           105-3
           20 Cygni                                                                                         0-408'
                                       37 27 55-01                 55-12       +0-11           109-7        0.394
     c n 1 3 1 'r {5
                       Draconis        37 33 41'35                               0'00                                '
                                                                   41'35                       104'5        0-392
                                                                                                                          ‘
                            _          38 29 1021                   9'70       -0-51           1143
                  Cygm                                                                                      0'374    -
                       Lacertae
                                       38 38 5979                  5924        -0'55           1234         0'394         1,.
                                       3s 40 42-51                 1274        +023            1188
                       W Cygni                                                                              0-400         1"
                                       39 37               3'88    42'64       —1'-24          132'4
                                                                                                        ‘
                                                                                                            0'414
                       Ursa: Maj.                                                                                         " 7
                                       39     47       56-47        5-27       --1-20          125-6        0385
                       Cyg.przec-      39     53
                 -—--                                  19-14       18'25       -O-89           1423         0455
                            éeq-       39     53       46'06       46'27       +021            140'0        0'484
         #019115                       40     11
                                             29-37                 29-33
         u Persel
                                                                               ~0-04           145-1        0-395
                                       40 47 19-15                 1927        +012            142'1
      1    w                                                                                                0-385
             Cygni                     41 12 35-22                 33-83       -l'39
         2 Aungm                                                                               159']        0406
                                       44 11 50-76                 49-45       _1-31           216-8
         4 Cygni                                                                                            0-361
                                       45 21 31-45                 29-81       -1-64           254-8
     1            Aurigm                                                                                    0-370
                                       46 27           16-57       15-18       _1-39           280-2        0-444
         7A1111r0m0dzc                 48 32           21'56       20-32       -1'24           393'5        0'483
      n            Aurlgze             49       1      14-10       12-30       -1'80           419-6        0-500
        BI’crsci                       49 44     44-83                         -2-16
                                                                   42-67                       4812         0-515
          Cygni
     y 11 1- 'y
                                       50 18     33-25             52-37       _0-88           579-6        0629
          Persei                       5o    31 12-95               9-14       --3-81          560-4        0-654
          Hercnlis                     50    43 48'00              45'78       ~2'2'2          6497         0'745
           Beads                       50    53 59-31              56-20       -3-11           682-5        1003
        6 Cygni                        51    21 21-25              18-85       -2-40           724-5        1-131
        2 Lyra:                              2-2 41-89
                                       51                          41-24       -0-65           723-7        1-006
V01. 64. N0. 818. Oct. 1824.                                                               K   k                         It
                                                                           '   3%          2     .mL.

 258           Introduction to the Seventh Section
    It is evident that the observations may be much improved
 by adopting a somewhat greater refraction; for the more ac
 curate determination of its increase I have made use of all
 stars the zenith distance of which does not exceed 85° (as far
 as B Persei inclusive); and by solving the equations of condi
_tion I have obtained
        m—x’: —0”'031,             probable error =               i0'076
          Ir   =   +O'I'OO4-624-      .       .     .   .   .   = i0'0006063
     The stars culminating lower as far as                  Lyrre agree very well
 with this; but I abstained from taking them into account be
 cause the horizontal ref'raction has already a sensible in<U+FB02>uence
  on them, and for determining the horizontal refraction obser
 vations at the time of rising and setting of stars may be more
 advantageously employed than meridian observations. A very
 complete set of this kind of observations has been made by
 Dr. Argelander, with Cary’s circle, which are contained in
 this volume; but I reserve for another place the results to be
  deduced from them.
     The value of w — 1' combined with that of 2+ 2" gives.
 .1: —O”'033; 2": +0”'005; they are therefore almost insen
 sible, and it follows that the places of the pole derived from
 the two pole stars only very' nearly a ree with those deter
 mined from all observations.     The difgerence is so small that
 it is nearly indifferent which of the two determinations be
 adopted, but the probability of the second one is greater than
 that of the former, both from the nature of the instrument and
 the evidence of the calculated probable errors, which are for
 .2- and 3’ only =0"'076.    I have therefore applied these small
 corrections, as well as those arising from the increase of the
 refraction, to the polar distances of the stars given in the 5th
 article; these polar distances have thus been freed from all
 those errors, the correction of which was announced in the
 beginning as the object of this investigation.  In order to per
 ceive, at one view, how great the agreement has now become,                    I
 present in the following table a comparison of the four deter
 minations of the polar distance made for each star, with the
  most probable one resulting from all observations in both
  passages, on the supposition of the probable error of each of
 the four results being =                 +
                              t/(ei               '7:
                                                                            Polar

                  of Bessel’S Astronomical                  Observations.                                              259
                                               Deviation of the single‘ Results.                                       '1
                      l   D'-
                            l P -
                    Etazrce   bxle             Upper Passage.           VLower Passage.
                     1820.         Effor-     East.    West.             East.   West.
                    0   I  H         "     II                "            ,1           II
 a Ursa Min.        1 39   5'73     0'14 +010              _O’09
 3    -_-           3 '25 I835      0‘14+004      —0'05
                                                                        +0-09
                                                                        +0'06
                                                                                    —0'09
                                                                                    —0'07
      ——
      _
 3                 11 39 25-06      0‘19+009 6—0'67                11 +068 9+0'10                      12
 'y Cephei         13 22 18-77     0-16 _0-72 23 +031              18 +061 13 +053                     22
 {a Ursa: Min.     15   6 31-84    0'19 -0-07   9-0-31             11   0-00 7 +059                       5
 'y                17 31 32-11     0'18 _0-10 10 _0-37             12 +0-4410 +007
                                                                                                          9
 2 Draconis        19 13   6-46    0'18 +059 7 —0-50               14 -o-01 10 +004                      11
 A           19       40    37-36 0-18 _0'05    8 —0'15            11 +0-2313 +0-07
                                                                                                                  6
 6 Cephei    20       13    41-58 0-18 _0-16 11 +005               13 _0-51 3+0-57                       u
 a Ursa Maj. 27       16   47-04 018 _0-17 11 +020                  9 +0-0412 _0-08                      10
 n Draconis  28        4   34'90 0‘19 +0'40 9 +003                 l] _0-3810 —-0‘10                      6
 a Cephei    28       10   28-86 0'18 +047      94-003             15   _0-2510 —0-27                    13
 66 Draconis 28       31   2981 0‘19 +093      9 +054               9 —0-46 11  —l'19                     3
 n Cephei    28       51   29-41 0-18 _0-39 11 +048                11+0-21       9-0-29
 loj     j   29       42   26-72 019 +089      5 +039              12 _0-3211       -1-11
 XX.   222   30       11     5-10 019 _1-01 10 _0-25                9+0-01 3        -0-97
 0 Draconis  30       49   4013 019 _0-30 6 _0-50                  12 +122 10       —0-35
 4           30       57     5'38 0'19 _0-03 11+0-30                9+0-1711        —0'54
 2CepheiHev.31   37        56-19 019 +020 9 _0-26                  10 +051
                                                                             9      -0-67
 48 Draconis 32 25          1733 0'19 +0-55 6 _0-52                12 +0-5510 _0'39
 3 Cephei     32 30        14-30 0-19 _0-05    8 +007              12 +016 13 _0-26
 1                32 41      1'32 0‘18 +019 12 _0-17               14 +0-2613 —0-32
 58 Draconis      33 26    40-72 0-19 +058     6 _056              12 +021 '10 _0-03
 ‘ CePhéi                                                                                       '
                  33 51      540 0-19 +063 1o -0'53                I0 +0'3514 —°‘Ql
 as Cygni         33 58    47-69 0-20 +1-oo    8 _0-35              6 _o~31 10 _0-27
 [4 Cephei        34 14    18-84 0-22 +092     3 +029               7+o-07 9 -1-95
 a. Cassiopeia:   34 27      5'64 0'18 _0'52 12 —O'45              15   +13]    10 —0'04
 49 Draconis      34 35    47-44 0-19 _0-17    6 _0-22             12           10 +038
                                                                        +008
 XXI.     886     34 38      035 021+1-25 6 _0-53                   7_1-45      5   +038
 0 Draconis       34 38    23-01 027 +020      6-0-16              11    0-                 ,
 'y   Ursa Maj.   35 18    17-00 0'18 _0-37 11 +034                19 +0-4811 _0'45
 XX.    s91
              _   36 10    13-98 0-19 _0-23 10_1-02                10+0-99'7 +071
 51 Dragoms 36 52          34-68 0-19 +039     6 _0-77             12 +0-2510 +039
 1 Cygm                    36-00 019 +003
                 36 57                         6+0-19              13 _0-7810 +050
 XXI.    a2      37 10       6-51 0-20 +045 ,6 |0~73               10_0-86
 20 Cygm         37 27     55-47 0-19 _0-31    7 _0-22
 a Draconis       37 33    41-79 0-19 _0-81 1 1 +058
 7    —.
 - Cyzm
                 38 29     10'37 0'18 +069 14 —°'37
                  38 38    59-92 019 -—0'45    7 +064
 3 Lacemg        38 40'    13-01 0-20 _0-53 1o _0-05
  1 wCygnl                 43-85 0.21 +l-06   5 _020
               _ 39 37                                             9
  n Ursa: M3]. 39 47         6'39 0'19 +089 11 +021
cCygniprwc- 39 53          19-26 022 +033     7 _0-07
         _Se‘I- S9 53      46-63   0'24 —0'39         3 —0'33
 9 Cygm          40 11     2980 0'19 —0'31 7 _0'16
2 Persei         40 47     19-71 0-19 _0-39 11 _0-24
            _
 1” Cygm         41 12     35-06 0-20 +044 10+0-32
w Aurlgfr        44 11     50-88 0-18 _0-14 24 +049
11 Cyg_111       45 21     3153 0'18        -—0‘07   23 +0'43
: Aurlgm         46 27     16-78 021        +009     10  0-00
7 And_r0med. 48 32         21'98 0'21       —0‘04 9 —0‘25
7 Aungaz              1    14'38 0‘22
                 49                         —0‘09 14 +003
{3 Persei        49 44     4508 0'22        +028     14   _0'29
                                                                                                    \ICHMO'IOiOw-<U+FB02>bw
7 Cygni          50 18     53'82 0'24       +001      9   _0'61
8 Persei                   I304
                 50 31             0‘23     +012     11   +028
 11Herculis       50 43 4825       0'24     +093     12   _0'32
 7 B00115         50 53 59'55      0'25     +028     12   _0-33
 0 Cygni          51 ‘21 21'62     0'26     +072     7    _0'74
0: Lyra           51 ‘22 42'65     0'23                   _0'68
                                            —0'09 10
                                             Kk2

260                Introduction to the Seventh Section
    This comparison seems to con<U+FB01>rm‘that the manner of re
 ducing the observations which has been employed, is correct
 as far as the accidental errors of observation will allow to per
 ceive it; the remaining differences of the four independent
 determinations of each star are either not greater than would
 be expected, or nowhere so regular as to prove the neglecting
 of any constantly acting error: I believe, therefore, that it may
 be assumed that the polar distances of the stars observed with
 Reichenbach’s meridian circle, and computed agreeably to this
 investigation, vary, like the right ascensions, in both positions
 of the instrument and in both passages only on account of
 contingent errors, from each other: the separate investigation
of each individual correction seems to justify the hope that not
onl agreement, but likewise Correctness, has been obtained
wit in narrow limits.
    It now only remains to reduce the refraction and its changes
to the true Fahrenheit’s thermometer. The refraction is found
for 48°‘75 of Schafrinsky’s thermometer =g.1'004-624-, where g
signi<U+FB01>es the number taken from the table in the Emdamenta
Astronmnz'ar:   it follows from the 3d article and the supposed
in<U+FB02>uence of the temperature on the mercury of the barometer,
that the difference of two refractions for the readin s 1- and r,
of the exterior and the centesimal degrees 1" and        of the in              'r,
                                                                                  ,
terior thermometer        =    is
           1+10m
                       X
                                    l—gn       _
                                               ‘    1+10m               l—in
                                                               xl+('r,—50)n
        ?{1+¢'m            l+('r-50)n               1+Pr/m.
where m     isby supposition 2000018484, and n has been
found =0'00194653.        Let g(1 +y) signify the true refraction
for 48°‘75 Fahr., and        +g the ratio of the densities of the
                                    1
                                    :
                                    1
air at the points of boiling and freezing, as they must be as
sumed for representing as exactly as possible the changes of
refraction:I  suppose besides, agreeably to the accurate experi
ments of Messrs. Dulong and Petit, the ratio of the densities
of mercury =55'5 56'5, and for the brass of the scale of the
                           :
barometer 537 538. Then the true refraction will be =
                   :
                       b            5550+10        35700+~1        180+e. 16-75
       9(1+-y)(333'28               5550+-r’       53700+10       180+e.(f-32)'
               :
  If we put f=0'997039'r—0°'538 as found in article
have for  1- 48°75,   = 48°'06765; therefore the refraction
                       f
observed at that temperature
                                                        we                             2,
                                    5550+“)         53700+¢'           180+e-16'75
    9.1-004624.=g(1 +y) 5550+q4
                                                   53700+10            180+e.16-06765'
 This equation may be abridged by putting                        'r'   =f  §(    — 30°'067),
1                          .                                                          which

                      of Bessel’s Astronomical Observations.                                        261
which is not much different from the truth, and has little                                          in
<U+FB02>uence: we then have
              1
                  _         _
                  004624_(I +3)
                                          ISO-H.       16-75
                                                                                        (1)
                                          18041. 16-06765
and hence the true change of refraction =
                                                                                                          ’
              09998266
                                x    ISO-{1.1675          _        0-9998266            180+:   16-75
         l+m I (f_ 50)  180 +¢(f_ 32)
                                                                                                        '—
g< 1   +1?)
                                      1+m<f
                                            I_ 50) 180+¢(f, ._ 32)                  '
where m'= 0-000089557.                      .
   If 1+y be denominated from this equation by the equation
(1), the change of refraction will be          -
                                          1              180+e. 16-06765            —- 8L0.
         =g.1004=4492{m,—Cf_—5®-                                                                }
The     same is by observation substituting                             for    'r
                                     I                                        1
=9.0-9960353                                                   "
                         { 1+(f- 5o)0-00010248                     1+(f— 50)0~0019497           —&¢-}
These two equations give
1+y= 1'003282 - - - -                         -
                                 probable error = i0'0006l
g=0~36438 —(        f, -1oo)o-000000501 . . . . . . _-l_-_0'0016.
                         f+
   The latter is therefore almost independent of the tempe
rature of the observations; indeed g may without hesitation be
assumed =0'36438, as the mean temperature of all observa
tions will be nearly =50°.                        If
                                   we suppose that the mean
humidity of the air is nearly the mean between dryness and
saturation, it will be seen from article 8 that this determina
tion is in near accordance with that found b Gay-Lussac.
   In order to satisf as nearly as possible e observations at
Kiinigsburg, the refraction derived <U+FB01>‘omBradley’s observations
must be multiplied by 1'003282; but this change, small as it                                            is,
would perhaps not be necessary         we had a more accurate
                                                       if
knowledge of the meteorolo ical instruments used by Bradley;
his thermometer was in me ting snow at 38° to 88129, and ac
cordingly assumed that
              I               was 1°‘25 too hi h; but
                                         it                  am in                       I
debted to Prof. Tralles for the   communicatlon,    that   melting
snow when already mixed with water always gives the freezing
point too high, so that the correction applied to the thermo
meter becomes doubtful; but without this correction the new
re<U+FB01>'actions would hardly differ from the former ones.
                                    [To be continued.]
                                                                                        XLIV.       On

                                   [262]                  I
XLIV.      On the Speci<U+FB01>c Heat         of the Gases.        By W. T. HAY
                                cnar'r, Esq.
                          [Concluded from p. 207.]
                     Experiments on Hydrogen.
                      gas was procured from the decom osition               of
HYDROGENwater by means       of sulphuric acid and zinc.         T  e part B
Plate 11., was <U+FB01>lled with the same, and the following experi
ments were made.                    No, 1,
   In this experiment the calorimeters were <U+FB01>lled with water
of the same temperature, and the process was conducted on
rather a different principle than the former; namely, it was
continued until the calorimeters ceased to rise in temperature,
or, rather, till the temperature began to fall.               This latter cir
cumstance would take place when the heat communicated by
the gas was exactly e ual to that abstracted by the colder sur
rounding medium.              he number of degrees of temperature,
then, which each gas would sustain in its calorimeter, will be
the ratio of its power for giving out heat, and consequently of
                                                     '
its capacity for caloric.
   The temperature of calorimeter A, at the beginning of the
experiment, was about 50°, and after 105 minutes the tem
perature of calorimeter A was 8235,15,, and that of B, contain
ing hydrogen gas, was 82°%%, and the surrounding medium
60396, indicating the comparative capacity of hydrogen to be
98'64, being a difference so tri<U+FB02>ing, that it may be regarded
as the same as that of atmospheric air; if we make allowance
for the evident greater ratio in its heating, and the smaller
ratio of its rate of cooling at the end of the experiment.               This4
'will be seen by the following table.
                    Temperature of A,       Temperature of B,
                      containing Atmo-        containing Hy.
                      spheric Air.            drogen Gas.
At   the beginning
                            50°                  50°
   of experiment,
In  5  minutes,            59                    58'6
In   10  minutes,           675%                 66%%
In  15  minutes,            713%                 71$U
In  20   minutes,           75                   735%
In  25  minutes,            775%                 76
In  30   minutes,           79                   7 7,60
In  35   minutes,           80%                  78%
In  40 minutes,         ‘
                            81%,“;               80;6
In  45 minutes,             82%;                 81
In  50 minutes,             83                   82,9T
In  55 minutes,             88%;                 82%,,
In  60 minutes,             83;,“6               82%,”j
In  65 minutes,             as;                  825%
In  70 minutes,             825.5                825%         .         No.  2.

             Mr. Haycraft         on the Speci        2   Heat qftlze Gases.               265
                                            No.    2.
                           Temperature of A,         Temperature of B,
                                                ‘       containing    Hy
                             containing Atmo-
_                            spheric Air.              drogen Gas.
  At     the be innin
      0f expegimeng }             49280                    49210            Inferred Capacity.
     ..er 5 minutes,               55§66                   555%                  10500
  After 10 minutes,                60                      60?};6                10424
  After 15 minutes,                645%                    64586                   9950
  After 20 minutes,                67—2-25                 67525                 10002
  After 25 minutes,                695%                    69%;                   10000
       This   last experiment was conducted as the former ones;
       The air appeared, after the experiments, to contain 88 per
  cent. of hydrogen gas, as indicated by explosion with oxygen
                                                                             ‘
                                                                                       - ‘
  g as *.                                                                ,
       In these two experiments may        it         be   observed, that the watery
  vapour which may be presumed to be in the hydrogen gas,
  before it had been suf<U+FB01>ciently exposed to the drying in<U+FB02>uence
  of the muriate of lime, seemed to decrease in speci<U+FB01>c heat, ex
  actly contrary to what might be expected.                               In the '<U+FB01>rst ex-
  periment,        at  the  expiration      of    the    <U+FB01>rst    <U+FB01>ve    minutes,     it had a
  capacity      of  9222,     pretty     nearly     the    same       as indicated      in the
  experiments         of Messrs.       De  la  Roche       and     Berard;       but  in   pro
  portion as the experiment had advanced, and the hydro en
  had been ex osed longer to the muriate of lime, its specl<U+FB01>c
  heat approached to that of atmospheric air, till, at the end of
  the experiment, they were quite equal.
       No. 2. was performed upon the same hydrogen, in its driest
  state; and throughout the whole experiment it indicated also
  a capacity equal to the standard.                      In this experiment know      I
  of no source of fallacy, as the gases, while entering into the
  calorimeters, were of exactly the same temperature, and care
  was taken to ensure accuracy.
                              .             Azote.
        Of   azote    I  shall merely state, that last year                    I   performed
      "‘  The apparatus which I found most convenient          ‘     for exploding gases, is a
  modi<U+FB01>cation of Dr. Ure’s syphon eudiometer.                    It consists of a hole bored
  in the solid bottom of a mercurial trough,representing an inverted syphon;
   one end of which opens into the part containing mercury, and the other
  through the edge of the trough to the open air. To the latter opening
   is cemented an open glass tube; and to the former a common graduated
   eudiometer is made to <U+FB01>t accurately.             When this a paratus is used, the
   graduated tube is <U+FB01>lled in the usual way, and ap lie to the o ening com
   municating with the trough.            Mercury is poure           into the ot er tube, to
   the same height as that contained in the graduated one.                       The <U+FB01>nger is
   then applied to the open tube, and the electric spark passed. After the-ex
   plosion, more mercury is                  into the open tube, to the same height
   that it had risen in the eu ‘poured
                                     iometer, after which the degrees are read 011‘.
                                                                                       similar

264-      Mr. Haycraft     on the Speeyfe    Heat of the  Gases.
similar exPeriments upon this gas, the results of which were
perfectly analogous with those now detailed; and as all the
experiments agree that it has by volume the same speci<U+FB01>c heat
as atmospheric air, namely 1000,          I thought it needless to re
peat  them.
                      Carburetted Hydrogen.
   In my former experiments on carburetted hydro en, pro
cured from the decomposition of sea-coal,           I conclu ed that it
                                                           I
also had the same capacity as atmospheric air; but have since
found that the              of this gas varies extremely, according
                 capacity;
to the modes in whic it is procured.              That produced from
seal-coal seemsto have a capacity nearly equal to the standard ;
that from the decomposition by heat of animal fat, has a much
greater capacity.     From the following experiments, however,
it will appear  that  ole<U+FB01>ant gas owes its increased capacity to
the empyreumatic     or   ethereal vapour with which it is usually
combined.
                                 No.  1.
   This experiment I conducted in the same way as No. l. on
hydrogen gas.      The part B was <U+FB01>lled with ole<U+FB01>ant gas ob
tained  from  the  gas-pipes of a public Company.           The calori
meters at the beginning of the experiment contained water of
the temperature of 50°. At the end of 50 minutes the calori
meter A had acquired its utmost temperature of 92376, and of
B that of 93°%% ; the surrounding medium being 663-86.
                                 No.  2.
   The calorimeters were of a temperature of 52°;6 at the be
ginning of the experiment:        after 55 minutes, the calorimeter
A   had acquired a temperature of 92°%§, and B that of 943%;
the surrounding medium being 65°.               The average result of
these e‘Xperiments, Nos. 1. and 2., indicates the speci<U+FB01>c heat
of ole<U+FB01>ant gas to be 10559.                    the results of these two
experiments do not quite agree     Though
                                      wit     those 1 formerly made,
yet the difference is very tri<U+FB02>ing, and may be supposed to
arise from the greater freedom of the gas         I formerly made use
oi, from empyreumatic vapour.             This will appear probable
from the following experiments.
                                 No.  3.
   The part of the apparatus B           was <U+FB01>lled with carburetted
hydrogen,    procured by the destructive distillation of mutton
suet.    The calorimeters were <U+FB01>lled with water of the tempera
ture of 50°éé.      At the end of 40 minutes, the calorimeter
through which the ole<U+FB01>ant gas passed had acquired its ex
treme temperature of 95°, the other that of 88°%%; the sur
rounding medium being 65°§QU; indicating the speci<U+FB01>c heat of
ole<U+FB01>ant gas to be 12777.                                           That

              Mr. Haycra<U+FB01>;   on the Speé<U+FB01>t‘c     Heat qftlze Gases;   265
     That                    from animal fat contains more em
              the gas procured
pyreumatic vapour,    is evident from its sensible qualities, which
may  account  for its greater speci<U+FB01>c heat, compared with that
procured  from  sea-coal.    The gases, at the end of the experi
ment, were exactly of the same temperature as when entering
into the calorimeters.
                               N0. 4'.
   The last experiment was repeated, except that the ole
<U+FB01>ant as was procured from alcohol and sulphuric acid. After
25 minutes, the calorimeter A had assumed the temperature
of 74°??? and calorimeter B that of75°'10; the surrounding
medium being 54° ; indicating the capacity of. ole<U+FB01>ant gas to
be 10643.
                                    No.   5.
     The last experiment     repeated, and gave a result of
                                 was
 10674; the medium result of experiments Nos. 4 and 5, be
ing 10658, indicating the capacity of ole<U+FB01>ant as procured
from alcohol and from sea-coal to be almost exactly the same.
                            No. 6.
   Wishing to ascertain if the ethereal or empyreumatic va
pour in ole<U+FB01>ant gas affected its speci<U+FB01>c heat,              I
                                                   poured a few
drops of sulphuric ether into the part of the apparatus con
taining atmospheric air, that the latter, as well as the ole<U+FB01>ant
gas, being equally saturated with the vapours of ether, it might
be ascertained what effect that condition might have on the
capacities of the    ses.  The part B contained the ole<U+FB01>ant
gas as before.   A ter 40 minutes, both the calorimeters had
acquired a temperature of 85°       the surrounding medium
                                           55,
being 61°§4t.   The inference, then, may fairly be made, that
it   the combined vapour that increases the speci<U+FB01>c heat of
     is
ole<U+FB01>ant gas.
                  Experiments on the    Air      ofRespiration.
   Having last year made more than ten experiments which
prove that the mixtures of carbonic acid with atmospheric air
exposed freely to water, and at     temperature of about 100°,
                                          a
had    much less capacity for heat than atmospheric air had,
          a
under ordinary circumstances, and this curious fact seeming
to throw some light upon the physiology of animal respira
tion, I <U+FB01>lled the part   with air from the lungs, and the part
                             B
A with atmospherical air.
   The heating apparatus was kept, by means of lamp, at the  a
temperature of between 97°‘% and 100%2‘}.      A<U+FB01>er the end of
35 minutes,the calorimeter   rough which the air of respiration
                                  t
passed attained the temperature of 59°???” and the other that
   Vol. 64. N0. 318. Oct. 1824.                       L 1     of

266       Mr. Haycraft   on the Speci<U+FB01>c Heat ofthe    Gases.
of   61°,‘%; the surrounding medium being 54°16, indicating
the air of respiration to be 6875.
                                No. 2.
     The last experiment was repeated, when the calorimeter
arose from 56°;6 to 58%;}, and B from 56°75; to 57°;g, in
dicating the capacity of the air of respiration to be, as in the
last experiment, 6875.
     It may not be improper in this place to state, that in my for
mer experiments mixtures of carbonic acid and atmospheric air,
under different conditions of temperature, and combination with
watery vapour, had relative capacities of 3833,66666'9999,
and 13333. It was my intention to have repeated those ex
periments in such a way as to ascertain the precise conditions
under which these changes of capacities took place; but, from
various en agements,      I am unable to do so.      I may remark,
however, t at the last two experiments seem to indicate, that
 the air of respiration enters into the second of this series,
 making allowance for the difference of the standard of com
 parison; this bein in my former experiments common un
 dried atmospherica air, while the standard of the latter was
 the same air carefully dried.
     There is also a curious coincidence between this last-men
 tioned series of capacities of gas in different states of combina
 tion with water, and the expansive forces of air combined also
 with different proportions of watery vapours. Having pro
 cured a glass globe, to which a small stem was connected, in
 such a we ' that mercury contained in the hollow ball would
 rise into t e stem upon any increase of the expansive force of
 the air contained in the ball,   I <U+FB01>lled the latter with air at a
 temperature of 60°; after which the ball was immersed into
 boiling water. In a short time the mercury rose into the stem
 to the height of 7 inches.     The experiment was repeated, ex
 cepting   that a few drops  of water were put, together with the
 air, into the ball.   The mercury, after the immersion of the
 ball in boiling water, rose to 21 inches. Afterwards, on pass
 ing a quantity of water into the ball, the mercury, after its
immersion, rose to 28 inches. Some months afterwards, on
 repeating the experiment, the mercury rose in one instance to
  14‘ inches.   Thus we have a series of expansive forces of air
 united to watery vapour of 7, 14, 21 and 28 inches: it was
 upon this principle that   I contrived an air thermometer. The
 form of it is similar to that of the differential thermometer in
 vented by Professor Leslie. One ball contained atmospheri
 cal air dried by means of muriate of lime ; the other contained
 air in its usual state. Interposed between the balls was a co
                                                              lumn

                                                  I
           Mr. Haycraftpn    tke'
                                  <U+FB01>recg'<U+FB01>c'
                                             Heat ofthe      Gases.    267
  lumn of the volatile spirit of turpentine.            Upon any rise of
  the temperature of the atmosphere, the column immediately
  rose at the side of the dry ball.         After some time, however,
  the instrument seemed to have lost its power; and after a still
  longer period, the ball containing dry air had the greater ex
  pansive force. This I accounted for by supposing, that'the va
  pour of turpentine had in process of time combined with the
  dry air, and had given it its greater expansive power. This
  thermometer is now a remarkably delicate one, though its de
  grees are of very unequal length, and appear to vary by- lapse
  of time. Probably hydrogen gas contained in two platma
  balls, in one of which a little mercury might be placed, con
, nected together in the same way, would make an accurate py
  rometer, indicating temperatures as high as the melting point
  of platina.
     There is another condition under which air is capable of a
  great variety of speci<U+FB01>c heats, namely, when it exists in dif
  ferent degrees of density, whether arising from pressure or
  other causes. The increased capacity of air, when under lesser
  degrees of atmospheric pressure, has been properly made use
  of to explain the extreme cold which exists in high regions;
  and its decreased capacity under mechanical pressure, also
  satisfactorily accounts for the heat evolved under that condi
  tion.   This principle, so far as I know, has not been used to
  explain one cause of the intense heat produced during the
  combustion of gunpowder and other explosive mixtures.                  If
  we re<U+FB02>ect a moment, however, we shall perceive that the re
  sistance of the pressure of the atmosphere to the expansion of
  the nascent gases produced by the combustion, will cause
  them to exist iri a state of greater density than when the re
  sistance of the atmosphere has been <U+FB01>nally overcome.                It is
  during this state of potential compression, if I may use the
  term, that the intense heat is produced.             After the <U+FB01>rst ex
  plosion, however, the aseous products will expand, and then
  there will necessarily e an absorption of caloric, and conse
  quentl comparative coldness, produced.               In order to ascer
  tain w ether there is   a permanent       evolution    of caloric, coca
  sioned by the combustion     of gunpowder,        I made the following
                                                                            ,
  experiment.                                                       \
      Having a receiver containing 528 cubic inches, <U+FB01>lled with
  water of a temperature of 52°, placed in a pneumatic trough,
  the surrounding atmosphere being also 52°,            I introduced 240
  inches of the a'e'riform <U+FB02>uids, produced during the combustion
  of that composition of gunpowder which is used for pyrotech
  nical purposes.    After the                 the gas in the upper
                                eiipllosion,
                                       2                              par;
                                                                        o

208       Mr. Haycra<U+FB02>;    on the Specg<U+FB01>c    Heat qf tlie  Gases.
 of the receiver had acquired a temperature of nearly 54-°, and
the water not so much.          This experiment shows, that thou h
heat is evolved    in the combustion of gunpowder, its quantity
is not nearly so great as has been imagined.               Again, if we
 consider that the products of the combustion of gunpowder
have not, by direct experiment, been proved to have a greater
 speci<U+FB01>c heat than the ingredients of that composition, the phe
 nomenon of heat being produced durin                 that combustion
 should not be ur ed as an objection to the ypothesis of Black
 and Crawford.        ndeed it appears very probable, from the
 inspection of the table of speci<U+FB01>c heats of different bodies,
 that those elastic products have a less capacity than the in
gredients of gunpowder, from which they are produced.                For
 example, azote, which composes two-thirds of the elastic pro
 ducts, has a capacity of 2669, and carbonic acid, comprisin
 one-third of the products, if my experiments are to be trusted
 to, has a capacity of only 1751, water being 10000.               Nitric
 acid of a speci<U+FB01>c gravity of 1,135+ has a capacity of 5760.
 The azote, therefore, and oxygen, which is produced from the
 decomposition of one of the ingredients formin               the elastic
products   of not half  the speci<U+FB01>c   heat of that  ingre   'ent, should,
according   to the  hypothesis    of Black, evolve   heat.    This might
take place even if we make allowance for the lesser capacity
which nitric acid has in its state of one of the ingredients of
the nitrate of potash.
     The same condition of potential compression may also con
tribute to the intense heat which takes place in a blast-furnace.
 This heat is known by all conversant with the phaanomenon to
be, not in a ratio of the fuel consumed, but of some compound
ratio.   This may be explained in the following manner: lst, A
quantity of air is forced into contact with the coals in a state of
ignition, and its temperature is suddenly raised extremely high.
2d, In this condition, were it not for the pressure of the atmo
sphere, it would become as suddenly expanded.              3d, Had this
expansion   taken   place,   it  would  have   acquired    an  increased
capacity, and would consequently have absorbed a considerable
portion of the caloric evolved by the combustion, tendin
thereby to lessen the capacity of the heat.        4th, But the heate
air being prevented by the pressure of the atmosphere from
expanding in a ratio e ual to the temperature acquired, the
absorption of caloric isflessened, and a greater proportion of
the heat of combustion is rendered free.           Thus, although the
total quantity of caloric evolvedat, and consequently to com
bustion, may be in a direct ratio of the quantity of fuel con~
sumed; yet the intensity of the thermometrica] heat at the mo
   ‘                          '
                                                                   ment,

             Mr. Haycraft   0n the Specyi‘cHeat          Q,"
                                                           the Gases.      269
    ment, and at the place of combustion, will be greater in a com
      ound ratio, directly as the pressure of the atmosphere, and
    mversel as the times of expansion of the air employed in the
    blast.   These times are, of course, inversely as the intensity
    of the blast. The thermometrical heat, then, at the moment
    and place of combustion, will be in a compound ratio of the
              of fuel consumed, the wei ht of the atmosphere, and
    apantity
     e   quantity of air employed in the last in a given time. The
    same rule will hold even in what are called Chimney Fur
    naces;   and   it
                   is  ascertained   bexperience, that those furnaces
    of steam-engines through which           agreater quantity of air
    passes in a given time, consume      aproportionally less
    of fuel to produce the same effect. Probably blast- guantity urnaces
    might be advantageousl employed in lessening the quantity
    of fuel used for those va uable machines.
       Although, according to the foregoin experiment,           appears
                                                                    it
    contrary to my original expectation,       at, by volume, oxygen
                                                 t
    vas has the same speci<U+FB01>c heat as carbonic acid,         by no means
                                                               it                I
    Follows that caloric should not be evolved durin the forma
/
    tion of the latter by combustion.        This formation does not
    consist of conversion of oxygen into carbonic acid, but of a
               a
    union of two ingredients into a compound, having an absolute
    capacity for caloric equal to one of the               only, namely,
                                             ingredients
    the oxygen gas; consequently the who          absolute heat of the
                                                     e
    carbon is rendered free.
       The direct results of these experiments show, that the spe
    ci<U+FB01>c heats of all the gases experimented upon are to each other
    inversely as their speci<U+FB01>c gravities and, 2dly, That different
                                             ;
    states of combinations of the gases with aqueous and other
    vapours, affect the capacities of the gases, and that probably,
    in some instances, in a regular arithmetical progression, cor
                 with the arithmetical rate of expansive force of the
           in ifferent states of combination with vapour. The
    responding
    gases
    most interesting result to the physiologist is, that the air of
    respiration, at temperature of between 100123 and 95°, has a
                    a
    less speci<U+FB01>c heat than atmospherical air.       Many experiments
    were made which are not here detailed, which showed that
    the air of respiration, at the tem erature of 102° and upwards,
    and of 91° and downwards, ha          a capacity the same as that
    of atmospherical air.    I   should feel      hesitation in stating
                                                     a
    these results, had not ex eriments, very often repeated, during
    a course of several mon     s, warranted me in my conclusions.
                                                                    XLV.   An

                                 [270]
XLV.        An improved Demonstration qf Sir ISAAC NEWTON’s
   Binomial      Theorem,     0n Fluxional Principles,   more especially
   calculated jbr the young Student in Mathematics.              By the
   Rev. L. EVANS, ER.S. and A.S. ‘90.
LET        (P+PQ)" represent any binomial to be involved or
       extracted, n being any power, or root, of the given quan
tity  P+ PQ.
   Now,     (P+PQ)" = P" x (1          + Q)".
   And here we may preliminarily observe, that
              (1 +Q)’=I+QQ+Q’,
              (1 +Q)”=1 +3Q+3Q2+Q°3
              (1 +Q)‘=1 +4Q+6Q+4Q’+ Q‘ 8“:
Hence,       enerally, we are induced to assume the nth power of
(1 +  Q) Ey a series, as thus,
   (1 +Q)"=1 +AQ+BQ1+CQ3+DQ‘+EQ5+&<>. the co
efficients A, B, C, D, E 81.0. in the respective terms of the
series, after the <U+FB01>rst, to be determined hereafter.           Let, now,
both sides of this equation be put into <U+FB01>uxions, and we have
   1».
        (_1+    Q)"T'Q=AQ           +  QBQQ + SCQ’ZQ + 4DQ‘Q +
5EQ‘Q + &c.                        _
   Dividing both sides by Q,
   n .(1   +QY'"=A+2BQ+BCQ*+4DQ+5EQ‘+&0.
   This equation being divided by           the assumed  one,
          <U+FB02>-(1+Q>"-_‘_
             (1H,)"
                          ' Anagisgg<U+FB01>gw            +5EQ'+&¢
                             1+AQ+BQ'+CQ1+DQ*+EQ5+&¢
            O r’
                    n     _" A+QBQ+SCQ’+4DQ3+5EQ'+3w
                  1+Q        1+ AQ+ BQ“+ CQ=+ DQ'+EQ5&¢
Multiply by the alternate denominators,
        n + nAQ+ nBQ2+ nCQ‘ +nDQ‘ +nEQ5+ 8m. =
         A+QB            +30          +4-D       +5E       ,
                                                             +8‘c'
            + A} Q+2B}Q2+SC}Q3+4D}Q
and by transposition,
          +nA         -—nB          +nC         +nD        +
  n—A—QB} -- A Q—SC}Q’—-4-D}Q3—5E}Q‘—-}&c.=0.
                      ~—2B           —3C        —4-D       —
   By the lemma in Section XIV. of Simpson’s Algebra, we
have                  1.       n—A=0;
                      2.       nA—QB— A=O;
                      3.       nB—3C—2B=0;
                      4-.      nC—4D—3C=O;
               ‘                                         '
                      5.       nD—5E—4D='O; 8w.                    Now,

           Mr. Evans           on Newton’s                     Binomial              Theorem.           271
  Now, from        these equations are derived the values                                         of the re
                   A, B, C, D, E, &c. thus,
spective coef<U+FB01>cients
        1. From ' n—A  = 0,
                  n = A.
        2.    From    nA—QB—A=O;
                                     nA—A = 2B,
                                     ('10— 1) A
                                                = QB,
                                     ’2'2'_l.
                                                 .   A = B,                by substitution,
                                                                                                    4
             From
                                     n.
                          nB—3C—2B =0,
                                              T       = B
       3.
                          (rt—2) . B = SC,
                          "—gg
                                 .   B = C, by                   substitution,
                                T
                                                                                       i
                                                                     '
                               n—1            n—2
                          n.              n                = C
       4.           From         nC—II‘D—3C = O,
                                 (7l—3) . C = 4:1),
                                                C = D, by substitution,
                                 122.
        5.       From     nD—5E—4D = 0,
                          (n—It) . D = 5E,
                                  = E, by substitution,
                                              T
                          1%4-D
                               n—1              n—2            n—3
                          ”'
                                 2
                                          '                '               n—4_E&c
                                                                 4           5
   Havin     ,    thus, found the values of the several coef<U+FB01>cients,
A, B, C, %, E, 8C0. the assumed equation, by the substitution
of these respective values, will become
     (1+Q)"=1+nQ+-n.                                 "g1       Q9 +n."-_2—1                ."—;3Q3+
                                     .T-T
                                                                                 ‘
                          n—1          n—2            n—4
                     <U+FB02>.    2
                                                                 Q4        +    8L6.
Then   P"X(1+Q)", or
  (P+PQ)"=P"+PnQ+Pn.                                           ",4       Q’+Pn.”—;‘-. "32.623 +
                               n—1            n—3              n—4
                                                                          Q+&c.
                                                                            4
                                                       .
                        Pn.---2—.               4                5
                                                                                              .
Or, by writing the coef<U+FB01>cients of                               Q        more conveniently,
(P+ PQ)"=P"+P"nQ+ P"nQ1-;-‘.Q+                                                   P”n.’1~;»1.Q’.’l'3'—2Q
                                                                                                          +
                     1%.";1           .
                                              "foa’<U+FB01>li'csz.
                                                                                                          In

272          Mr. Evans            on Newton’s                       Binomial          1712011:an
     In this     series we may observe that its <U+FB01>rst term,                                    P", is the
coe<U+FB01>icient        of nQ in        the secOnd term;                        the second term,          Pan,
is   the coef<U+FB01>cient of
                                  a: Q in                  the third term;_ the third term,
                                                                    "—2
P"n."%i. Q’, is the               coe<U+FB02>‘icient                  of
                                                                     3
                                                                          .   Q in the fourth; the
                                n—1             n—2
fourth term, Pan.
                                  2
                                            .
                                                    3
                                                           Q’, is the coef<U+FB01>cient of                "13   Q   in
the <U+FB01>fth term, and so on, in like manner, ad i1y’initum.                                                 Now,
putting
                 A = P",        the 1st term,
                       =   Pan,
                 C B
                                       the 2nd term,
                   = Pun. ngl Q“, the 3rd term,
                 D: 1%.12—
                         -1  -2
                            "T Q,' ._the 4th term,
                                                .
                 E=                    _1                 -2
                                                                          Q‘, the 5m term, &e.
                P"1z."—2—.n3     3'43
     Then, by substitution, we have
 (P+PQ)" =P"+nAQ                                 +        "g‘BQ+%cQ+ "ISDQ+
                                        "Z4EQ+&c.
     And,   if    we make         1::               13,
                              whether af<U+FB01>rmative or negative,
integral or fractional, we shall have
                           m
       (P+ PQ)T=                PT          +       4";AQ+ "'2—"BQ+
                                                             n                             "’""co+
                                                                                            311
                               "izn<U+FB02>nojt “2:” EQ                              +8cc.
which       is   exactly Sir Isaac Newton’s Binomial Theorem.
     For facilitating the exempli<U+FB01>cation of this celebrated theorem,
it   may not be improper to observe, that            the <U+FB01>rst term of          P      is
the binomial to be expanded;                                   Q    the second term divided                  by
the <U+FB01>rst, namely,                     1;?       =    Ql:-,          the index          of   the power        or
root.                             1
                       A=       P1» =           lst term of the                series,
                       B=-:':-AQ='2nd term,
                               m_"
                       C   =           BQ =               3rd term,
                                2n
                               '" _2                >
                       D=              "CQ = 4th                    term,
                               3n
                           __ m—3n
                       E   —
                               4n
                                        DQ =                5th term,          850.
                                                                                             XLVI. Re

                                         [$273]
XLVI.      Remarks on the Gothic Ornaments of the Duomo,
  Battistero, and Campo Santa, of Pisa. By ARTHUR TAYLOR,
  Esq. ESJL, Member of the Roman Academy of Arcadians *.
                      of Pisa, and its dependencies the Baptistery
THEandCathedral
        Campo         Santo, have become particularly known to
the English antiquary, from the various opinions                which    -|-
have been formed with regard to the genuineness of some of
their details, and from the support they have been thought to
  've to one of the theories of Gothic Architecture.        It will be
 <U+FB01>e  object of  the  present   paper   to record  such  observations
upon the parts in question as the writer was enabled to make
during his stay at Pisa in the present winter.
    Of the three buildings, the <U+FB01>rst which will here be consi
dered  is the Campo Santa, bein that upon which the most do
cided opinion has been forme . The Campo Santa may be
brie<U+FB02>y described as an open portico or cloister of four sides,
composed of a        ht arcade of Roman architecture, the arches:
                       li
of which spring - mm square pilasters adorned with base and             a
upper cornice.      These arches, which are all circular, contain
the Gothic tracery whose originality or posterior addition forms
the subject of dispute in the building before us.        It was built
from the design of Giovanni da Pisa, one of the most cele~
brated artists of the Pisan school; begun in the year 1278                          I,
and <U+FB01>nished, according to the best authorities, in 1283 the’                   ;
Gothic work,       may be necessary to add,
                    it                              of the rich and
                                                              is
elaborate kind which           seen in the skreens of some of our
                                    is
churches, and particularly in an arch of the south transept of
 Norwich cathedral.        The following are the remarks which
occurred on      careful view of the interior.
                   a
    First; That the marble of which the tracery          made      of a
                                                                   is          is
different kind from that used for the other parts of the fabric;
the former being Carrara, the latter from the mountains of
 San Giuliano, near Pisa.         Secondly    The Gothic work in
                                                     ;
question (which        sustained by a centre pier, two very slender
                         is
round columns, and two half columns attached to' the faces of
the grand pilaster)       in every instance unconnected with the
                              is
arch, andv  in more    than  forty of the arches day-light appeared
between the hal-flpillar    and  the pilastcr to which       attached,
                                                                   it   is
  ‘  From the Archmologia, vol. xx.              \          _      -.     ~
  1- See the controversy between Sir H. Engle<U+FB01>eld and Mr. Smirke, in the
Archaeologia, vol. xv.; also the Rev. W. Gunn’s
                                                “ lnquiry into the Origin
and In<U+FB02>uence of Gothic Architecture.”
  1  According to the Pisan Chronology, which        year later than the
                                                         is   a
common    style.
   Vol.   64.      No. 318.        Oct. 1824-.           M     m                    the

274-           Mr. A. Taylor   on the Gothic Ornaments.
 the <U+FB01>ssure in some cases extending through a great part of the
 height of the pillar. The tracery which springs from these
 pillars diverges from a capital, corresponding in position, and
 generally in design, with the cornice which marks the com
 mencement of the great circular arch. From this circumstance
 it is evident that the capital of the Iza‘lflpillar should blend
 with that part of the cornice of the pilaster against which it is
 placed; this, if the whole work were of one time, would have
 been accomplished by forming the capital on the same stone
 with the cornice.    The fact, however, is different; in <U+FB01>fty in
 stances the cornice is cut, or rather broken away, to admit the
 capital of the half-pillar, and in twelve, the capital is cut at
 the top so as to <U+FB01>t it against the cornice.    Of these two me-v
 thods, the former (probably from the friability 0f the stone) is
 so very awkwardly practised, that the cornice is generally
much dilapidated, and the capital (which is always perfect and
entire) appears seated in a large irregular cavity.        On the
north side, indeed, it will be found that nearly the whole face
of the cornice is sometimes destroyed ; an effect certainly“ not
produced by the injuries of time, and by no other cause than
the mallet of a careless workman.       Thirdly; In those arches,
six in number, which form the passage ways to the inner
               or burial ground, a portion of the top of the pe
quadrangle,
   estal in the great pilasters has been cut out and replaced by
another piece formed to support and bind the half-pillar of the
tracery; this operation, also, hath been performed with su<U+FB01>i~
cient mal-adroitness to leave no doubt as to an alteration from
the original plan of the building.     It has been remarked that
the capitals of the Gothic pillars correspond generally in de
       with the cornice of the Roman arch
   sign
                                               ;   may be right to
                                                   it
a (1,   however, that the enrichments of the former are alwa           s
more delicately cut, and that the similarity       merely that o a
free imitation. From the facts now stated,     it  is is
                                                   evident that the
Gothic tracery of the Campo Santa         CERTAINLY the addition
                                          is
of a later age:   it only remains to <U+FB01>x the period at which the
addition was made.        For this purpose recourse will be had,
without hesitation, to the tablet on the north side of the
building itsel<U+FB01>—an authority which has doubtless been cited
and discussed in former dissertations, but which        may not be
                                                           it
amiss to produce on the present occasion in faithful copy from
                                               a
the stone *.
    The artist mentioned in the tablet doubtless the Antonio Pisano of
‘                                    is
Muratori: “ Anna 1461, Antonius Pisamw, genmmrum pretiororumque lupi
dum scuhrtura claret.”
                                                                Whatever

                    qftlze ancient Buildings                  of Pisa.
                                                                             -
                                                                                 275
 *-       D- Fl----O- ms      -   MEDICIS         -       Whatever dif<U+FB01>culty there
 ARCHIEPT)      -   PISANO             ~   ANTO       may be    in Hildel‘standing
 NlVS- IACOBI ~ALM] - TEMPLI-                Parts
                                                   of this inscl'iP‘
                                                      59"“?
                                      uon’   m   reference   to the
 PISANI - ornaAmvs - SACRI -
                                      number of the arches, there
 “VI 9 ' ET' ‘NTER ' MORTALES'        can, it is submitted, be no
 PRECLARISSIMI ' SEPVLCRI '           doubt that its intention-is to
 orvs- i-i-M- aacvnvs- xxvm -         record the erection ofperfo
 q; - PFORA'I‘IS - FENESTRIS -        rated marble
                                                     windows in the
   MARMOREIS     . 1.1.1.     A“
                              .
                                sv‘A. year          and
                                                         It is
                                              Imagme    What   other
   DILIGENTIA - PERFICI - cva cult t9
                                                       be   made  to
   AVIT - n - 1- In‘ - ficcccmum- ObJecuon (fan
                                      the date assigned, than that,
according to a general theory, Gothic Architecture must have
been discontinued at an earlier period.       How far this opinion
is supported by facts, will be left for future inquiry.     One cir
cumstance only will be noticed in acry‘irmation of the date. It
is known that the design of the patrons of this later work was
to <U+FB01>ll the arches with coloured glass; this, consider-in         the
vast size and number of the windows, it is not likely woul have
been attempted with the ancient stained          lass composed of
small pieces ; it is therefore more reasonab e to refer the work
to an age in which the fabric of painted glass, in larger panes,
was commonly known.          With regard to the notice taken of
the Campo Santa by Vasari, it may <U+FB01>rst be observed that his
description is perfectly inde<U+FB01>nite; but allowing it to be in
hostility with the date assigned, it remains to he demanded
whether the negative evidence, arising from his omittin            to
notice an alteration which took place eighty or an hun red
years before his time, can be placed in opposition to the posi
 tiVe and authentic testimony which has just been advanced *.
   To proceed to the Battistero .- this magni<U+FB01>cent structure
was begun by Diotisalvi in the year 1153, Pisan style, and is
for the greater part in the circular Romanesque manner which
prevails through the whole of the Duomo, and characterizes
most of the early buildings at Pisa.      The LOWER. stor is
adorned with lar e arches supported by Corinthian pil ars,
and   ,is
        free from    a tslightest mixture of Gothic ornamept.
The sacom)          range of smaller round arches, much re
                    is e
                                                      “
   * Tronci says of the Campo Santo, Non rectd <U+FB01>nito perfezionaio in     e
tuttoil magni/ico cdi<U+FB01>zio<U+FB01>no all’ anno 1464, in tempo dcll’ Arcivescovo    iii}; F
po de' Medici, come     legge in an ultra inscrizione pure in marmo nello
                         si                                                          sli
pilc_ del porhme inconlro la cuppa/la della BUI‘bIZN’SCG, hoggi dr' Eating/cm,
nellafaccia che mina verso    compo." Mam. Ist. 61:. p. 234.
                                  i!
                                                                            _
                                            Mm        2                      semblmg

    373             Mr. A. Taylor   on   til: Gothic Ornaments
     sembling those which are commonly found on our Norman
     churches: three of these occupy the place of one of the lower
     story.   From the top of these arches, without any intervening
     cornice or line of separation, there rises a series of project-in
     canopies or pediments, alternated with lofty tabernacles            and
       innacles.    The ramp story (commencing from a cornice be
     liind the pinnacles)   isoccupied by windows, each formed of
     two lightsdivided by    a munnion supportin two trefoil arches,
     under a circular arch.      Between the windows are <U+FB02>at pilas~
     ters surmounted by small Gothic canopies, and above them,
     a pointed pediment or gable rising little above the parapet.
                                              a
     In the roof or cupola there are (on one side of the building)
     <U+FB01>mr aperturesor windows adorned with pediments '     and crockets
     of a decidedly Gothic character.
         From the. description here given        will be evident that
                                                  it
     there exists in this building a great confusion of style.% and
     much to mislead the judgment upon a general cursory obser-.
     vation.   It was, therefore, thought advisable to attempt a more
     close examination by venturing upon the cornice which runs
     round the exterior, at the commencement of the. third story.
     In this place was easy to touch the pinnacles. which ascend
                     it
     from the arches below, 'and      was immediately found that the
                                     it
     marble of which they are made di<U+FB01>ers from that employed in
     any other part of the fabric; the di<U+FB01>'erence in colour may in
     deed be seen from below.      It was observed, in goin round,
     that the pinnacles were in no way so connected with         build
                                                                 t   e
     ing as to have been necessarily erected at the same time; that
     they sometimes, merely touch the cornice, sometimes stand
     clear altogether, and are sometimes let into it: in the latter
     case,it   isplain, beyond all doubt, that the cornice was chip
     ped or broken away in. situ, the fracture proceeding from above.
     The angular pediments beneath could not be seen to advan,
     tage in this position. With re ard to the trefoil windows and
    pediments of the third story, it Was found that they certainly
'
    were ORIGINAL—speaking         with-reference to that story, the
    umnnions and pointed arches binding in with the work. It
    is  not to he assumed, however, that these. parts, though of         a
     Gothic character, are in the same style with the pinnacles
    above. described. Plain in design, and simple in. execution, they
    may be compared. with specimens of the early pointed- style
    in our ownoountry, or with the half-Gothic style of Lombardy.
    The little canopies on the pilasters, and the apertures in the
    roof, appear to have the. same character as the pinnacles.
        Of the interior of the Baptistery we have chie<U+FB02>y to remark
    the simplicity and uniformity of its architecture, and its free
    dom from any the least mixture of the Gothic style, excepting,
                                                                      o

            ‘         of the ancient Buildings ofPisa.                         277'
    of course, the glaring anomaly of one arch in the gallery. <U+FB01>ll
     ed with rich tracery.   This embellishment exhibits precisely
     the same appearances with the Gothic work in the Campo
     Santa, and is no doubt the beginning of an un<U+FB01>nished design
     of a similar kind, and of the same age. In the allery which
     runs round the building, it may be observed t at for some
     feet from the springing of the roof the side wall is continued
     with a new material, as if carried up at a later time. This
     change takes place just about that part where the. trefoil win
    dows are seen in the third story of the exterior.         There are
    also traces of an intended groined roof, which would take its
    commencement from the termination of the old work.             From
    these circumstances it may be inferred that the building was
    either left for a time un<U+FB01>nished, or that a former roof was re
    moved <U+FB02>or the purpose of giving it greater elevation: in either
    way the di<U+FB02>'erence of style in the, exterior      is:
                                                     accounted For.
        On a general review of the whole, the following were the
    conclusions, as regarding the exterior, which. appeared least
‘
    open to objection.    That the work      composed in three dif
                                              is
    ferent styles, the pure anaanue of the <U+FB01>rst and second
,    stories; the Lombardic, or mixed Gothic, of the third and           ;
    the Tede ne, or <U+FB02>orid, Gothic, of the accesory details and,         :
    secondly,    t.  from the relative position of the several parts,
 it    is probably the work of three different        es.   In. forming
    the division which has just been stated, the      c a
                                                      ief di<U+FB01>iCulty was
  _ found in regard to- the pointed canopies. above. the small; arches
    of the second story. Whether there be. any objection to their
    being classed with the pinnacles with which they are connect
    ed must be left to more competent. decision; butinasmuch as
                        a
    concerns the possibility of their bein    additions,     will suf<U+FB01>ce
                                                                   it
    to say, that no architectural embellishments can; hang more
    loosely upon the fabric to which they belong. .
       It  ma not be uninteresting to. accoinpan thefol'cgoing de~
    tails “it a few historical notices; and in      . <U+FB01>rst. place to re
                                                     t.
    mark, that a current opinion relating to the Baptistery          thatis,
 it    was begun and <U+FB01>nished in the space of eight years. name]
    between the years 1152, and 1160            This opinion
                                               *2                 just  is      y ,
    condemned by Morrona, in hisPisaIl-lustmta              1~,_
                                                         who still, how
      " Thus  Martini, in his Theatrum Basilica Fianna, p. 93: “ Tenrplum
      fuit
    IIOC   incmptum   anno 1152, mense Augusti—absolutum    nerd    anno 1160,
 at eruilur e1 quodam pervctusto codice in ejusdem l<U+FB01>imatialis Basilicw Ar
 chivio emistente.”   What this coder   is,  he does not condescend to inform
 us.   So also Milizia, in his Lives of the Architects; “Diotisalvi/it un ar
 chiter che net 1152 edi<U+FB01>czi    il Ballistero di Pisa, edopo otto anni lo ter
 mimi.”                  1   Second edit. Leghorn, 1812.
                                                                             work

 278              Mr. A. Taylor       on the Gothic Ornaments
 ever, appears to consider the entire fabric as the design and
 work of one master, leaving the timeof its completion to the con -
jecture orthe research of his reader. The principal facts which
 this author has collected are, that the Baptistery was begun in
 1152, or 53, according to the Pisan chronology; that the work
 was suspended for want of money after reaching the <U+FB01>rst or per
 haps the second order, or story, of the exterior; and that it was
 continued by means of a voluntary monthly contribution from
 the inhabitants; adding that Dempster alone refers this levy to
 the year 1164. He also cites another historian, Roncioni, as say
 ing that the <U+FB01>rst column to the east was set up on the <U+FB01>rst of Oc
 tober 1156, and that on the 15th of the same month the whole
 of the remainder, with the <U+FB01>rst vault, the pilasters and cornices,
 were erected and <U+FB01>nished ; an assertion which, with Vasari, may
 well be termed “meravigliosa, e quasi del tutto irwredibil<U+FB01>."
     On reference to Tronci, the historian of Pisaf, little in
 formation was added to the scanty materials cited above.                    He
 says that the Baptistery was several years in hand (“ corsero
 parecohi anni ajinirsi”); that the <U+FB01>rst year the foundations
  were laid, and the <U+FB01>rst circle of the wall.             More has, how
 ever, been ained from one of the old chronicles in the col
 lection of        uratori; the following passages, which do not ap
 pear   to  have     been cited by any modern writer, are not un
 worthy     attention.
     “ Anna 1 154. Fundatus est primns gyms ecclesiw Sancti
 Johannisi, Cionetio Cionnettz' et Enrico Cancellario operariz's
 existentibus.       Qui Cionettus in Sardiniam pluries ivz't, et rc
 duz'it dc S. Reparata columnas.”
     “ Anna 1159. In quarto consulatu Coco/2i, Pisani—tres co
  lumnas magnas pro openi Sancti Johannis de Ylba ad dictum
  ecclesiam portaverunt.” .
     “ Anna 1164. In calendis Octobris incz'pz'endo in .riiz'. diebus
  octo columna: in ecclesiri Sancti Johannis erectre sunt, do quibus
  unam and die in Porta Aurea . . . . erexil.            Et tuno ordinatum
  est qubd unaqua’que familia in singulis calendis mensium unum
  denarium ipsi opera: dare! ,~ et<U+FB01>mdata est ecclesia Sanctz' Johan
  nz's Baptism §.”
      From this account it appears that the great columns which
  support the building did not arrive until <U+FB01>ve or six years after
  the commencement of the work, and that <U+FB01>ve years more had
  elapsed before they were <U+FB01>nally erected ; it is therefore a pro
  bable conclusion, that the fabric in question, so far from being
     ‘ Vite, ($0. Proem. p. 227-8, edit. Sanes.
       Mom. Isl. della oitta di Pisa, 4to, 1682.  I
       Brev. Pia. IIist.—Rer. Ital. Script. vi. 168.
                                                     The Baptistery,  so called.
                                                                   -
                                                                     completed

                  ofthe ancient Buildings of Pisa.             279
completed by one architect, and in a short space of time, was
continued with several interruptions, and carried on as the
resources of the public treasury would permit.
     Of the Duoma, in as far as the present question is concerned,
 little will need to be said. The only part of this vast pile which
is involved in the controversy is the corona, or band of Gothic
canopies which surrounds the drum of the dome.              Here at
least, no question can be raised as to the possibility of pos
terior additiOn; and as the work itself is of the same character
as the ornaments of the Baptistery, the same opinion must be
adopted respecting it.       It   perhaps, worth while to remark
                                 is,
that the three courses of stone next under the corona differ
from the inferior parts of' the tower.    As the ornaments upon
the ledge of the grand pediment of the west front are said to
have been mentioned as Gothic crockets,         may be permitted
                                                  it
to express a di<U+FB02>'erent opinion; they are used for the same de
corative purpose, but are Surely more Grecian than Gothic,
and are particularly characteristic of a style to which the ap
pellation of Greco-barbara has been <U+FB01>tly applied.
    The Church of Santa Maria della Spina having been cited
as a work of Giovanni da Pisa in con<U+FB01>rmation of the origina
lity of the Gothic ornaments of the Campo Santa, some observa
tions upon its history and architecture will now be added.
    The Church, or rather Oratory of the Spina, called in old
writings Oratorium Sanctw Maria de Ponte Nova, was a little
chapel standing at the foot of a bridge (since demolished) called
Ponle Nuovo the patronage of belonged to the commonalty
             ,-                        it
of Pisa, and hence    it   seems to have been regarded with par
tiality by the citizens. Its chief distipction, however, was con
ferred by the donation of a spine of Our Saviour’s crown of
thorns, said to have been brought by a merchant from beyond
seas, and a<U+FB01>erwards deposited in this chapel.       The building,
asit   now appears, consists of a simple oblong room, with an
extension at the east end forming the present chancel or sanc
tuary.    This chancel, upon which rest the three spires (its
principal ornament)        is,
                             without any doubt, a later addition,
and is  so termed by Morrona.       The side next the street, and
the west end, are both covered, as well as the chancel, with     a
case or skreen of pilasters, canopies, statues, pinnacles, 8L0.
which, though not pure and correct, are nevertheless of the,
style which we should call <U+FB02>orid Gothic.        Upon examination
they were found neither to correspond with what may be seen
of the original work, nor to bind in with the masonry of the
walls;   their present dilapidated
                         '
                                     state  is,indeed, a sad con
                                                         <U+FB01>rmation

280             Mr. A. Taylor           on the Gothic Ornaments
<U+FB01>rmation of this fact. The side that abuts upon the river re—
mains in its original state, and is all of the Lombardic school.
It is scarcely necessary to add, that the conclusion here formed
was, that the church in its present state is the work of two very
different periods.       It only remains to examine its history, and
the share   which    Giovanni da Pisa may be supposed to have
had in its  construction.
   That the chapel was not built by this master is certain,                          if,
as   it   is
         supposed,         was founded in 1230.
                              it                       Vasari, indeed,
says expressly    that   the  people of Pisa having something to do
to the little church of St. Mary della Spina, con<U+FB01>ded the
work to Giovanni (the time             about 1280); adding that he
                                            is
brought many      of  its  ornaments  to  that perfection in which we
now see them".          These ornaments Morrona supposes were
the statues which adorn the original fabric, and adds that
neither the <U+FB01>rst nor the second architect of the church                               is
known.
   It may now be permitted to indulge a few con'ectures with
regard to the history of the building before us.          he donation
of the relic already mentioned appears to furnish the best
guide in the in uiry.         As a common bridge-foot chapel, the
oratory of St.        ary, plain as      was, suited the purposes for
                                             it
which      was intended; but when
           it                              had become the depository
                                                  it
of so sacred      atreasure,      was right that the exterior should
                                       it
assume a character of higher dignity and pretension; and the
means of effecting this purpose being afforded by the destruc
tion of the bridge, the chapel was enlarged upon what had
hitherto been the public way, and the original fabric decorated
in a. corresponding style. The nearest approximation to the
time of the supposed alteration will be derived from the follow
ing dates.    The <U+FB01>rst notice of the relic adduced            Morrona          by
is in the year 1433; but from an account of the procession of
Corpus Domini in an old chronicle,           appears that
                                                   it        was exist         it
ing in the chapel in 1362+. The Ponte Nuo'vo               thought by     is
the same writer to have been pulled down soon after the year
 MOO.     In H54 a sum of money was granted for the restore-
     ‘ ‘—-avendoxi a fare alcune core nella picciola ma ornatirsima china di
 Santa Maria della Spina, furono date a Giovanni,           qualc messooi mano, con
                                                                il
l'ajulo di alcuni .moi giovani oondusse molti ornamenti di quell’ oratorio a uella
perfezione c/ze oggi    .n'
                          vede   la quills opera, per quello clie
                                   :                                   pu<U+FB01> giu icare,
                                                                          :i
dooette esser in que’trmpi tenuta miracolosa,      tanto pizi aoendooi folio in una
                                                       e
<U+FB01>gura      ritratto di Niccolo di naturals, come :eppe nwglio."--Vasari, Vila
          il                                                                          if
 1V. or G. da Pisa, .   280.   Niccola, the father, was well known to, and much
 res ected by the isans.
  $      “Eappresso con la dilla processione oi  f     12
                                                   la Spine     Crista, la quale lifuc
                                                                     di
pasta in capo alla sua passione, la quale Spin          nella chiem di Santa Maria
                                                            6
del Ponte N'uovo, 6m.       Muratori, Rn. Ital. Scripf. tom. xv. col. 1036.
                              ;,
                                                                                    tion

                    ofthe ancient Buildings       quisa.                281
                                                                               i
tion   of  the  church: it is perhaps too much to assume this as
the date    of the Gothic details in question; but that they can
not be older than the time when the bridge was destroyed may
be argued from the projection of the added part beyond the
line of wa between the opposite sides of the river*.
    It will onbtless be said, in this case, as in that of the Campo
Santa, that Gothic Architecture could not have been in use at
so late a period.       An extensive and minute research would be
            to decide upon the truth of so general a position; but
reguisite
a ew circumstances may shortly be noticed which appear to
militate against it.       There exists in Pisa itself a large and
conspicuous red brick housef, which, if its date were known,
would almost determine the question ; it is covered with Gothic
enrichments and pointed arches. On the <U+FB02>oor of the Baptis
tery, at Pisa, is a sculptured tombstone with a Gothic canopy,
dated 1395 ; in the church of Santa Caterina one of the same
kind, dated 1403, and in the Campo Santa another, dated
14281.       The Palazzo Neruccz' in Siena, built in 1460, has
pointed windows of two lights.              Authorities to the same pur
pose might probably be collected even in Rome itself; it is
remarkable, indeed, that the Palazzo dz' Venezia, one of the
largest in that capital, which was built four years after the date
assigned to the windows in the Campo Santo, namely in 1468,
is but one remove from a Gothic building.
    With regard to the period at which the pointed style was
<U+FB01>rst employed at Pisa, a comparison of two of its principal
churches may not be unimportant.                 The front of San Paolo
a ripa d’Arno is ornamented in the upper part with three tiers
of small arches, all round, and resembling those on the front
of the Duomo, which was evidently the model for most of the
ecclesiastical buildings in the city.            This church is supposed
to have been erected about the year 1100.              The facade of San
Michele in Borgo, built on the same plan, has three similar
tiers of pointed arches, and of a character which we should
call early Gothic; this was constructed in 1304. The front
of Santa Caterina, which is also Gothic, and remarkably
beautiful, would be a desirable addition to the list, but its date
                                                                      '   '
is uncertain.
    In building his Campo Santa, it has appeared that Giovanni
   "' A person standing in the middle of the Via Santa Maria, at the end
next the Lung’ Arno, and looking across the river into the Via S. Antonio,
will  immediately  perceive what is meant above.
   15  Well known as the Ca<U+FB01>‘é del Ussero on the Lung’ Arno.
   1 In the Galleries of Pisa and Siena are many pictures of   the <U+FB01>fteenth
century in decidedly Gothic frames; those which have dates are in 1440,
 1447, 1453, and 1514 : they are generally altar-pieces, and are fair indica
tions of the architectural taste of their time.
    Vol. 64. N0. 318. Oct. 1824.                N n                         da

    282          Mr. A. Taylor       on   “the   Gothic Buildings   qf Pisa.
    da Pisa, so late as the year 1278, adopted a Roman style. . It
    is not, however, to be concluded, on this account, that the
     Gothic was then entirely unknown.      It occurs in a mixt and
‘   irregular form   in the  pulpit of the Baptistery,  made by his
    father Niccolo da Pisa in 1260; but an earlier specimen, of
                                                          ‘
    authentic date, has in vain been sought for.
       Havin now detailed the principal observations made in a
    survey 0 the interesting buildings which form the subject of
    the present Paper, the writer has only to state the result of an
    inquiry respecting them, undertaken at the desire of a highly
    respected friend to whom the public is indebted for a very
    learned and ingenious work on the architecture of the middle
    a es.
       _gThe Rev. Mr. Gunn having, three or four years since, ap
      plied to a gentleman resident in Tuscany, to obtain for him
      the sentiments of the best Pisan architects with regard to the
      disputed Gothic ornaments, received an answer professing to
      contain the opinion of Signor A_ntonio Toscanelli, an artist of
     great respectability at Pisa, which not only explicitly declared
     in favour of .the entire originality of these parts, but asserted
     the existence of ori inal plans and designs of each of the
     buildings in the Archivio of Pisa corresponding exactly with
     their present appearance. To this communication, the m0st
     important that could have been received to the uestion at
     issue, and apparently resting on the best authority,        r. Gunn
     of course assigned a place in the work above referred to, and
    made a further application, through the same channel, with a
     view to get copies of the designs themselves.      To this request
     he had not been able to obtain a satisfactory reply; till, upon
     the present investigation, it appeared that the opinion so de
     rived was not only <U+FB01>ctitious, butin opposition to the judgement of
     the person to whom it was attributed.       Signor Toscanelli be
     lieves that no desi us, such as were stated in                  it,
                                                              exist, and
    naturally expresses        astonishment that any one should have
                                is
    presumed to make use of his name on such            subject, without
                                                              a
     his knowledge and authority.        The real opinion of the Pisan
     anti uaries is, indeed, of a very dilferent kind.       In particu
    lar  t   eCavaliere Lasinio, to whose olite attentions the writer
    is   much indebted,    isfully persuade of the posterior addition
    of the Gothic attributes; and concurs generally in the con
    clusions above stated.
        It will be right to add that the foregoing remarks have been
    written without access to the memoirs which have already ap
    peared on the subject in the volumes of the Archaeologia the               ,-
    writer had indeed no other uide to the points of principal in
                                           ofg
    terest, than an abstract         the controversy by the friend of
                                       '
                                                                   whom

     _
         Admiral Krusenstern     on the Local-Attraction   of Vessels.    283
whom_he has lately spoken, and from whose judgement con
cerning them he has most reluctantly been compelled to dis
sent.
  Rome, March 30, 1822.                              Aa'rnua TAYLOR.
XLVII.         On the LocalAttractz'on qf Vessels.—In a Letter <U+FB01>om
         Admiral Kansans'rnau of the Imperial Russian Nazgy to
         PETER BARLOW, Esq. ERS.           -                     7
           Dear Sir,                    St. Petersbnrgh, July       8‘,
                                                                 1824.
I        HAVE had the honour to receive the letter you have done
    _me the favour to address, dated April 22d, with a copy                   of
your work to be presented to the Academy of Sciences, and
 six copies of your Appendix; three of which have sent ac
                                                        I
cordin to your desire to Admiral Greig, commander in chief
of the ussian marine station in the Black Sea, who has re
quested me to return you his obliging thanks for your kind
attention; and he       very anxious to have
                        is                        compass made by
                                                   a
 Messrs. Gilbert with one of your correcting plates, tables, &c._
    Since     have had your letter,
               I                       am happy .to learn by the
                                        I
public papers, that the Board of Lon 'tude and Trinity Board
have rewarded you for the ingenious gilscover you have made.
After the man experiments by such skilful           ocers as Captains
 Basil Hall,     wen, and others, published in your work with
their highly satisfactory results, the value of your discovery so
highly important to the interest of navigation does not stand                      \
 in need of any other testimony. It has, however, been long
my wish to have these experiments made here also, being
<U+FB01>rmly convinced since what read in the part of the work you
                                  I
sent me last ear, that no ship should go to sea without this
excellent met 0d of neutralizing the deviation. It ma perhaps
be no where of so great use as in the narrow seas of           Baltic,
                                                                e
where the navigation, late in the season, notwithstanding the
excellence of our light-houses,        extremely dangerous, and
                                         is
where an error of some de rees in the course steered durin a
night of 14 or 15 hours’ uration, must frequently bring                   t   e
ships into danger.     Itis of equal importance for ships
from} Archangel,    steering almost all the way a course comingwhic
is known generally to be affected considerably by the iron in
the vessel.
I      had ordered 'last year a compass from Messrs. Gilbert,
but     arrived during my absence, and on my return to Peters
          it
burgh was too late to have the observations made. Ill health
               it
prevented me from        oing to Cronstadt           in the Summer,
so that     was not
               it         til?
                          the 1st of July that
                                             earlly went down With
                              Nn       2                     Admiral

284       Admiral Krusenstern          on  Mr. Barlow’s Method
Admiral Count He den, an of<U+FB01>cer of hi h scienti<U+FB01>c attain
ments, and equally interested with me to earn the results of
these observations.        M. Chalizoff, a master in the navy, went
 with us, who had been already employed by Count Heyden
 when commanding at Sweaborg to make observations on the
 deviation of the compass.           The governor of Cronstadt, Ad
miral Moller, brother to the minister of marine, gave imme
diately on our arrival an order to the commander of the Oly
 nip, a bri of war mounting twenty twenty-four pounders, to
 warp the s ip according to my directions, and at 4 o’clock the
next morning we commenced our experiments, of which                             I
shall give you as detailed an account as possible, requesting
you to communicate such remarks as you may <U+FB01>nd requisite
to make on them. Not having a theodolite to observe the
bearin s of the ship from shore, we compared the compasses
we ha to make use of, and found a difference, between the
 Gilbert compass and the azimuth compass belon 'ng to the
 ship, of three-fourths of a degree, which difference as always
 been applied.       The brig being very high fore and aft, it was
very difficult to place the stand of the compass conveniently for
the observer: at len h we placed it in the after part of the ship
 on the starboard si e on the top of a small cabin’l‘.                   It was
equally dif<U+FB01>cult to <U+FB01>x upon a spot on shore to take the bear
ings, from the Roads of Cronstadt being every where surround
 ed by large batteries, where on account of the uns the ob
 Servations could not be made. The only spot t at could be
 selected was the end of a brid e opposite to the ship, at the
 distance of about half a mile.             . Chalizo<U+FB01>', a very expert and
 careful observer, was sent on shore with the ship’s azimuth
 compass, while Count Heyden and myself remained on board.
 The ship was now warped round the compass to every point,
and sometimes to less, as you will perceive by the original ob
servations which I herewith inclose.              As soon as the ship was
swung and steadied, a signal <U+FB02>ag was hoisted on board, and
repeated on shore; then both observers keeping the two <U+FB02>ags
on'board and on shore in the same line of sights, three bear
  } It is to be regretted that it was necessary to place the compass in this
situation, because, being elevated and further aft than the usual place, there
is no doubt the errors observed were much less than they would have been
in the natural situation for the azimuth.        In all probability they would
            increased from a half to at least three quarters of a point, or
ggvgrbse‘en
   The dif<U+FB01>culty here noticed, of not being able to see the shore station from
the ship, has occurred in some English vessels where the bulwarks have been
very high, and in vessels with poops.      The best way in these cases is for the
two observers (instead of          each other’s bearing) both to take the hear
ing of the sun by signal taking
                            at t e same instant, then the difference in these
hearings Will be the local attraction.—-P.   B
                                                                            ings

            of correcting  the Local Attraction  of Vessels.      28‘5
  ings were taken, and the mean adopted as the correct one (the
  difference being always very inconsiderable), the master of the
  ship          at the same time the bearing of the ship’s head by
        taking compass; the <U+FB02>ag was then hauled down on board
  an azimut
  and immediately repeated on shore.
      As soon as the ship had been warped quite round the com
  pass, we went on shore with the plate; and on comparing our
  several bearings, we found that it was at south 4" east that
  they coincided nearly; this then was the point in which the
  iron of the ship had no in<U+FB02>uence on the magnetic needle, or
  the line of no attraction.     We now proceeded to apply the
  correcting plate to the compass, trying to obtain its right posi
  tion, viz. its distance from the compass and its depth below the
  pivot of the needle, which was ascertained and measured. We
  then returned to the ship, and in order to have a proof of the
  exactness of the results of our experiments, we took with the
  plate compass the bearing of the object on shore we formerly
  had observed without the plate, and found it to be correct
  within a uarter of a degree.
    > The
            hiinister has now ordered the same observation to be
  made on board the ship that is to sail to the South Seas, com
  manded by Captain Doxturo<U+FB01>; one of our best o<U+FB02>icers in the
  navy, who will on his arrival in England provide himself with
  one of Gilbert’s compasses and a plate, and he will not fail to
-
  communicate to you the results of his experiments as soon as
  they are made, but the ships are not yet in the Roads.
      As these are the <U+FB01>rst experiments of the kind made here
  they may be liable to some imperfections, which however will
  soon be got over.
      Before  I conclude this letter permit me to return you my
  best thanks for your letter of the 7th of Februar , accompanied
  by your directions for usin the plate, of whic I sent a copy
  to Admiral Greig without elay, who takes a great interest in
  your valuable discovery, and will not fail to have those expe
  riments repeated as soon as he gets one of the plates.
                       I have the honour   to be,
                               With high  esteem and regard,
                                               Yours, very truly,
                                       (Signed)       Kansans'rmm.
                                                          Experiments

   286 Admiral Krusenstern                   on the     Local Attraction of         Vessels.
   Eaperiments          made to ascertain the quantity of local attraction
      in    H I. M S.        Olynip, made on the 2d quuly 1824, in the
      Roads of Cronstadt, by Admirals Count HEYDEN and KRU—
       sans'rarm.
              Beanngo Bearing        of                         Beanngo Bearing      of
 Bearing                         -       Local Bearing                            .      Local
        - ,   Shore Sm-       Bn                           . ,_ Shore Sta-     Brig
of Shlp     s                            Atmm' of Ship 3 tion from from Shore Attrac'
               tion from from 8%!01'9
  H 1                       Station.
                                          ti°n~       Head
                                                                   Brig.     Station.
                                                                                         tion.
                  Brig.
N   10°   E   N26°40’E   S  28°15’W —l°35’           S  9°W N30°20’E       S 29°45'  W +0°35I
    20           26 40      28 30       -1‘   50    |  25         30 20      29 30      +0 50
    30           26 20      29 15       —2 55          33         30 40      29 45      +0 55
     49          25  40     29 15       -3    35       66         31 00      29 00      +2 00
    53
          '
                 25  40     29 45       -4     5       86         31 00      29 00      +2 00
     63          25  20     29 15       —3 55
    73           25  40     31  15      —5 35      N   78   W     30 45      28  45     +2   00
                                                       7o         31 2o      28  45     +2   35
 S   86   E      26 00      31 15       —5 15          60         30 40      28  30     +2   10
    70           26 20      31 15       —4 55          51         30 40      28  45     +1   55
    55           27 20      31 45       -4 25          45         3| 00      28  45     +2   15
    45           27 40      31 45       ——4 5          36         30 20      28  15     +2   05
     35          28 20'     31 15       -2 55          25         29 40      28  15     +1   25
     27          28 50      31 15       -2 25          2o         28 40      28  15     +0   25
     15
               I
                 29 20      31 15       -1 55            9        26 4o      27 30      -0   50
      5          30 00      30 15     5 -0 15            3        26 40      27 45      -o   55
       Norm—It gives us much pleasure to see this highlyimportant,
   nautical improvement making such rapid strides towards being
   generally adopted.              Our own ships of war are in future all to
   be supplied with a correcting plate, and we understand that
   both the Dutch and American marine have ordered plates
   for the purpose of experiment and correction. Our merchant
   service will, we have no doubt, soon follow these examples.
   In the mean time, in order to accelerate as much as in our
   power this desirable practice, we publish, with Mr. Barlow’s
   permission, the following letter which he has received from
   one of our most distinguished naval Boards, whose opinion
   will, we have, no doubt, have a powerful in<U+FB02>uence in recom
   mending the adoption of the principle by the more respect
   able class of our merchant vessels, as that of the Longitude
   Board has been the means of introducing the practice into the
   navy.—ED1T.
            Coly of a Letter from            J. Herbert,        Esq. to  Mr. Barlow.
           Sir,                               Trinity House, London, 17th June 1824.
       The General Court of this Corporation having had under
   consideration the importance and utility of your discovery of
   a method for correcting the local attraction and consequent
  deviation of the compass on ship board, and being of opinion
   that the practice of the science of navigation will be greatly
                                                                                 bene<U+FB01>ted,

    Progress    of Science    respecting  Igneous Meteors in, 1823.   287
 bene<U+FB01>ted,             the security of all classes of shipping yery ma
 terially promoted thereby,—I have it in command to acquaint
 you, that it has been resolved to present you with the sum of
 two hundred pounds, as a mark of the high sense the Elder
 Brethren entertain of the merits and practical utility of so im
 portant a discovery.                         I am, sir, 8w.
     To Peter Barlow, Esq.                       J. HERBERT, Secretary.
 XLVIII. A Sketch           of the Progress ofScience respecting Igneous
    Meteors and Meteorites during the Year 1823 ,- including an
    Account of the principal Phenomena of that Nature observed
    during the same Period .- with Inquiries suggested by those Sub
   jects.     By E. W. BRAYLEY, junior, A.L.S., and Member of
    the Meteorological Society.
                                [Continued from p. 119.]
         return, however, to the phaenomena of the American
TO     meteor itselfz—Professor Dean, after determining the an
gular values of the observations made upon it by Capt. Ward
ner and Col. Page, proceeded to calculate from them, accord- .
ing to the rule given by Dr. Bowditch, its actual situations
when the were made, and thence the direction of its motion;
with its a titude, absolute diameter, and velocity. . The direc
tion of its path, as already stated, he found to have been south
84° west : at. its <U+FB01>rst brilliant coruscation, as observed by
 Capt. W., it was about forty-one miles above the earth, or
 accordin      to C01. Page, onl thirty-four; over the unsettled
part of <U+FB01>ssex county, New-fork, about <U+FB01>fteen miles west of
 Crown-point; lat. 43° 54', lon . 73° 47' : at its disappearance
from the former           entleman, behind the ridge of a house, its
elevation appeared; to have been about twenty-nine miles; over
the western part of Schoharie county, in lat. 42° 45', lon .
74° 49’. “ But altitudes estimated under the impression whic
such a phaenomenon cannot fail to produce,” Prof. Dean justly
observes, “ must be considered as very uncertain, whatever
may be the                      and <U+FB01>delity of the observers.” He then
               judgement
states the lengt        of the meteor’s path, as probably determined
from these observations; which has likewise been given in a
former pa e of this memoir.
    “ har ly dare,” he continues, “ to make any estimate of
      I
its velocity.     '1 have heard no estimate of the duration of the
appearance      of  the body of the meteor greater than <U+FB01>ve seconds;
and   this   would    imply a velocity much greater than that of the
Earth in its orbit.”         At Salem, in Washington county, New
York,    however,       where    the observers do not appearito have
                                                            ‘
           "
                                                               wrtnessed

288 Progress     of Science respecting Igneous Meteors in 1823.
witnessed the explosion, and by whom, consequently, the body
only of the meteor is spoken of, it is stated to have been visi
ble for about one minute; so that the time of its passa e may
probably have been under-rated in the estimates alluded to by
Prof. 1).: although, on the other hand, common observers of
such phwnomena usually attribute a greater length of time to
their duration than they really occupy; and several other
 Fire-balls on record appear to have been impelled through the
atmosphere with a velocity nearly equal to that assigned to
this one by Professor Dean.
    Professor Dean gives two measures of the apparent diameter
    i
of this meteor, both obtained by comparison, at the time of
its assage, with stationary objects; and which differed from
eac    other only two degrees; Capt. Wardner's object of com
parison indicating it to have subtended 10°, and Col. Page’s
 12°.    Its absolute diameter, computed from these, and from
the mean distances of the observers respectively, “ amounts,”
he states, “ to about one-third of a mile.”       Considering the
immense magnitudes which former meteors have been shown to
possess ;—that Montanari calculated the smaller diameter of
that which passed over Italy in 1676 to have been above half
a-mile; that Halley computed the diameter of the <U+FB01>re-ball of
 1-719_at a mile and a half; and that Cavallo and Blagden de
termined that of the celebrated meteor of 1783 to have been
between half and three-<U+FB01>fths of a mile ;—-the size thus ascribed
to the American meteor does not appear to be excessive.
     But various phaenomena displayed by this meteor, indicate,   I
think, that we are to consider the one-third of a mile to have
been merely the approximate diameter of the mass of <U+FB02>ame, in
which the solid matter or substance of the meteor was en
veloped; so that the latter may have been, (and no doubt it
was,) of much smaller dimensions.          Thus Mr. Doty states,
that “the blazing meteor was in full view over his head, ap
pearing to be twenty or thirty feet in diameter, and soon began
to extend itser to the north-east and south-west, increasing in
extension, and decreasing in its <U+FB02>aming appearance, until no
thing was to be seen but two detached parts of it rapidly moving
in different directions towards the north-east and south-west.”
 Col. Page a<U+FB02>irms, as before stated, that when it was “ about
one-third of the way from Procyon to Sirius it suddenly broke
out in great splendour, and continued its course <U+FB02>ashing and
sparkling east of Sirius,” until it disappeared. And as neither
 the different distances of these and other observers from the
meteor, ‘nor the allowances necessary to be made in draw
ing inferences from common estimates of the apparent diameter
of such bodies, are suf<U+FB01>cient to reconcile the great discrepancies
  '
                                                                 1n

                       On 'the general Nature‘qf Bolides.          '289
 in their   statements on this subject; those discrepancies must
_have arisen,      I
                   conceive, from the circumstance, that the disk
 of the meteor actually varied in size at different periods of its
 course ; and variation to such an extent as is indicated by them,
 in so small a space of time as that occupied by the passage of
 this <U+FB01>re-ball, could only have taken place in i ited gaseous
                                                            gile
 matter, or <U+FB02>ame, proceeding, however, from              combustion
 of solid matter.
     Such are the grounds on which        have founded the opinion
                                            I
 above given of the nature of this meteor; and as the assumption
 that the magnitude of <U+FB01>re-balls as computed from their distance
 and apparent diameter,       the actual size of the solid mass they
                                is
 contain, appears to have led to various misconceptions regard
 ing them,     I shall take this opportunity of submitting, with
 much deference, a few facts, tending to show that the magni
 tude of <U+FB01>re-balls so computed,         in no case that of the sub
                                           is
 stance of the meteors; but merely of the <U+FB02>ames with which
  they are invested.      am not prepared to assert that this di
                          I
  stinction has been overlooked by every writer on the subject;
 but it   iswithin my knowledge that        has been neglected by
                                                it
  many; and that others, who seem to have had some idea of
 its existence, have nevertheless derived much less use from         it,
  in their inquiries concerning the origin and theory of such
 phaenomena,      than   appears to be capable of affording.
                           it
,    Thus Dr. Bowditch, in his excellent account of the meteor
  that exploded over ‘Veston, in Connecticut, on the 14th of
  December 1807, after stating that “ the least of all the limits
  of the diameter of the meteor                 ”
                                      491 feet;
                                       is          proceeds to com
  pare, in the following manner, the quantity of matter which
  that dimension would indicate        to have contained, with the
                                           it
  actual weight of the stones that fell from it: “ A body of this
 magnitude,” he says,
                          “ and of the same speci<U+FB01>c gravity as the
  stone that fell at Weston (which weighed about 225 pounds to
 a cubic foot) would contain a quantity of matter exceeding in
 weight six millions of tons.         If
                                     the speci<U+FB01>c gravity were the
 same as that of the air at the surface of the Earth, the quantity
 of matter would exceed two thousand tons and        :    the speci<U+FB01>c
                                                            if
 gravity were the same as that of the air at the height of the
 meteor (which by the usual rule for barometrical admeasure
 ments    isabout Klgth part of that at the surface of the Earth),
 the quantity of matter would exceed<U+FB01><U+FB02>y tons.         Either of these
 estimates exceeds by far the weight of the whole mass that fell
 near Weston, which, by the accounts published, does not ap
 pear to have been greater than half-a-ton, and would not form
 a sphere of two feet. diameter of the same speci<U+FB01>c gravity as
 the stone, as was observed         Professor Day, in his valuable
                                      by
     Vol. 6%. No. 318. Oct. 1824.        ~O 0                   paper

   290 Progress       qf Science respecting Igneous MeteOrs in 1823.
    paper on the origin of meteoric stones.                   A sphere of this
   diameter, seen at the distance of the meteor from Wenham,
    would hardly be visible without the assistance of a telescope,
    since its apparent diameter would not exceed two-thirds of a
    second.      These reasons seem strongly to favour the opinion,
'
    that by far the greater part of the mass continued on its course
    without falling to the Earth, and the gradual disappearance
   of the meteor, as observed, by Judge Wheeler, is agreeable to
    this hypothesis*.”-—But how different an aspect will these cir
   cumstances assume,_ and how different will be their hearing on
   theoretical inquiries, if it can be shown that we must consider
   the visible meteor to have been principally a mass of <U+FB02>ame,
   proceeding from a solid nucleus comparatively small?                     I’do
   not intend, in this place, to enter into the subject of the theory
   of these meteors; but shall merely endeavour to prove that it
   cannot be investigated, without the application of a correction
   for the probable difference between their size, as computed
   from their apparent diameter, and that of the mass of solid
   matter which they may respectively contain.
        The chief phzenomena of Bolides from which am disposed     I
   to infer that they consist, essentially, of a nucleus of com
   bustible solid matter, from which arises a body of' <U+FB02>ame of
   vastly superior magnitude, are the following: First, the cha
  racteristic appearances of in<U+FB02>ammation which some of these
   meteors are said to have presented; particularly those, which,
   by descending comparativel low in the atmosphere, have ap
  proached the nearest to t e spectators: secondly, the fre
     uently ovate <U+FB01> re of their disk, indicating their spheroidal
    orm, with the agest axis in the direction of their motion:
  thirdly, the change of form which many have been seen to un
  dergo during their progress through the heavens; a change,
  which in various instances cannot have been merely an optical
  deception, produced by the different aspects under which the
  meteors were successively viewed : fourthly, the tails which by
  far the greater number of <U+FB01>re-balls have been seen to draw
  after them, and from which, by some observers among the
  ancients, and b the uninformed in modern times, they have
  been occasional y confounded with comets: and <U+FB01>fthly, the
  luminous traces, often in a continuous band, or track, as it
  has been termed, and sometimes remaining for many minutes
  after the meteors’ disappearance, by which their path in the
  heavens has in a variety of cases been marked; and which, in
  conjunction with their caudate appearance, have caused many
  observers to compare them to immense sky-rockets.—-I pro-w
      *" Nicholson’s Philosophical Journal, vol. xxviii. p. 218: from theMemoirs
  of the   American  Academy.
                                                                            ceed

                     On the general Nature               of Bolides.                29E
ceed'to adduce a few of the more striking cases in which some
of these phaenomena have been displayed; selected from an
extensive collection of similar materials now before me.
    The appearances of in<U+FB02>ammation that have been ascribed to
various <U+FB01>re-balls, being phzenomena respecting which there
may exist some doubt, as they may possibly arise from decep
tions of some kind, it would be unphilosophical to place any
reliance upon, in support of the opinion         have advanced;I
and yet the following instances, among others, seem tO'haVe
been observed with su<U+FB02>icient accuracy to warrant my bringing
them forward as at least collateral evidence.—The meteor seen
in Italy, on the 25th of March 1719, is described by Balbus
as having been ‘»‘ Globus igneus”, a Ball of Fire ; and “ appare
bant in eo,” he states, “ hiatus, seu voragines quatuor fumum
exhalantes; jam-mule etiam ardentes guamplurimw, quorum
alice in ipso globo insidebant, aliceforas emittebantur*.”    The
meteor which threw down the celebrated shower of stones in
the vicinity of Siena in 1794, as described by Soldani,‘ but at
too great length to quote on the present occasion, had the
strongest appearance of bein        a <U+FB02>aming body; the vapour
which issued from it iving it t e character of a cloud ; as was
likewise the case wit that which produced the tremendous
shower at L’Aigle in 1808. A brisk scintillation, like that
of 1a <U+FB01>re-brand carried against the wind, was observed about
the body of the meteor from which descended the shower of
stones at Weston, in Connecticut, in 1807.—When the <U+FB01>re
ball beheld in London, on the 13th of November 1803, in
creased in brilliancy, and became ovate in form, about a se
cond or a second and a half before its disappearance, “it
seemed,” Mr. Firminger states, “ as if the _meteor had before
been covered with one external coat, which now burst or se
parated in the middle the whole length of its longest diameter,
and exposed a surface with a brightness far surpassing its
former lustre1-.”    This appearance, also,       conceive, could  I
only have been produced by an in<U+FB02>amed body undergoing in
tense combustion.
    The instances of Bolides having a spheroidal form, with the
longest diameter in the direction of their motion, are too nu
merous, and too well known, to need recital here; and the
inference to be drawn from them, with regard to the nature of
 the meteors is too obvious to require pointing out.
    Evident proofs of actual and considerable variation, in form
as well as in size, are afforded,                I
                                      think, by nearly all the de-'
tailed accounts of large Fire-balls that have been published;
il'   Commentarii Bononicnseai   tom.
                                        i.   c. 285.     1-            gol. xvii. p. 279.
                                             O0      2                                by

292 Progress    of Science respecting Igneous Meteors in 1823.
by Sir John Pringle’s collection of observations on that which
appeared in 1758, for example; by Dr. Blagden’s memoir
written on occasion of that of 1783; and likewise b the obser
vations on the American meteor of 1822, of whic         I  have al
ready given a summary.
    The elongation of the <U+FB02>ames enveloping the nucleus of me
teors, from the resistance of the atmosphere to their immense
velocity, seems to produce the caudaté appearance, always in \
the direction opposite to that of their motion by which the
majority of them are characterized; and from which also they
have been described as conical and pear-shaped, and compared
in <U+FB01>gure to trumpets, &c.; cases of this sort it would be su
pei<U+FB02>uous to adduce, as every memoir upon the subject is re
plete with them.
    The same may be said of the luminous tracks which are so
frequently left in the atmosphere by meteors of this description;
and several instances of them have already been noticed in this
paper.     They appear scarcely explicable but on the sup osi
tion that they consist of ignited solid matter in a state otpmi
nute division, and resulting from the combustion going on in
the meteors whose aerial course they distinguish.
    I have stated, at the outset, my reasons for bringing forward
 the foregoing brief statement and cursory illustrations of the
opinion respecting the nature of Bolides, which the comparison
 of a variety of accounts of them has induced me to form: the
 subject involves many others, and some of great interest: such,
 for instance, as the determination of the species of combustion
going on in these meteors; the data for which are the phaeno
 mena with regard to the evolution of light and heat of the
 <U+FB01>re-balls themselves, the nature of the substances cast down
by their explosions, and the results of Sir H. Davy’s ‘ Re
 searches on Flame.’
    The examination of these subjects, however,     I must reserve
for another place; and with merely an allusion to the hear-
                                 I
ing of the question on which have endeavoured to support an
 op1nion, upon the comparison. of the computed magnitude of
any one meteor with that of another (see p. 116.), and also on
 the great variation in apparent diameter of the same meteor as
 seen by different observers (ibid.),  I will conclude this digres
 sion; and proceed with the historical review of the progress of
 science respecting igneous meteors during the past ear.
    M. Moreau de Jonnés, to whom science is indebte for much
information respecting the climate, physical geography, and
natural history of the West Indian Islands, communicated to
the Royal Academy of Sciences of Paris, on the 30th of De
cember 1822, an extract of a letter from Fort Royal, in Mar
                                                            tinique

                 Meteor   seen  at Martinique in 1822.                    298
tinique; relating the passage of a meteor over the island, at
ei  ht in the evening of the lst of September in that year.
     hen this took place, the sky was covered with clouds in
rapid motion: the meteor was of considerable magnitude, and
having been seen advancing over the Caribbean sea for several
minutes, proceeded with extraordinary velocity from west to
east, towards the coast of the island.           It is stated to have pro
duced, during its passage, a noise resembling the rolling of
thunder; and to have exploded, at the instant which preceded
its disappearance, with an extremely violent detonation.                  The
terror it caused among the inhabitants was so great, that some
of them swooned away, and others were seized with illness*.
M. Moreau de Jonnes observes, at the conclusion of the no
tice, “ It is to be wished that this phaenomenon had been ob
served at other places, in a more precise manner: it must how
ever be remarked, that, supposing it to have been the fall of
an aerolite, of which we have yet no instance in the American
islands, there is but little hope of obtaining decisive evidence
to that e<U+FB02>'ect, in an island deeply penetrated by inlets of the
sea, and more than half covered with forests-l-.”
    I may here remark, that a paper in vol. xxx of the Philoso
phical Transactions, by Mr. Henry Barham, F.R.S., affords
distinct evidence of the fall of a shower of meteorites near St.
Jago de la Vega, in Jamaica, about the year 1700; although the
writer was not aware of the fact; the observers not having had
the curiosity to dig up the stones, thou h they endeavoured
to probe the deep holes in the ground w ich had been pro
duced by their fall.
    Mr. Davenport has published a notice of a Fire-ball seen by
him, whilst travelling northward on the Hastings road, on the
28th of October 1822.           He was slowly ascending Silver Hill,
 which is about forty-eight miles south-east of London, by
road measurement, at about half-past <U+FB01>ve in the afternoon:
the sky being clear, the moon nearly full, and shining bri ht,
the sun below the horizon, but the twilight still strong; w en
he beheld the meteor in the north-east, and at the altitude of
 about 22°, by estimation.          It was fully equal to one-third of
 the apparent diameter of the moon when at full ; and gave a
 remarkably bright and white                  It passed towards the west
in a horizontal direction, thelight.           of its path while it con
 tinued visible being above 20°,engrh   w ich it occupied about eight
 seconds in traversing.        It disappeared from Mr. D. by passing
_
    ‘ May we infer from these circumstances that the meteor was very near
 the island at the time of its explosion; so that the report and concussion
 of the atmos here were experienced in an intense degree by the parties
 thus affected;'          . 1‘ Revue Encyclopédique,   vol. xvii. p. 191.  _
 .'                                                                    behmd

29$    Prgress of Science      respecting   Igneous Meteors in 1823.
 behind a loaded waggon.           He published his observations with
 the view of their bein compared with those of other persons
 who might have seen t e phzenomenon ; but no further account
 of it has appeared'.
   I  shall close this part of the subject with a fact of my own
 observation.      On the night of the 10th of December 1822,
 whilst walking near the top of Goswell Road, Islington,                I
 beheld, at about half-past eleven, a very beautiful caudate
 meteor, its general shape much resemblin that of a trumpet;
 to which the smaller <U+FB01>re-balls of this kind ave been frequently
 compared.       The head, which had a sort of burr around             it,
 appeared to be of about one-third of the diameter of the full
moon, and was of a very brilliant white colour, with              atin
 of blue: the tail, which was very long, was also white at             2 e
upper end, but of     a    full red colour for the lower and greater
 portion  of its length a circumstance, likewise, which has often
                       ;
 been noticed in meteors of this description. The meteor darted
down from near the zenith in         a   north-westerly direction, for
 about 30°, the wider part seemin to become attenuated into
the tail, which disappeared in       a   ew seconds without leaving
any track or other traces in the sky, then clear and star-1i ht.
A similar phenomenon,          I    was subsequently informed,         ad
been witnessed on the night of Nov. 5; and another on that
of Dec.   7.
    Dr. T. Forster, F.L.S. and Member of the Meteorological
 Society, has published    a   third edition, corrected and enlarged,
of his “Researches about Atmospheric Phenomena               ;”  but the
chapter on Igneous Meteors and Meteorites, and the obser:
vations on those subjects in that on Electricity, remain as they
were in the second edition, published in 1815: the Calendar
of Nature, however, which the author has now appended to
his work, records some observations on Shooting Stars.               He
remarks that those meteors are very prevalent about August;
particularly with east winds.
    In No.     III. of Gilbert’s Annalen der Pliysi/r, for 1823,       is
an announcement by Professor Brandes, of Breslau, of the
hours at which observations would be made on the same in
teresting phaenomena, at Quedlinbourg,            Halle, Liegnitz, and
Breslau, during the year:      I     am not aware that the observas
tions have been published.           Prof   B. has furnished meteoro
logists,  at various   times,   with  many  useful  observations on the
altitude, velocity, and magnitude of shooting-stars.
    Signor Angelo Bellani, of Pavia, a philosopher who has be
come advantageonsly known to meteorolo ists by his an
nouncement and subsequent investigation             of   the depression
                9  Annals of Philosophy, N. S.vpl. v.
                                                                  which

                       Reply   to   Mr. Cooper’s Queries.                      295
    which in time  takes place in the freezing point of thermOme
    ters, has published a memoir on Shooting Stars, in which he
    supports the theory, that thOSe meteors are caused by the com
    bustion of trains of in<U+FB02>ammable gases or vapours in the at
    mosphere.    He thinks that such trains may exist in the higher
    regions without bein dissipated, in consequence of the general
    and perfect tranquil ity which may be considered as reigning
    there: and he endeavours to combat the dif<U+FB01>culty enerally
    urged against this theory,—the diminished in<U+FB02>amma ility by
    expansion of aseous or vaporous mixtures,—by referring to
    the vapour of p osphorus; stating, “ that phosphorus becomes
    luminous, or suffers a slow combustion, at a temperature so
    much the lower as the quantity of oxygen gas in a determinate
    space is rendered smaller, either by mixture with other gases,
    or by rarefaction.”    He then ventures the conjecture, that
    there may be other substances, capable by natural operations
    of being reduced to the state of vapour or gas, and which,
    though not in<U+FB02>ammable at common temperature and pressure,
    may become so by                    in the atmosphere’l‘.
                        beingrelevated
                              o be Continued]
    XLIX.       Reply   to Mr. SAMUEL          Coorna’s Queries        on   <U+FB01>nding
                         the exact Mean        Solar Time.
      T0 the   Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
          Gentlemen,
          the last number of your Magazine, pa es 210 and 211,
    IN  there is a curious solution of Mr. Samuel       ooper’s for <U+FB01>nd
    ing Mean Solar Time by an altitude of the sun, taken with a
    re<U+FB02>ecting circle and an arti<U+FB01>cial horizon: also some ueries
    as to the accuracy of his method, 8w.          I
                                                  beg to observe t at al
    though it appears to me to be rather an awkward and far-fetched
    form, involving unnecessary trouble, yet with the reduced 1a
    titude, as Mr. C. terms         it,
                                    the sun’s reduced declination, and
    his true altitude, he has succeeded in bringing out the mean
    time within 15-6 of what        it by the <U+FB01>rst method given in the
                                          is
‘
    third edition of Mackay’s work on the Longitude, 8Lc. pa
    126; or by the second method in Norie’s Navigation.                         I-Iee
    will <U+FB01>nd either of these methods shorter and more expeditious
    for <U+FB01>nding apparent time, at the same time they are better
    known by mathematicians.         Mr. Cooper’s phrases, “ apparent
    and visible  latitude,  and  visible altitude” are not scienti<U+FB01>cally
    expressed  ;  therefore  they ought to be avoided, to prevent any
    ambiguity   in  the expressions of their                  quantities.
    From the substance of the question sexagfsimal
                                                 I ma    the latitude of
                                                                e
                   -
                   '   Journal of Science, &c., vol. xv.   p.   391.
                                                                       Pertenhall,

296             Reply     to   Mr. Cooper’s Queries.
.Pertenhall, Kimbolton, rather more than a mile under Mr.
 C.’s reduced latitude.      But to obtain the true latitude by an
altitude   of the sun,  the  apparent time should be known to be
 correct, and not exceed fort minutes before or after noon.
     I have myself been in the liabit of taken altitudes of the sun
 and stars with a sextant and an arti<U+FB01>cial horizon, for ascer
 taining the daily rate of ship chronometers and an astronomical
 clock.                         I
           For this purpose have tried many <U+FB02>uids, as water,
 oil, treacle, as circumstances have required, and <U+FB01>nd that
 quicksilver strained through a piece of soft shammy leather,
and thus cleansed from dross and dust, is'the best that can be
 used for de<U+FB01>nin the limbs of the sun, 81.0. by direct and re
 <U+FB02>ected vision. PTet by this process        I
                                           despair of ever obtain
 ing the apparent time to the fraction of a second: if it can be
 got to a second of time,      Ideem it an excellent observation,
 considerin the discrepancies there may be between the tabular
 atmospherical refraction, after correctin     it for pressure and
 temperature, and the real refraction in t 1e day-time, with the
 probable error of the instruments after their adjustment.
    The method universally adopted by practical astronomers to
 <U+FB01>nd the apparent time, and thence the error of a chronometer
 or clock, when they are not provided with a transit instrument
 <U+FB01>xed in the meridian, is by equal altitudes of the sun, or a
 known <U+FB01>xed star; for by this method, the process of which
 may be found in most treatises on navigation, neither the ac
 curacy of the latitude of the place, nor that of the declination
 of the celestial object particular] depends, since the elements
 are onl necessary in taking out t e equation of equal altitudes.
    Wit respect to double altitudes on shore, I have often
 found the latitude by meridional altitudes of the sun and
 known <U+FB01>xed stars, far more correct than by two altitudes taken
 out of the meridian by the most accurate methods that have
 yet been adopted.    I   therefore prefer a meridional altitude,
 particularly of the sun as the lar est object, for ascertaining
 the latitude; and equal altitudes      for
                                          apparent time.
    Not the apparent, but the true altitude of the sun’s centre
 should be invariably used for <U+FB01>nding the apparent time; and
 thence the error of a chronometer or watch, by applying the
 equation in its proper sign, after    it   reduced to the time of
                                            is
 observation.
    The sun’s right ascension as given in the Nautical Almanack,
is  expressed in apparent solar time, not in sidereal time.
    The application of the quantities in Dr. Tiarks’s tables     al
 luded to by Mr. C.,    is  for the stars only, as an easy method
 of reducing sidereal into mean solar time.        Had Dr. Tiarks
 furnished you with two tables instead of his table No.     2,  one
         -
                                                                 for

                                                                     oiz<U+FB01>n'ding                   tlze    Mean Solar Time.
for redircing sidereal into   mean time, the other for reducing
mean into sidereal time, to Any instant required, they would
have been an acquisition in stellar calculations, and found to
                                              ‘
be more generally useful than his.                                I
    In order to obtain apparent solar time by an observed alti
tude of a known star, nothing more seems necessary than to
reduce the sun’s right ascension to apparent time of observa
tion, and apply a correction for longitude (if any) from the
meridian of Greenwich.       The ri ht ascension and the polar
distance of the star, if it be one    the 24- in the table of stars                                               (<U+FB01>‘
at:  the‘ end of the‘ Nautical  Almanack,   may be taken out for
the giVen day by inspection at once; as the variations in 24‘
hours under these circumstances Seldom amount to an appre
ciable correction, except for Polaris.     Then to the apparent
time found by the method in Mackay’s, Norie’s, 0r Riddle’s
Navigation,- apply the reduced equation of time in the same
sign as expressed in the Nautical Almanack, the result will be
the mean solar time, at the place of observation, when the al-1
titude was taken; the difference between this time and that
shown by the chronometer or clock, will be the error sought.
    The following are the tables    have alluded to, with an ex                                           I
ample to each.
Table for Reducing Sidereal                                                                                   TabquereduqingMeanSolan
  into Mean Solar Time.                                                                                       .                                                        into Sidereal Time.
                                                                                                                  1':                                                                   -                   ,
                                             Equa.                   Equa.                        Equa.                                                    Equa.                                                        Equa.
 m5
                                                                              %                                    mg                                                                                     é
                        m. s.                                        s.                           s.                                       m. s.                                                   5.                   s.
                           9'8                                       0'16                         0‘00                                        9'8                                                  0'16                 0‘00
                2 2 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0
                                                                                                                   8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
  6 5 4 3 2 1
                                                                                                                                     2 2 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 ‘1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0
                                                                                                                                                                                     6 5 4 3 2 1          6 5 4 3 2 1
                                                                              9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
                          19'6                                       0'33                         0'01                                                                      19'71                  0'33                 0‘01
                          29'4                                       0'49                         0'01                                                                      29‘5                   0‘49                 0'01
                                                                     0'60                         0'01                                                                      39'43                  0'66                 0'01
                                                      49'1           0'82                         0'01                                                                      492                    0‘82                 _0‘01
                                                      58'9           0'98                         0'02                                                                      59‘1                   0'99                 0'02
                                                      08'81          1'15                         0'02                                                                      089                    1'15                 0'02
                                                                                                                                                                                      9 8 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                           8 7
  7
 ,8                                                   18'6            1'31                        0‘02                                                                      18‘85                  1‘31                 0'02
   9                                                  28-47           1-47                        0-02               9                                                      28-71                  1-48    9            0-02
 10                                                   38'3            1'64   10                    0'03            10                                                       38'5    10             1'64   10            0'03
 1'1                                                  48'1            1'80   11                    0'03            11                                                       484     11             1'82   11            0'03
 12                                                                          12                    0'08            12                                                       582     12                    12            0‘03'
 13                                                                  2'13    13                    0'04            13                                                       08'13   13             2‘14   13            0'04
 14                                                   v1'7'61        2'29    14                    0'04            14                                                       17‘9    14             2'30   14            0'04
 15                                                                  2'46    15                    0'04            15                                                       27‘8    15             2‘46   15            0‘04
 16                                                   37-2           2'62    16                    0'04            16                                                       37‘70   l6             2'63   16            0'04
 17                                                   47'1           2'78    17                    0‘05            17                                                       47'5    17             2'79   I7            0'05
 18                                                   56-9           2-95    18                    0-05            18                                                       57-42   18             2-96   18            0.05
 19                                                   06-7           3-11    19                    0-05           19                                                        07-27   19             3-12   19            0-05
                   3 3 3 3 3 3                                                                                                            3 3 3 3 3 3
 20                                                   [6'5           3'28    20                   [0'05           20                                                        17‘1    20             3'28   20            0'05
 21                                                   26-4-          4-91    21                    0-08           21                                                        26-9    .21            4-93   21            0-08
 22                                                   36'2            6'55   22                    0'11           22                                                        36‘8     22            6'57   22            0'11
 23                                                   46")            8'19   ‘23                   0'14   1        23                                                       46'? 723               8‘21   23            0‘14
 ‘24                                                  55-91     24    9'33   ‘24                   0'15            Q4                                                       5655 24                9'86   24            0'16
      Vol.                                              64-.7N0. 318. Oct. 1824.                                                                                  P           p                           Reduced

  298     Mr. Haworth’s        Second Decade        of new   Succulent  Plants.
   Reduce      8h 54-“ 18"5 Sidereal           Reduce 8h 52'“ 50' '96 Mean
     Time into Mean SolarTime.                 SolarTime into Sidereal Time.
                                    m. s.                                   in. a.
    8 hours           Equa.    ..    1 1864     8 hours          Equa.       1 1885
   50 minutes          do.             08-19   50 minutes         do.           0821
    4 minutes          do.              0'66    2 minutes         do.           0083
   185 seconds    . .  do.              005    50-96 seconds      do.           00-14
   Sum . .                       -— 1 27'54    Sum           . .   on     + 1 27'58
   Given time                  8h 54 1850      Given time    ._          8h 52 5096
'                                              Sidereal Time required
   Mean Time required          8 52 5096                                8 54   18-49
      I trust that what has been said by way of reference will be
  fully understood by Mr. Cooper, and that these tables will be
  found useful to him and others.
                                   I am, gentlemen,
                                                     Your obedient servant,
     Portsmouth, Oct. 11, 1824.                                      GLos'rEnmN.
  L.      Decas secunda novarum Plantarum Succulentarum ;
      Autore A. H. HAWORTH, Sor. Linn. Land-Soc. Horticult.
     Lond.—necn0n Soc. Ca’sar. Nat. Curios. Moscoviensis Socio,
      dad’s.
       To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
         Gentlemen,
                              I   transmit to you a second Decade of New
  HEREUNDER
          Succulent Plants,         all of the Alo'éan family—all recently
  from the Cape of Good Hope—all now <U+FB02>ourishing in the
  Royal Gardens of Kew ; and all sent thither from their native
  wilds by their discoverer Mr. Bowie, our gracious sovereign’s
  most successful collector of succulent plants.
      Hoping this communication will <U+FB01>nd an early admission
  into your useful miscellany,            I  remain,
                                                 Your obedient servant,
  Queen’s Elm, Chelsea, Oct. 1824.                            A. H. HAWORTH.
      P. S. Have the goodness to notice as under, two errata,
  which escaped in my <U+FB01>rst Decade of succulent plants in your
  last Number, VlZ. P. 186, line 10, for connea-is read convezis.
                                188, in the margin, for <U+FB01>ticaule read <U+FB01>licaulis.
           ‘
              Classis et Ordo.          HEXANDRIA Monocvma.
        '
                                          ALBE.
                Perigonium pendulum cylindraceum rectum.                     Geni
             talia recta inclusa. Capsula parum              costata.
                F rutices   s. herbae      succulentae; sed plerumque           cau
                                                               '
                                                                        lescentes,

   Mr. Haworth’s       Second Decade      qf new   Succulent   Plants. 299
        lescentes,     <U+FB01>oribus alté pedunculatis coccineis <U+FB02>avisve       :
        saepius africanis, paucis americams, arablcisve, unaque
        sinensi.
           Aloe'   Linn., Duval.,   &c.
pluritlens.   A. (many-toothed Tree Aloe) foliis capitatis ensi
    l. formibus' recurvantibus viridibus, dentibus margina
         libus validis numerosis incurvis.
            Obs.   A. arborescenti proxima, foliorum denticulis
         duplo   numerosioribus;   species bona atque speciosa,
         trunco jam <U+FB01>rmo crasso pedali.
                               BOWIEA.
           Perigonium hexapetaloideum, cylindraceum, subrec
        tum, obsolete bilabiatum, laciniis obtusissimis; tribus
        interioribus ad apicem brevissimé revolutis.
           Stamina inaequalia 6, stylusque longé exserti, decli
        nati, rursumque assur enter incurvi.
           Hcrba succulenta ricana Aloi'um facie.     Capsulam
        non vidi.
           In honorem ejus detectoris, Domini Bowie, peregri
        natoris Africani periti, et de plantis succulentis facile
        optimi, hoc nomen consecravi.                     ‘
           Genus pone Alo'én locandum ante Haworthiam.
qfricana.    BOWIEA.
   2.   Descrz'ptio.    Folia vix subsemipedalia multifaria erec
        tiuscula, superné parum recurvula, lorato-linearia acu
        minata, involuto-latissimé canaliculata, viridia glance
        scentiave,   lzevia substriatula subtus convexa, regione
        costali rigidiuscula, e parvis incipientibus pallidis ver
        ruculis s. maculis lente magis conspicuis: m'arginibus
        (foliorum) denticulatis, denticulis distinctis numerosis
        rectis cartilagineo-albis, vix semilineam lon             is,
                                                              subir
        regulariter positis,  et szepe per  lentem  subtriangulari
        bus. Scapus subpédalis gracilis erectus bracteatus:
        bracteis imis unciam longis subfoliiformibus, basi utrin
        que dilatatim membranaceis sine <U+FB02>oribus: superioribus
        sensim minoribus, cum <U+FB02>oribus. Flores laxé spicati di
        stincti patentes (nec penduli ut in A105) pedunculis
        perigonio 5-plo brevioribus teretibus basi bracteatis.
        Perigonium      esordidé-luteo viride, tinctura rufescente,
        semunciale, laciniis oblongis.       Filamenta nivea, an
        theris obtusis, emarginatis, basi cordatis, polline <U+FB01>avo.
        Stylus albo-lutescens; stigmate inconspicuo.
            Obs. Folia, scapus,».et bracteae fere ut in genere Ha—
        wort/lia Duvallii; sed _Perigonium ut in A102." macm
                                P   p   2                    Nobis,

 300    Mr. Haworth’s          Second Decade   qf 11m  Succulent Plants.
            Nobis,     quae fortc‘: est   genus moprium, ob capsulam
                                          '
            baccutam.
       HAWORTl-UA. Calyx petaloideus, rectus, superné revolu
                tus in duo labia, basi staminifer.       Capsula in costas
                valdé pr'ominens. Fmticuli viz caulescentes, J‘blz'z's
                Alo‘ium, jloribus erectis. Duval. Plantar Succulth
                in Horto Alenyrmia, A. D. 1809. p. 7.—Apicra.
                 Wild. in Mag. der Gesselscha<U+FB01>. Naturforsch. Freunde
                1811. p. 163, seq.
                Obs. Flores brevissimé' pedunculati semipatentes.
 multg'<U+FB01>lria.       H. (many-leaved Cushion) foliis multifariis mi
    3.     nutissimé       serrulatis, apicem versus retuso-deltoideis
           pellucentibus, striis vifidibus tribus.
               Habitat Capite Bonae Spei. G. H. 1!.
                Obs. H. retusae simillima, at minor, foliis. laeté viri
           dibus duplo numerosioribus, multi- nec 5-fariis, tri
           ploque minoribus; apicem versus ad lucem pellucidé
           lucidis, <U+FB01>neis tribus viridibus longitudinalibus (saepe
                   sesquialter<U+FB01>) plus minusve completis, et setulé alba'i
             uplo longiore quém in
           <U+FB02>ue                              H retusa <U+FB01>nientibus.
               Communicavit Amicus Dom. Hitchin.
           5. foliis magis ad apicem lineolatis, mucrone breviori.
               Cum a, viget apud Dom. Loddiges; ambae a Capite
           Bona: Spei.
               Ha'ec varietas I-Lretusze magis approgimat, discre
 .         pantibus      foliis, in directione numem et magnitudine.
              '
aspemlq.          H. (The pale rough Cushion) foliis retuSO-del
    4.    toideis denticul’atis, parte retus<U+FB01> asperis plurique lineo
           latis.
              Obs.      H     retusw similis, at foliis sordidé viridibus,
          in pane reltusé ranulatim exasperatis, granulis sparsis,
        Y lineolisque       pa ‘escen'tibus sub-decem, n_ec subquinque
          at    in  H.  retusa.
              Folinrum margines carinaque apicis, minutissimé ci
  .       liatis denticulatis've, mi in plurimis, ciliis vi'ridibus.
lessellat .        H. (The dark-checquered Cushion)                 retuso--_
    5.    subdelwideis          pallidé viridibus, superné‘ nigro-viridi
                                                                 '
          tessellatis', extus Dig-YOfvilfidibUS, asperis.
              Obs.     'IJ.   retusre valde af<U+FB01>nis, sed‘foliis multifariis.
              Folia vix semi-cylindrical, sed magis‘ compressa, re
          curvula, apice carinata, carin<U+FB01> marwinibusque denticu
          latis, denticulis albis subrespicienti'us; supra glabra,
          pallidé viridia tessellis in parte retusé, saepius rhombeis
          parallelopipedisve, longé saturatioribus; subtus aspera
          praecipue apicem v'érsus.
                                                                     parva.

     Mr. Hawa'vth’s        Second   Decadequ       Swvulani Hanis-        8.0}
 pizrva.      H.   (dwarf) foliis .cordatoracu<U+FB01>s subretggis ,mc‘urvulis,
     6.            minutissimis respicientibué albis; apice subtessel
           filifs
             atls.
               Obs,    Folia mvnlntmcqncava, extug nigrQ-viridia,
           tuberculata aspera; inms. pallidiqm glabra; in retus<U+FB01>
          parbe supra, lineolis elevatis subinterruptis wssellantibus
           saturatioribus.
              'H. asperiusculw formsse pxoxima (at 1mm omnino
           acaulis) potiusve pone primfem, sed longé 'minqr,
 nigricans.        H. (The granulated black) asper, foliis nigro
     7.    viridibus erecto-expansis pauculis ovate-acuminatis,
          granulis crebris con<U+FB02>uentibus tqberculiformibus nigris.
               Obs.    Folia basin versus in<U+FB02>exo~¢0ncava, apice ca
           rinata at in lurimis, ipsé basi intus lagvia,
                           . scabram et recumdm locanda.
               PrOPé
 altilinea. H. (The ridge-lined) foliis incurvis ovato-lanceo
    8.    latis aristzitis minuté denticulatis:       superné~ utrinque
          linea'i elevatz’i.
               Habitat Capite Bonus Spei. G. H. )1.
                       J
               Beret nun—Augusto, ut\ in ai<U+FB01>nibus'.
              Amicus Parmentie'r, Belgici ' Leonis Equeg         et'c.  com
          municavit
            '
                         A.D.    1821.
              Dzsrrg'ptz'o.     Inter  H. concavam   et  H.  mucronatam
          locanda.        Eolia pallidé vinidia s'uperné carin<U+FB01> minu
          tissimé denticulat<U+FB01> <U+FB01>niente in setul<U+FB01> aristéve mem
          branace<U+FB01> <U+FB01>ere semunbializ, supra plana et'apicem     '
                                                                         wer
          sus line<U+FB01> Costali elevat<U+FB01> fere in medio.
              Obs.    Ad lucem folia superné pellucentia, lineis. ma-_
          culisque viridibus irregulariter subtessellata, at in af<U+FB01>ni-r
          bus. Major quam H. mucronata, arist<U+FB01> longiore quém
  \
          H    com-ava .- sed optimé distinguitur“
                                                        elevaté utrjnque
         lineé.                   ‘
coaxctatm H.v (upright dull-spotted) ereqta: foljis incurvato
    9.   imbricantibus sordidé viridibus, intus glabris, extemé
         maculis parvis. sparsis albicargtibus.
              Obs. Facieé quasi inter      H  Reinwardtam et Apim'am
         bullulatam, foliis ovato-acuminatis uncialibus                extus
         valde turgidis; apice carinatis,_ af<U+FB01>niuni more.
                     18?;an              Nob..—-Aloe Aliorum.
              Perigonium petaloideum erectumv regulare cylindri
         cum, brevissimé pedunculaxumJaciniis- 6, ' brevibus uni
         formibus apice rotundatis patulis.
              Su<U+FB01>'rutices parvi succulenti a<U+FB01>'icani (e C. 13.8.)
         omnium rigidissimi, {bliolis tecti at in                          at
                                                          Haworfhga,
                                                                   m ura

302          Mr. Tredgold       on the Weights and Measures.
           induratissimis acutioribus confertioribus et fere sem
           per spiraliter tortis, apice ipso aculeatim-pungenti.
                Genus post prius locandum.
nigra.       A. (rough black) foliis multifariis horizontalibus con
   10.      fertissimis cordato-acutis, verrucoso-rugosis atroviri
            dibus.
                Obs.  A.  foliolosae  proxima. Folia involuto-concava.
           undique scaberrima margine tuberculato.               Suff'rutex
           erectus   nunc   trientalis  solum,   et induratissimus.     In
           ter Apicram<U+FB01>liolosam         et asperam   locanda.
LI.    On the Weights and Measures.           By Mr. Tnos TaEnGoLn.
    To   the   Editors rjthePhilosophical Magazine and Journal.
        Gentlemen,
              time will  now soon arrive     when an important change
THE    is to take place in our measures of capacity, and I have
been surprised to see so little notice taken of the subject.               I
have endeavoured as far as possible to recommend by practice,
a new system of measuring capacity to engineers, becauseit
appeared to me better adapted for every pu ose which they
have occasion to consider.            It consists in a opting the cubic
foot   instead    of the  gallon   as a measure in hydraulic and other
calculations.        A little perseverance soon renders the cubic
foot as familiar as the gallon, and it saves time in every kind
of calculation, and removes uncertainty. In Smeaton’s works
you will sometimes <U+FB01>nd the quantity of water that will serve a
water-wheel expressed in wine-gallons, and in other instances
his calculations are made in ale-gallons; and where the kind
of gallon is not distinctly stated, it renders it di<U+FB02>icult to ascer—
tain what measure has been employed.
    In chan ing the gallon there seems to have been a natural
relation 0 measures of capacity overlooked, which it would
have been some advantage to have attended to:                  I  allude to
 the relation between a cube and its inscribed c linder.                The
 gallon might have been made one-fourth of                   e capacity of
 a cylinder one foot lon            and one foot in diameter.      The c -
 linder is the best     form     or  measures  of this kind, and it won d
 be very desirable to have a cylindric measure/which could be
 regarded as an unit in all calculations where the areas of cir
 cles and contents of spheres are concerned, because our linear
 measures would apply to ascertain such quantities without re
 ducing them into cubical inches. And it seems more natural
 to found a system of measures on the nature of the things to
              '
                                                                          be

             Mr. Tredgold       on the Weights and Measures.   303
 be measured, than on any relation to a standard in nature. The
 French have taken their standard from the globe, and yet
 have omitted to provide a measure for one; they have affected
 to borrow from nature, and have overlooked the most 0b
 vious of natural distinctions.
   I  am glad that so much of our old measures and wei hts are
 to be preserved, for       I
                         have not yet obtained enough 0 know
 led e to enable me to do without referring to my predecessors,
 an    I  am extremely unwilling to encounter any additional
 dif<U+FB01>culty in holding communication with them; it makes one
 think seriously about the advantanges promised by the change
 to the decimal system.       What foundation has this decimal
         in the nature of thin s?--will it continue for ever to be
 system
 t e best possible system 0 notation? or, is it itself imperfect
 and likely to be changed as soon as a better shall appear?     If
 the latter be the case, what is to be done with a system of
 weights and measures formed on the decimal scale?        For my
 own part,         I
               am one of _those who think our 5 stem of wei hts
 and measures to be founded on more rationa principles 5181']
 our notations. If the notation had been formed on principle,
 surely 10 would never have been <U+FB01>xed upon for the basis of
 the system; it has only two factors, and one of these is a
 prime, which is not so frequently a factor as the prime below
it; and which renders it often more convenient to work by
vulgar fractions than by decimals. That is, the prime 3 oc
curs more frequently in calculations than the prime 5; and
whenever the prime 3 is a factor of division, the decimal no
 tation is incapable of expressing the quotient.      The decimal
 system owes all its advantages to the happy thought of ar
ranging numbers according to their powers ; but this arrange
ment is not peculiar to it; in algebra we adopt a modi<U+FB01>cation
of the same principle, but there it is not limited to 10 digits,
for we are able to arran e powers or any multiples of powers;        ,
and it will be of incalcu able advantage to obtain an equally
general arrangement for common numbers.           Our present sy
stem is very unwieldy when there is occasion to express
large numbers, perhaps quite as much so as those abandoned
in favour of the Arabic notation were for ordinary numbers;
and I think no one will venture to say that it is impossible to
invent a more perfect notation than the one now in use.       Ap
parent simplicity is not a test of the merit of any invention,
unless that simplicity be accompanied by <U+FB01>tness for the ob
jects it is to accomplish ; and it is not much in favour of the
decimal scale to remark, that there are 4 out of the 9 digits
of which the reciprocals cannot be expressed in <U+FB01>nite terms;
viz.   1},   i},and1,,   .15;
                        and that to express      iwe must
                                                    .     emgloy
                                                               wo

804.                Notices respecting New Books.
 two <U+FB01>gures, and to express 5' three <U+FB01>gures are necessary                  ;_
 and are ratios of such frequent occurrence of no importance ?
 They would no doubt occur less frequently were money, time,
weights, and measures all decimally divided; but what does
 this concession involve?      Nothing less than an entire change
 of laughs e in all cases Where an‘ thingvrelating to time,
 weight, prices, or measures isthesu' ject; and with a less de
 gree of change the inconvenience of a decimal division will be
 much greater than the ones‘now in use. _         _ _  _  _  ‘    y.
     The advocates fOr decimal division donot appear, as <U+FB01>r) as
I  have seen, to have studied: the nature and advantages of the
old divisions;      For example, in the division of time all the
prime di its are factors, the. principal divisions are by 60th "
parts, an 60' is composed of 22x 3 x 5; the only prime digit
not included, being 7; and we only want a more convenient
notation to render it far superior" to any decimal division; s'u'i
perior both in the facility of expressing m'inute' parts, and iii
expressing large numbers.         The number 10' is too sl'n'a'll' for
such   an‘ object;  the cube  of 10 is not equivalent to the squa're‘
of 60, besides the' defect of not enabling us to express            3},   5,   1},"
8%.    I   haVe had seVeral schemes for improving the notation;
and'though  I     haVe not hit upon one' of su<U+FB02>icient convenience,
the“ success has' been such as to render        pretty certain that
                                                  it
the thing  is  not impossible.
   *
                I    am, gentlemen,        _      I     .
                              Your most obedient servant,
                                             THOMAS 'I‘aansoin.
                LII.    Notices respecting     New Books.
                          Recently published.
A PRACTICAL           System of Algebra, designed for the Use
       of Schools and private Students. By P. Nicholson, and
J.   Rowbotham.
                       Preparing   for   Publication.
   An Explanatory Dictionary of the Apparatus and Instru
ments employed in the various Operations of Philosophical
and Experimental Chemistry.      In 8vo., with seventeen Quarto
Copper-plates.    By a Practical Chemist.
   The Farmer’s, Shepherd’s, and Mariner’s Pocket Dictionary,
containing rules for judging of the weather, 8L0. alphabetically                f
arranged.
                                                            LIII.     Pro

        Analysis   of Periodical Works       on   Natural History.          205
     ANALYSIS OF PERIODICAL WORKS ON NATURAL HISTORY.
                       Curtis’s British Entomology.
                No. 9—10. contains the following subjects     :
   P1. 35. Cryptocepkalus bipustulatus.    A species well known on the con
tinent, but never before ascertained to be British.—-Pl. 36. Lithosia mus
cerda.     Never before published as a native of Britain.—37. Raphidia Ophi
opsis.    The female of this curious insect is <U+FB01>gured; the male differs in no
thing but the termination of the abdomen ; the ovipositor of the female is
very singular in its structure.—- P]. 38. Hedychrum ardens.        A splendid
s ecies of this beautiful genus new to Britain.—Pl. 39. Tbymalus limbatus.
  his valuable insect, so long unnoticed as British, and apparently con<U+FB01>ned
to the New Forest, has this year been taken in Kent.—Pl. 40. Scsia Bomby
hformis'.   A <U+FB01>gure of this charming insect is here given, as well as the larva
(we believe for the <U+FB01>rst time), and the pretty plant upon which it feeds.—
Pl. 41. Cimbea- lO-maculata.     A magni<U+FB01>cent species, a unique specimen of
which is preserved in the British Museum : this also has never before been
<U+FB01>gured—Pl. 42. Pachygaster Leackii. A new species, not known to Meigen ;
named after our esteemed countryman Dr.- Leach.
               LIII.    Proceedings    of Learned    Societies.
              ROYAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES              OF PARIS.
April   19.
              —M ' DU   PETIT-THOUARS<U+FB01>nishedthe read
                    ing of his Report on M. Romain’s Memoir
relative to the Anatomy of Plants.-—M. Girard, in the name
of  a Commission, read a Report on M. Burdin’s Hydraulic
Turbines.-—-M. Bosc made a verbal Report on a pamphlet by
 M. le Comte Dejean relative to the method of preserving
seeds.-—M. Arago communicated various consequences which
he had deduced from M. Duperrey’s observations on the di
urnal variation of the magnetic needle; one of which        that      is,
there   is  no diurnal variation on the magnetic equator.—M.
Dujac commenced reading his Memoir “ sur la Caloricité.”—
M. Bailly read Memoir, entitled “ Researches on the Ana
                    a
tomy of the Brain of the Mole.”
   April 26.—M. Chevalier announced the formation of am
monia during the oxidation of iron,             contact of water
and air.—M. Gaillardot transmitted abylthe   emoir on the Fossil
Bones of the environs of Lunéville; M. Rolando, of Turin,
his Anatomical Researches on the Spinal Marrow; M. Da
moiseau, a second work on the Periodical Comet of 1819;
and Don P. L. D. Yamaha, of Madrid, an extract from his
Memoir on Medicine—M. Cauchy, in the name of a Com
mission, made a Report on M. Dubuat’s Memoir relative to
the Calculus of variations.—M. Moreau de Jonnes read a n0
tice, entitled, “ Itinerary of the contagious malady known un
   Vol. 64. No. 318. Oct. 1824.                    Q   q    der

'
  306            Royal Academy of Sciences of Paris.
  der the name of Cholera-Morbus.”—M. Bory de St. Vincent
  communicated his observations on the spermatic animalcula,
  for which he proposed the generic name of Zoospermes.—M.
  de Lassis read a Memoir, entitled “ The Doctrine of Epi
  demic Maladies.”
      May 3.——M. Julia Fontenelle transmitted his manuscript
  translations of several Memoirs on the Yellow Fever, by the
   Physicians of Barcelona.—M. G. Saint Hilaire read an ad
  ditional Memoir on the Nutrition of the Marsupialia.—M.
   Fresnel presented to the Academy a Pharos-light with a <U+FB01>xed
  burner of the third kind, invented by him.—M. Bailly read a
  Memoir, entitled “Description of the <U+FB01>laments with which
  the Lophius piscatorius seizes <U+FB01>sh :” and M. Geo<U+FB01>'roy made
  some remarks on the subject.                   .
     May lO.—The       Minister   of Marine  communicated in manu
  script M. Bagay’s new logarithmic tables, and requested the
  Academy to examine them.—The Marshal Duke of Ragusa
  read a Report on the experiments made at Brest on the new
  kind of Artillery proposed by M. Paixhans.—M. Permon, of
  Lyons, transmitted a Memoir on the cause of the mephitic
  effects of marshes.--M. Percy communicated some observa
  tions on a young person named Trezel, deaf and dumb from
  the birth, whom Dr. Deleau had enabled to hear and to speak.
     May 10.—-M. Cuvier made a verbal Report on several Me
  moirs formerly presented in manuscript, but since printed b
  their respective authors.       These were the Memoirs by
  Flourens, On the Functions of the diferent Parts of the Nervous
  System ,- those of M. Desmoulins, ()n the Anatomical Relations
  of that System ,- and lastly, a Memoir by M. Bailly, entitled,
  A Treatise on the Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of the
  Nervous System, in the four Classes of Vertebrated Animals.—
  M. Audouard read a Supplement to his Considerations on the
  Ori in and Cause of the Yellow Fever.
     hiay 17.—M. Vicat communicated a Memoir on a perio
  dic thermometrical movement observed in the arches of the
  Bridge of Souillac: M. Bonnemaison, an apothecary at Quim
  per, a manuscript work on the I-Iydrophytes loculées which
  grow in France; and M. le Baron Blin a note on the precise
  determination of the grave resonances of two given sounds.—
  M. Vauquelin, in the name of a Commission, read a Report on
  M. Payen’s analysis of Tupinamba Root—M. G. St. Hilaire
  communicated a Report on the Memoir of M. Bail] y concerning
  the Lophius. Hecommences by showing that Aristotle was ac
  quainted with the habits of this animal.         In the works of that
  prince  of naturalists is a passage to the following effect: “ There
                                                                      is

                Academy   qf Sciences qf Copenhagen.           307     ,
is a species of frOg, which is called the<U+FB01>slzer.     It derives this
name from the wonderful industry which it displays in procur
ing its nourishment; for in front of its eyes it has certain appen
dages, which it extends like hairs, and which, dilated at the
 extremity, form a kind of double bait. After having stirred
up the mud or the sand, it conceals itself, and elevates these
 appendages; the little <U+FB01>sh coming to seize them, it draws
them into its mouth.       Plutarch sa 5; “ The Lophius <U+FB01>shes
 with the line, for it throWs out rom its neck a <U+FB01>lament,
 which it extends to a distance, in the manner of a line, letting
 it out and drawing it in at will. This being done, when it
 perceives some small <U+FB01>sh about
                                     it,
                                      it  allows them to nibble the
 extremity of this <U+FB01>lament, being itself concealed beneath the
 sand, or in the mud, when      it gradually retracts that member
 until the <U+FB01>sh are  near enough   to be swallowed by   aquick move
 ment.”
     These <U+FB01>lers pe‘ckeurs, as they are called by the author, have
 formed the subject of his researches; he determines their na
 ture, and describes their general support.        M. Bailly says,
 that the third <U+FB01>lament    is  articulated directly with the occi
 pital integument :—the Reporter thinks otherwise, and details
 his objections.   The description of the muscles which serve
 for the various motions of the <U+FB01>laments very satisfactory, and
                                           is
  shows that the ancients were not deceived with regard to the
 purposes for which these appendages are destined.
     So voracious an animal as the Lophius, however, cannot
 obtain,  by <U+FB01>shing alone, suf<U+FB01>cient to supply its wants. M.
  Geo<U+FB01>'roy describes the other habits of this sin ular <U+FB01>sh, and
 concludes by recommending the insertion of            Bailly’s Me
 moir in the Recueil des Savans e’trangers.
               ACADEMY   OF SCIENCES OF COPENHAGEN
                    Questions proposed for 1825.
   Class of Mathematics.—To deduce new tables of the sun
from a collection of the best observations, and by the assist
ance of analysis, to compare these tables as well with the ob
servations of Bradley as with the best of those which have been
made since, principally with the observations that have been
made with an instrument not exposed to the heat of the sun.
   Class of Physics—Careful observations are required, hav
ing for its object the discovery of the connections that exist be
tween the promptitude of the      ermination, the quality of the
fruit and seed, and the devefopment of the other parts of
plants.   These observations are to be made not only on the
                                                     acotyledons,

208                Royal Academy of Brussels.
acotyledons, the monocotyledons, and the dicotyledons, but
also upon the principal orders of which the three great divi
sions are composed.
    Class of Philosophy.—What is the true notion of psycology,
and what is the relation of this science to those which are con
nected with it;—should the distinction be admitted, which
some of the learned have wished to establish between empiric
psycology and rational psycology.
    The memoirs, written in French, Latin, or German, will
be received until the 1st of January 1825.
                  ROYAL ACADEMY OF BRUSSELS.
                    Prizes proposed for 1825.
    lst, What has been the state of the maritime coast between
Boulogne and Antwerp, from the Conquest of Caesar to the
present time? To indicate the great inundations of the sea
which this coast has experienced during the foregoing period,
and to ascertain what portions the sea has ingulfed which have
not been regained.
    2d. What are the kinds and degrees of fermentation that
the different species of animal excretion undergo.
    3d. The great discoveries made during a certain number of
years having considerably augmented the domain of the bo
tanist, the Academy requires a con<U+FB01>rmation or refutation, by
a critical examination, according to the laws established by
 Linnaeus, of the different genera and species introduced in
botany since the death of that great man, and a determination,
by the same laws, of the propriety of the denominations that
have been viven to these genera and species.       The titles and
editions of t e works referred to, to be cited with exactness.
    4th. To determine the changes that may be occasioned by
the felling of considerable forests upon the adjacent countries
and commons, with respect to the Lsalubrity and temperature
of the air, to the duration and violence of the prevailing winds,
and generally to all meteorological phaenomena.
    The prize for each of these questions to be a gold medal,
of the weight of thirty ducats.       The memoirs, written in
 French, Dutch, Latin, or Flemish, to be addressed (post free)
to M. Dewez, before the lst of February 1825. The Academy
will also award, at the same time, the other prizes.
                                                         LV. In

                              ['  209      ]
           LIV.    Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
    .                        THE COMET.
      R. Encke’s investigations on the orbit of the comet which
       is now visible, prove that it moves in a hyperbola.--Mr.
E. has found the following elements:
   Time of             through the perihelion Sept. 29, '02259
   Longitude    oft e perihelion .
              passage                                     4° 25' 57’"2
   Longitude of the ascending node                      279 15 31 '6
   Inclination of the orbit                              54 43    7 '8
   Eccentricity.......................................       1'00604-6
   Logarithm      q                                         00217381
                       THE DISCOVERY smps.
   The following is an extract of a letter from the agent to
Lloyd’s at Hull, dated the 7th of October:
   “ The Mary-Frances, Capt. Wilkinson, has arrived from
Davis Straits, and reports that she saw the Discovery Ships
beset in the Middle Ice on the 17th of July, in lat. 70. long. 5.
Capt.Wilkinson entered the ice on the following day in lat. 66.
long. 20. and penetrated to the West Land on the 26th, where
he remained until the 9th of September, when he bore awa for
En land, having taken 15 whales. He was nearly as high
as Lancaster Sound, and states that the prospect for the Dis
covery Ships was very favourable, as the weather was <U+FB01>ne, and
the coast unusually free from ice.           As he never met them af
ter he got through the barrier of ice, there can be no doubt
of their having had an equally favourable passage. The Mary
 Frances and the William-and-Ann were the only ships which
got through the barrier in the month of July ; the remainder
of the <U+FB01>shin vessels having attempted the passage in a higher
latitude, di not succeed until August.                 There had been no
losses; but one of the ships (the Jane, of this port) had sus
tained considerable damage.”
                              ANTIQUITIES.
    Part of   a Roman villa was opened on Tuesday the 21st of               _
 September, at Wigginton, in a <U+FB01>eld belonging to George Cobb,
 Esq. of Broughton Castle, when a room 20 feet long by 14
 feet wide was completely uncovered, and a great portion of
 the tessellated pavement was found nearly perfect. There are
 other remains scattered over a considerable extent of ground,
 which have not yet been examined—Oaffbrd Journal.
                        MUNGO    PARK.—AFRICA.
    We have been favoured by a gentleman interested in African
 discovery, and who has travelled a con51derable way into the
                                                                   interior

310                       Mungo_Par/r.
                                                            .
interior of the southern parts of northern Africa, with some
notes re arding the death of our lamented countryman, Mr.
Park. The narrative is drawn from a negro, a native of
Yaourie, adjoining the spot where Park perished, and who
witnessed what he relates.       Considering every circumstance,
the document is clear and satisfactory, plain and unadorned,
without anything that leads to a suspicion of its accuracy, or
the intention of the negro to deceive, and in its most material
features it is borne out by accounts obtained through other
channels.     The notes from which the following summary is
drawn up, were obtained in 1822:
   Duncanno, a negro, was born at Birnie Yaourie.         He was
in the Pass about to be mentioned, to sell collas, when he
was seized by the Foulahs, carried off as a slave, and after
wards taken to the Gold Coast, where he was shipped on board
a Portuguese vessel, and carried to Bahia, where he remained
three years.    He was employed in a Portuguese slave ship as
a seaman, and returned to' Africa in her, during Governor
Maxwell’s residence on the coast.       Duncanno states, that he
was in his native country, Birnie Yaourie, sixteen years ago
(1806), when Mr. Park arrived there in a canoe with two masts.
No person landed. The canoe continued her course down
the river with the travellers in her.       The kino' of Yaourie,
aware of their danger, sent of? eight canoes after t em, to warn
them of   it,  and in one of the canoes was sent a red cow, in
tended as a present to the white men.      Mr. Park did not com
municate with them, but continued sailing onwards.           The
canoes followed, and at last Mr. Park, probably dreadin
hostile intentions, <U+FB01>red upon them, but fortunately did not      ki<U+FB01>
     one.    The canoes returned; but the king, anxious for the
any
sa ety of the travellers, again sent people to proceed after
them, requesting them to stop, and he would send persons to
show them the safe and proper passage in the channel of the
river.    The messengers could not, however, overtake them.
Park continued his voyage till the vessel got amongst the rocks
off Boussa, and was in consequence “ broke."
   Birnie Yaourie    isin Houssa, but Boussa  is   not. The lat
ter  isin the country called Burgoo. Birnie Yaourie   is  by land
distant one day’s journe from Boussa, but by water one day
and a half.    Duncanno     escribed the place or pass, where the
canoe was broken, to be like the cataracts in our mountains;
The water ran with great force. The canoe was carried ra
pidly along, and before they could see their imminent danger,
it struck with violence on some rocks and was dashed to pieces.
 The people of Boussa stood upon the rocks projecting into the
river, desirous,if  possible, to aHord the white men assistance;
                                                                but

                                New South Wales.                           811
    but the catastrophe    was so sudden, and the violence of the
    stream so great, that they could not reach them. The break
    of the river on the rocks is described as dreadful. The whirl
    winds formed were appalling, and the agitation of the waters
    was so great as almost to raise the canoe on its end, and pre
    cipitate    it,
                 stem forwards, into the gulfs below it.   At the mo
    ment the vessel struck, Mr. Park held something in his hand,
    which he threw into the water, just as the vessel appeared to
    be going to pieces.      The “ water was too bad ”-_-so agitated
    that he could not swim,-—and he was seen to sink in it. There
    were “ plenty” of other white men in the canoe, all of whom
    were drowned.       The river there    as broad as from Le Fevre
                                            is
    Point to Tagrin Point, Sierra Leone, or above four miles.
    There was a black man, a slave, who was saved from the
    canoe. This black man spoke the Foulah lan ua e, and was
    a slave to   a Foulah-man.   When Duncanno           Ygaourie, this
                                                           le
                                                           t
    man was still in Boussa, but he knows nothing more of him.
       Duncanno asserted positively that no person from Park’s
    vessel landed at Birnie Yaourie, that the Black was the only
    individual saved, and that that man only was left at Boussa.
    The people of Boussa went in canoes to this “ bad place” in
    the river, where Park’s vessel was broken, and where he was
    drowned, and some expert divers dived into the stream and
                                                           “ Plenty of
_   picked up twelve pistols and two long musquets.
             ”
    people      went from Birnie Yaourie to Boussa to see the wreck
    after the king of Boussa had sent to the king of Yaourie to
    inform him of the disaster.       Park informed the black man
    who was in the boat that in a week or two he should carry
    him with the canoe into         “ great ocean,” where the water
                                    a
    was salt!
                                              ‘
       Thus far the simple narrative.     It bears the stamp of truth
    upon   it,  and   it  impossible to re<U+FB02>ect upon the catastrophe
                           is
    without feelings of the deepest sorrow and regret at the loss
                                                                                   >
    of the enterprising traveller when he was so near completing
    his labour, and reaping the reward of all his toils. Various
    accounts, obtained through our present channel of informa
    tion, agree in stating, that from below Boussa to Benin the
    river  is
    Courier.                          _—
               open and' deep, and broad and navigable—Glasgow
                                NEW SOUTH WALES.
    [At page 459 of our last volume, we gave, from The Morning Chronicle, an
       interesting article on this rising country; the further progress of disco
       very and of manufactures in which we now give some particulars of from
      the same source.     The writer appears to be resident in the country.]
                                                  a
      A gentleman, who was in the interior with Mr. Oxley, told
    me that he once met with    party of interior natives, all of
                                     a
                                                                       whom,

212                      New South Wales.
whom, on seeing him, fell instantly upon their faces, formin
a circle with their heads outwards, apparently in the greatest
trepidation and terror.    Another party he fell in with appeared
struck with great wonder and surprise at his strange colour
and garb, but were nothing like so intimidated, as they walked
with him some distance. The natives found lately by Mr.
Oxley, at Moreton Bay, are far superior in every respect to
their brethren near Sydney.      They build huts of wattle, co
vered with tea-tree bark, capable of containing ten people,
which they clean out regularly twice a day, and are governed
by chiefs who have           authority over them, and perform
none of the duties 0 fgreat
                        <U+FB01>shing and huntin , except as a pastime,
the others supplying them regularly wit whatever they stand
in need of. The chiefs’ wives are equally exempted from la
bour.    Fish, fern root, and kangaroo, are their principal sus
tenance. Like all the other nations of Australia, they are
surprisingly honest, but most persevering beggars, and what
ever was given them no one ever saw afterwards.           Women
were often seen with a child at one breast, and a young puppy
at the other. The women perform all the labour and drudgery,
the men only <U+FB01>shing and hunting.        In hospitality and kind
heartedness, the famed natives of Lew Chew do not exceed
them. Two shipwrecked convicts, lived among them many
months, with a humanity and cheerful hospitality, which in
 Vain you may look for in civilized communities; they would
not even allow them to procure or cook their own provisions,
and always supplied them most liberally, even when they often
went without themselves.       The most disagreeable ceremony
they had to comply with, was a daily burnishing with bees’
wax and charcoal, to which they reluctantly submitted, to
please their kind hosts, who appeared to have a great horror
of the hateful whiteness of their skins. One of the convicts
once put on the <U+FB01>re a tin pot of water, which was quickly sur
rounded by the wondering natives; but on its boiling up they
gave a loud yell, and ran screaming in all directions, nor
 would they come near until it was thrown away, when they
covered it carefully with sand, and could never afterwards be
induced to consent to the magic pot being again placed on the
 <U+FB01>re.
    Our manufactures are yet in their infancy, and consist only
of articles of most pressing necessity.   Salt is made in different
parts  from  sea water,  partly by spontaneous evaporation, and
partly by boiling.    Mr.  John Blaxland makes large quantities
this way on the creek, about three miles from Paramatta. He
has a succession of shallow basins, where evaporation goes on,
being drawn Off from one to the other until it is suf<U+FB01>ciently
                                                      concentrated

                            The Logan Rock.                    313
concentrated to require little boiling to crystallize it. Tanning
is carried on every where extensively, both upper and sole
leather being made, of excellent quality.       Nothing can excel
the bark of the wattle for tannin , and the kangaroo skin pro
duces uppers equal to the best ca f. A great many of the large
farmers manufacture all their own leather; indeed numbers
not only do so, but make all their shoes, and manufacture all the
coarse cloth for their servants’ clothes, and perform all their
own smith-work upon their farm, being supplied by Govern
ment with convict mechanics, for which the pay to them
3s. 6d. a week, besides the usual wages to t e convict.           A
considerable quantity of coarse woollen cloth is made for sale
at Mr. S. Lord’s manufactory, near Botany Bay, which is sold
dearer, but wears much better, than English cloth of the same
<U+FB01>neness.     Several others also manufacture cloth on a small
scale for sale, while all who have wool to spare may have it
made into cloth at the Government Female Factory, Para
matta, by paying the expense of manufacturing it into wool.
 Saddlery, tinware, soap and candles are also made in great
abundance, and there is likewise a small foundry for casting
 iron. Hat-making has long been av thriving trade; both coarse
                                                  ‘
 and <U+FB01>ne ones are manufactured in Sydney, the latter being
 beavered with the <U+FB01>n of the <U+FB02>ying squirrel, which is of a silky
 softness and beautiful slate colour ; the skins cost the hatters
  1s. 3d. a-piece.   Two potteries have been for some years in
 constant employment.        Our clay is admirably adapted for
 these purposes, and most of our common heavy ware is sup
 plied from these two sources. Milk bowls, large covered
 butter vessels capable of holding 40lbs., also some of a similar
 construction for salting meat, wine and butter coolers, com
 mon jugs, bowls, cups and saucers, tea-pots, spruce-beer bot
 tles, 8L0. are all made here.    The glazing, however, is nothing
 like so good as the Sta<U+FB01>‘ordshire, for want of proper means, as
 both the men who conduct them were brought up in the best
 manufactories in that country.       Ploughs, carts, waggons, har
 rows, and all farming utensils are made and sold cheaper here
 than they can be imported from England.
                           THE LOGQN ROCK.
     Our readers may remember that       a Lieutenant Goldsmith of
 the Navy distinguished himself rather unenviably last spring,
 by the gallant exploit of effecting the overthrow of the curious    .
 Logan or Rocking—stone in Cornwall. He is now endeavour
 ing, it appears, to set it up again ; and in a particularly absurd
 paragraph, in an Exeter paper, we <U+FB01>nd him complimented
     Vol. 64. No. 818. Oct. 1824.            R 1'              after

 314                        The Logan Rock.
   after this sort.    “ It is with a rent degree of pleasure that we
   are  enabled  to  inform    the curious and the lovers of antiquity,
   that  an attempt    is at last being made to restore this celebrated
   stone to its former pinnacle of wonder and surprise. We are
   aware of there being a diversity of opinion respecting          it, but
   we hope the majority of our readers will be grati<U+FB01>ed to hear
   that Lieut. Goldsmith, with a zeal truly characteristic of a
   British tar in redeeminrr past errors, and ever anxious to please,
   commenced his operations on Tuesday last, with about thirty
. able seamen, by landing the requisite apparatus from boats be
  neath the cliff.”       As this of<U+FB01>cer     pronounced “ever anxious
                                             is
  to please,” we must presume that he threw down the rocking
  stone to please himself (for we are persuaded that so wanton a
  piece of mischief pleased no one else), and that he restores             it
  to its “ former pinnacle of wonder and surprise,” as the Exeter
  j0urnalist sublimer expresses        it,to please the rest of the world.
   Whether when        it  regains its “pinnacle of wonder and sur-
  prise”   it  will resume its wonderful and surprising custom of
   rocking, would seem, however, rather problematical; and we
   conceive that Lieut. Goldsmith cannot set himself right with
   the lovers of rocking-stones till he sets the rock once more
                                                                     '
  rocking—Morning Ckron.
      In
       a    very excellent and unpretending little work, entitled
  “ A Guide to the Mount’s Bay, and the Land’s Em                ,”   pub
  lished by W. Phillips, we <U+FB01>nd the following account of this
  celebrated wonder, now, we fear, no more :-—-“ The celebrated
  Logan-stone    is   an immense block of ranite, weighing above
  60 tons.     The surface in contact wit the under rock              is of
  very small extent, and the whole mass            is so nicely balanced,
  that notwrthstanding its magnitude, the strength of single man
                                                           a
  applied to its under edge,      is    suf<U+FB01>cient to change its centre
  of gravity, and thourrh at <U+FB01>rst in a degree scarcely perceptible,
  yet the repetition of3 such impulses, at each return of the stone,
  produces at len th a very sensible oscillation.           As soon as the
  astonishment w ich this phaenomenon              excites has, in some
  measure, subsided, the stranger anxiously inquires how, and
  whence the stone orirrinated.            Was    it elevated by human
  means, or was       it  prodhced by the agency of natural causes         ?
  Those who are in the habit of viewing mountain masses with
  geological eyes will readily discover that the only chisel ever
  employed has been the tooth of time—the only artists en aged,
  the elements.      Granite usually disintegrates into rhom oidal
  and tabular masses, which, by the further operation of air and
  moisture, gradually lose their solid angles, and approach the
  spheroidal fOrm.        De Luc observed in the Giant Mountains
                                                                           of

         Earthquakes—Meteor and Earthquake—Fossils.            315
of Silesia, spheroids of this description, so piled upon each
other as to resemble Dutch cheeses; and appearances no less
illustrative of the phaenomenon may be seen from the signal
station to which we have just alluded.      The fact of the upper
part of the cliff being more exposed to atmospheric agency,
than the parts beneath, will suf<U+FB01>cientl        explain why these
rounded masses so frequently rest on b ocks which still pre
serve the tabular form; and since such spheroidal blocks must
obviously rest in that position in which their lesSer axes are
perpendicular to the horizon, it is e ually evident, that when
ever an adequate force is applied, they must vibrate on their
point of support.”
                            EARTHQUAKES.
    At San Pietro in Bagno, in the Grand Duchy of Tuscany,
several earthquakes of minor importance have been lately felt.
 In the morning between the 12th and 13th of August, not less
than twenty shocks were distinctly perceived. Three, tolerany
strong, occurred about seven o’clock, which made the church
bells ring.     At Salva-piana, which was the spot most affected,
a wall was thrown down, but happily without injuring any
person.     During the following day and night the earthquakes
continued, but with tri<U+FB02>ing e<U+FB01>‘ect.‘     A haziness of the atmo
sphere and a particular kind of obscurity about the sun were
the phaenomena remarked immediately previous to these con
vulsions of Nature.
                     METEOR AND EARTHQUAKE.
    A  traveller, who   happened during the nights of the 11th
and 12th of August to be upon the Alps, reports that he saw
a globe bf <U+FB01>re which lighted the atmosphere for three minutes;
and about the same time the shocks 'of an earthquake were felt
in several parts of Italy.
                                                       '
                               rossrLs.
    The labourers engaged in excavatin the bed of Wallasey
 Pool, for the purpose of making a wet ock, have lately disco
 vered several <U+FB01>ne stags’ horns, in the most perfect state of pre
 servation.    It is probable  that what is now termed Wallasey
 Pool   was anciently part   of _a wood or forest, as in the nei h
 bourhood the remains of large trees are frequently foun at
 different depths below the surface, of a very dark colour; some
 as black   as coal, and so hard that the farmers use them as
 gate-posts.     The horns were found nearly thirty'feet below
 the bed of the pool.      The workmen, it is said, have alo‘dls
 covered evident traces of an ancient road having once eXIsted
 there at the same depth.—-Livelp00l Courier.
                              Rr    2                        rossn.

316           Fossil Elephant—Egyptian Antiquities.
                          rossu. ELEPHANT.
  'A   fossil elephant has been discovered on the east side of
Lyons, in algarden situated on the hill which separates the
Rhine and the Saone. The bones were found in what the
men supposed was virgin earth, that had never been turned up
by either spade or pick-axe.      M. Bredin, the Director of the
Royal Veterinary School, repaired to the spot, and recognised
in the huge bones discovered by the workmen, the bones of an
elephant.      The humerus was twelve feet and a half long, and
nine inches broad at its upper extremity; the tibia was two
feet and a half; and two fragments of the scapulum were toge
ther two feet in length.      There was the head of a femur, and
several other pieces of bones, so that M. Bredin had no dif<U+FB01>
culty in coming to a decision.       Amon the elephant’s bones
the bones of an ox Were also discoverer .—Frenck Journal.
                       EGYPTIAN ANTIQUITIES.
   M. Champollion jun., having proceeded to Turin under the
auspices of His Majesty, to study the collection of Egyptian
antiquities brought together by M. Drouette, and forming at
present the Royal Egyptian Museum of the King of Pied
mont, has already made known some of the principal monu
ments of this museum.         We extract the following communi
cations from his letters:
   f‘ By the kind permission of His Excellency Count Chale,
                             I
Minister of the Interior, have ained admission to the Royal
Egyptian Museum.          I had previously admired in the Palace
of the Universityv a <U+FB01>ne statue of Sesostris, in rose granite,
eight feet high; the upper part of a statue of the wife of that
king, the queen Ari; and another statue with a lion’s head,
similar to two statues in the Museum of Paris, and bearing an
inscription of the reign of Amenophis- II.
   “ It was on the 9th of June that I visited for the <U+FB01>rst time
the Egyptian Museum; nothing is comparable to this im
mense collection.      I found the court cr0wded with colossal
<U+FB01>gures. in rose granite and green basalt.     The interior is also
peopled with colossal monuments.          A <U+FB01>rst examination dis
covered to me a group of ei ht feet in height: it turned out
to be Amon-Ra, seated, having beside him King Horus, son
of Amenophis II. of the eighteenth d nasty—an admirable
work;    I   had seen nothin     equal to t is.   2dly, A colossal
statue of King Misphra-<U+FB01>outhmosis,          in the same state of
preservation as when it issued from the workshop.        Sdl , A
Monolith six feet high; it represents Ramses the great
(Sesostris), seated upon a throne between Amon- Ra and Neith,
of rose granite, and is a perfect work. 4thly, A colossal
                          ‘
                                                            <U+FB01>gure

                                Meteorological Observations.                                                 317
 <U+FB01>gure of King Moeris, green basalt, of exquisite workman
 ship.   5thly. A statue, erect, of Ameno'phis II. 6thly, A
 statue of the god Phta, executed in the time of the last-men
 tioned king.     7thly. A group of freestone, re resenting King
 Amenoftep,    of the nineteenth d asty, and         is wife Queen
 Atari. 8thly, A statue, larger       an life, of Ramses the Great
 (Sesostris), in green basalt, <U+FB01>nished like a cameo; upon the
 steps of the throne are sculptured, in full relief, his son and
 wife.
    “ The number of funeral statues in basalt, red and white
 freestone, white calcareous stone, and gray granite, is very
 considerable : amongst them is one of a man crouching, whose
 tunic bears an inscription in the Egyptian vulgar ton ue, of
 four lines.   The steles of four, <U+FB01>ve, and six feet in heig t, ex
 ceed the number of a hundred ; there is an altar covered with
 hierogl phic inscriptions, with a great number of other ob
           ofy          This comprises only one part of the col
jects     antiquity.
 lection, and there remain two or three hundred packa es to
 he opened. The number of manuscripts             one hundre and                  is
 sevent ~one, of which forty-seven are already unrolled. Among
 these have discovered about ten contracts in the Demotic
 writing; a Greek papyrus, and a law-suit between two inha
 bitants of Thebes relative to the ownership of a house; the
 pretensions of the parties pleading and the means of the ad
vocates are analysed, and the laws favourable to their respec
tive pretensions textually cited.
    “ At the end the actual judgement, which was delivered
                           is
in the <U+FB01>fty-fourth year of Ptolemy Euer tes II. A bilingual
inscription in Egyptian and Greek, an a decree in honour
of prefect of the township of Thebes, and rendered under
     a
 the reign of Cleopatra and her son Cesarion, whose             had                                    I
already proved the actual reign by the perusal of a scroll
 sculptured upon the temple of Dendera.           But, that which is
 most interesting               is,
                        that among the papyrus of the collection,
is   a Phenician manuscript; unfortunately there are but frag
 ments of        it,
              but perhaps others may be found amongst those.
not yet unrolled.”—French Journal.
         Meteorological                Observations at Great                       Yarmouth,            by
                                       C. G. HARLEY, Esq.
           Days.                                          Winds.
                                                                                            Thermom.    Rain.
1824.     Dry. Wet. E. SE.              5.        SW. W. NW.N. NE. Low. High.Med. In.
May                                                   —'            45        55   2‘
           14      17    1 7'                                           972
                                                  8 3 1
                                 4
                                        3 3 3 3
                                                                             4
                                                                  --
                                                                  3
June       16      14                                                        10        55     69   60    2;
                                                          4 6 1
                                                                        3
                                 2 9
July                                                                    ,2
                                                                                                         2% 2;
           22           ...-                                                           60     79   69
                                                                  2 2
                   9                                                         8
August     15      16    a       4                7                     _5   4         60     72   66
                                                                                                   Calendar

                                1
                                [318]
  Calendar   of Flora, Fauna, and Pomona, at Hart/fell! in Sussex,
            continued from September 19 to October 20.
     Sept. 19.-Crocus autumnalis in <U+FB02>ower in the garden. The
 weather is extremely unfavourable for the production                    of
 <U+FB02>owers, and the autumnal Flora is very backward and defec
 tive. The China Asters, African Marigolds, and other plants
 of this sort have very enerally failed, by being thrown so
 late in the season as to          injured by the rains before they
 could <U+FB02>ower.       Holyhocks, the Prince’s Feather, and other
 Amaranths      abound    only in a few places: in others all the
 plants   have  done  badly.
     Sept. 29. — Michaelmas Day. The Michaelmas Daisy,
 Aster Tradescantii, the Aster tardi<U+FB02>orus, and some others of this
   enus are in full blow. Agaricus integer, A. aurantius, Boletus
 edulis, Boletus bovinus, and some hitherto undescribed fungi
 are growing.
     Oct. 2. -—Agaricus muscarius in abundance, both in the
          and in the orchard.        The species, however, has not
 grove
   een luxuriant this year in general.         Swallows have become
 less numerous, several large migrations having taken place.
 Small-birds congregate in <U+FB02>ocks. Wasps seem to be wanting
 altogether this season.
     Oct. 12.-—Weather damp and showery.                The last white
currents gathered.        Today there fell almost a               of rain,
 which <U+FB02>ooded the meadows, and gave the mars             delugees of the
              -
 Medway the appearance of a lake.
     Oct. 14.     Martins, hirundines urbicce, still seen.
 weather cleared and became colder.
                                                                      The
   ‘
     Oct. l8.—-Agaricus jloccosus abundant under an apple-tree
in the orchard.       The popular prejudice of <U+FB01>ne weather about
 St. Luke’s Dayhas been veri<U+FB01>ed again this year.
     Oct. 20.— Some few swallows seen today <U+FB02>ying about a
 paper kite which was elevated very high in the air.
     This season has been one of the worst for apples ever re
membered.
 still remain.                  _-—
                 Pears are rather more plentiful.         A few peaches
                                                          T. Fonsrnn.
                        LIST or NEW PATENTS
    To Francis Henry William Needham, of David-street, Middlesex, esq.,
for his improved method of casting steel.--Dated 7th October 1824.—6
 months allowed to enrol speci<U+FB01>cation.
    To Walter Foreman, esq. of Bath, Somersetshire, commander in the
Royal Navy, for certain improvements in the construction of steam-engines.
 -—7th October.—6 months.
                                                                            ‘
    To Fredrick Benecke, of Deptford, Kent, verdigris manufacturer, and
Daniel Towers Shears and James Henr Shears, of Fleet-market, London,
coppersmiths,  who, in consequence o a communication        from a certain
foreigner, are in possession of certain improvements   in the making, pre
paring, or producing of speltcr or zinc.—7th October.~»6 months. ,
                                                                       TO

                               List qf New Patents.                          319
     To Pierre     Alegre, of Kerez de la Frontera, Spain, engineer, now residing
  at Colet-place, Commercial Road, Middlesex, for his improved and oecono
  mical method of generating steam applicable to steam-engines and other
  useful purposes.—7th      October.—2 months.
      To Humphry Je<U+FB01>‘reys, of Park-street, Bristol, merchant, for his improved
  <U+FB02>ue or chimney for furnaces and other purposesf-Tth October.—2 months.
      To Robert Dickenson, of Park-street, Southwark, Surry, esq. for his
  improvement       or improvements in the manufacture        and construction of
  metal casks or barrels, for the conveyance of goods and products by sea
  or otherwise.—7th October.—6 months.
     To Francis Richman, of Great Pulteney-street, Golden-square, Middle- 1
  sex, carpenter, for certain improvements in the construction of <U+FB01>re-escapes,
  part of which said improvements are likewise applicable to other purposes.
  —7th October.-6 months.
      To Stephen Wilson, of Streatham, Surry, es ., who, in consequence of
  communications       made to him by foreigners residing abroad, is in osses
  sion of certain improvements in machinery for making velvets, an other
  cut works.—7th 0ctober.-—4 months.                                          '
      To John Ham, of West Coker, Somersetshire, vinegar-maker, for his
  imoroved process for manufacturing vinegar.—7th October.—4 months.
      I‘o Matthew Bush, of West Ham, Essex, calico-printer, for certain im-'
- provements      in machinery or apparatus for printing calicoes, and other
  fabrics.—7th October.—6 months.
      To John Shaw, of Milltown, in the parish of Glossop, Derbyshire, farmer,
  for his transverse spring slides for trumpets, trombones, French-horns,
  bugles, and every other musical instrument            of the like nature.— 7th
   October.—2 months.
      To John Thomas Hodgson, of William-street, Lambeth, Surry, veterin
  arian, for certain im rovements in the construction and manufacture of
  shoes or substances or shoes for horses and other cattle, and method of
                                                                                   -
  applying the same to the feet.—7th October.—6 months. .
      'l‘o Philip Chell, of Earle’s-court, Kensingtou, Middlesex, esq. for his
  improvements in machinery for drawing, roving, and spinning of <U+FB02>ax, wool,
  waste silk, or other <U+FB01>brous substances—Nth ()ctober,—6 months.
      To John George Bodnier, of No. 50, Oxford-street, Charlton-row, in
  the parish of Manchester,_Lancashire,      civil engineer, for certain im rove
  ments in the machinery for cleaning, carding, drawing, roving and splnning
   of cotton and wool. — 14th October.— 6 months.
      To James Gunn, of Hartstreet, Grosvenor-square,           Middlesex, coach
   maker, for certain improvements in wheeled carriages.— 14th October.—
   6 months.
      To William Philip Weise, of Tooley-street, Southwark, Surry,         manu
   facturer,   for certain improvements in the preparing and making water
   proof cloth, and other materials for the manufacturing of hats, bonnets,
   caps, and wearing apparel, and in manufacturing           the same therefrom.
   —l4th October.—6 months.
      To Henry Marriott, of Fleet-street, London, ironmonger, for an im           ~
   provement on water-closets.— 14th October.-—-2 months.
      To James Fetlow, of Manchester, Lancashire, weaver, for certain improve
   ments in power looms for weaving various articles.-14th October.——6 mo.
       To Henry Maudslay, and Joshua Field, both of Lambeth, Surry, en
   gineers, for their method and apparatus for continually changing the water
   used in boilers for generating steam, particularly applicable to the boilers
   of steam-vessels making long voyages, by preventing the deposition of salt
   or other substances contained in the water, at the same time retaining the
   heat, saving fuel, and rendering the boilers more lasting.--l4th October.—
    6 months.                            -
                                                                   A METEORO

AMETEOROLOGICAL                                 TABLE:                   comprising         the Observations                   qf‘    Dr.       BUBNEY             at                  Mr.     CARY    in                   and   Mr.     VEALL        at Boslrm.
                                                                                                                                                                          Gospori,                            London,
            Gosron'r,at             half-past         Eight      o‘Clock,    4.111.                              CLouns.                                            of       Thermometer.                  RAUL
                                                                                                                                                         Height
           ,               i                                                                                                                                                                                                             “Inn-11:11.
                                6           “a                                I                              I                   J
    Base    f              “1        5              L: g   as         -              w                   E       -           1511115                                         LONDON
                                                                              E,    16.:                                                              gal-imam“
                                                                                                                                                        nces,&c.                  ___'z"              15           1
    11131111.,              2°31     g          ig<U+FB01>o                          aggamié<U+FB01>é<U+FB01><U+FB01>nég<U+FB01>
     1824-                           ~                      5      Ea
                                              5'.          m                  55          622.21.515.61.“11.....5628J.                                                                                                    L       d              B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             on
                            “115                                             m                                                                                                           moo
                                                                                                                                                                                                    g ='3         gg               on'             08")".
                                    3        E4177                                             6§Um1502                                               lP.M.   séAJVI-        0:2:
    Sept. 26               30-08     47    53-15           63       N.
                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                      1           1...         1...                                                                                                      Fine
                                                                                         0-300                                        11 1            30-05       2980       455242          42-0                         Fair
          '27              2954      49     ......         60       E.        018           -145......            1...        1                       29-58       29-40                      48       0-40                               Cloudy
                                                                                                                                                                             4247;41                                      Showery
          28               29-83     44      ......        62      NW.                      060      1...         1      1     1...    1              29-93       29-60      3952|42         40-5                         Fair
     1)                                                             S.                                                                                                                                                                   Fine
            29             29-90     51      ......        58                      .. .......        1...         1...         1...                                                                                       Fair           F1110
                                                                                                                                                      29-95       29-75      455854          45
            30             29-62     60      ......        76        s.           -50       -660                  1...         1...                                                                                    Fair
                                                                                                                                                      29-55       29-45      5458159         55                                          Cloudy
     061-                  29-10     60    53'60           75       SE.                                           1...
               1 1                                                                         580        111 11                                          29-17       28-95                      58                    -10 1111“             Rain
                           2963     57      ......                   s.                    —100                                                                              575956
                                                           67                                                     1...                                29-56       2967                       54                                          Fine,    rain
                                                                                                                                                                             5560.56                               ~06 Stormy                            p.111.
                           29-77
                           29-77
                                    58
                                    59
                                            ......
                                            ......
                                                           66
                                                           79
                                                                   SW.
                                                                     E.
                                                                                  -35      -030
                                                                                           186
                                                                                                      1 1 1 1 1
                                                                                                                  1...             l
                                                                                                                              1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 111 1   29-89       29-45      57 6452         53-5     0-60         -03 Fair              Fine
                                                                                                                                                      29-83       2960       536256    54                                 Fair           Cloudy
                           2960     60      ......         76        E.                   -
                                                                                                                                                      29-65       29-35                58                                 Rain           Cloudy,—rain             at
                                    61                                                                                                                                       5660559
                           29-40            ......         77        E.                                      .                                        29-42       29-20                57-5                        -14    Rain           Cloudy
                                                                                                                                                                             58‘60‘60                                                                   [night
                           29-29    62     53-75           77      sw.                                       .    1...                                                                                             '60
                                                                                                                                                      29130   28-95          606457160                                    Showery        11411111135111.66
     O                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                11 1 1 1 1        1
                           2908     59      ......         74       E.                                           1                    1...            29-40   29-            576556160                             -09    Fair           Cloudy, rain 11.1”.
               3456 78 9
                           29-60    58      ......         72      NW.                                       .    1...                            2964        29-15                    56                                 Fair           Cloudy
            10                                                                                                                                                               5660:48
                           2954     55      ......         '70      SE.                                      .    1...                            29‘41       2930                       48           1'40                Rain
                                                                                                                                                                             475055                                                      Cloudy, rainatnt.
            11             28-85    58      ......         78       S.                                            1...             ll             28-93       28-75          555752      54                       101     Rain           Cloudy,    do.
            '2
                                                                                                                                1 1 1   1 111 11 1
                           28'78    51      ------         69       N.                                       .    1..                             28-92       29-75          505039      47                        -30 Rain                       rain    (Lin.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Stormy,
            13             29‘37    40      ......         66       N.                                                                                                                                             ~22 Fair              Fine
                                                                                                                                                  29-45       29-20         37443        38-5                                                      [1111111161.
            14             29-57    41     53-40           64       W.                                       .   1 1     11    1...               29-63       29-32         365136       43                               Fair           Cloudy,  rain Mi.
      (1    15             29-62    44      ......                  N.                                                        1      1       11
                                                           64                                                     1...                            29-70       29-50         3441‘34      415                       —14 Cloudy            Cloudy
            16             29-87    35      ......         67       N.               ..............                                               29-95       29-70         334533       38-5                          Fair              Fine
            17             3005     37      ......         64      NW.                    ......                         1 1          1...        30-04       2960          334934                    2-00                                             mind-m
                                                                                                                                                                                         36                            Cloudy            Cloudy,
            18             3015     39      ------         72      NW.         ~25                    1...       1       1 1         1
                                                                                          -015                                               130-17           29-93         3451142      36                        ~06 Fair              Cloudy          do.
            19             30-16    52      ......                 sw.
                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                      1           1...                       1
                                                           67                       -o50                                      1..              30-11          '29-80        4656151      48                        -07    Fair           Cloudy
            20             3007     52      ......         66       \V.            ......               l         l--         ...        l     30'10          2965          525650       47           ...           ...   Fair           Cloudy
            21             29-98    50     53-40           64      sw.         ~50 ......             1   1       1..         1                   30-05       29-65                      50                               Fair           Fine
     Q      22                                                                                                                                                              5457|50
                           29-93‘   56      ......         74       SE.                   -025        1...                                 1      29-94       2965                       53                                              Fine
                                                                                                                 l1                                                         5059154                                       Cloudy
            23             29-94‘   58     ......          71      sw.                   ......                              11       1...                                  5260.55                                                      Fine
                                                                                                      1 11                                        29-98       2960                       54                               Cloudy-
            24             29-82    58     ......          72       E.                    -015                   1            1                   29-82       2960          556260       525          0-02                Fair
                                                                                                      1 11                                                                                                                               Cloudy
            25             r1954    58     53'40           74      SW-         '40        -060                    1--       1 1                   29-56       29-22         576055       55                               Showery        Cloudy
Avk-rauL-h:                211-64 ‘mi-ma               (111-:               1?:         .141an          T???            '71:?1: <U+FB01>E‘i<U+FB01>rAi                      1):)>.4'1T11 71‘},         $1.4         ,1-40       11.1111                         —‘

                                 I  THE
    PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                     AND JOURNAL.
                   30‘h
                        \
                           NOVEMBER                     1824.
      LV.    Contributions to our Knowledge        of Chemical Bodies.
                        11y M:    W. HERAPATH*.
                No.  1.   On the Combinations       of Oxygen.
  A DESIRE           to know the state in which oxygen exists after
        combination, induced me in 1821 to commence a set of
  experiments upon the metallic oxides; in the course of which,
  many new facts have presented themselves, which I conceive
  are worth recording; and under this impression              I shall venture
  to make them public; although from the tedious manipula
  tions required to purify the different substances, the necessity
  of taking their density at one particular temperature, _and
  the short time I can devote to such ursuits, I <U+FB01>nd it im
  possible to present a complete series 0 the metals and their
  oxides, as was my ori inal intention.             In following up my
  ideas on those bodies, Thad expected to derive some informa
'
  tion from the labours of others; but unfortunately, ,I found
  that the oxides had been scarcely at all operated on, as far as
  regarded their densities ;—at least I am not aware that any ta
  ble of their densities was ever published : and although it had
  been considered of suf<U+FB01>cient importance to ascertain the den
  sity of the various metals; yet, from the inattention of the ex
  perimenters to their purity,—to the propriety of their bein
  reduced without alkaline <U+FB02>uxes, to their being allowed to coo
  slowly in the crucible in which they were melted, and to the
  neglect of registering the temperature at which the speci<U+FB01>c
  gravities were taken,—there is so much confusion, that it is with
         dif<U+FB01>culty   I  can select enough to form a table.             I  have
    one so here: but as I consider it absolutely necessary that all
  great
  the experiments should be repeated; if this notice fails to call
  the attention bf chemists to this department of science,              I shall
  extend my task to it: but from the magnitude of the under
   * Read   before the Society of Inquirers of Bristol,  September  20, 1824.
     Vol. 64. No. 319. Nov.      1824.               S   5              taking

             ‘
822              Mr. W. Herapath’s                        Co'ntributimzs
takin    it must be long before it will be complete. In the mean
time      shall produce evidence enough to show what                                               I con
ceive to be general laws, leaving it to futurity to give them
absolute precision.
    As a basis, I have taken, as accurately as I could, the den
sities arranged below: some few are of no value to this in
quiry ; but as they maybe serviceable to others, I shall give
the whole list:
    Cadmium, perfectly pure                       .       .      .       .        .    .  62° 8659
    Cadmium, brown oxide . . . . . . . 62 8183
    Cadmium, carbonate, dried at 180° . . . 68                                                  4'420
    Copper, not poled           .           .      .      .       .       .        .    .  65   8'510
    The same copper, poled . . . . . . . 64~ 8'848
    Copper, in grains'.             .       .      .       .      .       .        .    .  64:  86006
    Copper, pure, melted,             and       cooled              in    crucible         62   8'900
    Copper,    red  oxide,    as     made            from        acetate               .   62   6093   4
    Copper, red oxide, by heating copper                                          .     .  62 6'052
    Copper, black oxide, from heating with nitre 62 6:401
    Copper, sulphuret . . . . . .                                         .       .    .. 64-   5'792
    Tin of commerce, containing lead                                     .        .    .  64    7 '602
 - Tin, hammered .          .      .       .      .       .      .       .       .    .   64 7600
    Tin, remelted, and allowed to cool in crucible 64 7'5565
   Tin, pure, as reduced from white oxide,
                                                                                          62    7_285
           hammered the same                                        .       .
   Tin, gray oxide, from muriatic acid, by potash 62 6'666
   Tin, white oxide                .       .      .       .      .      .         .   .   64    4'938
   Tin, white oxide, heated           '
                                             till     yellow            .        .    .   62    6639
   Lead, pure . . . . . . . . . . . 62 11'352
   Lead, yellow oxide             .       .      .              .       .        .    .   64   9277
   Lead, red oxide         .     .      ‘.       .              .       .       .     .   60   9096
   Lead, puce-coloured oxide                                    .       .       .     .   62   23-902
   Arsenic, pure (metallic)                     .        .      .       .        .    .   62   5'672
   Arsenious acid, glacial .                                           .                  63   3'729
   Bismuth         .   .   .     .        .     .       .      .                .    .    61   9'881
   Bismuth, white oxide                  .      .       .      .       .        .    .    62 6'7608
   Bismuth, white oxide, heated till yellow                                          .    65   8211
   Bismuth, sulphuret            .       .      .       .      .       .        .    .    58   7'591
   Iron, black oxide, as produced in oxygen gas 62 5'300
   Iron, red oxide, from nitric acid. .                                       '
                                                                                . _ .     62   l1--959
   Mercury, black oxide                 .       .       .      .‘      .        .    .    62 1069
   Mercury, red, from nitric acid . . . . . 64 11-074
   Mercury, red oxide (per s'e)                         .       .      .        .    .    65 11-085
   Mercury, proto-chloride (calomel) . . . 60 6'707
   Silver, brown oxide           .       .      .       . . .          .        .    .    62   7143
  Silver, chloride        .     .        .      .      .
                                                             '
                                                               .       .        .    .    66   5129
                                              '
                                                                                            Manganese

                   to the Knowledge         of Chemical    Bodies.           323
        Manganese, brown oxide               .     .  .  .  .   .  62%“1-‘7264
        Nickel, black oxide       .'    .   .    .   .  .  .   .   62   4'846
        Cobalt, black oxide       .     .   .    .   .  .  .   .   62   5'822
        Tungstic acid . .         .     .   .    .    .  . .   .   62   5'274
       The <U+FB01>rst fact    I  noticed in taking those densities, was that
   the oxides were nearly,            not all, hygrometric, the quantity of
  water they abstract from the atmosphere being, regulated by
  certain laws, which       I  shall endeavour to detail and explain in
  a future pa er.        I conceive the overlooking this hygrometric
  property 0 the oxides to be one of the principal causes why
  the results of different chemists are so discordant, that instead
  of calculating the equivalent weights of metals from their
  oxides, they are obliged to have recourse to their salts for
  that purpose. Let us take an example by way of illustration.
       I converted 100 grains of tin into gray oxide, by solution
  in muriatic acid, precipitating by potassa while recent: on
  washing, drying, and weighing the oxide produced, it amount
  ed to 12492; in a few minutes it became 126 grains; and in 48
  hours it had absorbed as much moisture from the atmosphere
  as increased its wei ht to 127'32. Now if we suppose two ex
                  at wor       upon the same metal, the one weighing
  perimenters
     is oxide hot, the other leavin it to a convenient 0p ortunity,
  their results would differ nea<U+FB01>y 3 per cent.; or if t e second
  only deferred weighing         a few minutes, they would not agree by
                       '
  1 per cent.
        There appears to be an intimate connexion between the
  density of a metal and the quantity of oxygen it unites with;
  so much so, that       I think when the course of accurate experi
' ments is complete, which            I   have explained above, the follow
  ing will turn out to 'be a general lam—All metals combine with
  ozygen in the inverse ratio of their densities".
       In order to show the extent of evidence which has pro
  duced this opinion,         I  shall give a table, where the metals
  which are best      known     are    arranged in the order of their dén
  sities,  from  the  heaviest    down        to the lightest, with' a column
  containin      the smallest quantity of oxygen with which 100
   warts oft ose metals are known to unite (protoxides);                   where
  it will be perceived, that as [the metals become lighter, the
  quantity of oxygen they combine with increases.
      '" We would here remark,       that there are several instances of combina
  tion with oxygen among the metals, that appear to throwconsiderable doubt
  upon the existence of this law: 100 parts of potassium, for instance, the
  density of which is 0'85, take 20 parts of oxygen to form potash; and the
  same quantity of sodium, density 0'97, requires 33-33 of oxygen to produce
  soda,- both alkalies being protoxides.—En.
                                           S s 2                            Table

    32%             Mr.         Herapath’s           Contributions         a
                                                              ‘
                               Table      of Protoxides.
          Name-
                               '-               -
                                                      Name-
                                                                      n51
                                                                               gt.
                                                                                .
                                                                                     ghhilslgt.
                                                                                                ,
                     £3212 titgii<U+FB01>vii-t                           Vigneter
      Platinum        21'47              442        Nickel          8'380            27'40
      Gold            19‘258             4'02       Cobalt          8‘340            27'58
      Tungsten        17‘33              8'33       Manganese       8013             2810?
      Mercury        1 3'568             4'00       Iron               7'847         28'570
      Lead            11'352             7'69       Tin                7'285         13'56"
     Silver           10'474-            7'27       Zinc            7'121            24-24
     Bismuth              9822      l
                                    l     ‘26       Antimony        6424             1818
      Copper         v    8'900      12'50          Tellurium       6'1 15           25'00
      Cadmium             8°659      14'28          Arsenic         5'762            81'58 ‘
      Molybdenum          8'611      16'66
       Here we see that the numbers in the 3rd column have an
    evident tendency to increase downwards :—that platinum, a
    metal 211; times as heavy as water, combines with about        per                     4
    cent. of oxygen; while arsenic, about 51,- times as heavy as
    water, combines with 31 per cent.        Tungsten, nickel, cobalt,
    man anese, and iron, are greater numbers than they should be;
    and   it   strange that all of them, except manganese, are such
               is
'   as we should expect not to have found the protoxides of, be
    cause the oxides in the table contain oxy en, compared with
    the peroxides, as      to
                           2        8,
                                  leaving    proba    that there
                                                     it           le an                    is
    undiscovered oxide of each, containing oxygen as 1. In the
    oxides of manganese there        great confusion.
                                          is            Berzelius <U+FB01>nds
    two with less oxygen than the one in the table: but the theory
    of equivalents and the experiments of good chemists plead
    against the <U+FB01>rst of them; while the second of them have not                I
    introduced, because        it not well de<U+FB01>ned, although
                                    is                           would                it
    better accord   with the  table.
       My experiments on the oxide of tin from muriatic acid,
    make   it  composed of 100 metal +24-'8 ox gen (instead of
     13'56), in which case that metal would accor        there only re :
    mains antimony, the oxides of which are still more confused
    than those of manganese.
     I   am the more induced to think that this law will be proved,
    from the circumstance that the unmetallic bodies <U+FB01>nd, as far           I
    as the    have been investigated, seem _to be governed by the
    same laws.
                         " make this 10(l+24;92.
                             I
                                                                                           Table

              to the Knowledge             of Chemical Bodies.                         325
                            Table    of Non-metallics.
                                                                            Denmy '
                           Densit .l Ox      en                        ‘
                                              ylgpm
      ‘
          Name.            Air        to                      Name.
                                                                            Oxgen.
  Iodine vapour  8'6780                    32'4       Iodic acid
  Chlorine       25000                     222        Protoxide
  Sulphur vapour 11111                     500          chlorine                55'55
                                                                       }
   Azote                    '9722          571        Hypo-sulphu
   Carbon vapour            '4160     133'0             rous acid               55'55
                                                                       }
   Hydrogen                 "0694     800-0           Protoxide    azote        55-51
   Boron                                              Carbonic oxide            55-46
                                                      Water                 5    5- 52
   <U+FB01>losphorus               unknown
     uorme
   Selenium
    Here there    is such an exact agreement in       out of   5 that             6,
the density multiplied         the oxygen gives one constant num
                                 b
ber.    Iodine    is the onliy exception, the product of which                           is
much greater than          should be: but as iodine was only dis
                           it
 covered in 1812, as there        only one of its combinations with
                                     is
 oxygen (iodic acid)      known,   and as all the others combine
with oxygen in more than one proportion,                 have strong
                                                                I
hopes that future investigations will cause this anomaly to
 disappear; particularly as chlorine, which          very similar in
                                                              is
 many respects to iodine, combines in such proportions as
 would with iodine give the true number, viz.          atom chlorine
                                                                   1
  +1 atom oxygen.                                                                            ,
     A familiar example of the combination of oxygen with a
 metal, and the condensation resulting, will serve to give a
 clear idea of what     I conceive to be another lam—Oxygen in
 uniting to a metal has its bull: reduced to a small measure of
 the bulk of the metal.
     Lead, the density of which at 62° when perfectly pure and
 allowed to cool gradually,          11'352, water being 1', takes of
                                      is
onygen,      to form  its protoxide,  7'692 to 100 metal: that       a                 is,
 cubic inch of lead, weighing 2886§ grains, unites with 222
 grains or 655 cubic inches of oxygen gas; but the 656 cubic
 inches are now reduced to very nearly 131,-cubic inch, for the
 oxide would only displace that quantity of water, having a
  density of 9277 therefore, we must suppose the cubic inch
                       ;
  of lead to have condensed the 655 cubic inches of oxygen to
  gld of its own bulk, or to 1-2036th part of the space     occupied       it
  in the state of gas. 'The following list will show that the
  same law obtains with the other metallic oxides.
                   as
                                                                                       Lead

                                                                                                                                                                                                in                           -
                                                                                                .                                                                                   Bulk              grains.                            958
                                                                           1  Lead         Prolowide-
                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                Water.      ~   Cubic        Inches.
Lead,
               1      cubic      inch         at    11-352                            .         2886-6                         =     .          .          .       .                .           252-5           1       or
                                                                     weighs                                      grains
              Takes       655         cubic         inches                             .         222-        .            .             .       .          .        .               .                79-5       1}      to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3 1
                                                                    oxygen
                                                                                            3108-6          of                                        at   9277                             =   382
                                                                         Making                                   yellow           protoxide,                              sp.gr.
                                condensed                 2036       times.
              Oxygen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         “N
                                                                               Lead          Deutoxide.
                                                                                                                                                           ‘
                1     cubic      inch                                  .          .                                            —
                                                                                                                               -                           -       .                .                           1                        '44
    Lead,                                  weighs                                              2886-6                                                                                               252-5               01-
                                                                                                                 grains                                                                                                           2‘}
                                                                                                                                     .                     .
                 Takes           982     cubic    inches                                         883'
                                                                                                                                                - .                .                .                                            1
                                                                       oxygen                                                                                                                   102-            §       to
                                                                                              3219-6                          red       deutoxide,         at     9082          =               35-1-5
                                                                             Making                          grains
                                condensed                 24-72     times.
              Oxygen                                                                                                                                                                                                                    wvdml-I
                                                                                Lead           Tritoxide.
    Lead,
                1     cubic       inch        wei     hs               .          .            2886-6                          =        .       .          .        .               .               252-5       1       or
                                                                                                                 grains
                                                                                                                                     .
                 Takes                                     inches                               M4-                                                      '.        .                                121-6       1,-     to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2 1
                                 1310.011b10                            oxygen                                                                                                      ._
                                                                                              3880-6                                     tritoxide,        at   8'903         =                 3741'1
                                                                             Making                          grains           pure
                               condensed                  2761      times.
              Oxygen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         mom-1.161400
                                                                                  Mercury             Protoa-ide.                                                                           »
                                                                                                                                                      I
                       1      cubic      inch        at     18'568                              34-26-19                            =           .          .           .            .               252-5       1       or       3
          '                                                                   weighs                                grains
    Mercury:          akes      404      cubic            inches                                 137’                     -             .       .          .           .            .           -    80-8       {,-     to       l
                                                                       oxygen
_                                                                         Making              3568-19                         black                             at 1069                 =           333-3
                                                                                                                 grains                     protoxide,
    "f-       Oxygen            condensed                 1262       times.

                                                                                                                                                                                   Bulk   in
                                                                                                                                                                                                 grains.
                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                      Mercury         Peroxide.                                                                                         Water.              Cubic        lnches.
                  1                                                 .                                          =                '                     .           .
Mercury,
                        cubic     inch
                                            weighs                              8426'19
                                                                                               grains
                                                                                                                                         .                                     .          252-52           1     or
            Takes         808     cubic      inches                              274'09                   .             .            .               .           .           .              8162           31;   to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8 1
                                                            oxygen
                                                             Making             3700'28                       red                                    at       11074        =              3344*
                                                                                               grains                   peroxide,
                         condensed           2500          times.
         Oxygen
                                                                      Acid       of   Tungsten.
                    1    cubic     inch      at    17'4                          4393'8                       =         .            .                .            .           .          25252            1     or
Tungsten,                                                     weighs                           grains
                                                                                                           .                .            .                .        .                      7
           .   Takes      3243     cubic      inches                             1098'4                                                                                        .               88'85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           13
                                                             oxygen.                                                                                                                                        8%- b0
                                                                                 54-92'2                                                         acid,        at 5'274~=
                                                             Making                            grs.     yellow          tungstic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0; our a<U+FB01>pazznouy
                          condensed          1039          times.                                     \
         Oxygen
                                                                        Iron      Protom'de.
           1    cubic      inch     at 7'843                              .       1980'4-0                        =         .            .            .            .           .           252'52          l     or
Iron,                                                 weighs                                     grains                          _
               Takes       1669     cubic         inches                           565%                                     .            .                .        .         .             227'90          T96      to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1 1
                                                               oxygen                            grains                                                                                                                            jb ivogwaqg
                                                      '
                                                                                  2546-22                         black                                        at 5'8                   =480'42
                                                               Making                             grains                        protoxide,                                 sp.gr.
                                                                                  '
                         condensed           1850          times.
         Oxygen
                                                                         Iron      Peroxide.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sagpag
                                                                                                                                                 ‘
           1    cubic      inch                       .         .          .     1980'4-0                         =                          .            .            .            .     ‘252'5           1        or      4'
 Iron,                             weighs                                                        grains                                               v           ‘
               Takes       2504     cubic         inches                          848'74-                     .             .                .            .            .           .                        1%      to      5
                                                               oxygen                                                                                                                      318'_
                                                                                 2829'14                          red       oxide,               at #959               =                   570'50
                                                             Making                             grains
                                                                                                  ‘
                          condensed           2003         times.                                                                                                                                                                   L58
           Oxygen

                                                                                                                                                                      Bulk     in grains.
                                                                          Nickel       Peroxide.                                                                                              Cubic      Inches.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   888
                                                                                                                                                                             Water.,
Nickel,
             1     cubic      inch        at     8'38                              2116'1‘1                         =                .      .            .                   252'52         1       or      2vv
                                                         weighs                                    grains
            Takes          2882          cubic      inches                           976'66                             .            .      .            .        .          385'69         1%      to     3
                                                               oxygen                              grains
                                                                 Making                            grains       black          oxide,      at     4'846
                                                                                                                                                              sp.gr.=638'21
                           condensed              1896       times.
          Oxygen                                                                                                                                                                                                   “W
                                                                             Copper      Protozz'de.
Copper,
              1     cubic         inch     at 8'9                                  224742                        =                                                           252'52                 01'3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   'M
                                                           weighs                                  grains
             Takes          829     cubic         inches                            280'92                  .                                                                 162‘53                t02
                                                               oxygen                                _
                                                                                   2528-34                      red         oxide,       at 6093          =                  415'05
                                                                 Making                              '
                                                                                                   grains
          Oxygen           condensed                         times.
                                                  1295
                                                                                                                     Nitre.          -                                                 ‘
                                                                          Copper      Peroxide/i012:
Copper,
               1     cubic        inch                                             2247-42                       =                   .      .             .       .          252-52                 01'4
                                             weighs                                                grains
            Takes           1654         cubic   inches                             561'84'                 .           .            .                                                                      3
                                                                    oxygen                                                                                                   186'35                 to
                                                                                   2809-26                      black          oxide,      at    6'401        =              438'87
                                                                 Making                            grains
                           condensed              2235       times.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   s‘qde-IQH suqunqyluog
          Oxygen
                                  .                                      Silver      Protoz'ide.
Silver,
             1     cubic      inch        at     10474:                            2644'89                      =     .
                                                               weighs                              grains                                                                    252-52                 01-5
            Takes          567      cubic         inches                             192'35
                                                               oxygen                                                                                                        144'68         war-1   mi?
                                                                    Making         2837'24         grains       brown            oxide,         at 7148:                     397'20
          Oxygen           condensed              989      times.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bulk      in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       grains.
                           _                                                                                   Tin     Peroxide.
                               _                                                                                                                 _‘                                                                             Water.              Cubic        Inches.
 'IOA'
                           Tin,
                                     1   cubic        inch       at 7'285                                 .            1839-60                            =                .         .             .                                              1
                                                                                      weighs                                             grams'                                                                                252-52                     or
                                        Takes            1477         cubic        inches
                                                                                                 oxygen                  500'57                           .                .         .             .                                                                5 2
  W79                                                                                                                                                                                                                             99'96         ii          to
                                                          ‘
                                                                                                     Making           2340-1      7  grains           yellow              oxide,     at 6639
                                                                                                                                                                                                          sp.gr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         = 352'48
                                                      condensed               3694          times.                                                                                                                                                                             01'
                                     Oxygen
                                                                                                              rArsenious         Acid.
                      _ Arsenic,          1      cubic         inch      at   5'672                                    1432-2                         =   .                .         .             .
                                                                                                                                    grains                                                                                     25252                      or
                                        Takes         1834            cubic      inches                                 452-27                            .                .         .             .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1 1                1 1
                                                                                                oxygen                                                                                                          .            252-83                       or
                                                                                                     Making           1884.47                          of         white        oxide,         at   3'729            =          505-35
                                                                                                                                        grains
                                                      condensed               '1 334        times.
'ON '6I8 “ON W681
                                     Oxygen
                               _                                                                        Brown            Oxide      of      Manganese.
                           Manganese,
                                                  1      cubic         inch      at     8013                  2023'44-                      =                 .            .                                                   25252              1
                                                                                                                               grains                                                                                                                     or
                                    Takes             2812        cubic          inches                         953-02                       .            .                .                                                   377-28             1%      to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2 8
                                                                                                          _
                                                                                            Making            2976'46
                                                                                                                                           of         brOwn               oxide,        at    4'726        =                62980
                                                                                                                                grainsv
.1.L_                                                 Condensed
                                     Oxygen                                   1886'jtiines.                                                      g;
                    '
                          As‘this                     has       extended              to                  a                 I shall    iiht make                                   further            comments                                      but   I      would
                                                                                            sorgreat            length,                              any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           an <U+FB01>reman zwrweqo<U+FB01> 'snpva
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                upon        it;
                    '"mé'ntion,         fpaper
                                         ofthe         informatiOn                 of                                 ex                                                           it    is     not
                                                                                           thosefwh'o          may         erimenthiilter      me, that                                                  only           necessary          to     drive          all the
                    'water          from"the          oxides            before                                 but
                                                                                                                             ish<U+FB01>uld,      be boiled                           in       the                                                               in      order
                                                                                           Weighing,                  they                                                                         speci<U+FB01>c              gravity           bottle,
                     to                         the      air      which                                                                                                                 these
                         diSengage                                                 someaofuth'em                                                  hold—without                                         precautions                 they         can    obtain         no
                                                                                                                     peremnggy
                    étrue result.
                          Sept.20,1824
                                                                                    a                                                                                                                                    WILLIAM                HERAPATH.

                                             [330]
  LVI.         On the Calculus              of Variations. By JOHN WALSH, Esq.
       To    the   Editors ofthe Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
          Gentlemen,
              you                    will
                            be so good as to insert the following
 PERHAPS
   paper in the next      Number of your very valuable Journal,
 if   not too much preoccupied.
                        I
                    have the honour to be, gentlemen,
                                              Your much obliged servant,                         \
      Sept. 30, 1824.                                                JOHN WALSH.
        AB be any straight line bisected in C, and let
      Let                                                                              E    be
     other point in AB, then
                                                                                  i
 any
         (AB-AC$CE)(AC ,3  CE) = AB xAC—A'C'Q
                   (AB—2AC) CE—CE”.
                                  '
or, as AB is equal to 2AC,
      (AB-ACiCE) (ACiCE)= AB xAc-_A(T2_                                           6E   2.
   The preceding is the demonstration of prop. v. book 2, of
the Elements of Euclid.       We see by      as CE            it,        2
                                                        negative,            is
whether CE itself      positive or negative, that the maximum
                                is
rectangle under the two segments of any given straight line
takes place when the line      bisected. The condition of maxi
                                            is
mum requires, therefore, that the coef<U+FB01>cient of CE the arbi
trary magnitude added to and taken from AC, should be no
thin    and that CE should be negative.
        ,
                                 2
  C   othian  the preceding equation in the notation of the
di<U+FB02>'erentiaFcalcul-us, there     given, in the case of maximum,
                                              is
                                      ads—2min =              0
in which           a: AB,       .1: AC',  dw= CE, dz, being considered
inde<U+FB01>nitely small.     Clothing this last in the notation of the
calculus of variations, there   given, in the case of maximum,
                                              is
                                f8(ad.z'         —
                                                     Qxda') = 0.
                                            2zd8x—28xdw} =
                                       —-                           0.
                      f{ad3.r
                    by parts, the integral              is,
                            -
Integrating
                    (18.x       2z81'       +f {28.xdw—28a‘dx}.
  It    seen, that the terms remaining under the integral sign
        is
destroy one another.    We are left, therefore, by the calculus
of variations, at the point at which we set out, and we have
                                                                                       not

           Mr. John Walsh           on the Calculus        qf Variations.     831
not still for the determination of the maximum, but                       the ori
ginal equation,
 '
                  adw—dez=a8x—2.z'8.z'=0.
     I shall take now what is called the differential equation of
the curve of quickest descent.                  Finding the variation, and in
tegrating, then
                                                 d sin
                          “Vi a ‘71—; "0'
                     3.!           33111:.
                                                        I __
                   2:
The terms remaining under the integral sign destroying one
another, there is still for the determination of the minimum, only,
the original equation,            3,        d,
                                  u
                                       =—=O.u
     Thus, it  is <U+FB01>rst    of all demonstrated, by the <U+FB01>fth proposition
of the second book of Euclid, that the calculus of variations
is no calculus     at all.      Its nonentity is self-evident; for it con
sists in ascending from the second term of the development
of a binomial to the third, and then redescending again, leav
ing us at the point at which we set out; doing and then un
doing to no purpose. The Institute of France was too hasty
in the reports which it gave of every paper, in fact, which I_
                                              ‘
addressed to it.
     “ M. Walsh croit que cette demonstration est la seule ri
goureuse qui ait été donnée jusqu’ a présent pour le cas dont i1
s’agit.    Cependant il su<U+FB02>it d’avoir lu les ouvrages d’Euler ou
des géometres qui ont écrit apres lui sur cet objet, pour étre
bien convaincu que la formule du binome est depuis long
temps établie en toute rigueur.”—E.rtrait du proves-verbal de
la Se'ance du Lundz', 24 De'cembre 1821.
     “ L’auteur s’est proposé d’établir un théoréine qu’on peut
exprimer comme il suit: Chaque terme du développement de la
n‘“ puissance du binome' surpasse en valeur numérique la
somme des termes suivants.-—Ce théoréme suppose évidemment
    ue le second terme du binome a une valeur numérique in
   érieure a celle ‘du premier.”—Lundz', 24 Fe'vrier 1823.
     With respect to the development of a binomial when the_
exponent is a negative whole number, let
                             ._          l               l
                   ( x+lz )
                                n:               =   -—~—
                                      (:r-Hl)"        r"+=
developing the right hand member by division, and arranging
according to h, I get,
        (x+h.)'"=f"-~f""‘h+                          "(f—:1)
                                                             r"—’e_-&c.
     The preceding       is the demonstration to which the <U+FB01>rst of the
                                      T    t 2                         preceding

332      Mr. John Walsh                011   the Calculus   4 Variations.
 preceding extracts'refers.       The Institute of France calls it a
 pretended demonstration.         Then all our numerical divisions
 are only pretended.               I
                             have given the only general demon
 stration of the formula of the binomial that has as yet ap
 peared.     It was read by the Royal Society of London, June
 6, 1821.     Had I sent it to the Institute of France, it would'
 have been called pretended, and rejected. The second ex
 tract refers to the dinomial theorem.           The report asserts,
 that the theorem evidently supposes, the second term of the
binomial to be less than the <U+FB01>rst.         The paper of mine in the
 Philosophical Magazine       for  last June, denpnstrates that the
Institute is in error in comin        to such a conclusion; for the
theorem is demonstrated in t at paper when both the terms
of the binomial are equal to each other. The dinomial
theorem is a eneral law of all series.        It has banished more
errors from <U+FB01>gebra than has the system of Copernicus ba
nished frOm physical astronomy.           The following is its enun
ciation in the most general sense.
   In every series, the sign of any term after the <U+FB01>rst, is the
sign of that term combined with all those that follow it.
    This grand theorem has banished <U+FB02>uxion's, di<U+FB01>‘erentials,
and the calculus of variations, and has extended the domain
of al ebra without limit.
     ‘
       e folloWing       from the last report which the Academy
                          is'
of Sciences has given with respect to the binomial calculus,
that have received:
   I
    “ Les commissaires ont été d’avis que les memoires de
M. Walsh n’apprenoient rien de nouveau, ils croient ne de
voir attacher aucune importance au nom que l’auteur youdra
donner  a  son calcul, et se dispenseront de <U+FB01>xer plus long-temps
sur ces objets l’attention' de l’Académie.”
                    “ (Signé) P01s'soN, CAUCHY, Rapporteur.”
“ Lundi, 16 Juin, 1823.”
  The in<U+FB02>uence which   the in<U+FB01>nitesimal calculus has so long
exercised in geometry and   analysis, has not permitted the'
Royal Academy   of Sciences  of Paris to perceive clearly its
Way throu     the binomial calculus.
                h                        The preceding demon
stration o the <U+FB01>fth proposition of the second book of Euclid,
<U+FB01>rst, demonstrates the absurdity of the logic of the in<U+FB01>nitesimal
calculus; secondly,     developes the general theory of maxima
                              it
and minima; and, thirdly,       demonstrates the nonentity of
                                         it
the calculus of variations.
  Cork, Sept. 30, 1824.
                          '
            ~
                    '4;
                                                  .                  LVII.   6..   1

                                                        [ass]
LVII.       On the Trans<U+FB01>wmation of the Solutions of a Periodical
         Functional Equation.  By JOHN HERAPATH, Esq.
IF       abnw   =     .2",
                       I       have found by
     cess that the complete solution
                                                                    a         very simple and direct pro
                                                                              is
                1)             .             21:01              .    —l              —I
            ¢z=¢sm§                            n            \sm                o          I}                           (1)
where 1r      the semi-perimeter to radius
                is                                  any inte er, and                          1,   h
c  any arbitrary    function;  also 1),   n any  numbers   w atever,
rational, irrational, or imaginary.       The function sin may also
be changed into cos, tan, sec, 8m.          we please; and the only
condition that appears necessary,             should contain an in
                                                                              if if  ¢
verse circular function,      not to blend the operations, but to'
                                                   is
let each act separately and distinctly.
                                        ‘
   Let us denote (1) by                                     7
                                                                     _1
                                        Java       = ¢fv            ct         .r                                      (2)
and in any other case, for instance, when this =                                                                 1*,   let    it   be
                                         u                  u        —-l                                     ,
                                        w,   .z'   =    45116
                                                                e,            .z'
     Then       if    in (2)       'v   be expounded                                by    %    we shall have
                                         We             =   sf? V1"
                                                                                                   7'                              in
which by         (l)     is   equal to              41,1.           Therefore                  14]?     =        41,   and        ¢7 =
$1  that is, a periodic function of any order
    ‘,                                          a given order of                                   is
a periodic function of any other order, both taken completely.
This result     also easily obtained a priori; but there
                      is                                     an                                                                   is
other consequence <U+FB02>owing from        that seems, to me at least,         it,
                                                                          ,                                              _ 8=73
                                                                                                                                        s
of   a   more novel character.                              FOr          1nstance, because                             \11
                                                                                                                         r             4/,
          1,-                           _0
                                        <U+FB02>
                                                                     -1                  ~'                                        "
rf‘+ '
                 __            t                            '                                            ‘
            r         ‘w=v+' w=¢f¢                                             ¢.<U+FB01>¢“‘w=¢f¢"a/T‘
o,_‘x:      that       is    q>=p,.                In other words,
                                              there be any two ar                        if
bitrmy<U+FB01>nctions         perfectly unlimited, then
                               o,       o,          <p=¢l or they                                       is                   ;
are identically the same. This singular consequence       evident,                                                     is
ifwe consider that a function perfectly arbitrary must virtually
contain at every instant every form that can be giVen it. Two
such absolutely arbitrary functions must therefore simulta
neously comprehend all and the same possible forms, and
consequently be equally and identically the same.           do not                                                      I
mean to contend that an arbitrary <U+FB01>mction may not have at
any time any particular form the problem requires; nor that
                                                                                               -                              ~        {W0

 334    Mr. J. Herapath                   on the Transfm‘mation                         ofthe Solutions
two arbitrary functions of the same variable may not simulta
neously have very unequal forms under certain circumstances;
but when quite free and unrestricted, then they are identical.
   To enter into a further discussion of this fact of identicity
would lead me into details inconsistent with the object of the
present paper; but the utility and importance of it in the theor
of arbitrary functions are obvious to any one acquainted wit
                                   f
this calculus.
   Suppose we have       .r = thaw, a and\l/being given periodics  f
of the second  order, and      be required to determine 4/:
                                                it
   Assume   f   .z' =
                    \I; .z'. ow”, which coincides with the ques
                                   xi: a
tion when v=0 whatever he the form of          Then substituting              o.
                                                                                   T,
am for .r, and taking the function on both sides, we get
                                         f __           __                       f     4"
                                           _f{¢.r.oa-r }_
                                                                        v
                              \lraz
which di<U+FB01>'erentiated with respect to                                   '0   alone, and then reduced,
becomes        fdvz __     log 4:"                                ___        on
                                                                                                 (4)
                    +1.f¢r—_                      logq):                     pr
puttingf   for the di<U+FB01>'erential function off; and including in
the arbitrary function the log.
   A similar solution would come out, we had as well as                      if                                      12
introduced an arbitrary factor      and after the differentiation
                                                             b,
with respect to    and 1), put b=l and 21:0.
                             b                    Both of these
methods, however, fail in giving the value of the when
    my:   is    a constant quantity;                         which           happens in the simple
                        .                            1                                                       .   .
cases     off .2: being          1',   —.r, or       -;  .        In   these cases the solution                  15.
obtained       the extension of a neat and simple arti<U+FB01>ce em
               b
ployed by    iVIr. Babbage in the solution of the = thaw.   Sub
stitute 12¢ aw + bow for about; change z into aw; di<U+FB02>'erentiate
with respect to       and   after eliminating time; divide by
                             v            b                                                                      d
                                                                                                                 v
or db; and then putting                           v:
                                              we obtain
                                                              -
                                                             1,   b:        0,
               —flil£'=fltll.l'.(\ll$ +¢ax)+ or.                                                 (5).
  Again:       if  we have   f           We     = \Im' at“,        the condition being a".r=.1:
where n and         r       are any rational numbers whatever                                :
       Then     assuming ft!) x =    are" . (p.120.   41
we have by continually        substituting for                                   ‘11   function its value
           or =f-‘ {(¢w)”f-‘ {(oa'x)vf_l {(o                                            “2%)”   .   .   ..
                                       .f"{(¢~("'1)'w)”w,     (6)
                        “1
where each     f              applies to all the expression on the right
  _* Since writing the above  have succeeded in discovering
                                          I                  solution to                        a
this equationof the monomial form, even when r,n are irrational or ima
gina'Y-                                                           hand

                                                                                                           '
                             of a Periodical Functional Equation.                                                385
 hand of            it,   and      q
                                   is       the prime numerator               of               The number
of
f       _ls, or terms, must therefore be                              g.       If        now we put ge
nerally             A
                    l
                         =    cpanw embracing              the log. in             45,   and differentiate
(6) with respect to v, we shall <U+FB01>nd
       l—q   —1’+2—q    2-9 —l'+3-'q                                   3—q               —l'
O=Aof¢x+f¢w.{AL/\lw+f                                        .r.{A,        ¢z..;f¢.r.{Aq_l¢,z (7)
where the several orders of                              M
                                   are factors to all the expres
                                                 f
sion following on the right hand, and the acute accent in each
case over the -—    signi<U+FB01>es the differential function of the in
                                   1
Verse function of                  j,
                      the other indices denoting simply the di
rect or inverse functions of as they happen to be positive or
negative; so that generally
                                              f f    1)I
                                                         1
                                                           +9
                                                                implies the
                                                                                         dfp
                                                                                          d
                                                                                               :
                                                                                              a:
                                                                                                    function of
qu.
     Otherwise                thus:
     Put for              {warm            bpw+mlmrzg           and the equation proposed
stands                                      f¢x=bq>w+v¢a'.v                                         (8)
which becomes                     \lur=f_l {bpz+vf_l{b¢arx+vf_l                                           {b¢d2r1'
                              +
                       vf_1§b<pa(q_l)rw+v¢x
                                    . . .
                                                     (9)
by successively substituting for the last number its  value de
rived from (8). In this expression (9) the same import                                                               is
                                   _l
given to each            f               as in
                                         Differentiating with respect to
b   and       '0;   putting afterwards 6:0 and 11:1 letting At=<Pan;        ;
and comprehending in                          o   the quotient              3—2,    we shall <U+FB01>nd
                                —1'+¢-q                                                                               '
              1-9                                        2—9           —l’+3—q                                 3—9
A0      +f ¢x+f                         \lra'.{Al    +f         \l/z'+f        41w.
                                                                                          {A2        +f          41x
                                            _1I
                          +    .   .
                                              ¢z.{Aq__1+~lm:=O                                     (10)
the orders and accented                       _f
                                               s    denoting the same as in
   It may here be observed, that these expressions (7), (10) are
not necessarily con<U+FB01>ned to periodic functions.    In case, how
ever, am            isperiodic, we must put every where \llaqu' for
                         not   a
slur.         When cm    a periodic and of the nth order, fa" must
                                   is
obviously            be      a     periodic       too,     of   the   order                         Should           in
this instance fa' not be a periodic, the arbitrary function will
receive a certain limitation, which being inconsistent with the
perfectly unlimited form in which        introduced, and which  it
                                                                is
          '                            ‘                                                                             it

836    Mr.      J.    Herapath            on the D'ansfmmation                of the Solutions
,it should therefore invariably maintain, renders the, proposed
 equation impossible in a          point of view. It should not
                           general
 however hence be inferre , that when an equation is generally
 it is universally impossible. Restrictions may be introduced
 which may render a generally impossible equation, particularly
 possible; as for instance, in the problem of tangents consi
 dered by Messrs. Euler, Wallace, Ivory, Herschel, Ste.
     From either of the expressions (7) or (10) the form of \lld‘
 may be determined, and hence the general transformation of
 the complete solution (1) into any other complete solution,
 where the form without the arbitrary function coincides with
 any particular form we please.      For suppose a".z'=x, and
 that our complete solution is our (p—lx, it is required to <U+FB01>nd
the form of o, so that this complete solution may be trans
 formed into a complete solution with the particular form
f'm.       We have then                  f‘
                                          = oa'qb-l .r, orf'ow=¢a'.r to <U+FB01>nd
                                               a:
the form of           o       involving an arbitrary function. The condition
                                                      f7.21:1.
                                                        tn
 off in this case                   is evidently                            By substituting in
(7) or (10)       f       t
                              for   j,   and    ofor   4/,   .we   have an equation involv
ing only ex and arbitrary functions of                              .z',   arm, “are, &c., from
which ow may be determined in a given function of an arbi
trary function of .z', and the various orders of arm. Givin
to the arbitrary function a particular form, we shall have
{3x for some particular form of o, and therefore generally
                              4>x=       ol<U+FB01>x and ¢_l.r=<U+FB01>_l¢I—l
 where     o,   may be perfectly arbitrary.                         Consequently
                              fix: ¢uf¢—lx=?l<U+FB02>aT<U+FB02>—I                          ¢l-—l w,
and the complete solution transformed into the particular form
     - .                                                      ——1
fans                                      ¢x=o‘f
                                          t            t
                                                           pl   _.2:,
                 t    n
 in which       11;   ’ .r=.r.
    The brevity to which am con<U+FB01>ned in such a paper as the
                                           I                                                      ‘
 present, prevents me from detailing the numerous applications
 and powers of the two‘ important theorems we have just de
 duced.    I shall therefore content myself with showing their
 utility in the solution of a.problem not,   believe, heretofore     I
 attempted.
     Let   us have "given                  the      form off       'a,     the condition

                         qf a Periodical Functional Equation.
f
                                                                                                           337
f
    ".r=l.z':      it is required to <U+FB01>nd the form of any other order,
                                                             I   '
    ta;   1',   i2,t  being any numbers whole or fractional.                                                      _
     We of            course here suppose that the form of
                                                                                          ff       'I    being
known,          common algebra will give us the form of                                   f        _r,    _2"
f_3’      ......
   Assume     Ta: = \[m' 111—1 a", in which a
                f                               the particular form           is
of <U+FB02>ux in our complete solution (1); and which          therefore al                      is
ways  known    for every    order.    For  x  put 41.x, and we have
frdlz =\lldr.2‘.                 Determine                 the    form of        {11   from (7) or (10)
                                             j;                                      in
                                 r
by substituting        f               for             and making             cpa:        the   expression
employed = .2.                    Then            we shall have
                                                       =                1x
                                             t                t
                                  f               .r       \Im    \b—
where         at   and    \l/   are known forms.
     As an example, let                  fr: b-a',                and let      it    be required to <U+FB01>nd
the form           off    Ii
                                 1'.
   Now, we easily see that ifs must be a function of the
                                                  f
fourth order.   The dif<U+FB01>culty, however, does not lie in <U+FB01>ndin
a function of this or of any other order, but in <U+FB01>nding sue
a one that its second function shall have the particular form
assigned to]:    By putting in (l)       we have                   k:   l,
                                       b
                                             -w=¢(-¢-‘x)
and, since         f'x    = —l, by (5)                                    -
                                 b—ipa':               4111+      ¢(--.z) —¢:v.
     Therefore           \{11'   =
                                       (ism: =                     lit—2f,
                                                                              and     ‘11—!   $=
                                                                                                   #9
                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                            13y
putting (pm: .2'.                                                                                          _.
  Again: by (I), when                        I:    =   l    and   v   =   g   and because       ax: -.1,
                                       mi   .2'   =    — 4/   1   —.zg;
and therefore                                                                 __ __
                                                                          iii-£12.
   An arbitrary function might here have been easily intro
duced    since, instead of making $.11 = x, we might have made
          ;
it equal to  elm, any function whatever of x, that becomes —¢.1:
by changing a: into —.r. Any odd power of .r          an obvious                          is
case.   Such an arbitrary function would disappear in the given
particular form
   We are now therefore in possession of a general and direct
rule for extracting any functional root whatever of a periodic,
and that too in <U+FB01>nite terms.
   Vol. 64'. No. 319. Nov. 1824-.          U 11               As

888     Mr.       J. Herapath                       on a        Periodical Functional Equation.
   As another example of the application of the preceding
                                    r
 theorems, take the equation 11:? a. .r =     .r, the condition be                        xi:
                                                                                            1
 ing a" .z- .r, where p,
           =                r, n are  any numbers.  g,  A particular
.case of this equation  has been   considered   by  Mr.  Babbage in
 the 68th Prob.   of his  and   Messrs.  Herschel    and  Peacock’s
  “ Examples,” 8w.
   Take the                 111—"         function              on each side, and \Izq_p.r=a'.r.
                                         f
                                        ~—                                       1!
                                                                     —1-)-                                                 .
                             =      a 1"?           and          111“                   a"          =                           there
Whence               dra-                     a',                       w        L___         .z'       .1'.        11m:   15
fore    a   periodic of the order (q—p).%, the q—p function having
                                                            An arbitrary function will be com
                                              r
the particular form a                               .r.
prehended in a $1, which will disappear
                                               in a'w.
   The truth of this solution may be otherwise shown thus;
take the 11.!" function on both sides, and change a' into a 'z, the
proposed equation will bec0me
                     wgpazrw=tl1p+qar1=¢q¢parx=¢2qz
Another similar process gives                                               4131’a3'r               =   111371,     and generally
                                  re                       15.                            u                    "q
                            111
                                          n
                                   'a.r=\ll                 'x,or111                      'z=\ll'                   .r.
                             ll-(q—r)
   Whence                   111     .z‘       =      .r.
    Mr. Babbage, to Whom the world owes so much for his dis
                                         a different solution, when
 coveries in this calculus, has given
Q'r=1.    He <U+FB01>nds by an indirect process that ¢x=¢_lf¢ x
 will satisfy the conditions of the question when      any periodic                                     f       is
 of the q-p order, and         any symmetrical function of x, a ,1,
                                                      q;
                          n—    l
 01%,   .    .   .  n, p,
                      .     being whole numbers.
                            a     a";                11His solution
 comprehends    the  form of  a  not in  the particular solution                                                                   j;
 which     indeed left perfectly arbitrary, but in a certain limi
             is
 tation to the arbitrary function itself. This method likewise
                                                          q—r                         _
                                                                                              .
 gives every value of                                \[1   a-    =          a-    Without any exception;                           but
                                                                  —P
if  my views are correct,        .2:
                                     should have but one value, and
                                                                4?
 that =ax, and free from an arbitrary function.
  I    have some other observations to make on this subject and
 the  nature  of periodic functions, which brevity obliges me to
 defer   to another   opportunity: but        may here observe, that                  I
 the. functional theory  properly    considered, results from a much
                                                                more

             IIistmy of a Review of Smith’s English Flora.                 839
  more comprehensive system, which has led me to a 'direct and
  complete integration of equations of differences of all orders
  and degrees, and the numerical resolution of all algebraic equa
  tions.     Indeed, I am not without hopes, from some ideas
  which have lately occurred to me, that it will likewise ulti
  mately lead to the direct algebraic resolution of equations of
  all degrees ; and if ever the thing is to be done to the complete
  integration of differential equations, or show us what cases can,
  and what can never, be integrated in <U+FB01>nite terms
                                                             J. HERAPATH.
     Errata in my last paper: Phil. Mag. for September      1824:
        P. 198, 12 lines from bottom for   . read ,
            -—    8 ................  insert  “ is” after Mr. Herschel’s.
  LVIII.      Statement on the     part of the Monthly Critical Gazette
      respecting    the Review     of Sir J. E. SMI'rn’s English Flora
      in that Publication.       By A CORRESPONDENT.
     To   the  Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
          Gentlemen,
        S a reader from its origin, and a frequent correspondent of
         your valuable Magazine, and as one who has also read, and
  felt a warm interest in behalf of a new Review which started in
  June last, professing the novel and very useful design, of no
  ticing every British Publication, at the beginning of that month,
   next but one after it <U+FB01>rst appears in the shop of a publisher;
   I have been induced, by the notice you have taken, in pages
   226 and 227 of your September Number, of a critique in the
   <U+FB01>rst number of this Review, on the very able and important
   work of Sir James E. Smith, his “English Flora,” to request
   your permission to state, that after having read Sir James’s
   work, and since carefully compared your comments with its
   pages, I          and most unequivocally concur in the justice and
‘
   propriety  fully
                0   your   comments; and the Editor of the Monthly
   Critical Gazette after having made a like comparison, commis
   sions me to say the same for him; except that we could have
   wished the last para raph, and particularly the four last lines, of
   your comment had een somewhat more guardedly expressed;
   and so, as not to have overlooked the new and distinguishing
   character of the Review in question, as standing pledged to
   notice all the works of science as well as on other subjects:
   because out of this pled e, under peculiar circumstances
                                         u 2                              which

340       History ofa Review of Smith’s English Flora.
which    I  am about to mention, has arisen the injustice to Sir
James Smith which is now deplored.
    Sir James Smith’s two volumes were, with a few others,
committed to the critical examination of a Gentleman who
came highly recommended, himself a writer on Botany, and
experienced, as the Editor was led to believe, in similar duties
to those required of him in the present instance; which were,
to furnish early (as the time of printing and the limits of the
                    “ a condensed, true and impartial account of
work required)
the subject, execution and character” of each of the works
so submitted for examination;             the proffered remuneration
being unusually      liberal, and    fully adequate to the duties con
tracted to be performed.         'It happened however, in the “hurry
of getting up the <U+FB01>rst Number, and without the Editor’s sus—
picion of any thing wrong being awakened thereby, that the
critiques from the Gentleman alluded to (as well as some
from others) ‘came to hand so exceedingly late in the month of
May, as unfortunately to occasion the ne lect, on the part of
the Editor, of revision of this review of ir James’s work.
                I
     It needs, submit, gentlemen, but a small share of discern
                                 J
 ment in any reader of Sir ames’s work, and of the critique on
 the same, to discover, that private resentment on the part of the
 Critic has dictated most of his remarks; stimulated, perhaps,
 by Sir James having omitted to notice or quote his botanical
 work, which has been alluded to herein: although in a short
                in the middle of            xxvv of his very able and
 paragraph,
   ighly  instructive   Preface,      page
                                    Sir   ames  has candidly and deli
 cately stated his reasons, which to me appear conclusive ones,
 why such omission has been made, but without either naming
 the author or expressly indicatin          his work; towards neither
 of which has Sir James shown, animosity, as far as can dis   I
 cover, or the wish to injure either.         Perhaps, also, a soreness
 has been felt that                does not gracethe critic’s name;
 not, as   I have been well assured, throu h any personal offence
 taken, or, in<U+FB02>uence exercised, by the           resident _of the Lin
  naean Spciet‘y, but because of foul and unmerited, abuse heaped
  on the memory of the great Swedish Naturalist, and on his
  system of arranging plants, suchjas had too much disgusted a
  large majority of attending Fellows, for them to allow of the
  calumniator becomingvtheir companion.
      I greatly lament with you, gentlemen, that the very best
  works of science and research are rarely noticed in the Re
  views ,- from 10 to 15 and 20 years ago, this was far less the
  case than at present; scarcely a Number of the established Re
  views then appeared without containing one or more excellent
                                                                analyses

On   theSenenthSection    ofBessel’s Astronomical Observations.                     8441
analyses of works of science or the useful arts; written, many
of them, as my inquiries have in several instances enabled me
to ascertain, by eminent Professors and known scienti<U+FB01>c cha
racters: but of late years, since the overwhelming <U+FB02>ood of novels
and works of <U+FB01>ction on the <U+FB01>elds of literature, of travels
and voyages, and wordy disquisitions on political economy,
and a few other subjects devoid of <U+FB01>xed principles; these
have enabled the Reviews alluded to, ‘to <U+FB01>ll their periodical
 Numbers without calling in the aid of any scienti<U+FB01>c or prac
tical men, and science and the useful arts have accordin ly
been almost entirely banished from their pages; volume after
volume of these Reviews having appeared, without the notice
 of a single work of this kind; except, perhaps, that its title
 may haVe appeared in their monthly or quarterly list of new
 publications.
    This state of things, so degrading andinjurioustoscience and                               .
 art, I saw no hopes of being removed, until the announcement
                                                                                           ’
 of the Monthly Critical Gazette; which, although its notices must
 often be too short to answer fully the purposes desired, yet,
                                                 I
 if candidly and fairly done, as understand to be the wish
 and determination of the Editor and Proprietors that they
 shall be, these notices canndt fail of being useful; and parti~
 cularly, as  I  hope, in stimnlating the other- Reviews, having
 more ample space, to return to and eVen improve upon the
 good practiCes, from which they have departed, of giving full,
 able and early accounts of important works of science and
 research.   I am, gentlemen, yours,'&c.
    London, Oct.   .5.
                    1824.                 A CONSTANT READER.
     LIX.    Introduction to the Seventh Section                     of BassnL’s
                     Astronomical Observations.
                          [Continued from p. 261.]
                  7. Summary              the Results obtained.
                                         of
       the purpose        of                      shall put to
 FOR                    giving argeneral view,                       I
   gether all _the reductions which, agreeably  to the investi
gations here communicated, are to be applied to the Kiini                             s
burg observations with Reichenbach’s circle, and by which      e                    t
calculationsare made in the journals since the beginning of
 1822.  To the readings of the circle for an observation made
in the meridian, or reduced to the meridian, added for <U+FB01>exure   is
and imperfect division
     + l"'11 sin    (u
                     +   1°       33’)   +    0"‘26 cos   (n   + 1° 33’)   +   error of
                              -                                                division,

              ‘                                                I
            '
 84-2             Introduction to the Seventh Section
 division, the latter being taken out of the table in article I.
 If two verniers only have been read off, the difference between
two verniers and four is to be applied besides; by the curve
 which    I have drawn, and the mean difference of the two pairs
of verniers, which in the 6th section of this work was found
 =1”'26,      I have made a table of this difference, which, with
the table of the corrections for <U+FB01>exure and imperfect division,
is to be found at the end of this Introduction.                To the places
 of the pole, derived from observations of the two pole stars, is
 to be added,in the Eastern position of the circle -0”'25
                         Western            .   .    .   .   .    + 1”-l8
    The polar distances thereby obtained are cleared from re
fraction by the formula
                   b                   53700+q1   A    180+16.75.0,36438    a
9°1’003282(333,28
                       x 5550+10
                         5550+“;
                                   x
                                                    (180+(f—32)0,36438)
                                      53700+10)
where g,A,>, refer to the table in the Fundamenta Astronomiae,
         j
and b signi<U+FB01>es the true hei ht of the barometer in Paris lines.
1" and        the readings of t e interior centesimal and exterior
 Fahrenheit thermometer.           For facilitating this computation
 I give below tables in which        I  have assumed for g.1,003282
the form a tang. zenith distance; they contain log. a as far
as zenith distance 80°: but        I   hope to continue it to the hori
zon as soon as Dr. Argelander’s observations have been more
accurately investigated.
    It is probable in itsel<U+FB02>'that every observatory does not want
a peculiar table of refraction, except perhaps for very small
altitudes; and this is likewise now con<U+FB01>rmed by the close
agreement of my new determination with the former one;
But it may be doubted whether the place where the exterior
thermometer is <U+FB01>Xed, does not give rise to a mean difference
between the temperature which it shows and the real tempera
ture of the air: in order to investigate this,          I  placed a second
thermometer at the distance of six inches from the building,
and perfectly exposed to the wind, which                I  have compared
these six months with Schafrinsky’s, which is attached at the
same height to a side shutter of the observatory; but, to my
great surprise, I have never perceived asensible difference,
and therefore      I now believe that a difference of refraction in
different observatories arising from this cause is not much to
                                 '
be feared.’
   Applying these refractions to the Kiinigsbur observations,
there remain irregularities, the amount of whic                I have deter
mined in the 3d article, deducting the one taking place for
the zenith, which is O”'7126, there will remain that probable
error of a single observation at which one would arrive by
                                                                          the

             of Bessel’s   Astronomical Observations.                  34-3
the use of my re<U+FB01>'actions, if the observations were made and
read off with absolute correctness.        I
                                         <U+FB01>nd it as follows:
                Z. D.               Z. D .
                 45° 0"‘27           81° l”'00
                 60 O '34-           82    1          'll
                 65 0 '37            83    1 '25
                 70 0 '46            84'   1 '43
                 75   O '66          85    l '71
                 8O   0 '92          86    2 '40
   The errors originating in the dispersion of light, indistinct
ness of the stars, &c., are comprehended in these quantities;
in the vicinity of the horizon these disturbing causes act so
strongly that one might be inclined to ascribe to them only
errors like those here given:     I
                                 mention this as an additional
proof of the necessity of employing the factor A; were it neg
lected, and yet the tables used in such different temperature
as the winters and summers present at Kiinigsburg, one would
<U+FB01>nd much larger probable errors.
                  8.   Latitude oft/2e   Observatory.
   The latitude cleared from <U+FB02>exure, but still uncorrected for
errors of division and refraction, is by art. =54° 42' 50""785;
                                                    4-,
the errors of division in the eastern and western position of
the circle have been above determined to be respectively
= +0"'177 and +O”'325, from which follows the correction
                            -
—0”'O74-: the new determination of the refraction produces
another correction of         0"‘188; so that the latitude re
                                                                 =
sulting from all observations with the meridian circle               is
54° 42' 5O'I'52.
    Cary’s circle formerly gave by zenith distances of a Ursw
Minoris (=36°) measured on both sides of the meridian
54° 42' 50"‘276—0"'452A8, or putting the correction of the
declination taken from the tables = --0”'839, 54° 42' 50”'43,
from which   is    to be deducted for the new correction of re
fraction 0”'19.      Between these two determinations there               is
therefore a difference of 0"‘28, which      indeed a little beyond
                                               is
the limits of the probable error, but affords no sufficient rea
son for supposing that any constant error has been neglected.
Which of the two determinations deserves the preference,                  I
do not dare to decide, as   I   consider   to be exceedingly diffi
                                           it
 cult to arrive at certainty with regard to such small quantities.
                  9. Solstices   of 1820 and        1821.
  The solstices having frequently given rise to doubts respect
ing the accuracy of the declinations,  think that may insert
                                          I                  I
here what my observations and the methods                 of reducing them
here explained have brought out.

                                                                                             Mzmer          Solstice        of      1820.                                                                                             ’H'S
                              Correction         in                  of Carlini’s                     Tables      of the Sun’s         Solstice   =—5"'8;
                                                                                                                                                                9        observations.
                                                      longitude                              Solar
                                 '                                                                                                          '-                                                                 A
                                           of         Cor-                                                        -                                                        Reduction                                    arent
                                                                                                      Refracnon'                                  Parauax'              to
                           Resilglis.             rections.              Dislitllg<U+FB01>n-                                             diastiigtbr.                                     Solstice.                   ()biliquity.
                                     I     u              H                       I      u                        :1                        u            H                          I          I!          O        I      u
                       36                                          22                                 -     35'88                       4‘7'04‘       +4'53          +53                  25'19       23       27       53'35
    June5                       49       27'4     +114                       19       12'47                                 +13
                 7               5                                            3                       —                                 4682'         +4'5O         +41                       3'56                      53'45
                       3O                32'9      +1'13            23                  6'98                34'77           —15
                                                                    22                                —     35'36                       4643          +4'46          +21                      '8'78                     5649
             11        3O       17         7'7     +1'13                     51       32'18                                 +15
                                                                                                      —     3434-                       46'12         +4'43                               44'70                         54'97::
             15       327       19       25'9     —O°32             23       36       2628                                  —15
                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                                  70          0'07                      53‘53
             21       327       27         8'4    -O'32             23       44         8'78                33'98           —15         45'74         +4'4l
             22      326        55       301      -0'31             23       12                       _                                 45'69         +4'4-1                                                            55'60
                                                                                      30'49                 34'42‘          +15
             23                 26       226      -0°32             23       43    22'98              —                     -15         45‘65.        +4'4l                                                             51'28
                     327                                                                                    34'00                                                                         43'54
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      uoyonpouuf 0;
            24       326        53       57'3     —O'31             23       10    57'69              —     34'61                                     +4'41                               24239                         55'49
                                                                                                                            +15         4561
            25                  24         2'3    —O'32             23      41          2'68          —                     -15         45'58'        +4'42                                   5'91                      53'19
                     327                                                                                    3424                                                                  13 7
                                                                                                      —                                                                                                                 53'31
                                                                                                                                                                  + + + + + + +
            27       326        48       30'6     —0'30                       5    31'00                    34'63                       45'54         +4'42                                   6'98                                I
                                                                    23                                                      +15
                                                                                                                                                               Mean                       .     .     23       27       5396::
                                                                                        Winter        Solstice
                                                                                                                        of1820.
                                                 Correction        in longitude              of Carlini’s      Solar       Tables      =—4"'9;        10 observations.
_
    Dec.6             75       52       461       +1'29           ~22         44        15'53        —-4    33'55           +16          1620         +8'59         --58                  28'98       23       27       5327::    7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      aq; qjumag uagpag
             8        75       33       483       +1'29           —22         25        17'73
                                                                                                     —4     19'23           —16         1643          +8'60         —42                       8'14                      52'93
                                                                                                                                                                    —                     43'07                         51'90
            15        76       37        15'4     +1'29           -—23        28        44'83        —4     49'81           +16         1712          +8'63
                                                                                  0                                                                                 -                     56'05                         54'02
            16        76                39'8      +1'29           —23                    9'23        —,4                    -—16        1720          +8'63
                                                                                                            _4-O'17
                                                                                                                                                                    —
                                8 8                                                                                                                                               9 6 4
            17       280                  4-3     _1-20           —23         34        48'73        ——4    55-87           +16         17-28         +8'63                               37-07                         55'76
            18                          34'1                                     4                          44'06           1—16                                    —                     46'20                         57'91::
                     280       38                 —1'20           —23                   1893—4                                          17'55         +8'63
                                                                                                                                                                    —             '2 '1
            19       280        5         7'7     —l.'20          —23         37        45'33        -—5       6'21         +16         17'41         +8'63                               23'52                         49'02::
                                                                               6                                                                                    —                     29‘03                         53'09
            20       280       26       28'3      —1'20           —23                   24'73        —4     50'49           —16         17'47         +8‘63
                                                                                                                                                  '
            22                  2                                                                                                                                   -             0 0         4-91                      54-15
                     280                39-3      -1-20           --23        29        13-7s,-5                 1-71       +16         17-57         +8'63

<1                                                                                                                                                                                                    a    ,
3-                        Readin      s   of         Cor-                        arent                             -                   Semi-               -                  Reduction
                                                                                                      Refracuon'                                        parallax
                            Circli.                rections.       De‘dliimtion.                                                                                             to Solstice.
2                                                                                                                           “(Earneten
                           o         I       II           n             o         ‘1      ,1               ,       H                   4     u             u                           I             '1,              ,   ,,
                     280        36       32'4      —l'20        —23           6        2063       —4           48'81        —16            17‘61       +8'64<           Q           0'            35‘28    23°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 27   53'49
c’Zl)ec.23                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
an            24     280        5        10'0      —-l'20       —-23         37        4303       —5           23'52                       17'65       +8'64           -                          33'96
                                                                                                                            +16                                                                                       54~'22
                                                                                                                                                   I
G             25    280         38     59'0        —1'20        ~23           3        54'03      —&           4-8‘37       —16            17'68       +8'64           \—
                                                                                                                                                                                    1 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                   _0'92              52'36
'
              31      76       26        16'0      +129         —23          17        48'19      —4           58'03                                   +8'63           —2l‘34"31                                      54-22::
                                                                                                                            +.16717'78
51am.
               3      76       38      36:9        +129         —23          3O          9'09|    —4'        27°86          —-16    17‘75              +8'62           —37                          7'27              53'35
                                                                                                                                                                   Mean
i                                                                                                                                  ‘
                                                                                    Summer            Solstice          (#1821.
     '
g :P                                           Correction      in longitude            of Carlini’s        Solar       Tables      =—7”'6;         90bserVations.
     Junel2         326        38     3495         t—O'30          22       54v        29'85      _          35'28          +15            46'37       +6'4'5          +18                          7'53   23    27   52'92
              14-   327        16     57'8        —0'32           ‘23       32         5313       _.         34°80         —15             46'21                       +11                        13'84-              50'39
                                                                                                                                                       +41'ii3                                             _
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    fo s‘lassag. yuanaouousy
              16    326        50     43‘0        —O‘3l            23        6         38'34'     _.         35'4-0        +15             46'07       +442                                       5823                516*
              17    327        24-    15'4        _0'32            23       40         10'73          _,     34"55         —15          46'00          +4i'42                                     57'37               51‘97
til           18    326        54     17'6        _0'31            23       10         14'26      _          34-‘76        +15          4593           +4'4=2                                     21'21               51'06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
    i         19    327        27        0'8      _0'32            23       42      57'4-5        --         34'59         —15          45'36          +441                                        9'88               51'26
                                                               '
              26     30         1     32'5        +113             23        8         1047       -         3466           +15          45'56          +442                                       24'69               50'45‘            'suagxnalasqo
                                                                                                 ‘—
                                                                                                                                                                    + + + + + +
              27     29        32        5‘8      +l'l2            23       37      37'18                   34‘65          —l5          4-5'54      +442                                          31'64               5305
                               6
                                                                                                                                                                                  5 3 2 1 4 6 9
              28     30                  8'1                       23        3      34'88         —         35'4-4:                     l1'5'5‘3    +4043            +                             3‘23               5263
                                                  +113                                                                     +15
              29     29        37     34'9        +112             23       32          8'08      -—        34-29          —15          45'52       +414            +11                       59'4'7                  5218
              3     326        28     51'9        -—0'29          22        44‘                   —         35'38                       l1'5'50     +4~'417                                   48'51                   52-13
     July                                                                          4-9'03                                  -l-l5                                    +27
                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                   Mean                                    23    27   51'79
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9'";
                                                                                              lVinter      Solstice      of      1821.
                                                     Correction             in longitude         of Carlini’s      Solar       Tables           =—5”"";                7    observations.
                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                          f             Con                  A      arent                          -                            mi-                                                     u                                 erent
                                 din                                                                    Refracuon'                                                     Parallax'
                           Reéirclgd.o              rections.               Dedlfnation.                                             diaslfieter.                                                  gegolcsttliisld.                   iquity.
                            o       I        'n           n                   0     I        h             I       II                     I           u                     I,                         I      .1            o         I     n
Dec.                       75     59     23'8       +1'29             -22          49      37'81        —4       29'46          +16             16'29                  +8'60                                1350           23    27       35'86
                                                                                                                                                                                              -_-50
             78            75     33     33'7       +129              —22          23      47'71        —4       20°26                          16'40                  +860                   —-43          40'28                         56'05   .
                                                                                                                                —16_
           12         280         26                —1'2()            —23          17      45'38        —4       35°67          +16             16'83                  +8'62                   —21          56'99                         52'60
                                         229
                                                    —l'20             —-22         59      37'28        —4       31'80          —-16            1718                   +8'63                   —-     7     33'72                         51'35
           16                     44     310
                      280
                      280          '9    .40'3      -1'20             —23          34                   --4-     4244           +16             17'26                  +8‘63                   —      4-      7'69                        5222
           17                                                                              2798
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      uogsnponul o;
           18         280         40         4'3     -1'20            _23          -4        3'98       -—4      3025           -16             17'33                                          —              9'79                        52'78
                                                                                                                                                                       +8'63
           26         280           8    44'5       {-1'20            -23          35      23'78        —4       30'76                          17'70                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                      34    25'94                         5414         211;
                                                                                                                                +16                                    +8'64
           30         280          53        4'9     —l'20            —22          51         3'38      —4       18'67          —16             17'78                  +8'63                   -16          22'67                         5387
Jan           3       280          40        4‘4    -—1‘20            —23           4         3'88      —-4'     30'01          +16             17‘75                  +8‘62                   —-35         4:4-‘78                       52'30
                8,    281          46    48'0        -1'19            —21          57       20'27       —4       1416           -16             17'63                  +860                    —70            8'43                        51'89
              9       281          22    33'3        —1'19            —22          21      3497
                                                                                                        —4       23'93          i16             17'59                  +8'59                   —78          29'71                         53'43
                                                                                                                 Mean                 .     .         .     .          .     .         .     i        .                    23    27       53'52
       With          the     exclusion             of   the     two     <U+FB01>rst                                    which                            differ           from           the         others         .                             52'72
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Wuaaag uoyoag
                                                                                    observations,                              greatly
      We        have,           therefore,         from       these         four        solstices:                                                              Mean                                   Mean        Obli.
                                                                                                                   Apparent
                                                                                                                   Obliquity.                                   Obli       uity.                       quity 1820.
        ,4
                                                                                  1820.        Summer           23°      27'    53"‘96                    23°     27       45"‘66                   23°   27' 45"‘88
                                                                                              Winter                            53        '53                               45     '42                              45     '87
                                                                                  1821.        Summer                           51        '79                               44         'll                          44     '78
                                                                                               Winter                            52       '72                              4-5     '71                              46     '62

                  qf Bessel’s Astronomical             Observations.                 34-7
             10. Declinations ofthe fundamental Stars.
   In   this observatory two series of observations for the decli
nation of the fundamental stars have been made, the one with
 Cary’s, the other with Reichenbach’s circle.       The former in
strument, which is smaller, less accurately divided, and fur
 nished with a less powerful telescope, gives observations less
    reeing amon themselves, and liable to greater errors of
 division; but t e repeated examinations guard against con
 stant errors, and the contin ent ones may be estimated agree
 ably to the laws of probability.      There      consequently, no
                                                            by is,
 reason why the <U+FB01>rst should not appear          the side of the lat
ter, notwithstanding the much greater accuracy which the
 second one possesses.
I      have suggested, therefore, to Messrs. Rosenberger and
 Scherck, two much esteemed disciples of mine, to reduce to the
year 1815 all observations of the fundamental stars made with
 Cary’s circle,            the quantities for aberration and nuta
 tion now in use.applying hey have used for this purpose the re
fractions which have been given to the observations in the
journals, and have brought out                    by
                                        a very careful computation
 the following results:
                                       Zenith Distances for 1815.
                                East.                  N o.    ‘
                                                                     West.         No.
                          0     1           H                          I!
          .              8      55         3'91        26              5'45        20
  “ A‘mg‘”
                   {    79 29 23-22                     6            25-44-         9
              .         10    24'81
                                5                      11            25°76          13
  "‘   Cyg‘“            so 39 43-05
                   {                                    7            $096           6
  a Lyrae                16      5     44'25            l7           48'81         22
  a. Geminorum          22 25          57'35           20            51t'50        25
 p                      26 15           5'73           22             7-04         24
 <U+FB02>     Tauri            26 16          27'71            15           33'31         15
  a Andromeda           26 38          4-6'55           17           4-8'00        17
  a Corona:             27 22          15'25            1?            16'48         17
  a Arietis             82       7     51'83             7            56'94         11
  u BOOtis              34: 33         50'29            24-           4-8'83        16
  a Tauri               ss 35          12-18            16           '14-'08,       1.2
    Leonis              39             2892                           29'80         12
                                 6 6
 B                                                       8
  a Herculis             40            14-21             1            2055,         5
  a Pegasi               40 30   5'74-                  11            1095          14
                         4-0 33 36'04                   24-           38.'52        21
  a Leonis               4:1 50 51'30                   21            4-9'91        17
 ‘u Ophiuchi             4:2     0 38‘77                15            l1‘0'82       14
 y     Aquilaa           4-4‘   82 37'08                117           38'53         17
                                X      x   2                                    a Aquilae

348                   Introllwtz'on     {0  the Seventh   Section
                                           Zenith Distances for 1815.
                                     East.              No.     West.         No.
                                  0    I     II                    11
 Va Aquilae                     46   19 33-42           27       3690         29
  ea Orionis                    4-7  21      6'35       18        3'29        13
  -u Serpentis                  47   41 5677            17       5659         12
    ‘8   Aquilee                48   45 38°71           22       4263         24»
  .a Canis Min.                 4-9    1 26-51          23       27,45        24‘   v
  .a:    Ceti                   51   21    26-97         3       26'84          6
  .{3    Virginis               51   54 26-91           13       26-86        13
  Va     Aquarii                55   55 39'17            3       88'66           6
     a Hydrae                   62   34 33'37            6       85'61           8    ,
                                                                                   ’
     ;s  Orionis                63     8 17-27           8       1768            9
     a Virginis                 64:  541   21'99        40       25'25        32
  _ 1 a Capric.                 67 47 104-8             10       10'33         14
     2a                         67 49 30'74               7      28'89           3
  .1 a Libra:                   69 56        0'48         8        7'05          2
     2a                         69.  58    48'42          6      4-8'70         ,2
   .a    Canis Maj.             71   11      4'33       38         4'17       41      r
                                                                                      '
'_    a  Scorpii             __ 80 43 2929              11       26°38           5
      a Pisc. austr.            85 18 4-935               6.     5252          11
        The number of observations of a Herculis, la and 20: Libra:
 is very small, and on that account I have requested Dr. Arge
 lander to observe repeatedly those stars; the results were:
              a ‘Herculis         40°    6' 15"76       12    19”'79    12
              la    Librze        69    56      3 '96    4‘    6 '36      4'
              2a                  69    58 46 ‘45        4   48 '33       3
        If these     new observations are joined to the former ones,
  the numbers of the table are changed into the following:
              a Herculis           40° 6' 15"-6-i       ls 20"-01 17
              luLibra:             69 56        2-46      7    6'59        6
              2a.                  69 58 47 '68         10    48 as        5'
        For these calculations the errors of division of the. instru.
   ment have been taken from the table calculated from the few
 >mula for this error,            published in the, 1stv section of this work,
                  '
   viz;               —2”'446+0"'654: sin 22.;6’"8‘l3 cos 22.
        The more perfect expression for the errors of division is,
   however,
         C—2'I‘724   +()”'6541 Sill QZ—B'V'Bll'fi COS- ZZ—O'I‘25S sin 4.2+
         ‘
                                       0”'278 cos 42                  ~  ,
    and the analogous one found by a new examination after four
    years use of the instrument,
         —3”'000+0"'893 sin 2z—6"‘7't1 cos 2z—0”'172‘ sin 42+
                                      0”'4-52 cos 42.                            Both

                          of Bessel’s Astronomical                Obsn‘vatz'ons.               ‘_  349
       Both determinations possessing nearly equal accuracy, the
  mean of both is to be applied, and the difference of this mean
- from the formula b which the table has been calculated, is to
  be added; hence t e following correction:
           $0”'416+0""120 sin 2ziO"‘O50 cos 22—0' '215 sin 42
                                          i0”'365        cos 42,
  where theupper signs are tohetaken when the lower microscope
  A gives zenith distances, the lower one when it gives altitudes.
        It is moreover necessary to allow for the correction of re-                                    _
  fraction formd in article 7, and lastly to convert the zenith di_
  stances into declinations, for which ,purpose                                 I   have adopted
  the latitude 54° 42' 50"'52.                     In this manner the following re
   sults have been obtained:
                                            Corrections.
                                    East.     >            West.            Declinalions- 1815.
                          Division.    Refract- Division. Refract.              East.          West.
                          4     u          I!           I,          I,        o     1 ,          1,
               _             -001        +005       -016         +005      45 47 46157         4548
     ~   A “use
                       g     _6-01       +200       +030         +1195                 44-27   41-74
                                000      +005       -0-19        +005      44 37 25'66         2490
     “   c YB'“_                         +047                                                  2084
                      { ‘
                             —0~01                 +084          +004                  25-97
     n    Lyra:              +0119       +0-09      -0'34        +009      38 37         6199    196
     a Geminomm              +045        +0417      —0'50        +9'08     32 1.6 52'85        56'“
     7;                      + 0'36      +0-11      ~0-59        +013      28 27 44-32         43-96
     13 Tauri                +036        +005       40-59        +002      28 26 22-40         17-78
      a Andromeda:           +068        +0'08      —0'60        +0'07      ’18 41 3'51          305
      I Comm               _ +041
                             +056 1
                                          +014      -0-61
                                                    -0-68
                                                                 +015       27 20 34-72        34-50
      a Arietis         .                 +006                   +005       22 34 5817         54-21
      aBootis                +0'64.       +021      —0-70        +003       20      8 59-38    6216
      a Tauri                +076;       +0'09      '-—0'7l      +0'07      16      7 37-39    37'08
      a Leenis               +077         +020      -0-_71 . +022           15    36 2063      2121
      ,_
      a Herculis
      t   Pegasi
      a Leonis
                             +0'80
                             +0-81
                             +0-817
                              +0-83_
                                          +016
                                          +021
                                          +016
                                          +015
                                                    —0'70
                                                    -070
                                                    -0-7o
                                                    -0-69
                                                                 +014
                                                                 +019
                                                                 +016
                                                                 +010
                                                                        ;
                                                                            14
                                                                            14
                                                                             14
                                                                            12
                                                                                  36 33-92
                                                                                  12 43-76
                                                                                    9 13-51
                                                                                  51. 58-24
                                                                                               31'07
                                                                                               40-08
                                                                                               12:54
                                                                                               61-20
      a Ophiuchi             +0-84        +029      -069         +028        12 42 1062        10-11
      2    --
      a Aquilae
       a Orionis
                              +089
                             +092
                              ‘1 0'93 1
                                          +062
                                          +0'34
                                          +029
                                                    -0-67
                                                    —0'64 _
                                                     “0'62
                                                                 +002
                                                                 +0'3l
                                                                 +029
                                                                             10 10 12-23
                                                                              8 23 1585
                                                                              7 21 42'95
                                                                                               12,34
                                                                                                1395
                                                                                               47'56
       .. Serpentis           +0194       +028       —062        +029         7     0 52-53    54-26
       ,1 Aquin               +095        +0'37   . —0-60        +037   7     5 57 10-49.        8'12
       t   c.1615 Min.        +095        +022       -o-59       +025         5 41 22-84       2341
       m cm                   +096        +0'06      -0~55       +003         3 21 22-53       24-20
       3 Virginie             +097        +024       -0~53       +019         2 48- 22-40 24:00
                                                                        '-
   '
       <U+FB02>Aquarii
       m Hydra:
                              +096
                              +0-86
                                          +036
                                          +008
                                                  1 -o~44
                                                     -'o-27
                                                                 +041
                                                                 +012    --    1. 12 49-97
                                                                               7 51 4379 44-94
                                                                                               4811
        a Orionis             +086        +026       -0-26       +000          8 25 27437      26190
        a Virginia            +082        +047       -021        +049     -10     11 3276       35-01
        laCapt-ic.            +074        +075       +014        +073     -13       4 21-45     2040
        2.                     +074       +080       -o-14       +082     -13        6 41-76    39-05
                                                     -o-1o
        22-Maj.
      71. Libra:
        a Canis
                              +068
                               +068
                                          +034
                                          +031       -0-10
                                                     -0~os
                                                                 +039 -.15
                                                                 +038 _15
                                                                  +063    -16
                                                                                   13 12-96
                                                                                   15 58-10
                                                                                  28 15-16
                                                                                                16-36
                                                                                                58-24
                                                                                                14-20
                               +064       +071
        aScorpii               +034       +1-56      -001         +1-42   -26        0 4067     3727
        a Pisc. austr.         +018       +240        -O'05       +41]    ~30      .36    1‘21    4'05
                .                          [To be continued.]                          -

                                          [350]
 LX.        On <U+FB01>nding the exact Mean Solar Time.                     By MI SMITH,
                                 Esq.
  To       the   Editors of   the Philosophical        Magazine and Journal.
           Gentlemen,
   N reply to   a letter published in your last Number (p. 210),
       I
       beg leave to inform your correspondent Mr. Cooper, that
 in computing the hour of the day from the proposed data, viz.
 the latitude of the place, the sun’s declination and altitude; he
 must invariably use the visible latitude, or that deduced im
  mediately from observation; the reduced latitude being no
 thing more than     a <U+FB01>ction invented for the purpose of facilita
  ting the computation of solar eclipses, or other occultations of
  the heavenly bodies by the moon.                           '
   I   have carefully  examined    the  calculation   your correspond
  ent has made, and <U+FB01>nd it perfectly correct, except the line
 marked with an asterisk, which is unnecessary; the effect of
  this proportion would be to allow twice for the variation of
a the equation of time between noon and the instant of obser—
  vation, which variation ought to be taken only once into the
  account, as is done by correcting this equation to the instant
  of observation. The latter part of the computation ought,
  therefore, to stand thus:
     Apparent solar time      .  .    .   .  .   .  .   3h 26'“ 14"9
     Equation of time corrected to that instant              I 47 '9
   Mean solar time            .   .   .    .   .   .   .   .     .   8   28     2 '8
  The right ascension of the sun and stars as given in the
Nautical Almanack, is expressed in sidereal time.
  In using Dr. Tiarks’s tables, the equation of time need not
be considered at all; the reason of which     that the intervalis,
between  the sun and  the star passing the meridian    given in           is
mean solar time, which       not subject to any inequality.
                                      is                      It
must be observed, however, that to apply these tables to the
year 1825, table     must be corrected, by adding
                         I.                          59" in the          2'
months of January and February, and subtractin 57” during
the remainder of the year; the right ascensions o the stars in
table 111. require also to be augmented                    by
                                            their annual varia
tion.     remain, gentlemen,
           I
                           Your most obedient servant,
   October       13, 1824.“                                              M, SMITH.
                                                                              LXI.   On

                                  [351]
     LXI.    On <U+FB01>nding the Latitude by the Altitude:       of two Stars.
                            By M. SMITH, Esq.
      To theEditors ofthePhilosophical Magazine and Journal.
        Gentlemen,
  I SEND
    _
                 you the following very simple and accurate method
      of determining       the latitude of any place in the northern
  hemispheres, by      the altitudes of the two stars Aliath (or s Ursce
  Majoris) and 'y Cassiopeiee, taken at the same instant, without
  the hour of the night or any other data being required. The rule
  supposes the two stars to differ exactly twelve hours in right
 ascension; it will therefore be rigorously correct in the year
  1831, and will not produce an error of a mile in the latitude
 for at least ten years before and after that period. The alti
 tudes used must of course] be the true altitudes of the stars, or
 those corrected for refraction and the dip of the horizon, and
 <U+FB01>ve places of decimals in the logarithms will be suf<U+FB01>ciently ac
 curate.     I  need not trouble you with the demonstration of the
 rule,  as it  is  precisely analogous to that of reducing the lunar
 distance,  and    will therefore be understood by every astronomer.
     The altitudes of the Stars Aliath and )1 Cassiopeize given, to
<U+FB01>nd    the latitude ofthe place of observation:—
     Rule.—Add_together the two zenith distances and the con
 stant are 63° 20'; take half the sum, from which subtract the
 zenith distance of Aliath and theconstant are 63° 20’, noting
 the remainders.                   I
     Add together the sines of the two remainders, and the
 logarithm in the followinv table; take half the sum of these
 three logarithms, from which subtract the sine of half the dif
 ference between the declination and altitude of Aliath; the
 remainder is the tano'ent of an arc; the sine of this arc sub
 tracted from the said3 half sum of the logarithms, leaves the ‘
 sine of half the required co-latitude.
                                     Table.
                        ‘Years.            Logarithm. Decl.Aliath.
                1823     1824-   1825     19'78592      56° 55'
                1826     1827    1828     19‘78612      56   54
                1829     1830    1831     19'78631      56   53   _
                                                      '
                1832     1833    1834-    19'78650      56   52
                1835     1836    1837     19'78670      56   51
                1838     1839    184-0    19'78689      56   50
                1841     1842    1843     19‘78708      56   49
                184A—    1845    184-6    19'78728      56   4-8
                                                                 Erample.

 352Mr. Smith     on<U+FB01>ndz'ng     thele'tudquy iheAltitudes oftwo Stars.
                                 Example.     1.
         Given.     The altitude of Aliath......... =58° 25'
 ' _                The altitude of '7 Cassiopeia: =32 4"]
         Required.       The latitude of the place.
 Zen. dist. ofAliath ..... . 36° 35'            Decl. Aliath... = 56° 55
 Zen. dist. of Cassiopeia: 57 19                Alt. Aliath ... =58 25
 Constant arc                    63 90                                3  30
                                                                  2)
                              -__
                              2)157  14        Halfdilference    =    1  45
 Half   sum                      78  '37
                                                                         ‘
 First remainder ......... 42 2             sine     = 9'82579
Second remainder                 15 17      sine     = 942093
 Log. in table                                       =19'78592
                            _                        2)39'03264~
 Half sum of the       three logarithms                 19'51632
 Haifdi<U+FB01>'. decl. and alt. ofAliath 1° 45' sine 848485
 Tangent of an arc                       84°41' =1‘l'03147
 Half sum of the three logarithms                    =19'51632
“Sine of the above arc............ 84° 41' = 9'99818
 Sine ofhalf co-latitude                  19° 15 = 961819
                       (Jo-latitude
                        Latitude.......
                                         W
                                         m51
                                                  2
                                                 80 north.
                     ‘
                 -
                                 Example 2.
          Given.       The altitude 'of Aliath......... 42° 20'
                       The altitude of 'y Cassiopeiae 57 48
          Required.       The latitude of the place.           ~
                                    Answer.       Latitude 68° 42' north.
    Nata—The constant arc 63° 20', is the distance between
 the two stars, and the logarithm in the table is the sum of
 the log. cosecant of that are, and the log. cosine of the decli
                                          '
 nation of Aliath.
    It may be necessar to add, that the star Al'iath is the <U+FB01>rst
 star in the tail of the reat Bear; and that
                                                        7 Cassiopeia: is the
 centre star of <U+FB01>ve bright ones in that constel‘lation,
                                                                  arranged
 in the form of the letter W. -Their right ascensions and de-'
 clinations for 1825, are as follows \:
                           B
                                                                           .
       A'liath.........         12h 4-6m 17‘      Decl. 56° 54' 4-2" N. _
       7 Cassiopeia: 1R 0 46 12                   Decl. 59 46 3      N.
                       1 remain, gentlemen,
                                Your most obedient servant,
 Nov. 9, 1824.
                                                               M. SMLTH
                                                                        P. S.

 On the Structure, Distribution, and Functions        of the Nerves.   353
    P.S.——An answer toMr.SamuelCooper’squestions          on the sub
ject  of mean   solar time, having appeared   in your last  Number,
I   beg  leave to observe,  that your  correspondent
                                                      “  Glosterian”
 is mistaken in the only instance in which he has given a direct             >
 answer to Mr. Cooper’s queries.         The sun’s right ascension,
 as given in the Nautical Almanack, is expressed in sidereal
 time, not in solar time. T o prove this, it will suf<U+FB01>ce to ob
  serve, that at the instant of the sun entering Libra, his right
 ascension in the Nautical Almanack is 12 hours; whereas, had
 it been expressed in solar time, it would be only 1 1h 58m 25;
 the entire circle of the ecliptic passing the meridian in 24- hours
 sidereal time, which is equal\ to 28" 56“1 4-' solar time.
LXII.     Analyses ofa Series of Papers on the Structure, Distri
    bution, and Functions of the Nerves ,- 1y CHARLES BELL, Esq. ,
    which have appeared in some late Volumes of the Philosophical
                                     '
    Transactions.
~
                           [Continued from p. 128.]
      BELL in pursuing the anatomy of those parts of the
MR.animal frame, which more immediately and distinctly exhi
bit the truth of the hypotheses with which he set out respecting
the necessity of our viewing the nervous system, as divided
into two grand classes; the one regulating and controlling the
respiratory apparatus, and associating the actions of other parts
therewith; the other proving the source of voluntary motion,
and of sensibility; has endeavoured to illustrate that hypo
thesis still further, by the facts and observations which are
furnished by the anatomy and physiology of the eye in parti
 cular.
    The dif<U+FB01>culties which must have presented themselves in
 making this attempt are, from the very compound nature and
 functions of this most beautiful organ, such as would be suf<U+FB01>
 cient to deter most persons from seeking for illustration from
 it on any point; and it cannot but be re arded as an addi
 tional corroboration of the truth of this t eory, when such a
complicated system is seen to bear testimony to it in all its
 parts.
    On the Motions of the Eye in illustration of the Uses of the
      Muscles and Nerves of the Orbit.—( Phil. Trans. 1828.),
   The plan which Mr. Bell has adopted in order to con<U+FB01>rm
his doctrine of the nervous s 'stem by the anatomy and phy                   ‘
siology of the eye   <U+FB01>rst, to show the_ uses of the apparatus or
                     is,
frame-work, which      exterior to the eyeball; and then, in the
                      is
   Vol. 64. No. 319. Nov.~ 1824.          Y           y   second

854-     Analyses   qf a Series qf Papers,   by   Mr. C. Bell,
secOml place,     to consider how the nerves minister to these
  of<U+FB01>ces: whilst the object itself of his paper is to explain the
 reason of there bein six nerves distributed to the eye, and
  consequently crowded into the narrow space of the orbit.
     Mr. Bell has deemed it necessary to enter into a minute,
  description of the relatiVe functions of the different muscles
 and parts which are around the e 'e-ball, and which constitute
 its frame-work: this description,      owever, is of such a nature,
 that to do it justice, and convey to the reader a proper idea
 of the opinions which the author entertains, the whole of the
 <U+FB01>rst part ought to be brought forward verbatim ,- but inasmuch
 as the second part, though depending a good deal on the <U+FB01>rst,
 bears more directly upon his hypothesis of there being distinct
 functions performed by distinct nerves, we venture to proceed
 to the con<U+FB01>rmations which it contains of the hypothesis itself,
 after giving a general view only of the <U+FB01>rst'part, more espe
 cially as these con<U+FB01>rmations will also tend to make our readers
 better acquainted with the more important points treated of
 in the first part. What these points are, may appear from the
 remarks with which Mr. Bell commences the <U+FB01>rst part of the
 subject.
    “ Even grave and learned men,” he says, “ have eulo ' ed
 this organ (of vision) as the most necessary to intellectua en
joyment, and which ranges from the observation of the <U+FB01>xed
 stars to that of the expression in the human face.          But this
 admiration is in part misplaced,      if given   to  the optic nerve
 and ball of the eye exclusively; since these high endowments
belong to the exercise of the whole eye, to its exterior apparatus
 as much as to that nerve which is sensible to the impressions
 of light.   It is to the muscular apparatus, and to the conclu
 sions we are enabled to draw from the consciousness of mus
 cular effort, that we owe that geometrical sense, by which we
 become acquainted with the form, and magnitude, and distance
of objects.     We might as well expect to understand the uses
 of a theodolite, or any complicated instrument for observa
tions, by estimating the optical powers of the glasses, without
 considering the quadrant, level, or plumb-line, as expect to
learn the whole powers of the eye by con<U+FB01>ning our study to
the naked ball.     I   propose to show, that we must distinguish
 the motions of the eye, according to their objects or uses,
whether for the direct purpose of vision, or for the preservation
of the organ: that the eye undergoes a revolving motion not
hitherto noticed ; that it is subject to a state of rest and activity,
and 'thatthe different conditions of the retina are accompanied by
appropriate cOnditions of the surrounding muscles; that these
muscles are to be distinguished into two natural classes;
                                                                     {and
                                 .                               t   at

  on the Structure, Distribution, and Functions   thke Nerves. 855
  that in sleep, faintness, and insensibility, the eye-ball is given
-up to the one, and in watchfulness, and the full exercise of
  the organ, it is given u to the in<U+FB02>uence of the other class of
  muscles: and <U+FB01>nally, t at the consideration of these natural
  conditions of the eye explains its changes as symptomatic of
  disease, or as expressive of passion.”
     This <U+FB01>rst part, therefore, is taken up by a number of experi
  ments and observations which con<U+FB01>rm these views, and a<U+FB02>'ord
.the author secure ground for establishing an arrangement of the
nerves of the eye, whilst they at the same time enable him to
distinguish them according to their uses.
     The recti and obliqui form the two natural classes of mus
  cles attached to the eye-ball; the four recti are strictly volun
  tary, and the two obliqui are involuntary: hence, according
  to the author’s experiments upon the eye of the monkey, the
  division of the latter does not in any de ee affect the volun
  tary motions which direct the eye to 0 jects.       This cannot,
  however, be said of the involuntary winking motions of the
eyes; in those, in winking to avoid injury, the oblique muscles
  are in operation, as likewise in that peculiar and invariable
  elevation of the cornea, which takes place during \sleep, or
 when the eye-lids are closed. The same experiments and ob
servations have moreover led the author to conclude, that
  whilst the control and direction of the eye to objects belong
 entirely to the voluntary or recti muscles, the preservation of
  the organ itself, either by withdrawin       the surface from in
 jury, or by the removal of what is ogensive to            it,
                                                            belongs,
 more especially, to the two obliqui.
     In illustration of the necessity and importance of this classi
  <U+FB01>cation of the muscles of the eye, we wish to bring forward
  some of the author’s remarks upon the expression ofthe eye,
  and ofthe actions of its involuntary or oblique muscles in dis
ease.
   “ If,  as
           I   have alledged, the uses of the oblique muscles of
the eye have been misunderstood, and       if,as  I  hope presentl'
to prove, the distinctions of the nerves have been neglected};
 the symptoms of disease, and the sources of expression in the
 eye, must remain to be explained.
    “ During sleep, in oppression of the brain, in faintness, in
 debility after fever, in hydrocephalus, and on the approach of
 death, the pupils of the eyes are elevated.          Ifwe open the
 eye-lids of a. person           sleep or insensibility, the pupils
                            W atever be the cause of this, will
will be found elevated. duringl                                  it
be found that
                it
                is     also the cause of the expression in sick
ness, and pain, and exhaustion, whether of body or mind: for
then the eye-lids are relaxed and fallen, and the pupils ele
                                Yy   2                       vated

                                                                            '
     356            Analyses   of a Series of Papers,   by   Mr. C. Bell,
       vated so as to be half covered by the upper eye-lid." This
       condition of the eye during its insensible unexercised state,
       we are required to explain.
          “ It is a fact familiar to pathologists, that when debility
       arises from affection of the brain, the in<U+FB02>uence is greatest on
       those muscles which are, in their natural condition, most un
       der the command of the will. We may perceive this in the
      pro ressive stages of debility in the drunkard, when succes
      sive y the muscles of the tongue, the eyes, the face, the limbs,
      become unmanageable; and, under the same circumstances,
      the muscles which have a double o<U+FB01>ice, as those of the chest,
      lose their voluntary motions, and retain their involuntary mo
      tions, the force of the arms is gone long before the action of
      breathing is affected.
         “ If we transfer this principle, and apply it to the muscles of
     the eye, we shall have an easy solution of the phaenomena
     above enumerated.          The recti are voluntary muscles, and
     they suffer debility before the oblique muscles are touched b
     the same condition; and the oblique muscles prevailing, roll,
     the eye.
         “ If it be further asked, why does the eye roll upwards and
     inwards? we have to recollect, that this is the natural condi
    tion of the eye, its position when the eye-lids are shut, and the
-
    light excluded, and the recti at rest, and the obliqui balanced.”
         The circumstance of there being only nine nerves properly
    enumerated as proceeding from the brain, and six of these dis
    tributing themselves to the eye; since the second, third,
    fourth, <U+FB01>fth, sixth and seventh, go into the orbit, and, as the
    author expresses           it,
                               may be said to be concentrated into a
    space    no  larger than     nut-shell; affords an opportunity of de
                                 a
    monstrating      the  existence   of a correspondence between the
    compound       functions  of an  organ, and the nerves tranSmitted
    to   it,according    to  what  was  stated
                                           '   ' hypothetically
                                                                in the <U+FB01>rst
           of
                                                                '
    part      the   paper.
         But   itcannot be expected, in the investigation of subject  a
    rendered so dif<U+FB01>cult by reason of the number. and complexity
    of the nerves transmitted to a small organ like the eye, that               it
    is   always possible to give demonstrative evidence, or to an
    swer opposition       bymeans of experiments; and here'the author
    is  obliged to trust more to reasoning, and to minute attena
                                                                          -
    tion to the anatomy, than to experiment.
    Of the     Function    of   the Ophthalmic    Branch of the <U+FB01>fth Nerve.
       We are, in the <U+FB01>rst place, to inquire by what nerve the com
    mon endowment of sensibility          bestowed upon the mem
                                             is
    branes
         i
           and  surfaces of the eye.    On  recurring to this subject,
         '
                                                                                we

   on the Structure, Distribution, and Functions ofthe'Nerves.          357
  we are reminded, that the sensibilities of the body differ as
  much in kind as in degree; that the sensation of pain is pro
  vided to rouse our activity, and guard us against violence, or,
  by means more direct, to excite instinctive motions, which
  shall anticipate the most rapid actions of the will, and serve as
 a more perfect safeguard.            The trigeminus, or <U+FB01>fth: nerve,
  bestows upon all the surfaces of the head and face, external
  and internal, that sensibility which is enjoyed by the rest of
 the body through the spinal nerves.- But through some of its
 branches is also bestowed that distinct sense on certain parts
 for the purpose of drawing the muscles into combination; as,
 for example, that <U+FB01>ne sensibility of the surface of the eye to
 the presence of minute particles, which at once excites the
 <U+FB02>ow of tears, and draws the muscles into a combination to
 expel the offensive matter.                   a
     It has been shown in a former paper, that the division of a
 branch of the <U+FB01>fth nerve distributed to the cheek and lips, de
 prived these parts of their sensibility, although they remained
 in possession of other nerves, and continued to enjoy muscu
 lar activity.    The same has been proved in regard to this
 ophthalmic branch; if that branch of it which comes through
 the orbit and mounts upon the forehead, be divided, the skin
 will be deprived of its sensibility.          Whence it is allowable to
 infer, that this is the case with the ophthalmic branch of the
 same nerve also; but not to rest upon inference alone, the
 symptoms of disease both render deep dissection in the living
  animal unnecessary, and authorise the conclusion; for a case
 was communicated to the author by Mr. Crampton, of Dublin,
 which he has adduced in part, and which appears to justify
  the inference su<U+FB02>icientl .
     “ A few days after       the discharge from the ear had ceased,
 the eye   became   entirely   insensible    to the touch.     This loss of
 feeling  extended   to  the  lining   of  the   eye-lids,  to the skin co
 vering   them,   and  to  the   skin   of  the  cheek   and  forehead,  for
 abOut an inch surrounding the eye:             itdid not go beyond the
 middle line of the face.        When she told me her eye was dead
 (as  she  expressed  it),  to  be  certain,    Idrew my <U+FB01>n er over its
 surface; and so far was this from giving her pain, that she
 assured me she could not feel that             I  was touchin    it  at all.
 The eye-lids made no effort to close while          I     was    oing this,
'but the conjunctiva ap eared sensible to the stimulus, as a
 number of vessels on       t     esurface of the eye became immedi
 ately  injected with   blood.”       It   only necessary to remark, in
                                           is
 order to understand the inference, that the ophthalmic nerve
 in question goes through the orbit, suppl ing the parts
  that are contained in     it, and extends its branc es to the angle
                                                                         of
                                                             I

    358     Analyses  of Mr. C. Bell’s Papers   on the Nerves.
  of the   eye, eye-lids, and forehead: hence it is allowable to at
   tribute the‘insensibility of the surfaces of the eye, as well as of
   the skin around the eye, to the affection of the same nerve
    near its root.
       The author, moreover, has never been able to excite the
  motion of the eye by irritating the ophthalmic branch of the
   <U+FB01>fth after the division of its root, because no sensation was
   conveyed to the sensorium; and consequentl , no mandate
    transmitted from it for exciting the action 0 those muscles
   whose of<U+FB01>ce it is to move the eye on the presence of any fo
   reign body upon it. The young lady, in the case just described,
   could see, and could move the eye and eye-lids; the eye itself
   was irritated by touch, as appeared from the rising in<U+FB02>amma
   tion; but by the insensibility of the ophthalmic nerve, a. link was
   lost in the relation necessary to join the action of the muscles
   to the Sensibility of the surface.
           Of the  Names performing the involuntary Motions.
       Although nerves are found in great profusion to come out
    upon the eye-lids and forehead; yet they do not, as has been
    supposed, direct the motions of these parts; this is effected by
    means of a very small branch of the respiratory nerve of the
   face, which comes out before the ear, and is desi         ated the
  portio dam of the seventh pair. The division of t is branch
‘
   is followed by a loss of the motions of the eye-lids, and the
   remain open; hence the eye being unguarded and unwashedy,’
   it becomes dry by evaporation, and in<U+FB01>ames, and the cornea
   becomes opaque. To be satis<U+FB01>ed of the existence of certain
   relations and of the connexions of remote parts in the animal
   frame, it is only necessary to attend to the explanation of them
   as given by the author himself.
       “ During the state of excitement of the respiratory organs,
  a very extensive consent of the muscular frame is necessary
   to bind together and support the textures, that they may bear
   the strain, either during violent efforts of the body, or in
   coughing, sneezing, &c.       We may take the act of sneezin ,
   as a familiar example of the manner in which the eye is
   guarded during a sudden and violent act of expiration.
       “ At the instant of this convulsive. action of the respiratory  '
   muscles, a violent impulse is communicated to the head along
   the column of blood in the vessels of the head and neck.
  .Everybody is sensible of the eye <U+FB02>ashin light, but the cause
   is mistaken; for it is supposed to be t e impulse of blood
   forced into the eye; whereas it is the contraction of the eye
   lids -to counteract the force of the impulse, and to guard the
   delicate texture of the eye.    If the eyelids be held open du
                                                                  ring

 Elements        of the Minor Planets     at their ensuing Opposition. 359
 ring the act of sneezing, no sensation of 1i ht will be experi
 enced, because the contraction of the eye- ids upon the eye
                                                        '
 ball is prevented.”
    The author proceeds to question the accidental nature of this
connexion between the action of the respiratory muscles, and
 that of the eye-lids; and then considers it rather as a provision
to compress and support the vascular system of the veye, and
thus to guard it against the violent rush of blood which attends
certain acts of respiration.             This would appear to be con
<U+FB01>rmed, by the circumstance of the conjunctiva of a child sud
denly <U+FB01>lling with blood, and the eye-lid evertin , on our
openin its eye-lids whilst crying and struggling wit passion,
at whic time the natural support of the eye is taken o<U+FB01>l
    The two of<U+FB01>ces performed by the respiratory nerve of the
face, or portio dura of the seventh, one of which is voluntary,
as in moving the cheeks and lips in speech; and the
other involuntary, as in moving the nostrils in breathing
during sleep or insensibility; are in like manner manifested in
that branch of the respiratory nerve which is prolonged to
the eye-lids        ; inasmuch as to this is owing,       the contracting   of
the e e-lids by volition, and their involuntary winking motions,
whic      are for dispersing the tears, and preserving the lucid
surface clear: still the author is inclined to think that there
are distinct <U+FB01>laments bOund up together, which produce these
distinct of<U+FB01>ces or functions; but such a circumstance cannot
be demonstrated except in the spinal nerves, where the roots
are separate.
                                  [To be continued]
LXIII.      Apparent Right Ascension and Declination of the jbur
      Minor Planets, at and about their ensuing Opposition.
                                                            Dist. from
             '
                    Opposition.              Anomaly.      the Earth.
Vesta       1825.        Feb. 28th 9h          91° 1'        1'357 Bad. 6
Pallas         .  .      Mar.   13th   7      232 2          P280
Ceres       ~. .         Mar. l4‘th 9         207 16         1'608
Juno           .  .      June   28d    8       38   16       2-143
                     being in the inferior part of its orbit, and 52° from
PALLASits perihelion, will probably appear as a star of 8th mag
nitude.       Juno will be too near its aphelion, in the superior
part of its orbit, to be visible with any illumination of the
wires; but the daily change in declination being small, the
planet’s transit may be compared with <U+FB01>xed stars.
   Blackheath, Nov. 2, 1824.                          S. GROOMBRIDGE.
                                                  ’
          '
                                                                       Vesta.

360 Ascension and Declination       of the four minor Planets
              VESTA.                          PALLAS.
    1825.       IR       Dec. N.     1825.       IR         Dec. S.
    11:12“    h    ,  ,,   a   ,     at12h     h    ,   ,,   O   ,
   Feb.6     11 19 26    14 14     Feb.l8     11 48 55      5 44
           7    18 51        22          19      48   27       23
           8    18   15       30}        2O      47   58         1%
           9    17 38         39         21      47   29    4 39%
         10     17    l      471         22      46   59       17
         11     16 24         56         23      46   28    3 541
         12     15 46    15    41        24      45   56       42
         13     15    6       13         25      45   23        9%
         14     14 24        22          26      44   49    2 46%
         15     13 40    I    30%        27      44   14       23
         16     12 54         39%        28      43   37    1 59
         17     12    6       48   Alan     1    42   59       35
         18     ll   17       57           2     42   20       11
         19     10 27    16    6           3     41   41    0 46}
         2O      9 36                      4     41    2       22
                              14%
         21      8 44        as;                            North.
         22      7 52         32           5     4O 22      O   2}
         23      7 0         40}           6     39   42       27
         24      6    7      49            7     39     1      51,
         25      5   13       57%          8     38   2O    1  16
         26      4 18    17    6           9     37   39       41
         27      3 22         14          10     36   57    2    6
     8   28      2 26        22%          11     36   15       31
   Mar.    1     1   3O      30%-         12     35   33       56
           2     O 33         38%     8   13     34   51    3 21
           3 10 59 36        46           14     34    9       46
           4    58   39       531         15     33   27    4 10}
           5    57   43  18     l         16>    32   46       35
           6    56   47        8}         17     32     5      59
           7    55   51       16         18      31   24    5 23
           8    54   55      23          19      3O   44       47
           9    53   59      291         20      30    4    6  101
         10     53    3      36          21      29   25       34
         11     52    7      42%         22      28   46       57%
         12     51   12      48.1,       23      as    8    7 20,1
         13     5O   18       54         24      27   31       43
         14     49   25  19    O         25      26   54    8    51
         15     48   32        5         26      26   19       28
         16     47   4O       10%        27      25   44       5O
         17     46   48       15%        28      25   10    9  11
         18     45   57      20.}        29      24   as       32
         19     45    7      25          3O      24    6       53
         20     44   18      291         31v     23   36   10 13
                                   April    1    23    7       33

            at and about their ensuing Opposition.                        361
             CERES.                                JUNO.
   1825.       IR       Dec.  N       1825.          51        Dec. S.
  at 12h     h   1   ,,  o     ,     at 12"       11    ,   a   o     I
Feb.   18   12 22   38  15 26       May   31     18 25    44    4 58
       19      22 10        32%    June      1       25     3      56
       2O      21 40       39%               2       24   22       54
       21      21    9     46                3       23   4O       52
       22      2O   36      53               4       22   57       5O
       23      2O    3  16    O              5       22   13       48
       24       19  28        7              6       21   29       46
       25       18 52       14               7       2O 44         44
       26       18  14     21                8       19   58       42
       27       17  34     28                9       19   11       40%
       28       16  53     35              10        18 24         39
Mar.     1      16  12     42              11        17   35       38
         2      15 3O      48-}             12       16 46         37
         s      14 47       55.}            13       15 5c         36
         4      14 4    17    2%            14       15     5      s5
         5      13 21         9%            15       14 14         34,
         6      12  38      16             16        13 23         34
         7      11  54     2211            17        12 32         335
         8      11   8     29              18__      11 4O         33
         9      10 20       351             19       10 48         33
       10        9 31       42             20          9 56        33
       11        8 42       48%            21          9    3      33
       12        7 53       54-}           22          8  10       33
       13        7   s  18    0,1      8   23          7  17       331
    8“ 14        6  l2        6%          24           6 24        34
       15        5  21      12            25           5  31       35
       16        4 3O       17            26           4 38        36
       17        3 38      21%            27           3 45        37         5;.
       18        a 46      26             as           2 52        as     1; If;
       19         1 54      3O             29          2 O         39        l
       20         1  2      34             3O          1    8      40}
       21        O 10       38      July     1         O 16        42
       22   11  59  18      42               2   17  59 24         44
       23       58  26      46               3       58 32         451
       24       57  35      495              4       57 41         471
       25       56  44       53              5       56 51         49}
       26       55 54       56               6       56     1       52
       27       55 4         59              7       5511           54
       28       54 14   19     17}           8       54 22          56%
       29       53 25         as             9        53 33         59'
       30       52 37          51           10        52 45      5    11‘
        31      51 49          7            11        51   59        4v
April    1      51    2        s            12        51   13         7
                                            13        5O 28         10
Vol.   64'. No.  319. Nov. 1824-:              Z  z           LXIV.        On

                                          I
                 ‘
                           ,[362]
 LXIV.      On Weights and Measures, and on numerical Notations,
       in reply to Mr. Tnnnoou). By A CORRESPONDENT.
     To the  Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
        Gentlemen,
                         opinions concerning established practices
 WHATEVER or projected   alterations of the national policy, with re
 gard to matters within the scope of science, are promulgated
 in your pages, they derive great weight therefrom, and espe
 cially so, when suggested improvements come therein, from
 the pens of known benefactors to science, and the useful arts,
 as occurs with respect to Mr. Tredgold’s communication
 in page 202, on a                    new gallon Measure, and in ob
jection to the decimal  suggested
                               otation: but, as sometimes the most
 able men are liable to take partial and inadequate views of
 particular subjects, and to make hasty and inconsiderate pro
posals for alterations, it is not only allowable, but becomes a
duty incumbent on the most humble labourer in the <U+FB01>eld of
 science, who may discover and be convincedof evils, likely to
 follow from the general adoption of opinions, or on the making
 of changes, so introduced or proposed, to candidly submit his
observations and reasons to the scrutiny of your readers.                   I
shall, therefore, without further preface, proceed to make a
few remarks on Mr. Tredgold’s letter, which, at its outset,
alludes to the Act of the last Session of Parliament, for regu
 lating Weights and Measures, and for making, after the <U+FB01>rst
day of May next, an entire change, embracing every Measure
of capacity, ascertainable by a measuring Vessel, which hereto
fore’has been in use in England.
      Of this Act, a correct, although too brief an abstract has ap
peared in page 248 of the current volume of the
                                                               “ Monthly
 Magazine;” but, until the          allusion  by   Mr.  T., the subject of
this important Act has somewhat surprisingly escaped notice
in your pages*.                    I
     I am unable to anticipate with Mr. Tredgold, in his <U+FB01>rst
sentence, that the enacted change of our measures of capacity
will soon, or even eventually, take place; especially with re
gard to the corn Bushel, the measuring vessels for which are
expensive ones—are dispersed far more widely, and in more
persons’ hands, the farmers, millers, corn-dealers, innkeepers,
&c., throughout England and Wales: the bulk, and the value
also of the articles ascertained by means of these vessels, and
the frequency of their use, by some score times exceed the use,
of any other denomination of measure used in South Britain.
   ’-"
      We  have annexed the Abstract to our Correspondent’s  paper: see p.366.
—En.
                                                                          In  _

               The Bushel as a Measure, should not           be   altered.    868
     In terms of the Winchester Bushel, the greatest number of
    facts regardin         prices, and the consequent value qf money at
    different perio s, stand recorded, than with re ard to any other
    measure: for these and many other reasons, w ich strike prac
                  I
    tical men, have been always an opponent of the scheme, or
    mere whim       I  had almost said, of those who have prevailed in
    preferring the imagined greater simplicity of a Vessel (impro
    perly called a bushel) which holds SOlbs. or 560,000 grains of
    rain water, and measures 2218'192 cubic inches, as compared
   with the long-established Winchester bushel, measuring
   2150-42 cubic inches, and holding 542,890'5 grains, or 77lbs.
    8oz. l4~drs. avoirdupoise, and 769 grains troy, of rain water.
        Will it be contended, that the maker 0 bushel Measures, and
   the of<U+FB01>cial examiner and stamper of suc measures, would not
   be equally capable of placin stamped weights, equivalent to
   the above number of poun 5, ounces, drachms, and grains
   (amounting to 542,890'5, besides the tare of the vessel itself),
   as they would be, so to place 801bs, in the opposite scale to
   that in which the vessel under examination, just full of rain
   water, is being weighed? and if this is not contended for,
  what other su<U+FB01>icient reason can be given why the Winchester
  bushel (so widely spread and universally used) should not re
  main, as the'integer 0 measures qf capacity, at least of those of
  its own class, instea of attempting, as the Act proposes to
  do, to overturn the whole system; but which, I feel con<U+FB01>dent,
  cannot be effected, and will not happen; and'hope to see, on
  the meeting of Parliament,                numerous petitions presented,
  praying that the        clauses   relative   to measures of capacity, may
  be repealed,      and    the  Winchester    bushel* adopted, as the future
  integer    of  these,    in  case  that  some   one measure    is to regulate
  them    all.
      If, entlemen, the above forcible objections lie, against adopt
 ing t e new (801b) bushel, which is little more than 3 per cent.
 greater than the present one, how much greater are the objec
 tions against such a bushel as Mr. Tredgold indicates in page
 302, of (8 x 389'293, or) 27146444 cubic inches, which is 26}
 per cent. larger than the bushel in use !, and whose l-8th part
 is even 46 per cent. larger than the present wine gallon!
       Engineers and calculators will do well to follow Mr. Tred
 gold’s advice in using the cubic foot4F (rather than his example,
 as to the frequent use of the inch), as their standard for stating
 and comparing capacities or bulks, whatever fate may await
 the “ imperial gallon.”                                                   The
     0 In a new
                legislative de<U+FB01>nition of theBushcl, it would be well to state its
lineal cylindrical dimensions and contents, in well-chosen decimals qf afoot,
instead of inches     and such, that the gallon and its subdivision might have
                                          Z  2 2          .                    as

36¢       _
               Practical       Objections       to the French              Metre.
   The objections urged             at the top of page 303, against the
French        system       of measures, are too vaguely expressed, for me
                       I
 to be sure that understand their object; but this know, from                  I
 conversing with various intelli ent Frenchmen, and with En
glish engineers and artisans w 0 have been much in France,
 that the practical objection to the new system is, that for
 lengths it furnishes no convenient portable measure.     A rod or
 rule the len th of a metre (of 39'37 inches nearly, of our mea
 sure) even i it were not too long, open, and too clumsy, when
 folded”", to be carried about in the pocket, always ready for
use, is inapplicable, except in a few trades like drapers, mer
 cers, &c.; and as to the deci-metre, of 3'94! inches long, what
can be done with        as a measuring rod or rule
                             it,                        singl                 ?             it   is
far too short; and     three or four, or else six or seven 0 these
                            if
decimetres are added or joined together, in order to produce
rules, equall adapted to be carried in the pocket, and alike
convenient, in the essential act of measuring, with the one- or
the two-jbot rules of France or England, how ver inconvenient
and liable to error must be the counting or          din -up men
tally, several successive applications of such a rule, in the
measurement of the lengths continually occurring in the arti
san’s practice, as of 20 or 30 feet lengths, for instance?      In
short, the dif<U+FB01>culty     an insuperable one.
                              is
    Had the terrestrial circumference been divided into
 10,000,000 parts, instead of the quadrantal meridian thereof;
and the metre been assumed at         times its present len th; in
                                                 4
such case ajointed rule 152 of our inches nearly, mig         have                      t
been carried in the pocket, and been used with not much more
loss of time or inconvenience than attend the use of our tWQ
foot rules; but, as                is,
                             fully concur with those who framed
                              it    I
our late Act, in retaining the jbot measure, as settled in 1760;
and wish they had been equally attentive to retain the capacity
   I
of a cylinder of 18%inches diameter and inches deep (the bushel  8
 settled in 1697), and made the unit of measuring vessels
                                           it                                             f.
    That phantom, “the nature of things,” would be still more
as few decimal  places as may be. Which gallon, for avoiding confusion,
should not be called Winchester, because of the 282 cubic inches, long ago
enacted and used in      agings for ale, beer, and vinegar; neither should                       it
be called “Imperial” £277'274in.), but British should, Isubmit, be used as
the pre<U+FB01>x to the gallon, quart, pint, gill, &c. of this system.
   * The same objection            to the English yard, as not bein a practi
cal measure, equally withappliesfoot;
                                   t   e        it
                                             suggested, therefore,
                                                     is             at in an        t
amended Act, the foot, one-third of the yard, de<U+FB01>ned in clause   of the pre '      1
sent Act, should be more expressly named as    standard, or unit of lengths,
for de<U+FB01>ning other measures, in clauses            and 14.
                                                     1,   2,   7, a   8,
      Where a gallon vessel   once used in measuring goods, there cannot
                                   is is
bea   doubt but the bushel    so used    hundred, nay perhaps
                                                a                 thousand          a
times !
                                                                                       absurdly

           Arguments in favour    qfa decimal Notation.        8615
 absurdly followed than has been done by our French neigh
 bours, with regard to the quadrantal arc, as shown above,
 were we to listen to any proposals, however ingeniously urged,
                                                                     '
 for abandoning the decimal notation, after it has become in-
(corporated in every operation and act of civilised society,
wherein numberin or computin is concerned.           All the extra
labour and di<U+FB02>icu ties of whic Mr. T. complains, with re
gard to decimal computations, arise from an absurd adherence
to the number 8 and 4 in dividing our measuring rods or rules :
and   I have been pained at the reading of the latter half of
Mr. T’s letter, at re<U+FB02>ecting, that instead of these speculations,
        I
which cannot but view as worse than useless, he might, most
bene<U+FB01>cially for his own reputation and the progress of know
ledge, in his several most useful and practical writings, have
recommended engineers and artisans, and himself (an advo
cate “ for the foot as a measure”) have set the example, of
taking small dimensions, not in inches, but in the hundredth:
of a <U+FB01>ot, which are provided on the edges of all, but the very'
 commonest, of our pocket rules.
    As to our monies, to which Mr. T. alludes, near the top of
page 304, it has been well shown in your 49th volume, with
what extreme ease and accuracy, and with what slight e<U+FB01>'orts
on the part of Government, they might all be reduced to a de
cimal scale.    As to calculations of time, to which he next ad
verts; in adding up any series of minutes and seconds, or in
performing subtraction, no labour or di<U+FB02>iculty worth mention
occurs from the carrying and borrowin        of 6 (in effect 60) in
the second decimal place; and as to multiplying or dividing of
these, or other sexagesimals, they never occur, but to a par
ticular and ver limited class of persons, who either have, or
may have by them, tables for facilitating these kind of calcu
lationsz—as to weights and measures next mentioned, the at
tempt to reduce these in England to decimal scales, is too
arduous and hopeless of success at present, to be undertaken.
   Decimal coins and money accounts, if adopted by the go
vernment, as already indeed is the case in enumerating their
millions, and with all sums above 20 shillings, and even these
last are decimally stated when above 9 :—when these are be
come familiar to the public, particularly to the youths in our
schools; and when dimensions taken in decimals of a foot (as
already they mostly are of an inch, to the disuse of the barley
corn) are pretty generally adopted by engineers, surveyors,
and the directors of artisans, and by experimentalists and
writers generally; then, something important may be done.
In the mean time, a repeal of the “ imperial gallon” clauses,
with the substitution in a new Act, of clauses, ascertaining
                                                                (as'

  366
               A‘bstract
                            qf the Weights and Measures Act.
 (as has been done with regard to the troy and avoirdupoise
 pound, and the yard and foot), and de<U+FB01>ning and legalizing of
 the other units of the principal systems of measures in use,
 like the corn and the coal Bus/zels and their multiples and sub
 multiples, the wine and the beer           and their mults. and
 submults. &c., is all which mysel gallons,
                                     or the present race of your
 readers haVe,       I
                 fear, any reason to expect to see realized.
                                                    I
                                              am your’s 8w.
    November 2nd, 1824.                                      DECAPHILUS.
 Abstract     qf an Act qf the last   Session   of Parliament for regula
                          ting Weights and Measures.
    By the Act              IV. Cap. 74. “ For ascertaining and
                         5 Geo.
 establishing uniformity   of Wei hts and Measures,” it is enact
 ed, that from and  after the lst 0 May, 1825, the standard brass
   yard made in 1760, at the temperature of 62° by Fahrenheit’s
   thermometer, shall be, and be denominated, the “ Imperial
    Standard YARD,” and shall be the unit or only standard mea
   sure of extension, whereby all other means of extension, whether
   lineal, super<U+FB01>cial, or solid, shall be computed and ascertained
   according to the proportions for certain measures of extension
   speci<U+FB01>ed in the act.
      And that if the said imperial standard yard shall be lost or
   injured, it shall be restored by making a new standard yard,
   in the portion of 36 inches to 39% 56963 inches, when compared
   with a pendulum vibrating seconds 0 mean time, in the lati
   tude of London, in a vacuum, at the level of the sea.
      Also, that after the lst of May, 1825, the standard brass
   wei ht of one pound, troy-weight, made in the year 1758, shall
   be   <U+FB01>ne “ Imperial Standard TROY POUND,” and shall be the
  unit or only standard measure of weight, from which all other
  weights shall be computed and ascertained, according to the
  proportions for certain other weights speci<U+FB01>ed in the act.
      And that  if  the said imperial standard troy pound shall be
  lost  or injured,  it shall be restored by making     new standard
                                                         a
  troy pound, bearing      the  same   proportion  to the wei ht of a
  cubic inch of distilled water as the said standard poumi there
  by established, bears to such cubic inch of water; that      to say,
                                                                is
. 5'760 cubic inches of distilled water, weighed in air,        at the
  temperature of 62° of Fahrenheit’s thermometer, the barome
  ter being at 30 inches, each such cubic inch of water, when so
  weighed by brass weights, being equal to 252 {£65586 grains, and
  that 7,000 such grains shall be one POUND avomnvrmsn.
   It   further enacts, that after the lst of May, 825, the standard
                                                     1
  measure of capacity, as well for liquids as for dry goods, not
  measured    by heaped measure, shall be the gallon containing ten
                                                              pounds
                                                                           I

      Mr. S. Lee    on the Greenwich Observations for 1821.       367
pounds, avoirdupoise-weight, ascertained as before-mentioned,
of distilled water weighed in air, at the temperature of 62° of
                                                                       '
Fahrenheit’s thermometer, the barometer being at 30 inches,
and such measure, when made, shall be the “ Imperial Stand
ard GALLON,” and shall be the unit and only standard mea
sure of capacity, from which all other measures of capacity
shall be computed and ascertained, according to the propor
tions for certain other measures of capacity speci<U+FB01>ed in the act.
    Also, that the standard measure for goods, and things com
monly sold by heaped measure, shall be the BUSHEL, contain
ing eighty pounds avoirdupoise of distilled water, the same
bemg made round, with a plain and even bottom, and being
19% inches from outside to outside, and the goods and things
shall be duly heaped up in the form of a cone, such cone to
be of the height of at least six inches, and the outside of the
bushel to be the extremity of the base of such cone.
    The act likewise directs how copies and models of the said
imperial standard weights and measures shall be distributed
and brought into general use, and how local disputes, respect
ing the correctness of measures of capacity, shall be locally
adjusted; and it repeals all former statutes, except nine, on the
subject, speci<U+FB01>cally sixty-three in number!.
LXV.      On   some Extraordinary Inconsistencies      in the Green
          'wich Observations for 1821.    By S. LEE, Esq.
     To the Editors  ofthe Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
       Gentlemen,        r
     EI NG lately engaged in the investigation
 B requires                                      of a question which
                a reference to the most accurate astronomical ob
servations that can be procured,     I naturally turned to those of
the royal observatory at Greenwich; but the results which            I
 obtained from them, were by no means satisfactory to my
purpose.      The <U+FB01>rst impression on my mind was, that         I must)
 have fallen_into some mistake in respect to the conclusions
 which I had supposed could be drawn from them, and under
 that impression I gave up the inquiry. A hint however, which
 I shortly afterwards received from a friend, to whom          I acci
 dentally mentioned the circumstance, led me to suspect that my
 disappointment was occasioned, not by any false reasoning in
 the investio‘ation alluded to, but by errors in the observations;
 and a careful, though not yet complete examination of those for
 1821, have fully confirmed my suspicions.          \Vhat the exact
 nature and extent of these errors are, cannot be precisely
 ascertained; but that they must be errors, or palpable in
                                                        consistencies,

368                           Mr. S. Lee              on some Inconsistencies
 consistencies, will evidently appear, from the following short
 abstract of a comparison of the observations as recorded in
 different parts of the book with each other; and which, for
 the sake of perspicuity,                         I
                              have arranged in separate classes.
     The <U+FB01>rst class are those which were pointed out to me by
 my friend, and are to be found in the North Polar Distances,
 deduced from the observations with the mural circle, from the
 readin s with two—and with six microscopes. Those discover
 ed in t e observations with two microscopes alone are at least
 six    in number, and frequently amount to more than 1".
      be second class was discovered by comparing the read
 ings with the microscopes A and B, as given under the head
 of observations with two microscopes, with the same given un
 der the head of observations with six microscopes: of these
 errors sixty-four have been discovered.
    The third class are to be met with in the extraordinary dis
 agreement between the hei        ts of the barometer and thermo
 meters, as recorded nnder t e separate heads of observations
 with two—and with six microscopes; and amount to two hun
 dred and eighty-six in number.
     Ishall content myself at present with a bare statement of
 these three classes of errors only, reserving any observations
 on them, and some others, of perhaps still greater consequence
'to the reputation of the observatory, to a future communication.
 In the mean time I think it is due to the character of Mr. Bens
 ley, to state, that they are not errors of the press, a fact which
I  have ascertained by a comparison of the printed copy with
 the original manuscript deposited in the archives of the Royal
 Society.                   am Gentlemen,     I
                              Your obedient humble servant,
 London, Nov. 24, 1824.                          STEPHEN LEE.
                                                       Cmss I.                                 m5.
 rage-                                                            A    B   o  1   n               41
    1'77       9 FQlJ.             2   Sirius           -        8‘8 18'8 106 26 11'8           13'8
    185        8 Apr.          10      Regulus          .       56-2 ‘25'0 77 9 0'6             106
                                                                                             0r 40'6
    186        Q              20 <U+FB02> Leonis               .        2'0 110 74 25 9'5               6‘5
    194        3‘     June    26 Arcturus                   .   180 14-2 69 5‘2 21']            16'1
    200    b Aug.              11      (I    LL.            .   51'? 54'5 114 56 52'5           52-8
    209    c Oct.             29       a Cygni              .   18-0 25-0     45   20 21-0      21-5
 210       .          .   .    .       Arcturus             .    6‘2 16'0     69   52 12-5      ll‘l
           0          Nov. 4           at   Cassiopeia:         50-1   510    34   25 58-6      505
 219           '1].   Dec.     l3      Polaris SP.              34-0 54'0    358   21 54'0      44'0
And other similar errors, amounting in all to 60 in number.

                                      in      the Greenwich                                                                          1821.
                                                                                   Observations/hr                                                                  869
                                                                          CLASS                 II.
         Page
                                                                                                                               O                  A             B
         1 '7 6
                                                             aCygni
                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                               45   21        102-0!        180
        22 6
        177                                                                                                                            12-0
                        9            Feb. 2                  Sirius                '.
                                                                                                                           106 26
                                                                                                                                           180!
                                                                                               '.       '.
                                                                                                                                   8-8 18-8
                                                                          I
        226}                     .        .
                                                                                                                                          _
                                                                                                                           106 $6_ 8-8 14-8
        180
        228
                        11                                   alAqhilz'e            .
                                                                                                                            8135   0-0                      so
                                                                                                                                               10 _5-0
                                                             Procyon                                                           5418        16-0 22-1
                        Q.                .
                                 May                                                                                       8418           16-0 22-1
                        (I
        231
                                              14           v<U+FB01>iTahril                                                       6132           _39-0 41-3
        189'}
        194                                                                            '                                                  39-0 40-3
                                                            Arcturus           .                                           69       52
       233}
                                                                                                                                          180 14-2
       201.                                            .
                                                                                                                                          13-0 24-2
                                                            y-Dracbnis.                                                    38 28          49-8 55-8
       236i
       215}
       242
                    J Nov.   .        .
                                               2'7
                                                            e'Uism'Miiimi‘s                             s.P     .       3'39 53
                                                                                                                                          49-8 55-1
                                                                                                                                          18-6 178
                                                                                                                                          1.7-2 17-8
                                                           B.Ursae.Minoris                              SP.             339 53            11-2 12-1
       217                                                                                                                                1_1-a_ 11-1
                                     Dec.                                                                                  15 12
       244}1;                                                  Cephei
                                                                                                                                              é
                                               8           <U+FB02>                   .                                                                            -
                                                   '                                                                       1o       12_
                    7.1                                    Polaris S.P.                                         _1      353 21            34-0 54-0
       244
       219%                                                                                e
                                                                                                                                      _   54-01 54-0
  And other similar errors,
                            amounting in all to 64in number.
       Page
                                                                    CLASS
                                                                                           Ill.             _          Ther.    Ther.
                                                                                                                                                  ‘
                                                                                                                Barom. within. without.
                  a          Jan.             15           a Ophiuchi                                                               45
       225
                                                                               .               .        .                                              37
       175}                                                           ‘        I           I                                        47                45
                                                           Pbla-ris                                 .                               46                42
                                                                                                                                    46                45
                                                           ne'Pe-i'sei~                                                             46        -       42
                                                                                                                .   .  .   .        44                45
                                                           a Persei                                             3O 40               4'7               41
                                                                                                                3O 34               48                43
                                                           Cape-Hal                                              . .                45        \ 4O
                                                                           .           .                               .
                                                                                                                       .
                                                                                                                                    45                41
                                                           yDraconis                       .        .           36'11               34                so
                                                                                                                3067                37                31
                                                       a     .Lyi'ze and'a             éyghi                    3012
                                                                                                                30 67               37            31
                                                       aCassiopeiaa                        .        .           3O 12               37            36
                                                                                                                3O 10               4O            39
                                                       Polaris             .               .                                        40            38
                                                                                                                                    40            39
   177            .(9     Feb.                         Polaris             .       V.                                               45            43'
   226
                                                                                                                                    44            43
Vol.   64-.    No. 319.                        N01“.            1824-.                         3A                                                          Class

370                Dr. Burney                                        on the Meterological Register.
                                                             CLASS           III.                        continued.
                                                                                                                                                      Ther.    Ther.
      Page                                                                                                                                    Barom. lwithin. Without.
                                                        .    Sirius              .               .            .           .           .        . .      .   37         36
                                                        .        .     .         .               .            .           .           .        .   .    .   39         36
                                                        .    a Cygni                     .                .                   .       .        .   . .      36         34
               .                .               .       .        .     .     .           .                .           .               .        .   .    .   35         34
    178        ‘ll              Feb.                 8       aArietis                        .                .           .           .       3042
                                                                                                                                                                ~
    227                 .                   .                    .     .         .           .                .           .           .       3041
               9                                             Castor                          .           .                .       .            .   .    .   35         32§
               .            .                   .       .        .     .     .               .                .           .           .       .    .   -    35         32
             ,,         .                       .       .    Procyon                         .                .           .           .        . .      .   35         32%
               .        .                   .           .        .     .         .                        .           .'                                    35         32
               .            .                   .       .    a Cygni                     .                        .                                .        42         43
             .              .               .           .        -     -         .           .            .                                   .             4].        43
    179      (              Feb.                    12       a Persei                            .                .                   .                     37         35
    228                 .                   .           .    .         .     .               .                .       .           .            -   .    .   38         35
               IL            .                      15       Polaris S.P.                                         .   .           .           30-36
               .            .               .'      .            .    .          .               .            .               .       .       30'32
                 Q                  .               18       a Lyrae, a                                                                       30-15
               .        .                   .           .               Aquilas,}
                                                                and a Cygni  '
                                                                                                                                  .           30-13
    180            3‘       Feb. 23                          <U+FB01>       Tauri                           .            .           .       .        . .     .    .   .      34
    288            Q.                   .               .        .     .         .               .        .           .               .        .   .    .   .   .      34;
               I?                       .           24       Polaris                 .           .                .       .           .       29-99         35         37
                                .               .       .        .    .          .                   .            .           .       .       29'97         36         37
             .                  .           .       .        Aldebaran                               .            .           .       .       29'98
                                                                                                                                              Q9'97
'
               .            .               .       .            .    .      .           .                        .           .           .
    180            3*                   .           27       a Orionis                               .            .           .       .        .   .
                                                                                                                                                   .        30         26
    229                 .           .               .            .    .          .       .                .           .           .           .    .   .    31         26
    And similar errors in                                                  the remaining months, in all amount
ing to    286 in number.
LXVI.            On                 some                Observations in the Meteorological                                                                          Register.
                                                         By W. BURNEY, LL.D.
    To   the       Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
       Gentlemen,
              over the meteorological table at the end of your
INlastlooking
         Number, and comparing the state of the barometers
at Gosport, London, and Boston,       perceive  mistake in the                                            I                                            'a
  ressure at Boston on the morning of the 12th of October.
   he state of the barometers at Gosport and London, after the
heavy rains on the 10th and 11th of October, was nearly
quiescent on the 11th and part       the 12th, with the wind                                                  of
here veering from      to N. but at Boston                  S.
                                               does appear by               ;                                                                  it
the table that the mercury in Mr. Veall’s barometer rose ex
                                                         actly

                Notices respecting   New Boo/cs.                           371
actly one inch in that time. Thinking it might have been a
typographical error,     I  was induced to add up and <U+FB01>nd the
mean of the month’s pressure at Boston, but found that 29°75
inches in the morning of the 12th of October had been added
to make up the mean pressure 2946 for the month—If the
pressure that               was only 28'75 inches, as           I   have rea
son to suspect morning
                   it was mm the quiescence of the barometers,
in that case the mean for the period is 29-40 inches.—I merely
mention this circumstance for Mr. Veall’s consideration, as                   I
intend to give the monthly and annual results of the tables;
and if he admit it as an inadvertent error, an erratum to that
effect should either be made in your next Number, or at the
end of the volume *.
   In a close collation of the tables for this year,             I   also <U+FB01>nd
that Mr. Veall’s barometer in the morning of the Qtth of July,
was '63 of an inch lower than mine, that is nearly '4 of an
inch less than its comparative mean level. - The weather then
being <U+FB01>ne and very dry at both places, and for some days be
fore and after, it would be dif<U+FB01>cult even to attempt to investi
gate the cause of so great a di<U+FB02>'erence in the pressure of the
atmosphere at the respective places, without the precise state
of the hygrometer and wind, which I can only get from my
Own register.       If Mr. Veall could conveniently re ister the
position  of the    wind when he takes the altitude of is baro
meter, it would certainly tend to throw some light upon the
subject of great deviations from the comparative mean pres
sures at Gosport and Boston; and it were much to he wished
that your London register gave the state of the barometer at
8, or half-past 8, A.M., instead of at l, P.M.; as one of the
chief objects of a monthly meteorological table in your valu
able Magazine, is comparison, which will be materially obvi
ated without simultaneous observations on the instruments at
the time proposed.
                          I am, gentlemen,
                                     Your obedient servant,
Gosport, Nov. 25, 1824.                         WILLIAM Bonner.
             LXVII.      Notices respecting   New Books.
                         Recently published.
         Second Part of volume XIV.           of the Transactions            of
THE  the Linnaean Society of London, has just appeared;                    and
                                                          -       I      ~
the following are its Contents :—-
   A Commentary on the Second            Part   of the      Hortus      Mala
     " On referring to Mr. Veall's MS., we <U+FB01>nd that it is
                                                            29-75.—Em_'r.
                             3  A  2                                 baricus;

372             Notices respecting   New Books.
baricus; by Francis Hamilton, M.D.—The Natural History
of Xylocopa Teredo and Horia inaculata; b the Rev. Lans
down Guildin , B.A.-—On the Nature of the     arine Production
commonly    ca<U+FB01>ed Flustra arenosa;  by John  Hogg,   Esq. B.A.
--Description of a new Species of Onchidium; by the Rev.
Lansdown Guilding, B.A.—Descriptions of Nine new Spe
cies of the Genus Carex, Natives of the Himalaya Alps in
Upper Nepal; by Mr. David Don, Libr. L.S.—An Account
of some rare \Vest Indian Crustacea; by the Rev. Lansdown
Guilding, B. A.—Observations on some of the Terrestrial Mol
lusca of the West Indies; by the Rev. Lansdown Guilding,
B.A.—Descriptions of two new Species of Erythrina; b Felix
de Avellar Brotero, Professor of Botany at Coimbra, F.    .L. S.
--On the Insect called Oistros by the Ancient Greeks, and
Asilus by the Romans; By William Sharp MacLeay, Esq.,
M.A. F.L.S. Some Account of a Collection of Arctic Plants
formed by Edward Sabine, Esq., F.R.S. and L.S., Captain
in the Royal Artillery, durin a Voya e in the Polar Seas in
the Year 1828; By William      ackson    ooker, LL.D. F.R.S.
LS.   and HS.
    Messrs. Hardin" and Co. have published “The Peren
nial Calendar, or Companion to the Almanack.”           This work
contains, besides an illustration of the subject of the Almanack,
a variety of original letters, poetry and miscellaneous writings,
from the MS. of celebrated persons, who were educated at
our universities, viz. Porson, Byron, 8tc.        Also some no
tices of the average day on which different plants are found to
 <U+FB02>ower, by a comparison of Journals for twent years past,
forming a sort of calendar of Flora on a new scale.
    The Natural History of the Bible; or, A Description of
all the Quadrupeds, Birds, Fishes, Reptiles, and Insects, Trees,
Plants, Flowers, Gums, and Precious Stones, mentioned in the
 Sacred Scriptures.     Collected from the best Authorities, and
alphabetically arranged.      By Thaddeus Mason Harris, D.D.
 of Dorchester, Massachusetts.
    Outlines ofa System of Medico-Chirurgical Education, con
taining Illustrations of the Application ofAnatomy, Ph siology,
and other Sciences, to the principal practical Points in   edicine
 and Surgery; with coloured Plates. By ThomasTurner, Mem
 ber of the Royal College of Surgeons of London, 8w.
    Smith’s History and Description of the Steam-Engine.
 Octavo, with a Quarto Plate.       ls. Gd.                  .
   ,The Mechanic’s Oracle, containing 20 Quarto Copper
plates.    Parts‘I. to V. 2s. each.
                                                        ANALYSIS

         Analysis     queriodical         l/Vbrks on   Natural History.            873
      ANALYSIS OF PERIODICAL WORKS ON NATURAL HISTORY.
                           Curtis’s British Entonwlogy.
                      No.   11, contains    the following subjects:
     Pl.43.   exhibits <U+FB01>gures of Scolytus deslructor, a species of tree-feeding
 insects, which threatens destruction to the elms in and about London ; an
 account of its ravages and the probable consequences <U+FB01>rst appeared in our
 Journal for Oct. I823. Vol. lxii. p. 252.—Pl. 44. Clerus alvearius, a beautiful
  species, well known upon the continent, but new to this country.                 We
  have heard since this <U+FB01>gure was published, that another specimen of it has.
 been taken near Dorking in Surry, much larger than that <U+FB01>gured in the plate.
 —P1. 45. Cucullia Asteris. This beautiful and rare shark moth has been
 bred by Mr. Blunt, from caterpillars taken near Town : <U+FB01>gures of this insect
  with its larva have never before appeared in any British work—Pl. 46.
 Asilu: germanicwr.         A very striking species of this curious genus, never
 before recorded as British: the only specimens we know of are preserved
  in our National Museum.                      \
                      Curtis’s Botanical Magazine.              No.   4‘53.
     P1. 2517. Aloe qfricana,{3 angustior. This species had never heretofore been
  <U+FB01>gured in <U+FB02>ower; nor had Mr. _Haworth seen it in <U+FB02>ower when he published
  his Arrangement of the genus.           Cotyledon deczwsata, the papillaris of Ha
  worth, but not of Thunberg.—Lobelia Rhizoplzyta.—Euphorbia anacantlm.
                                 “ caule di<U+FB02>'uso, racemis anicnlatis:
  —-Sclzizanthu.r porrigens;                                             pedicellis di
 varicatissimis.”—C1inum         confertum: from the N.      . coast of Australia.
                      The Botanical Register.             No. 216.
     P1. 832. Brassia caudata ; “ sepalis ovato-lanceolatis         acuminatis: inferi-_
 oribus caudatis, labello acuminato, bulbo ancipitez” an Orchideous plant.
 from theWest Indies, belonging to the section Epidendrea.—l\icotiana nana;
  “2—3 uncialis, foliis lanceolatis ilosis: radicalibus quam <U+FB02>ores solitarii
  longioribus, corolla calyce longiore: lhciniis obtusis.” Raised by the Horticul
  tural Society from seed from the Rocky Mountains of North America, and
  stated to be that <U+FB01>'om which the Indians prepare the <U+FB01>nest of their tobacco,
  but not to have been noticed in theworks of American botanists. —Melodinus
  monogynus;
                  “ foliis ovali-lanceolatis acuminatis, panicula glaberriméf’ in
  the Hortus Bengalensis of Dr. Carey it is said to be a climbing shrub, native
  of Sylhet, and <U+FB02>owering at Calcutta in March and April.-—Scabiosa gramini-~
 folia: the characters of the genus and species are given from Dr. Cou'lter’s
  recent Monograph of the Natural Order of Dipsacea, which receives me
  rited commendation.— Gualteria rafa, Decandolle’s Prodromus, t. 93, where
   22 species of this interesting genus are enumerated, of which not one was
   known to Linnaeus :—sent to the Horticultural Society from China by
   Mr. Pott's.—- Pedilantkus Titkymaloides, a' genus of N ecker retained by
   A. de, Jussieu, scarcely distinguishable from Euphorbia, except by the very
'  curious and peculiar form of the involucrum.—Heliqahila digitata.—Acacia
                  “
   calamifolia .'   petiolis <U+FB01>lif‘ormibus longissimis cernuis, pedunculis solitariis
   petiole multoties brevioribus, leguminibus arcuatis articulatis corrugatis:"
   an ap    rently undescribed species, brought from the south~west interior of
   New iolland, under the name of the Bodkin-leaved Acacia.
                                                                    LXVl 11.      Pro—i

                              [s74]
           LXVIII.      Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                            ROYAL socua'rv.
Nov.                    Croonian lecture, by Sir E. Home, hart,
        l8.—THE   V. P. R.S. was read : it related to the discovery
of nerves on both the foetal and the maternal surface of the pla
centa.    And apaper by the same author was also read, On the
changes under one b the Ovum of            the Frog, during the for
                                       '
mation of the %'adpoie.
   Nov. 25.—A paper was read, On a method of calculatin
the angles of crystals, by W. Whewell, M.A. F.R.S. an
Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge.
                          LINNIEAN SOCIETY.
   The Linnaean Society resumed its sittings for the season on
the 2d of November, A. B. Lambert, esq. V. P. in the chair.
Read a letter from Mr. J. D. C. Sowerby to Mr. R. Taylor,
giving   an account    of some specimens of a fresh-water shell,
probably    the Mytiluspolymmphus,       found by Mr. Br ant plen
tifully   attached   to  timber  in the     Commercial     ocks.  It
is found in the Danube, whence probably it may have been
brou ht here in timber.
   A escription of three Species of British Birds; two of them
new to the ornithology of the British Islands.         By N. A. Vi
gors, Jun., Esq. A.M. F.L.S.         The species are: 1, Anthus
Richardz', Viellot; Fam. Sylviadae, Vi urs.          Two specimens
of it were taken in 1810 and 1812 at ngsland near London.
2, An undescribed species of Scolopax shot in Queen’s County
in August 1822, and named Scolopaw Sabini. 3, Querquedula
                                            ‘
glocitans.
   A Description of Cowanz'a, a new genus of plants, and of a
new species of Sieversia.      By Mr. David Don, Libr. L.S.
   These two remarkable plants of the family of Rosaceae are
from a large Mexican collection, part of the Herbarium of
Mocinno and Sessé, now in Mr. Lambert’s possession.
   Cowania. Char. essent. Cal. 5-<U+FB01>dus. Petala 5. Ovaria 5-7,
ovulo erecto.     Styli teminales, continui.     Achenia stylis plu
mosis persistentibus aristata.     Embryo erectus.
   Sieversz'a paradoza foliis fasciculatis linearibus obtusis sessi
libus integris 8—5-<U+FB01>disve, <U+FB02>oribus subcorymbosis, stylis plu
mosis, caule fruticoso.
   Nov. 16.--A. B. Lambert, Esq. V.P. in the chair: among
the visitors were Prince Gemitelli and General Turner. Read
a letter from John Atkinson, Esq. F.L.S. of Leeds, to A.
MacLeay, Esq. Sec. L.S., accompanying some specimens of
Beetles found in abundance in an Egyptian mummy in the
museum at Leeds.
                                                        Description

                Linncean Society—Geological     Society.        375
    Description of several species, hitherto unpublished, of the
genus Coccinella; by George Milne, Esq. F.L.S. communi
cated from the Zoological Club. The new species are : C. cir
cumdata, Brazil; 28-maculata, N. Holland; 18-maculata,
N. Holl.; cordata, N. Amer. ; connata, N. Amer. ; 4-:fasciata ,
ephippia ,- par'va; 6-guttata; decussata ,- abdominalz's; cyanea,
   razil.
    Observations upon the Motacz'lla Hippolaz's of Linnaeus, by
the Rev. Revett Sheppard, F.L.S. communicated from the
Zoolo 'cal Club. The conclusion come to by the Author is,
that      e M    Hzlppolais of Linnaeus is the Greater Pettychaps.
    An Account of some Plants belonging to the Natural Order
called by Dr. Jack Cyrtandraceze, by Francis Hamilton, M.D.
F.L.S. The species described are Chelone<U+FB01>lg'fm‘me, rubicun
do, and latg'folia.            ————
                         GEOLOGICAL   SOCIETY.
    Nov. 5.—A paper was read entitled “ Observations on 9.
Comparison between the beds below the Chalk in the Isle of
Wi ht, and in the counties of Surrey, Kent, and Sussex;”
by Thomas Webster, Esq., Sec. G.S.
    Mr. Webster stated, that in a late visit to the Isle of Wight,
he had been so fortunate as to discover a rock of the same na
ture as the calciferous sandstone of Hastings, a circumstance
that has furnished him with a <U+FB01>xed point, by means of which
he had been enabled to compare the beds in the Isle of Wight
with those of the S.E. part of England more correctly than
had been done before; and he presented a table Of what he
considered as the equivalent beds in these two places.
    He imagined that these equivalents had been hitherto stated
erroneously by several geologists; and' be attributed this
chie<U+FB02>y to the following causes.         lst, The imperfect state of
the science of geognosy, which had not as yet established <U+FB01>x
ed principles of classi<U+FB01>cation ; 2d, The want of acknowledged
 Types of beds or formations to which all other parts might be
referred; 3d, The dif<U+FB01>culties attending actual examinations,
arising from the de<U+FB01>ciencies or want of continuity of some
beds, and the variation in the composition and structure of
others,-—di<U+FB01>iculties which had, in his opinion, been underrated.
    The author then proceeded to point out in detail what be
conceived to be the history of some of the errors that had been
fallen into.     Thus, until lately, the description given by va
rious geologists of the rock called green sand were supposed
to be a plied to one bed only; whereas, in fact, there are two
beds      istinct from each other, the undercliff of the Isle of
Wight, and the rock ofFOlkstone, each of which had received
this denomination. Also in the groups which it had been found
                                                         necessary

 376                          Geological Society.
 necessary to form, they had not agreed with each other as to
 the individual beds inclosed in one group.     Thus, some had
 formed a group (which they called thefemuginous sand) of the
 sands above and below the weald clay; while others had at
 tached the name of F erruginous sand to those below the weald
 day only. He had also reason to fear, that an error had been
 committed in not identifying the beds which are called <U+FB02>zefer
 rginous sand. on the west of the chalk; as the Carstone, WQ
 bourn sand, and the Fartingdon bed, with the beds in the
 wealds of Kent and Sussex, to which the name ofgreen sand
 had been given.
    The following is the table of equivalent beds above alluded
to.
                                                                                               G)
      Localities in the       Localities in the S.E. Names proposed for
                                                                                              5
       Isle of Wight.           part of England.     the equivalent beds.
                                                               _
                                                                                             '8
        Culver Cli<U+FB02>'.              Guildford.            Chalk with <U+FB02>ints.     '] 8:
                                                                                    |               Q
             Do.                      Do.
                                                                                               F E,"
                                                       Chalk without <U+FB02>ints.         } g
                                                                               l          o'
            Do.                       Do.                  Chalk marl.        J           '5
  "nIIn-dercli<U+FB02>‘.             Riegate, Merstham,                               "
                                                       Upper green sand.
                              and Beachy-head-                                             a,       Q
                                                         Blue marl of the
                                                                                                g a
                                                               —
            D0.
                                                                                        F '5' g E
                                Folkswne    cliff.         green sand.         >
                                                                                                g
                                                                                                        t
 Red Cliff; Ather<U+FB01>eld         Folkstone,Leith     hill, Lower green       or
                                                                      send,                    a        _
                               '
   and Blackgang.                     &c.            F  errugino-greensand.   J
  Sandown bay and             \Vealds of Kent and                              '"
                                                           Weald clay.
    Brixton bay.                     Sussex.
                          '                                   -—                           2
      Cowleaze Chine.              Hastings.           Hastings limestone.                 ‘3 3
                          .                                                    ,             a
        Sandown,
                                     --
                                 Hastings and         Hastings sand-stones
                                                                                           5" ,5; g
       Brook point.               Fair light.              and clays.
                               Isle of Purbeck.          Purbeck beds.         v
                               Isle of Portland.          Portland beds.
   Nov. 19.—A paper was.read “ On the Purbeck and Port
land beds,” by Thomas Webster, Esq., Sec. G.S'.
   The author observed, that the great general features of the
  eology of the Isle of Purbeck had been already traced out by
him in his letters to Sir H. Engle<U+FB01>eld.       He now con<U+FB01>ned                                            '
himself to some details respecting the series of limestone beds
in the Isle of Purbeck, and to those in the Isle of Portland.
                                                                                                        ‘
   He then proceeded to give description of the strata from
                                       a
which the well known Purbeck stone used in London for side
                                                                       pavements,

             Geological Society—Horticultural Society.           37 7
pavements, Sac. is derived. This stone is composed almost en
tirely of fra ments of shells; the Purbeck marble contains
chie<U+FB02>y univafves in a compact limestone, and these in general
are smaller than the univalves of the Petworth marble, both
having been supposed to belong to freshwater shells; but the
author possessing specimens that contain a mixture of marine
with fresh-water shells, he cannot consider this as a decided
fresh-water formation, a term that in his opinion ought to be
restricted to those beds supposed to have been formed in lakes
           The common Purbeck stone appears to consist of frag
ments chie<U+FB02>y of small bivalves of which the origin is doubtful.
    l\/[r. Webster then gave a detailed account of the quarries
of the Isle of Portland, which furnish the Portland stone much
used in our public buildings.         The Isle of Portland consists
of a calcareous mass lying upon a bed of bituminous clay and
limestone identical with the Kimmeridge beds. The lower and
more considerable part of the limestone in the Isle of Portland
above the Kimmeridge clay is chie<U+FB02>y oolitic, and contains
beds of chert; but the upper part consists of a yellowish cal
 careous stone nearly compact, which contains in it a bed of
earthy lignite, abounding in silici<U+FB01>ed portions of trunks of trees
about two or three feet long, some of which are erect, and
others are lyin <U+FB02>at.       As far as he could ascertain, the fossil
 wood was near? con<U+FB01>ned to this stratum, and not dispersed
through the oolite as had hitherto been supposed. These up-,
per beds of the Isle of Portland, he considered as belonging
to the same formation as the Purbeck beds, having found some
 ver similar in the Isle ‘of Purbeck.
       onsidering the fossil shells of the Portland oolite to be ma
 rine, while those of the Purbeck limestone are chie<U+FB02>y fresh
 water, together with the great mineralogical di<U+FB01>'erence of cha—
 racter, the author stated it as his opinion, that the two series
 of beds should be kept in separate groups in arranging the
 English strata.
                     HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.
    Sept.   7.~—The  large silver medal was presented to Robert
 Austen of Glasgow, a Corresponding Member of the Society, for
 the successful cultivation of Scotch roses, many new varieties
 of which have been raised by him, and presented to the gar—
 den of the Society.——The large silver medal was also presented
 to Peter Caesar Labonchere, Esq., F.H.S., for having intro
 duced and encouraged the Dutch method of early forcing.—
 The large silver medal was also presented to Mr. Henry Burn,
 gardener to the Marquis of Aylesbury, :1 Corresponding Mem
 bers of the Society, for having raised the seedling grape called
 the Tottenham Park Muscat.
     Vol. 64. No. 319. Nov. 1824.            3 B                 The

 878                   Ash'on'omz'é'al Society.
    The following papers rere read:                          .
    On the cultivation of the raspberry. By Mr. John Mearns,
  F.H.S.—On a method of forcing the vine into fruit in unfa
 vourable situations.    By M. Vauden Creuyse.
    Oct. 5.—T he following papers were read :                  .
    On a means of arresting the sap in pear-trees. By the Rev.
 John Fishcr.—On the classi<U+FB01>cation of cherries. By Mr. John
 Robertson,   F.H.S.         —-—————
                     ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY.
    This Society held its <U+FB01>rst meeting after the summer recess,
 on Friday the 12th of November; the President, H. T. Cole
 brooke, Esq. in the chair.         Several new members were
 elected, and others proposed, and a great number of valu
 able presents, especially from foreign astronomers, were an
 nounced.
    Two communications were read from Sir Thomas Bris
bane, Governor of New South Wales.              The <U+FB01>rst of these
 contained an account of some observations made at Para-
matta, by Sir Thomas, and Mr. Dunlop, on the inferior Con
junction _0f- Venus with the Sun, in October last. The obser
vations were made with a mural circle of Tronghton’s, which
 Sir Thomas characterizes as of remarkable steadiness, and so
well in the meridian, that with Antares and y Dracrmis, and
any other of the-high and low stars, it gives the same right
ascension.     The observations extend from the ‘6th to the 25th
of October.     The account exhibits the polar distances, and
the times of culmination of the Sun and Venus, as wellv as of
Antares, (3 Argo, and on Lyme; to show the state and position
of the instrument. The latitude of the observatory at Para
ma'tta is‘stated to be 33° 48' *8” Snuth.        Longitude East of
Greenwich 10h 4m 5‘.
    Sir Thomas’s ,second communication, which is dated 17th
April, 18245 contains, First, A record of repetitions on the Sun,
with Reichenbach’s circle for the Summer Solstice, 1823 ; they
extend from December 10th, 1823, to January 2d, 1824-, but
have not .yet been subjected to the necessary reductions for a
de<U+FB01>nite result.    Secondly, A series of observations on several
stars made at Paramatta, with the mural circle, from Novem
ber 20th, 1823, to February 19th, 1824‘. Twenty of the star's
observed are among those,whose places are given annually in ~
the Nautical Almanac, and are usually denominated Green
wich stars.
    A letter was also read from Baron Zach to Francis Baily,
Esq. F.R.S. dated Genoa, 31st Jul , 1824, announcing the
discovery of a telescopic comet, by           Pons, on the 24th of
that month.     It was in the head of Serpentarius, without tail
                                                                 or

                                      Astronbmical Society.                          379
or coma :—,a simple nebyulosity. “M. Pons’si observations on
                                      from the 25th to the 28th of
the comet, and some stars near                   it,
July, accompany this communication; but as the comet was,
even then, rapidly approaching the “Sun, they need not now
be recorded.                                      I                     ,
    Mr. Herschel submitted to the inspection of the members
present, a new double image micrometer, by Professor Amici
of vModena.      The duplication of the image in this ingenious
instrument      effected by interposing
                     is                   divided concave lens of
                                                         a
very long focus between the object and eye- lasses of a refract
ing, or between the mirror and eye-glass ot a re<U+FB02>ecting teles
cope.     The separation of the centres of the two segments                                is
performed by rack and pinion sliding them on one another,
                          a
their edges being preserved in contact, and         measured on a.
                                                              is
                         Vernier in the usual manner.
                                                                    i
divided scale with              a                              ob           It  is
vious that each segment will form separate image of a distant
                                                     a
 object, more remote from the object end of the telescope than
 its principal focus, and the value of the parts of the scale
                              ii
                                                                                           is
easily had from the expression,
                                                               -
                                I                                       I
                     1"   x             or   00000048481      >'<
                               -.a,
                                                                    @—a
where      (pthe focal length of the object lens or mirror,
                is                                               of                  rp'
the bisected lens, and a the distance of the latter‘from the
former, all expressed in parts of the same scale into which the
micrometer      divided.
                     is    This expression gives the number of
parts of such scale which represent 1” of an ular measure, and
conversely,'the value of one part of the sea     in ' seconds, will
                                                           "
                                                              e,
be the reciprocal of this fraction.
                                                                    ‘
                                                                    ,
   This micrometer possesses several advantages, amon which                                 1
maybe reckoned, simplicity of construction and use;           mag           t   e
nitude of its scale, which may be increased to almost any ex
tent by an increase of the focal length of the bisected lens (9'),
and lastly the advantage of               with    table of reduc
                                                               a
tion, b  so <U+FB01>xing the place ofdispensing
                                the divi ed lens as to render one
part of the scale correspondent to 1" of angular measure.       In
fact,  we equate the above expression to unity, We get
      if
                              a=<p
                         {1—0'0000048481 xrp’}
and    this be the distance of the divided lens from the object
      if
       one part of the scale will correspond to one second. Mr.
giass,
  . in his visit to, Modena, in the spring of the present year, had
an opportunity of trying this instrument as applied to celestial
objects, in one of M. Amici’s superb re<U+FB02>ecting telescopes of 12
inches aperture and      feet focus. The following, among other
                                 8
measures, were taken.
                                             3   B2       Distance

380                        Astronomical Society.
  ’
    Distance   of the two stars of Polaris (single measure)  1‘8'40
    Jupiter’s Polar diameter (mean of 6 measures)            32'54
               Equatorial   do.      do.                     34'06
 Consequently     ratio of diameters                          1'0467
    Mr. Donkin laid on the table, for the inspection of the mem
bers, an instrument made by M. Fatton (a pupil of Breguet’s
at Paris) for determining the fractional part of a second of
time, in astronomical observations.        This piece of machinery
is about   5  inches in diameter; and somewhat larger than the
ordinary    size of ship chronometers.       The instant of observa
tion is marked by a very <U+FB01>ne point attached toa spring, which
(by means of a peculiar kind of ink) makes an impression on
the dial plate.     The machine will 0 for <U+FB01>ve hours. It is im
possible to enter into any further escription of this ingenious
piece of mechanism, without the assistance of plates and nu
merous references: but we hope the inventor will be induced
to lay the whole before the public, at no distant period.
    Prize Questions proposed     by the Astrononomical Society   of
                                London.
    This Society has just proposed the following prize questions,
to the consideration of astronomers and mathematicians: viz.
    lst. The silver medal. To any person, who shall contrive, and
have executed an instrument, by which the relative magnitudes
of the stars may be measured or determined; and of which
the utility for this object shall be suf<U+FB01>ciently established, by
numerous observations and comparisons of known stars.
    2d. The gold medal.       For approved formulae, for determi
ning the true place of either‘ of the four newly discovered pla_
nets, Ceres, Juno, Vesta, and Pallas : within such limits as
the Council may think suf<U+FB01>ciently correct for the present state
of astronomy ;-such formulae in each case to be accompanied
with comparisons of the observed places at various periods.
    3d. The gold medal. For a new mode of developing the dif
ferential equations for expressing the problem of the three bo
dies, by which a smaller number of tables shall be required in
order to compute the Moon’s place to the same de ree of ac
curacy as by any existing tables, and with greater facility.
    To be entitled to competition for the prizes, all answers to
the <U+FB01>rst question must be received before the lst of February,
 1826; to the second, before the lst of February, 1827 ; and
to the third, before the lst of February 1828.
                 LONDON MECHANICS, INSTITUTION.
    It gives  us much pleasure to state, that this important      In
                                                            stitution

                  London   Mechanics’ Institution.              381
stitution which, though labouring under some disadvantages
for want of a suitable building, has already, with the aid of
lecturers of the <U+FB01>rst respectability, furnished an extensive course
of instruction to a large body of Members, is now provided
with a convenient house for its Schools, Library, Museum, 8m.
and that the <U+FB01>rst stone of the Theatre or Lecture-room is to
be laid on the 2nd of December, being the <U+FB01>rst Anniversary
of the Institution; The day is to be celebrated by a Dinner
at the Crown and Anchor Tavern, Dr. Birkbeck in the chair.
             ROYAL ACADEMY     or   SCIENCES   or PARIS.
    May 24.—The Academy received a Memoir, by M.
D’Hombres-Firmas, containing Observations on Fossils, and
particularly on Ammonites; a description of a new Astrono
mical Instrument, by the Count de Zuylen of Nyevelt; a seal
ed packet from    M. Castille, clockmaker, relative to   an investi
gation in which he is engaged; and a Refutation of Newton,
by J. B. Souton.-M.Vauquelin made a report on M. Dublanc’s
Memoir on the application of Tincture of Galls, as a means
of detectin , the presence of morphia.——The Academy elected
 M. Fresne as a candidate for the of<U+FB01>ce of Professor of Natural
 Philosophy in the College of France—M. Legendre made a
report on the new Manuscript Tables of M. Bagay.—M.
Poisson, in the name of a Commission, made a very favourable
 report on M. Damoiseau’s Memoir containing the calculus of
the Perturbations of the Comet of the short period.—M. Paix
hans read a Memoir in which he examined the question
whether Steam-engines can be employed in the art of war.—
 M. G. St._-Hilaire presented a Memoir on the analogy existing
between the <U+FB01>lets péclzeurs of the Lophius and the ascending
apophyses of the vertebrata; especially with the <U+FB01>rst rays of
the dorsal <U+FB01>n of the Siluri.——A Letter from M. Audouin was
read, on the use of a vesicle which accompanies the female or
gans of generation in insects.
    May 3l.—M. Lassaigne read his Chemical Researches 0n
the means of determining the presence of hydrocyanic acid in
 animals poisoned by that substance—M. Magendie stated
that he was proceeding with his experiments on the <U+FB01>fth pair
of nerves.—M. Becquerel read some new elucidations of the
electrical effects observed in chemical action.—M. Auguste
 St-Hilaire read a Memoir in which he mentioned the poi
 sonous effects of the honey of the Lecheguana wasp. M.Des
moulins read a Memoir on the differences between the nervous
system of the Lamprey and that of the other vertebrata.
    June 14.-—A Memoir was received from M. Féburier on va
rious properties of the electric <U+FB02>uid, and a new refutation of
                                                           Newton,

 382            Royal Academy of Science qf Paris.
 Newton, from M. Souton.—M. Latreille read a report on M.
 Léon Dut'our’s Researches on the Anatomy of the Coleoptera.
-'-M. Arago gave an account of his experiments on the light
which emanates from incandescent bodies.—-M. .Cuvier read
a'Memoir on the Plesiosaurus—M. Geo<U+FB01>'roy Saint-Hilaire
read aYMemoir on the Auditory Faculties of Fishes.
      June 21.--M. Girard read a Memoir, entitled the “ Appli
  '
cation of the principles of Dynamics to the purposevof determi
ning the respective advantages of di<U+FB01>'erent modes of carriage.”
—-M. Laugier commenced reading his Chemical Examination
of the Minerals from the Island of Ceylon.—M.de rWiebeking
read some Observations on the state of Civil Architecture in
the middleages, and on the means by which the monuments
of those periods were executed.             I
 -
     June 28.—M. Puissant communicated to the Amdemy an
account of a new instrument which he calls a panorograph, by
means of which the perspective of a panorama may be traced
with accuracy and ease—M. Zamboni, Professor of . Natural
Philosophy at Verona, transmitted aiMemoir on dry electric
piles—M. Dulong read a Letter addressed to him by M.
Pouillet on the means of measurin       elevated temperatures,
and especially that which exists at t e surface of the sun.—
M. Girard, in the name of a Commission, read a Report on
the researches of l\/I. Vicat, relative to resinous mastics.——
General Brisbane communicated some Astronomical Obser
vations made at Paramatta.—-M. Dumeril made a Report on
Dr. Audouard’s Memoir relative to the origin of the yellow
fever.—M.G. SL-Hilaire read a Memoir on .the nature, the for
mation, and the uses of the stones which arefound in the an
ditory cells of <U+FB01>shes—M. Laugier <U+FB01>nished the reading of his
Memoir on the Ceylon Minerals—M. Marigot communi
cated a Memoir on the preservation of grain.             -
  -
     July 5.—M. Fourier reported, verbally, on acollection of
statistic documents presented to the Academy by the Count
de Funchal.—M. Becquerel read a Memoir on the electromo
tive‘agencies ‘of water.—M A. St.-Hilair-e>read a -Me'moir on
the plants constituting the Flora of southern Brazil, belonging
to the group which comprises the Droseraceae, the Violaceae,
the §Cisthliaa, and the Frankeniae.
  n-July 12.—-M.~ G. St.-Hilairev made a verbal Report on a
work by M. Serres, entitled, “The comparative l anatomy of
the Brain, in :thefour‘ classes of vertebrated Animals.”"——M.
Gemmellaro, of. Catania, presented a collection of maps and
perspective views of Mount Etna. .
   -:July- 19.‘—M. Freycinetrcommunicated     an extract~ from a
Letter written to him from Port Jackson by M} Duperrey,
                                                     commander

                      Northern Expedition.                        383
commander of the new circumnavigatin        expedition, containing
arr account  of the recent discovery of a great river in New
Holland;v and stating the encouragement given to all useful
researches by General Brisbane, correspondent of the Aca
demy.—M. Arago presented, in the name'of M. Zamboni,
an electromotive apparatus founded on the properties of dry
electric piles, and 'which imparts a continual rotatory motion
                                                 '
to a horizontal lever.
        LXIX.    Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                                                          I'
                     NORTHERN     EXPEDITION.
                     mornin     Nov. 10, H. M. discovery-ship the
ONGriper,
        Wednesday
               Capt.  G.  F.
                              ,
                              you, most unexpectedly arrived-at
Portsmouth, and ran into the -- harbour "direct from Davis’s
Straits, with the signal of distress <U+FB02>ying, having lost all her
anchors and cables in fruitless endeavours to get into Repulse
Bay, whither she was under orders to proceed, for the purpose
of co—operating with Captain Parr in search'of a north-west
passage. The circumstances whic          have led to the failure of
this branch of the north-west expedition are attributable to
stormy and severe weather, which prevailed in a more intense
degree than the oldest northern navigator remembers, and to
the extraordinary bad ualities of the_ ship for the purposes
required.    It appears t at the Griper 'left Stromness on the
       J
lst of uly, and made Cape Chudleigh (on the Labrador coast)
on the 2d of August, having fallen in with icebergs three days
previously, and from which time she was beset with drift ice.
In this passage she was found to make so little progress, that
the Snap (her provision tender) was frequently obliged to take
her in'tow. From Cape Chudleigh the Griper was obliged
to stretch to the northward, to Resolution Island, as the <U+FB01>eld
ice prevented progress up Hudson Strait, they were, how
ever, enabled to make slow advances to the westward, close to
the Savage Islands, until they made Salisbury or Nottingham
Island, but which place could not-be ascertained, from the im
possibility of making observations off the Upper Savage Islands.
Some canoes of natives came'o<U+FB01>'to them,who appeared to be
of the same description 'of Esquimaux with which our naviga
tors ~were before acquainted;     vThey'w'ere dismissed with li
beral presents, and appeared much grati<U+FB01>ed.        From'Salisburyr
Island, the Gr-iperproceeded to-the .southlpoint of Southamp~
ton Island, in which they were assisted by a strong current
setting down Fox’s Channel; but on their rounding South
ampton Island, this current, which'then came down
                                                       SirTI'liiomas
                                                                owe’s

   384‘                   Northern Expedition.
  Rowe’s Welcome (up which they wished to proceed), was din
  rectly against them, and nearly caused their shipwreck. South
  ampton Island was found to be laid down with tolerable accu
  racy.    Off the SW. end of the island the Griper was obliged
  to anchor, in consequence of suddenly shoaling her water : in
  a gale of wind she parted one anchor, but brought up again
  with three anchors a-head in quarter less four fathoms water;
  when the tide fell, the sea was so heavy that the rudder con
  tinually struck the ground, and was lifted almost out of the
  gud eons: this was on the lst of September.       On the weather
  modgerating, the Griper proceeded up the Welcome; but a
  northerly ale of wind springing up, the ship was driven into
  Hudson’s ay. However, by perseverance, and taking ad
  vantage of every favourable breeze of wind, she reached Cape
  Fullarton, the larboard entrance of Wager River, and within
  about 60 miles of the spot (Repulse Bay) where she was in
_ tended to winter.     The coast on the American main land was
  found so rocky and extremely dangerous, that she was obliged
  to stretch off for Southampton Island, whence she endeavoured
  to make for Repulse Bay, but was driven by the tide directly
  to the southward and westward, against what was supposed to
  be VVager River.       Here strong breezes and a heavy snow
  storm set-in, which made it necessary that the ship should be
  brought-to with three anchors a-head and made snug.          The
  sea rose rapidly, and broke over the ship with tremendous
  force, forming thick coats of ice in an instant, so as to connect
  the shrouds together half way up the               The snow also
  fell so fast that the men had much rigging.
                                           di culty in keeping the
  decks clear.     The ship all this time pitched so dreadfully,
  that the cables came over the bumpkins, one of which was
  thereby broken.      During the night a large stream of ice was
  discovered coming down upon the ship, but, most happily, it
  parted before it reached her, and some small portions of it
  only struck against the bows, which did no damage.           The
  wind continued to increase, as well as the snow; at <U+FB01>ve o’clock
  in the morning, the starboard cable parted, and, on the ship
  swinging to the other three anchors, she was struck by a sea
  and parted from them all.      Her situation at this time was the
  most perilous that can be ima ined, every individual momen
  tarily expecting that she woul drive on shore. Means of pre
  servation, however, were not neglected; the trysails were 0t
  on her, though it was so dark that no object could be is
 cerned, and they did not know so much as which way the
 ship’s head lay, from the compasses having ceased to act, the
 ship being, as it is supposed, directly over or near the mag
 netic pole—Whilst presuming, in this distressing dilemma,
                                                               that

                           Northern Ewpcdz'tz'on.              385
 that the wind had shifted off the land, as the water deepened,
 a sight of the sun, and subsequently ol' the other celestial
 bodies, was obtained (of which they had had no view for some
 days), and the ship was found to have been drifted out of the
 Welcome, after having attained lat. 65. 30. There was at
 this moment no anchor left in the ship.       Notwithstanding, it
 was determined, if possible, to winter about Chester<U+FB01>eld Inlet,
 or even to the southward of that spot. The persevering e<U+FB02>‘orts
 of all on board were accordin ly directed to gain the Ameri
 can shore; but <U+FB01>nding that the      ship
                                     got into the shallows of Hud—
 son’s Bay, they were reluctantly compelled to edge away for
 Salisbury Island, still hoping that a few <U+FB01>ne andfavourable
days would restore to them their lost ground.            The bad
 weather, however, still continued, and there was much dif<U+FB01>
culty in watering the ship at these places, from a stream of
ice. A number of natives came off to them in their canoes, and
traf<U+FB01>cked their clothes for iron and spears. At length the hope
less continuance of bad weather, the wretched condition of the
.ship (from her incapacities), the of<U+FB01>cers and crew having suf
fered more hardships than on any previous voyage, thev ad
vanced stage of the season, with numerous other concomitant
miseries, compelled Captain Lyon to consent _that the ship
should be got out of Hudson’s Straits (an extent of 800 miles of
dangerous navigation); which place they had scarcely cleared,
 when a southerly gale drove them up Davis’s Straits, 150
miles to the southward of Resolution Island. Providentially,
a change of wind enabled them soon after to proceed on a
 southern passage homeward, andthe Griper arrived here in
 six weeks, in the state we have described.
    Thou  h   little has been effected towards solvingthe geo
graphica problem of a north-west passage by this voyage, yet
 some most interesting elucidations of the deviation of the com
 pass have been brought to light.      The compasses             to
waver and contradict each other when abreast of the      beganavage
 Islands; and, as the ship got to the westward, the compasses
   0t unsteady and useless.    While the ship was in Sir Thomas
 Tlowe’s Welcome, they frequently would not traverse at all,
 but stood in whatever position the card was placed.        Should
 a passage be discovered by Captain Parry through the Prince
 Regent’s Inlet, it   isconsidered more than probable, from the
 irregular movement of the ice, that        may never be entered
                                            it
 I
  The Griper spoke several Whalers, all of which had been
unsuccessful in the <U+FB01>shery; no ship had mpre than two <U+FB01>sh,
and many none whatever.     From the captain of the Phoenix
whaler, Ca tain Lyon heard that Captain Parry’s expedition
  Vol. 64-. o. 319. Nov. 1824.                   8   C  had

                      ‘
 386                      The Logan Rock.
 had been seen in the middle of August, in lat. 71. beset with
 ice.   On the whole the season has been more boisterous, and
 consequently the sea less clear, than it has been known for thirty
 years.   It was very questionable if Captain Parry would be
 able to reach Lancaster Sound.        Had the Griper effected a
 wintering either in Repulse Bay or VVager River, or Chester
 <U+FB01>eld Inlet, Captain Lyon, with a strong party, would have
 made a land journey to Point Turn-again, near the Copper
  Mine River, a distance of nearly 700 miles, for which expe
 dition they were fully equipped.       Captain Parry, if he suc
 ceeded in passing Lancaster Sound, and getting to the south
 ward, down Prince Regent’s Inlet (by which Captain Lyon
 was next year to communicate with him) he will send a land
 expedition, if possible, in the same direction, as well as to
 Repulse Bay, ip the hope of communicating with the Griper. -
    The Griper communicated with the Esquimaux natives of
 the Upper Savage Islands, and of                   and Nottin ham
 Islands, all of whom had frequently    Salisburiy
                                           seen    uropeans.      hey
 were less savage in their habits and manners than their more
 northern brethren, but they showed a strong thievish disposi
 tion; they endeavoured to steal the oars and iron-work from
 the boats. The Griper also communicated with the natives
 of various parts of Southampton Island, who had never seen
a ship before.    They, however, expressed very little surprise;
the evinced more gentleness in their manners than any other
of e Esquimaux tribes, and were much better-looking and
cleaner in their persons; the women were rather pretty. All
 those people reside in the Walrus-hide huts, which are de
 scribed in Captain Lyon’s last voya e.              .
    The Griper is ordered to be paidgo<U+FB02>, and sold out of the
navy.    A vessel better adapted to the peculiarities of the ser
vice will 'no doubt be provided for Captain Lyon and his me
ritorious o<U+FB02>icers and crew, on the opening of the season for a
further investigation.     Captain Franklin, we understand, is to
leave England, on his land expedition,        in February next.—
 Hampshire Telegraph.
                “  'I‘HE LOGAN  ROCK REPLACED.”
                                                 “ Penzance, Nov. 6.
    “ The Logan rock is replaced, and rocks as before; it was
put up on Tuesday last, after three days’ labour, b the help
of three pair of large sheers, six capstans, worke by eight
men each, and a variety of pulleys.       Large chain cables were
fastened round the rock, and attached to the blocks by which
it was lifted. Altogether there were about sixty men em
ployed.    The weight of the rock    has been variously computed
                                                                   by

              Account ofthe Trona Lake in A<U+FB01>ica.                          887
by different persons, at from 70 to 90 tons. On the <U+FB01>rst day,
when the rock was <U+FB01>rst swung in the air, in the presence of
about two thousand persons, much anxiety was felt by those
who were present, as to the success of the undertaking; the
ropes were much stretched; the pulleys, the sheers, and the
capstans, all screeched and groaned; and the noise of the ma
chinery was audible at some distance.          Man were very ap
prehensive lest so vast a weight might snap a l the ropes, and
tumble over the precipice, bearing the sheers and scaffolding
away with it; however, the whole has gone off with great suc—
cess.    The materials (which were all, furnished gratis, from
the dock-yard at Plymouth) were excellent, and ingeniously
managed; and though a rope or two broke, and a link of one
of the chains tore away a small piece of an an le of the rock,
which was thrown with much velocity into                 tge
                                                        sea, yet the
rock was safely supported by its complicated. tackling, and
stands, once more, in precisely its former position       Lieutenant
                                                           !
Goldsmith, who threw          down, was the engineer in replacing
                             it
it; and, in the opinion of many of the gentlemen of this town
and nei hbourhood, he has, by his skill and personal la
bour an? attention, not only wiped away the disgrace to which
he was exposed by throwing              down, but also acquired so
                                       it
much merit, that they are about to invite him to a public din
ner at Pearce’s Hotel.       This seems to be going a little too
far; since whatever credit he may have derived by replacing
the rock, seems to be fully counterbalanced by the discredit
of its wanton demolition. It understood that the expenses
                                       is
of this work are defrayed by subscription.             Fifty pounds             ~
have been given    by   the London Geological Society.”—Morn.
Citron.                       .____.__
            ACCOUNT OF THE 'rnona LAKE IN AFRICA.
   The following account of this remarkable soda-lake               is
                                                                given
by Dr. Oudney, in a letter to Professor Jameson.
   “'The Trona Lake          issituated in the midst of amazingly
high   sand-hills, that  run for   several hundred miles to the west
ward, and lie between Wadies Shiati and Ghrurbi.                    in
                                                                    It   is
a  small valley which runs nearly ESE. and WNW. The
north and south sides are bounded by hills of sand about 400
feet high.    The bottom          a <U+FB01>ne sand, on which are found
                                  is
the Agoul (apparently a species of Ulex), and a downy grass.
 Near where we entered the valley, there        is  cluster of date
                                                     a
palms, and a small lake, from which impure trona            obtained.
                                                               is
On the western side the trona lake, surrounded by date- trees,
                        is
and its banks and marshy borders covered, on almost all sides,
by the grass have mentioned, and a talljuncus. It
            I                                                   about
                                                                    is
half a mile long, and nearly 200 yards wide, of very 1nconsr~
                                   3   C    2                 derable

   388            Account ofthe Trona Lake in Africa.
   derable depth at present (July), from the evaporation of the
   water, and many places are dry now which are covered in the
   winter and spring. The trona is deposited in cakes at the bot~
   tom of the lake, when the saturation is at a certain extent. The
   cakes are of various de rees of thickness, from the <U+FB01>nest <U+FB01>lm to
   several inches. The t ickest I could <U+FB01>nd was not more than
   gths of an inch; but at the beginning of winter, when the water
   begins to increase, it is of the thickness I have mentioned, and
   it is then said to be ripe. The surface next the earth. is not
   unequal from crystallization, but rough to the feel with numer
   ous rounded asperities. That next the water is generally found
   studded with small beautiful cubical crystals of muriate of soda;
   the line of junction is always distinct, and the one is easily re
 . moved from the other.       The upper surface, when not covered
   with the muriate, is composed of a congeries of small tabular
. pieces,joined in every position;    when the mass is broken, there
   is a <U+FB01>ne display of acicular crystals, often radiated. The sur
   face of the water is covered in many places with large thin
   sheets of a carbo-muriate of soda, giving the whole file ap
   pearance of a lake partially frozen over: <U+FB01>lm after <U+FB01>lm forms,
   till the whole gets of considerable thickness. The soil of the
   lake is a dark brown sand, approaching to black, of a viscid
   consistence, and slimy smell, and on the lately uncovered sur
   face, near the banks, a black substance,       like mineral tar, is
   seen oozing out.
       The water begins to increase in the winter, and in the spring
   it is at the maximum.     The trona is best about the commence
   ment of winter, but disappears entirely in the spring.
       The lake has diminished considerably in size within the last
   few years, and if care be not taken, the diminution will soon be
   much greater: plants are makin           rapid encroachments, and
   very shallow banks are Observable in many places. On inquiry,
   we found the quantity of trona had not sensibly diminished for
  the last ten years; perhaps it may appear so, from there al
  ways being suf<U+FB01>cient to answer every demand.          The quantity
   annually exported amounts to between 4-00 and 500 camel
   loads, each equal to about 4 cwt.—a large uantity, when the
   size of the lake is considered.    It is remove only when a de
   mand comes; then a man wades in, breaks it off in large sheets,
   which he easily does; hands it to others outside, who are
   ready to remove all foreign matters, and pack it in the setose
   bases of the palm-leaves.      The water in the valley is good,
   and if a well be dug on the ver border of the lake, the water
   is also good, and sensibly free li'yom saline impregnation.”
                                                                 DIS

                     Discovery     of Fossil Bones.                     889
          DISCOVERY_ or FOSSIL BONES AT BANWELL.
     An immense assemblage of fossil bones has recently been
discovered in Somersetsliire, in a cavern of the Limestone
Rock at Banwell,        near the west extremity           of the Mendi
Hills, on the property of the Bishop of Bath and Wells.              The
circumstances which led to this discovery are as follow:—-Some
miners engaged in sinking a shaft in search of calamine, inter
sected a steep and narrow <U+FB01>ssure, which, after descending 80
feet, opened into a spacious cavern, 150 feet long and about
30 feet wide, and from 20 to 30 feet high.               From the diin
culty of descending by this <U+FB01>ssure, it waslately judged desire
able to make an opening in the side of the hill 9. little below, in
a line which might lead directly to the interior of the cave.
This gallery had' been conducted but a few feet, when. the
workmen suddenly penetrated another. cavern of inferior di—
mensions to that which they were in search of, and found its
<U+FB02>oor to be covered, to a depth which has not yet been ascer                   '
tained, with a bed of sand, mud, and fragments of limestone,
through which were dispersed an enormous quantity of bones,
horns, and teeth.      The thickness of this mass has been ascer
tained, by  a shaft sunk   into  it,  to be in one place nearly 40 feet.
Many large    baskets   full  of   bones  have already been extracted,
belonging   chie<U+FB02>y   to  the   ox   and  deer  tribes; of the latter there
are several varieties, including the elk.           There are also a few
portions of the skeleton of wolf, and of gigantic hear. The
                                a                a
bones are mostly in a state of preservation equal to that of
common grave bones, although            is
                                       it    clear, from the fact of some
of them belonging to the great extinct species of bear, that
the are of antediluvian ori 'n.
     n the roof of the cave    t     ereis  a large chimney-like open
ing, which appears to have communicated formerly with the
surface; but which     is  choked up with fragments of limestone,
interspersed vwith mud and sand, and adhering together imper~
fectly by a stalagmitic incrustation.          Through this aperture     it
is probable the   animals     fell  into the  cave,  and perished in the
period preceding      the    inundation     by  which it  was <U+FB01>lled up.
 The immense quantity of the bones shows the number of indi
viduals that were lost in this natural pitfall to have been ver
great.    In this manner cattle are now continually lost           by fal -
 in into similar apertures in the limestone hills of Derbyshire.
      here
     I‘    is nothing to induce a belief that        it was a den inha
bited by hyzenas, like the cave of Kirkdale, or by bears, like
 those in Germany; its leading circumstances are similar to
those of the ossiferous cavities in the Limestone Rock at Ores
ton near Plymouth.
    The cave at Banwell has within these few days been
                                                                      exag
                                                                    mine

   890                 Organic Remains in Sussex.
  mined by Professor Buckland, and operations have been com
 menced for the purpose of thoroughly investigating its history
  and contents.      The Bishop has alread sent collections of
  the bones to the museums of Oxford an Cambrido'e, and in
~tends to provide a similar supply for all the principal public
  institutions in this country.
                     ORGANIC REMAINS IN sussnx.
     The workmen emplo ed in forming the tunnel under the road
  at Kemp-town, near grighton, discovered numerous teeth and
 bones, which were at <U+FB01>rst supposed to be part of human ske—
  letons, but, upon being examined by a gentleman conversant
 with such subjects, were ascertained to belong to the horse
 and elephant.       Similar organic remains are commonly found
 in diluvial beds, like that on which Brighton is situated, and
 are evidently the remains of those land animals which were
 destroyed by the deluge.         The town is built upon an accu
 mulation of water-worn materials, which <U+FB01>ll up a valley of the
 chalk.      A short time since, a rib of a very large animal, su -
 posed    to be that of an elephant, was discovered in the bank on t e
 west side of Shoreham harbour. Mr. Mantell has discovered in
  the iron-sandstone of this count , the teeth of an herbivorous
 reptile of a gigantic magnitude.       his animal approaches nearer
 to the Iguana of Barbadoes, than to any other recent lizard,
 and it is proposed to distinguish it by the name of Iguana-sau
 rus.    Detached parts of the skeleton, as vertebrae, thigh-bones,
 8L0. have also been found, of which a particular account will
 be laid before the scienti<U+FB01>c public.        Mr. Mantell has part of
 a thigh-bone in his possession, which there is every reason to
 conclude is referable to this animal; its siZe is so great, that
 upon a moderate computation, the individual to which it be
 longed must have equalled the elephant in height, and been up
 wards of 60 feet long—Sussex Advertiser.
     CABINET or MINERALS AT CAMBRIDGE (UNITED STATES).
     The liberality of several entlemen of Boston, and their de
 sire to promote the study of Mineralogy and Geology in this
 vicinity, have latel been displayed in the purchase of an ex
 tensive and valuab .e collection of minerals, which they have
 presented to the University at Cambridge.
     This collection is now added to that presented by Andrew
 Ritchie, Esq. and, together with the specimens formerly trans
mitted by the French Government and the late Dr. Lettsom,
 with the additions made by Dr. Waterhouse, will constitute one
of the most complete and valuable mineralogical cabinets in
 the United States.
-                                                                 The

      Cabinet   of Minerals at Cambridge (United        States).      391
   The collection embraces (with the exception of a   very few
of the rarest
            substances) all the late discoveries, and many of
those specimens the localities of which are exhausted, and
many of which are now rarely met with even in the large col
lections of Europe.     The suite of Ores is peculiarly rich, as is
likewise the volcanic department; and the gems and precious
 stones are numerous.      The specimens are all well character
 ized, and the crystallizations are remarkably <U+FB01>ne.
    This collection is arranged in the spacious room formerly
 used as the Commons Hall, being 415% feet in length, 86% feet
wide, and 17% feet high.
    The specimens are placed in cases with glass doors against
 the walls of the room, which to the height of ten feet are com
 pletely covered by them; a large proportion of the most beau
tiful specimens are arranged upon eight glazed tables, and the
 residue in nearly 200 drawers.            _
    One of the tables is appropriated to the EXTERNAL CHARAC—
TERS of mineral substances, on which are disposed the most
                                                                             '
 distinctly characterized specimens, illustrating all the techni-
 cal terms of the science, the different varieties of colour, of
fracture, lustre, transparency, hardness, 8m. 8w. To these
succeed the most erfect crystals illustrating the primary forms
of Werner and aiiy, the modi<U+FB01>cations of these forms, and
the effect of truncations, bevelments, &c.—A suite of models of
crystals, in wood, terminates this <U+FB01>rst division of the cabinet.
    The second division is the systematic arrangement of the
di<U+FB01>'erent substances according to their chemical composition;
this method has been adopted, as it is intended to combine the
                                                     ‘
instruction in chemistry with mineralogy.
    The third division comprises the Geological part of the col
lection, in which the rocks are arranged in the relative order
in which they are presented to us by nature, and in connexion
with each are seen the minerals composing the rock, and those
which are more or less accidentally present in    it,  together with
the metallic ores and fossil remains.
    The fourth division      Geographical, commencing with the
                              is
mineral productions of the United States, arranged according
to States.                                                     -
    The last division    intended to embrace all the products of
                         is
the Mineral kingdom employed in the arts and manufactures,
in their natural state, and in the di<U+FB01>'erent stages of preparation.
This department one of peculiar interest and importance in
                    is
this country, and can only be rendered complete by the libe
rality of artists and manufacturers, who,           hoped, will not
                                             it
                                             is
be backward to transmit to the University such specimens as
will best illustrate the different stages of all the processes
                .                                                    con‘i
                                                                   necte

399*911 Metallic Titanium—0n                 Silicium and Zirconium.
nected with each substance.    Thus, here will be seen the diffe
rent ores, as when <U+FB01>rst taken from the earth, and the same in
all the degrees of puri<U+FB01>cation, Sta—the clays in all the stages
of manufacture—the substances used in colouring, in the ma
                                                 ‘
nufacture of glass, 8m. 8w.
   Mineralogists throughout the country, it is hoped, will avail
themselves of the permission granted by the Corporation of
the University to exchange duplicate specimens.—Bostmz
Journal of Philosophy.
                      0N METALLIC TITANIUM.
   Dr. Walckner of Freyberg, in     the Breisgaw, has lately de
 scribed cubical crystals of metallic titanium which he ob
 served in iron-slags from the Upperland of Baden.     The slag
 was from a furnace where pea-ore (bo/merz) was smelted, and
 analysis proved that this ore of iron contained a minute por
 tion of titanium.     Dr.Wollaston*, as is well known, was the
 <U+FB01>rst who described these cubes.      They occur in the slags of
 iron forges in Wales, in those at Bradford in Yorkshire, Al
 freton in Derbyshire,     at Pontypool in Monmouthshire,     in
  Clydesdale  in this country, and we have  no doubt will be met
 with in many other places where our common iron-ores are
‘sinelted—Edin. Phil. Journ. vol. xi. p. 411.
          PROF. BERZELIUS 0N SILICIUM AND ZIRCONXUM.        ~
    In   trying to reduce <U+FB01>uoric acid by potassium, succeeded            I
  in reducing silica, zirconia, and the other earths; but               have       I          '
  only  been   able to separate  silicium     and zirconium.     The  others
 decompose water with the greatest ener y.                 Pure silicium is
  incombustible even in oxygen, gas.                   ater, nitric acid, or
  nitro-muriatic acid, do not attack          it,nor does caustic potash;
_ but <U+FB02>uoric acid dissolves       ita  little, especially     nitric acid be
                                                              if
  added.      It does not decompose nitre, except at a very intense
  heat, but  it   detonates with carbonate of potash at a dull red
  heat; carbonic oxide gas         isliberated, and carbon          set-at
                                                                         is             li-
  berty.     When         heated with nitre,        ifa small piece of dry
                          is is
                     it
  carbonate of soda        introduced into the mixture, there             'nn      is
   mediate detonation.        When the vapour of sulphur              passed  is
   over siliciumv heated to redness, the metal quickly becomes
   incandescent.      When the combination              perfect, which sel
                                                         is
   dom happens, the substance           is  in the-form of a white earthy
   mass, and decomposes water with great rapidity.                   The                si
   lica
      is  dissolved, and sulphuretted hydrogen gas liberated.
   By this means a solution of silica in water may be obtained,
                  * Sec Phil.
                              Mag. vol. lxii. p. 18; lxiii.   p.   15.
                                                                                        so

                 Action   of Nitric Acid   and Charcoal.              893
so concentrated,       that during evaporation it thickens, coagu
lates,   and  deposits portions of the earth, in the form of gummy
transparent masses.         The siliciuret of potassium, heated with
sulphur,     burns  vividly, and when dissolved, leaves the pure si
licium.      Silicium takes <U+FB01>re in chlorine at a red heat, and a
liquid results, colourless, or of a light-yellow colour, of an
odour resembling that of cyanogen, very volatile, and which,
with water, congeals and deposits gelatinous silica. I have
not as yet examined its conducting power for electricity and
heat, its speci<U+FB01>c gravity, Szc.
     Nothing is easier than to procure this substance; the fol
lowing is the mode I have ultimately adopted: The double
<U+FB01>uate of silica with potash or soda, heated almost to redness
to drive off hygrometric water, is introduced into a glass tube,
closed at one extremity; pieces of potassium are then to be
introduced, and the metal carefully mixed with the powder,
by heating it till it fuses, and then lightly striking the tube.
It is then to be further heated by a lamp; and before it attains
a red heat there is a slight detonation, and the silicium is re
duced.       The mass is to be cooled, and tlien washed with wa
ter as long as any thing dissolves. There is at <U+FB01>rst disengage
ment of hydrogen gas, because -a portion of siliciuret of potas
sium has been formed, which cannot exist in contact with wa
ter. The washed substance is ahydruret of silicium, which at
a red heat burns vividly in oxygen gas, although the silicium
is not completely oxidized; it is to be heated in a covered
platinum crucible, slowly augmenting the <U+FB01>re to redness; the
 hydrogen only oxidizes, and the silicium will no longer burn
 in oxyven gas, though chlorine attacks it very easily. The
 little si ica produced may be removed by <U+FB02>uoric acid ; but if
 the silicium has not been strongly heated, the acid will dissolve
 a little of
           it,   with the disengagement of hydrogen.      According
 to the synthetical experiments which      I   have made, silica con
 tains about 0'52 of its weight of oxygen.
     Zirconium   is  obtained in an analogous manner.           It asis
 black as carbon, does not oxidate in water or in muriatic acid,
 but nitro-muriatic and <U+FB02>uoric acids dissolve         it,
                                                        the last with
 the disengagement of hydrogen. At a temperature but slightly
 elevatedit    burns with great intensity.      Itcombines with sul
 phur. Its sulphuret      is of chesnut-brown colour like silicium,
                               a
 and insoluble in muriatic acid or the alkalies.       It burns with
 brilliancy, producing sulphurous acid gas and zirconia.—-Amz.
 de Cbim. xxvi. 41.                                         \
                                                            _
            ACTION or NITRIC ACID AND CHARCOAL.       D
                                                         -
  Professor Silliman formerly pointed out the production                  of
Vol. 64~. No.319. Nov. 1824.          D     3   hydrocyanlc

394                Analysis ofthe Holy-well Water.
hvdrocyanic      acid by the action of nitric acid and charcoal *.
M. Frisiani has also observed the                  same e<U+FB01>'ect produced, in a
very striking manner, during the action of nitric acid on the
residuum obtained by calcining sulphate of baryta with ve e
table charcoal, and removing every thing soluble in wateriy
repeated washings.          A strong odour of hydrocyanic acid was
produced, and when the action was made to take place in a
Woulfe’s bottle, the tube of which passed into a solution of
potash, the liquor collected, when rendered slightly acid, and
precipitated by persulphate of iron, gave a precipitate, which
washed with muriatic acid became Prussian blue. Nitrates of
the earths, or alkalies, boiled with vegetable charcoal, gave no
result of this kind. When the nitrates and charcoal were mixed
in the dry way and heated, the action was, of course, violent,
but no important results were obtained—(Ho. de Fis. vii. 2&0.
ANALYSIS      or THE HOLY-WELL WATER, NEAR CARTMELL, LAN
             CASHIRE.—-BY       J.   c. WOOLNOTH,             LIEUT. R.N.
    This spring is situated at the                 base     of a bluff hill called
Humphrey           cad, the extreme point of a range of calcareous
hills forming the eastern boundary of the Vale of Cartmell.
The water is emitted through a small lead tube about an inch
in diameter, surrounded and inclosed by rough masonry, and
which delivers a gallon of water in about 1’ 47". The speci<U+FB01>c
gravity of the water is 1006, and the relative proportions of
its contents appear, from various experiments, to be as follows,
in a wine pint of the water :—
          Carbonic acid gas           .    .    .      .    one cubic inch.
          Carbonate of magnesia . . . . 0.266
          Sulphate of soda          .    .    .      .    .    .  3.872
                       lime                                       1.500
                 ---
                                   .    .    .      .    .    .
                       magnesia . . . . .                         3.000
          Muriate of soda               .    .                . 19.782       -
          --——-
                                   .                .    .
      _                magnesia         .    .      .    .    .   9.000
          Peroxide of iron . . . . . . 1.750
          Insoluble in muriatic acid, princi
                                                                  3'000
               pally silica . . .- . .
                                                                 42.170 grains.—
 Journal of Sciences,     (S's. vol. xviii. p. 187.
 MR.  1).  GILBERT ON THE WHEELS AND SPRINGS 0F CARRIAGES
    Taking wheels completely in the abstract, they must be con
 sidered as answering two different purposes.
    First, They transfer the friction which would take place be
                    ’ See Phil. Mag. vol.         lxii.p.   153,234.
                                                                               tween

             On the Wheels and Springs         qf Carriages.               895
  tween a sliding body and the comparatively rough uneven
  surface over which it slides, to the smooth oiled peri heries
  of the axis and box, where the absolute quantity of              tlie
                                                                     frie
  tion as opposing resistance         also diminished
                                     is                  by  leverage, in
  the proportion of the wheel to that of the axis. _
                                                                          -
      Secondly, They procure       mechanical    advantage for over
  coming obstacles in proportion to the square roots of their di
  ameters when the obstacles are relatively small, by increasinc
  the time in that ratio, during which the wheel ascends: ant
  they pass over small transverse ruts, hollows, 0r pits, with an
  absolute advanta     e  of not sinking, proportionate to their di-'
  ameters, and wit a mechanical one as before, proportionate
  to the square roots of their diameters.                  _
       Consequently, wheels thus considered cannot be too large:                     .
  in practice, however, they are limited by weight, by expense,
  and by convenience.
                                                                          ‘
       With reference to the preservation of roads, wheels should
  be made wide, and so constructed as to allow of the whole
  breadth hearing at once; and every portion in contact with
   the ground should roll on         itwithout the least draggin        or
                                                                          01g
  slide: but it is   evident, from the well-known properties           the
  cycloid, that the above conditions cannot unite, unless the roads
  are perfectly hard, smooth, and <U+FB02>at; and, unless the fellies of
  the wheels, with their tires, are accurately portions of a cylin
  der.     These forms, therefore, of roads and of wheels, are the
   models towards which they should always approximate. -
       Roads were heretofore made with a transverse curvature to
   throw off water, and in that case seems evident that the peri
                                          it
   pheries of the wheels should in their transverse sections be
   come tangents to this curve, from whence arose the necessit
   for dishing wheels, and for bending the axes; which contri
   vances gave some incidental advantage for turning, for pro
   tecting the nave, and by affording room for increased stowage
   above. But recent experience having proved that the curved
   form of roads  is   wholly inadequate for obtaining the end pro—
   posed,   since  the  smallest rut intercepts the lateral <U+FB02>ow of the
   water; and, that the barrel-shape con<U+FB01>nes carriages to the
   middle of the way, and thereby occasions these very rats,—
   roads are now laid <U+FB02>at, carriages drive indi<U+FB01>'erently over eVery
          the wear   is  uniform, and not even the appearance of a
   part,
     ongitudinal   furrow  is to be seen.      Itmay, therefore, con<U+FB01>
   dently   be   hoped,  that  wheels  approaching to the cylindrical
   form will soon <U+FB01>nd their way into general use.              i
      '_The line of traction    ismechanically best disposed when               it
   lies exactly parallel to the direction of motion, and its power
\is    diminished at any inclination of that line in the '
                                     8D   2                   proportions
                                                                        o

    396           On the Wheels and Springs   qf Carriages.
    of the cosine of the angle to radius.         When obstacles fre
    quently occur, it had better perhaps receive a small inclination
    upwards, for the purpose of acting with most advantage when
    those are to be overcome.       But it is probable that di<U+FB01>'erent.
    animals exert their strengths most advantageously in different
    directions, and therefore practice alone can determine what
    precise inclination of this line is best adapted to horses, and
    what to oxen.     These considerations are, however, only ap
    plicable to cattle drawing immediately at the carriage; and the
    convenience of this draft, as connected with the insertion of the
    line of traction, which continued ought to pass through the
    axis of the wheels, introduces another limit to their size.
        Springs were in all likelihood applied at <U+FB01>rst to carria es,
    with no other view than to accommodate travellers.            Tiey
    have since been found to answer several important ends.
       They convert all percussion into mere increase of pressure,
    -—'that is, the collision of two hard bodies   is   changed by the
    interposition of one that     is elastic, into a mere accession of
    weight.     Thus the carriage      preserved from injury, and the
                                       is
    materials of the road are not broken: and, in surmounting ob
    stacles, instead of the whole carriage with its load being lifted
    over, the springs allow the wheels to rise, while the weights
    suspended upon them are scarcely moved from their horizon
    tal level.   So that,     the whole of the weight could be sup
                             if
    ported on the springs, and all the other parts supposed to be
    devoid of inertia, while the springs themselves were very lon   ,
    and extremely <U+FB02>exible, this consequence would clearly follow,
    however much may wear the appearance of a paradox ;--th-at
                    it
    such a carriage may be drawn over a road abounding in small
    obstacles without agitation, and without any material addition
    being made to the moving power or draft.           It seems, there
    fore, probable that, under certain modi<U+FB01>cations of form and
    material, springs may be applied with advantage to the very
    heaviest waggons     ; and consequently,  if  any <U+FB01>scal regulations
    exist either in regard to the public revenue or to local taxa
    tion, tending to discourage the use of springs, they should
    forthwith be removed.
       Although the smoothness of roads and the application of
    springs are bene<U+FB01>cial to all carriages and to all rates of tra
    velling, yet they are eminently so in cases of swift conveyance,
    since obstacles when springs are not interposed, require an
    additional force to surmount them beyond the regular draft,
    equal to the weight of the load multiplied     b    the sine of the
I   angle intercepted    on  the periphery   of the wlieel between the
    points in contact with the ground and with the obstacle, and
    therefore proportionate to the square‘of its height; and a still
                                                              further

               Calendar   of Flora, Fauna, and Pomona.        391
 further force, many times greater than the former when the
 velocity is considerable, to overcome the inertia; and this in-_
 creases with the height of the obstacle, and with the rapidity
 of the motion, both squared. But, when springs are used,
 this latter part, by far the most important, almost entirely dis
 appears, and their bene<U+FB01>cial effects in obviating the injuries of
 percussion are proportionate also to the velocities squared.
    The advantages consequent to the draft from suspending
 heavy baggage on the springs, were <U+FB01>rst generally perceived
 about 40 years since, on the introduction of mail-coaches; then
 baskets and boots were removed, and their contents were
heaped on the top of the carriage.        The accidental circum—
 stance, however, of the weight being thus placed at arconsi
derable elevation, gave occasion to a prejudice, the cause of
innumerable accidents, and which has not, up to the present
time, entirely lost its in<U+FB02>uence; yet, a moment’s consideration
must be suf<U+FB01>cient to convince any one, that when the body of
a carriage is attached to certain given points, no other effect
can possibly be produced by raising or by depressin            the
weights within     it,than to create a greater or a less ten ency'
 to overturn.
    The extensive use of waggons suspended on springs, for
conveying heavy articles, introduced within these two or three:
last years, will form an epoch in the history of internal land
communication,      not much inferior perhaps in importance to
that when mail-coaches were <U+FB01>rst adopted; and the extension
of vans in so short a time to places the most remote from the
metropolis, induces a hope and expectation, that as roads im—
prove, the means of preserving them will improve also, possi
bly in an equal degree, so that permanence and consequent
cheapness, in addition to facility of conveyance, will be distin
guished features of the M‘Adam system.—Journal of Science,
vol. xviii. p. 95.             ——-——
Calendar     of Hora, Fauna, and Pomona, at Haryi'eld in   Sussex,
             continued <U+FB01>om October 27 to November 21.
     Oct.   27.——A few swallows seen   they were only stragglers,
                                       ;
and appeared   like  the   young  of a late brood.   To see these
birds on the vigil of  St.  Simon  and   Jude  is recorded as be
ing a very unusual pheenomenon. A martin or two has some
times been seen so late as November, but the fIz'rundo rustica
is very rarely seen after the middle of the month of October.
   Oct. 29.—The yellow and red decaying leaves are fast fall
in . The weather wet and variable.
  Tlov. 1.—-All-saints Day. Many plants remain in <U+FB02>ower,
                                                             an
                                                          . her‘e1

    898                       List of New Patents.
   and there; as Marigolds, Stocks, the Leopard’s-bane, Michael
   mas   Daisy, Aster Tradescantii, the Aster tardglorus, and others.
       Nov. 2.-—All-souls Day. The large or Gansel’s Bergamot
    Pears ripe, but not very good this year. The Geraniums and
    Myrtles still <U+FB02>ourish out of doors. Polyanthuses and Daisies
   are in <U+FB02>ower, and a few of the common Primrose.                     There is
   also an abundance of Chinese Roses.
       Nov. 11.——The Swan’s Eggs and the Crasane Pears ripe,
‘
   and of very good <U+FB02>avour this year.
       Nov. 13.—It is observed that most of the Apples in the
   loft keep very badly this year, beginning to rot much sooner
   than usual: they are likewise infested with a small worm, which
   leaves round black foramina in them.               The sort called Red-
   streaks and Duckbills keep the worst. The crops of this fruit
   have been very scanty, and the price of them is advancing.
       Nov. 20.—Weather very wet, and the marshes flooded.
   Large congregations of rooks and daws, sometimes accompa
   nied b starlings, begin to be frequent, as is usual in autumn.
   The uropean Tailpye, Mecistura vagans, has several times ap
   peared of late in small <U+FB02>ocks, wandering over the country at
   uncertain intervals, and performing partial migrations.
       Nov. 21.—-Weather warm and showery, and the ground unu
  sually wet, with a <U+FB02>ood in the marshes of the Medway. While
  sitting at tea, we were surprised by a sharp, sudden, and un
  usually loud clap of thunder, followed by a violent storm:
  itdid not clear the air, as we at <U+FB01>rst hoped, but has ended
  again in settled rain, while the <U+FB02>oods in the meadows continue
   to increase.
                                                               T F0 ESTER
                            LIST OF NEW PATENTS.
      To          Apsden, of Leeds, Yorkshire, bricklayer, for his improvement
  in the Joseph
           mo es of producing an arti<U+FB01>cial stone. — Dated 215t October,
  1824.— 2 months allowed to enrol speci<U+FB01>cation.
      To George Dodd, of St. Anne-street, Westminster, Middlesex, engineer,
  for certain improvements on <U+FB01>recxtinguishing machinery.—21st October.
  —6 months.                                                         -
      _To George    Samuel  Harris,  of Caroline-place, Trevor-square, Knights
  bridge, Middlesex,_gentleman,     for his machine for the purpose of giving
  the
        most effectual and extensive publicity, by day and by night, to all pro
   clamations, notices, legal advertisements, and other purposes to which the
  same may be applicable, destined for universal information, and which will
  henceforwarzl    render unnecessary the defacement of walls and houses in
 themetropolls and its vicinity by bill-sticking, placarding, and chalking,
  which latter practices have become a great and offensive
                                                                public nuisance.
  —215t October.—-2 months.                                          ,       .
     To John Lingford, of Nottingham, lace-machine manufacturer, for cer
 tain' improvements upon machines or machinery now in use for the' purpose
   IH|
                                                                               of

                              List of New Patents.                               399:
  of making that kind of lace commonly known or distinguished by the name,
  of bobbin, net, or Buckinghamshire lace-net.-1st November.—6 months.
      To The Rev. John Somerville, A.M. minister of the parish of Currie,
  Edinburgh, for a method or methods applicable to fowling-pieces or other
  <U+FB01>re-arms,      by which method or methods all accidental discharge of such
  fowling-pieces Or other <U+FB01>re-arms will be completely prevented.—4th No
  vember.—2 months.
      To John Crosley, of Cottage-lane, City Road, Middlesex, gentleman,
  for his contrivance for better ensuring the egress of smoke and rare<U+FB01>ed air
  in certain situations.—4th N oven1ber.—6 months.
      To Thomas Richard Guppy, of Bristol, gentleman, for certain improve
  ments in masting vessels.-— 4th November._-6 months.
      To John Head, of Banbury, Oxfordshire, hosier, for certain improve
  ments in machinery for making cords or plait for boot and stay laces, and
  other urposes.—4th N0vembcr.—4 months.
      To      illiam Church, of Birmingham, \Varwickshire, esquire, for certain
  improvements       on angers and bits for boring, and in the apparatus for
  making the same.—4th November.—6 months.                                    ',
      To William Busk, of Broad street, London, esquire, for certain im
   provements in propelling ships, boats, or other vessels or <U+FB02>oating bodies.
  ——4th    November.-(i months.
      To John White the younger,         and Thomas Sowerby,        both of Bishop
  \Vearmouth,       Durham, merchants, for their improved airhfurnace for the
  purpose     of melting or fusing metallic substances. — 6th November.—
   4 months.                            _
      To John Moore, of Broad Weir, Bristol,           gentleman, for certain ad
  ditions to an improvement upon the steam-engine or steam-engine appa-5
  ratus.-—6th November.—6 months.                                                    é _
      To Thomas Cartmell, of Doncaster, Yorkshire, gun-maker, for an im-:
  proved cock to be applied to the lock of any gun, pistol, <U+FB01>re-arms, or ord-‘
  nance, for the purpose of <U+FB01>ring the same by percussion, acting either by
  self-priming or otherwise, and whereby the priming is rendered wholly im
  pervrous alike to the wind, rain, or damp.-—6th N ovember.— 2 months.
      To Charles Heathorn, of Maidstone, Kent, lime-burner, for his method
   of constructing and erecting a furnace or furnaces, kiln or kilns, for the
   more    speedy, more   e<U+FB01>‘ectually, and more economically       manufacturing   of
   lime, by means of applying, directing, and limiting, or regulating the <U+FB02>ame
   and heat arising in the manufacturing      or burning coal into coke, and thus
, making     lime and coke in one and the same building, and at one and the
   same time.—l 1th November.-2 months.                          -
_      To William Leathy, of Great Guildf'ord-street, Borough of Southwark,
   engineer, for various improvements in the machinery or apparatus used in
   the making of bricks, and certain improvements in the drying of bricks, by
  means of <U+FB01>nes and steam.-—-llth November.—6 months.
       To Pierre Brunet, of Wimpole-street, Cavendish-square, Middlesex,
   merchant, who, in consequence of a communication           made to him by a
    certain foreigner residing abroad, with whom he is connected, is in pos
    session of an invention ofa furnace made upon a new construction.-—11th
   November.—6 months.
       To Joseph Clisild Daniell, of Stoke, Wilts, clothier, for certain im
   provements in dressing woollen cloth.-—-20th N0vember.—4 months.
       To Isaac Taylor junior, of Chipping Ongar, Essex, gentleman, for a
   newly invented cock or tap for drawing o<U+FB02>' liquids.—-Q()th November.—
                                                                        -
    2 months.                                                  .
       To William Rhodes, of      Baulins, ,lloxton, Middlesex, brick-maker, for
    hisimprovement in the construction of clamps for burning raw bricks.—
    20th November.—-6     months.
                                                                     A METEORO—

 A                                                                                                lhe Observations                                   BURNEY          at                       Mr.         CARY   in        London,       and        Mr.    VEALL      at Boston.
      METEOROLOGICAL                                  TABLE:                 comprising                                               qur.                                     Gosport,
            Gosrom,at                                                   0’C10¢k,A-“'                                  CLOUDS‘                                                      Themomemr'                         RAm'
                                       half-past           Eight                                                                                           Height        °f_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WEATHEL
                            ..     .              -        -   .                        I                       .
                                                                                                    w                                    a             garglmewgc’m
                                                                                                                                                             “5’  °'               Loxnom,                _      =-            _
      Daysvf                535                    ‘35         E                        Ba        ’55                          2‘.   52
                                                                                                           155'                                       My                           i—fTié<U+FB01>                       g                       __*_.1
      Mom“,                                                    F1
                             5‘5                   i=5                                                                                                                                                                        5 ‘s’
       1824.                 h:                    or              >,      6 5 :3        é-<U+FB01>gsasgii'g"         c            5 Ldon                                   B.Ost.         ===l=.!§;g
                                                                                        >      ‘50     _=            _               E     =   -,r              .\                 <                                          Q          Ldon        on.           B  mean.
                                                                                                                                                                                     v       mm                  q
                                       d E 2 t:
                            53"‘                                                        Q       g2     05511100“11.“.‘8§A.M.w4_4
                                                                                                                                                                                          I:
                                                  9%“                                   —'        a    —‘ "'
                                                                                                                                                           .              .                                                                                    '
       001.20                           56                     72         sw.                   01045        1...        1---                                                                        ~                                   Smrm       Y      R
                            2904                  53-40
               27
               28
                            r1952
                            29'69
                                        52
                                        54
                                                   ......
                                                   """
                                                   """
                                                               63
                                                               73
                                                                           W.
                                                                          Sw‘
                                                                                        0-20
                                                                                          '
                                                                                                  020
                                                                                                   .415
                                                                                                             l
                                                                                                           1 l
                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                      l  1..].
                                                                                                                                     i
                                                                                                                                     11                29%
                                                                                                                                                       2376
                                                                                                                                                       29.65
                                                                                                                                                                    2935
                                                                                                                                                                    29.50
                                                                                                                                                                                   495mm“
                                                                                                                                                                                   5052‘50          43                .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Fair
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Cloudy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Rain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           “1‘:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Fine<U+FB02>ainmm'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Cloudy,   rain         mm.
           :9    O                                                                                      ll                                    1
                                                                                                                                              1                                                                    --                    Fa"               Rain
                             29g?)
                            ‘29'                   ------                 NEW       -      --                                  "'                      3005         2900           434843139
                                                                                                                                                                                          I     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '47                                       UMP“
                                                                                                                                                           _              _                               _       u.            "-       Rain              Rain
             31             30.00       53         ______      72          w,             -25       040......
        Nov-1                                                                              .. .............                                                                        2(5):???
                                                                                                                                                                                                    222          005           .41 Cloudy                  Rain
                                                                           \v,                                                                         23.2151 @333
                                                                                                                                           1 ll ll 1 ll
                ’1          29'80                                          W-              '- """""""                     INT-l-                                                                    50            n.           .18 Cloud-v                 Rain,      Stormy at nL
                                                                           W.                       mo        1...        1...       11          1    9
                                                                                                                                                      2    .8   |2   9    .50      4250‘42‘43-5                                ~06 Fair                    Fine,     rain at m.
                            29-88                                                         -24                                                                5b
                            2984                                          NW.                       1020    1    1        1...       11                                            40V   ‘0;                                   m   Fair                    Fine
                            2973                                          NW.             .. .......       I    l        l
                                                                                                                         l                           12935        529150           40%;;ng                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Fair                    Fine
                                                  ......                  N.E.            ~21 '005           l---         1"“                                     123.32           324546132                                       Fair                    Fine, min
                            30.02       39                     67                                                                                                                                                                                                         at night.
                                        56        53-00        71         SW.             -.       '010      1...         l"         0.0   l           2999       £29.70           5156501151                                  -14       Cloudy            Cloudy
                                                                                                            1    1                         Il                             l    5                                 0.00           .“
                            2970        56         ______      72                                  .055                   1..                    9'
                                                                                                                                                 2       '61      ‘2 ‘                                                                   Cloudy            Cloudy,      heavy rain
                                                                         ‘Sw_                                                                                        9%
                                                                                                                                                 11                                                                                      Fair              Fine
                3456 78 9
                            29-95       4.3       ......       74         NW.             -20      080       1...         1..                                                      405650;”                                    _27                                               [PM
                                                                                                                                      1..l.
               10           29.95       56                                      .                                         1..                          332;;      '35.?)           555556155                                             Cloudy            Cloudy
               11                       57                                      .                                    .    l--                          2985       12950            5555150751                                            Rain              Cloudy
                            29'88
               12           30-00       46                                                                           .    1..         l---      l       010        29.63           4047i45   44                                          Fair              Fine,rain      0.110.
               13           30-10       51                                                                           .    1..                          2990         29.75          4552'47   44                                ~07        Cloudy            Cloudy
               ‘4           29.60       55                                                                           '                               12965          29%            45'47547 50-5                                         main              Stormy
               [5
               16
               17
                            29'93
                            30-19
                            29—84
                                        43
                                        42
                                        52
                                                                                                                    l'
                                                                                                                     -    l"
                                                                                                                         l"    "
                                                                                                                                     "
                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                       2998
                                                                                                                                                       30,17
                                                                                                                                                       2970
                                                                                                                                                                    29-60
                                                                                                                                                                    29.95
                                                                                                                                                                    29715
                                                                                                                                                                                   40517551396
                                                                                                                                                                                   3447 52135
                                                                                                                                                                                   5052‘55151-5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1'40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               _
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  __,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Fair
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Cloudy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Cloudy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Fine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Cloudy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Stormy
               18           2945       {’8                                                                                I"         "                   .52        28.93          5552*45157                                            Stormy            Stormy
            19              2973        00                                                                                     u                 123-69             29-55          4550404210                                            Rain              Fine
            20              29'40      49                                                                                                  l 21 l l 1 129.37        29.40          4350'50          38                          ...      Rain              Fine,     rainp.    m.
            21              29'41      52                                                                                1'"         1                 29.45        99.20          50‘54l50         44                          66       Fair              Rain
           23                                                                                                        .
                                                                                                                         1'“         l     ll |11      29.40        28.90   4gl48148                41           1-22          ~14 Fair                    Fine          [rain      am.
                                                                                                                       11:...                          2052         28-30                           49                         -13       Stormy            Stormy,                SE.
                                                                                                                                                                            47l47l42                                                                                    Wind
            24              29100  48                                                                                . 1--           1
                                                                                                                                  1...                 29-07        28-60                                             ..
L‘,         ‘24             Q<U+FB02>-QBCAEL.                                                                               » l--    h.‘                      Qo-m         on-numrn4042542       o         44K
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,n-               ‘      ~32         gillir‘          [21901122225          11:011.

                                       THE
   PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
        AND JOURNAL.
                    31"    DECEMBER                        1824-.
 LXX.     On the Electra-motive Actions of Water and Liquids
   in general  on Metals .- and of the electric E<U+FB01>cts which take
   place—<U+FB01>rst, in the Contact of certain Homes and Metals ,
   secondly, in Combustion.    By            M
                                       BEcgUEREL, Ancien Chef
   de Bataillon du Ge'nie.*
               Electra-motive Actions       of Water       on Metals.
WEpossible
   have formerly
           number
                    been occupied in reducing to the smallest
                      the causes which produce electric phae
nomena, whether in the contact of bodies, or at the instant
when these bodies enter into combination with each other.
 Constantly guided by this view of the subject, we have had to
 submit to experiment, simple bodies, as much as circumstances
would permit. Researches of this kind require that the means
of experiment be continually modi<U+FB01>ed; for as we quit one of
the causes which concurs to the production of a phaenomenon,
we often diminish its intensity to such a point that a more sen
 sible apparatus is then necessary, in order to observe it.
    For some time we had sought to determine the electro
motive action of water on a metal; but our <U+FB01>rst attempts were
not satisfactory: <U+FB01>rst, the condenser had not sensibility enough;
and lastly, the mode of experiment itself was not suitable.’
We placed on the upper plate of the condenser a band of pa
per, and above the vessel of metal into which we poured some
water.     We found afterwards that this band of paper did not
preVent electro-motive actions between it and the metals; after
that, it became impossible to collect the very weak electricity
which the vessel of metal acquired during its contact with the
                                                                 '
water.
    We subsequently recollected that Coulomb had found that
electricity escaped very rapidly by the glass and wood sup
porters, when they were slightly damp; a property when
      ‘l‘
            From the Annalcs   de Chimie et de Phisique,   tom. xxvii. p. 5.   .   -
V61. 64. No. 320. Dec. 1824-.                    s  E                 M. Rous

402            M. Becquerel      0n the Electra-motive
M     Rousseau has of late fully illustrated, by showing, with an
electrometer of his invention, that all badly conducting bo
dies, covered with a thin stratum of hygrometric water, con
ducted with facility very small quantities of electricity.             We
therefore took a little capsule ot wood or porcelain, <U+FB01>lled with
distilled water; and after having slightly moistened its sides,
we placed it on the upper plate of the condenser.                  But as
this box    sometimes     exercises  an    electro-motive    action,  very
feeble indeed, on the plate, that is destroyed by touching
the lower plate with a capsule formed of the same matter.
The precaution may even be pushed so far as to <U+FB01>ll it with
distilled water; then, touching this water with the <U+FB01>nger,
account is kept on each side of the action of the water on
the wood.       Laminae of different metals held between the
<U+FB01>ngers were plunged in one of the two capsules, taking the
precaution of not touching the sides; the other plate was in
communication with the earth.            Zinc, iron, lead, tin, copper,
8tc., communicated to it positive electricity; whilst platinum,
gold, silver, &c., gave it                  electricity. Water then is
positive with the metals whic   negative
                                      are the most positive, and ne-v
gative with those which are the least so.            It thus exhibits the
same effects with the oxidable metals as alkalies do in their
contact with acids, when there is no chemical action.
    These phenomena also take place when the water contains
a small quantity of sulphuric acid. It may be remarked, that
the water is then decomposed by the iron and the zinc, and
 that these metals are attacked.           The chemical action in this
 case has not therefore hindered the production of the electric
 phaenomena ' which
                 '
                        result from the contact of the metals with
 the water.
     These experiments require great precautions.             It is neces-é
 sary that the surface of each metal be perfectly freed from rust,
 or well polished, not with emery paper, but with pounded lass,
 in order to remove any grains of emery from their sur aces,
                                                               ’
 which might there exercise electro-motive e<U+FB01>‘ects. It is also
 preferable to use a wooden capsule slightly moistened, be—
 cause its fibres, being impre nated with moisture, conduct the
 electric <U+FB02>uid with more facility than glass or porcelain.            Not
 withstanding    these  precautions,  it  sometimes    occurs  that  no re
 sult is obtained; but when these phaenomena are produced,
 it is always in the order we have just mentioned.
     Perhaps we might be led to think that the small quan
 tities of electricity, which often remain attached to the light
 coat of varnish with which each plate of the condenser is co
 vered, disturb the results by their presence, and lead to error,
                                                                 especially

                'Actions     of LiQuids   on liIetals.            408
especially in the experiments in which the development of
electricity is feeble.    But this is not the case; for the pre
cautions we take secure us from such effects.         Before the com
mencement of an experiment, we assure ourselves by several
trials that the plates retain no electricity: when we <U+FB01>nd
any, we have them heated suf<U+FB01>ciently to drive it away, or else
we place, as M. Pouillet does, a disk of tin between the two
plates; then the small quantities of electricity which remain
on the surface of the layers of varnish become combined by
its intervention.    Afterwards, we employ successively, as a
collector, each of these two plates, both being adapted to
receive a capsule.    If  a different electricity is then obtained, it
is a proof that the experiment has succeeded, the disturbing
causes being removed. Besides, the laws to which the greater
part of the results are submitted, come still further in aid of
the exactness of the experiments.
    We have also another objection to obviate. When a capsule
of earthenware, glass, &c., is placed on one of the lates of the
condenser, and is touched with the <U+FB01>nger,-—whic , as is well
known, is not a good conductor,—the condenser does not be
come charged.      It ma be thought, that in touching the water
which it contains with, any metal which is an excellent con
ductor, the discharge of the electricity supposed to be ac
quired by the             in its contact with the plate, ought to be
more rapid, an  capsule,
                    that the condenser should become charged :
but this does not take place; for all the metals ought to give the
same electricity in their contact with the water, which is not
the case.    Finally, by holding the metal between the <U+FB01>ngers,
the conductibility is only momentarily augmented; since the
electricity, after having traversed the metal, is obliged to pass
afresh through the hand, where it <U+FB01>nds the same obstacles as
when the <U+FB01>nger touched the liquid. It is, therefore, now well
Proved, that we have really observed the electro-motive actions
of water on metals.
   These actions being found, we then inquired if their in
tensity was not susceptible ‘ of augmentation or diminution,
accordin     to the modi<U+FB01>cations which the surfaces of me
tals mig t eXperience in certain circumstances.            A plate of
gold was plunged into nitric acid for some moments, and
then washed several times in water; it was then put in contact
with the water of the wooden capsule: the result was a de
velopment of electricit much more considerable than before;
the water again took       thenegative electricity.
    The same late plunged afresh into asolution of potash, lost
in great partt
             e     property of             electricity by the
                                 achiring
                                 3   2                        contact;
                                                                    o

404            M. Becquerel     on the      Electric Ejects
 of water. A plate of platinum exhibited absolutely the same
results.    May not these phaenomena have some distant re
 lation to those observed by MM. Thenard and Dulong in
their researches respecting the               which certain bodies
 possess of favouring    the        proper?!
                             combination  0  elastic <U+FB02>uids?   These
 two celebrated philosophers found that a fresh wire of platinum,
 which did not become heated at the ordinary temperature,
 when it was placed under a current of hydro en gas, which
 diffused itself in the air, became susceptible o becoming red
 hot, when it had previously been plunged in nitric acid for
 some minutes, and the excess of acid taken away.          The pro
 perty  that  the  platinum   wire then  acquires,  lasts more than
 twenty-four hours.       We remarked that a plate of gold pre
 served for several hours the property of becoming strongly
'electric in its contact with the water.-—VVe propose to return
 to these phaenomena, which we only indicate here.
 Electric E<U+FB01>cts     observed   in   the  Contactqf   two   Metals with a
                                    Liquid.
  We have already said, that the electric    effects which mani
fested themselves   when two metals were separated by a liquid,
were not similar to those which took place when the liquid
was replaced by any metal; for Volta found that, in this
last case, the intermediate metal served only as a conductor;
whereas we have shown that this did not take place in the
other.    It is very probable that the electric tension of each
metal is here owing to a difference of action.        Let us then
admit this principle until experience has proved that it is not
correct.    Let us take, for example, copper and zinc, and
let us represent the electric tensions of the copper and of the
liquid, by + 8 and —8, those of the zinc and of the same liquid
by + 8' and —8'; the electricity 8 of the liquid will be com
mon also to the zinc, as the electricity 8' will be to the copper.
It will follow that the electric tensions of the copper and the
zinc will be +
                  T 3—3'
                           and +
                                     T.
                                     3'—3
   Thus, according as 8 shall be greater or less                  than  8',the
electricit of the copper will be positive or ne                    tive, whilst
that oft   e zinc will be the contrary.  All lea              s    to the sup
position that such    the case.
                      is
   The following table includes the results of a                  number      of
ex pe rlments.
                                                                        M etal

              qftlze Contact qft'wo Metals with a Liquid.                           405
                                                                       Elecmc
                      -    -         -     -           Metal    lun ed
M etal   capsule.   Liquid contained in the capsule.   in the    i
                                                                 q   'ugid
                                                                       State of
                                                                             the cap.
Platinum Concentrated sulphuric acid                      Gold                  +
     Ditto                         Ditto                  Silver                +
     Ditto                         Ditto                  Copper                +
     Ditto                         Ditto                  Iron                  +
     Ditto                         Ditto                  Lead                  +
     Ditto                         Ditto                  Zinc                  +
 Platinum           Sulphuric acid much diluted           Gold                  +
  Ditto.                     Ditto                        Silver                +
  Ditto                      Ditto                        Copper                +
  Ditto                      Ditto                        Iron                  +
  Ditto                      Ditto                        Lead                  +
  Ditto                      Ditto                        Zinc                  +
 Copper             Concentrated sulphuric acid           Gold                  -
     Ditto
     Ditto
                                   Ditto
                                   Ditto
                                                          Silver
                                                          Platinum
                                                                               —
                                                                                -
     Ditto                         Ditto                  Iron
                                                          Lead                 0 0
     Ditto                         Ditto
     Ditto                         Ditto                  Zinc                 —
 Copper                   Diluted sulphuric acid          Gold                 —
'
  Ditto                         Ditto                     Silver               _
  Ditto                         Ditto                     Platinum             —
  Ditto                         Ditto                     Iron                  +
  Ditto                         Ditto                     Lead                  —
  Ditto                         Ditto                     Zinc                  +
 Platinum                      Solution of potash         Gold                  +
  Ditto                            Ditto                  Silver                +
  Ditto                            Ditto                  Copper                +
  Ditto ,                          Ditto                  Iron                  +
  Ditto                            Ditto                  Lead                 +
  Ditto                            Ditto                  Zinc                 +
                               Solution of potash         Gold                 —
 Copper
'
     Ditto                         Ditto                  Silver               —
     Ditto                         Ditto                  Platinum             —
     Ditto                         Ditto                  Iron                  +
 ,   Ditto                         Ditto                  Lead                 0
     Ditto                         Ditto                  Zinc                  +

406                         M. Becquerel              on the     Electric
    By         of the principle that we have before laid down,
           the help
we can explain all these results, and even draw consequences
from it which will be useful to the electro-chemical theory.
   Admitting, as we have already said, that the electric states
of the metal box and of the plate of metal be represented by
                                    5—3’
                                             and +
                                                           5'   -    B
                              -|-
                                    —2—                    '2—
(+8 and     -— 8
                 being the electric tensions of the box and of
the  acid liquid which is in      +8' and —8' those of the same
                                           it,                                                        li
uid and of the metallic plate which         plunged in it),    fol
                                                                is                           it
lows, that a vessel of platinum, containing the concentrated
sulphuric acid in which shall be plunged a plate of gold, of
silver, of copper, or of zinc, will always have for its electric
     .               3-3'       . .                             .
tensmn            + ——2—- a p0s1t1ve quantity;
which requires that be greater than
                              8             from whence        to    8';                    it   is
be concluded, that platinum     more positive in its contact with
                                             is
sulphuric acid than gold, silver, or copper, submitted to the
same experiment.                 .
   When the vessel of platin um contains sul huric acid diluted
with water, other phaencmena take place, w ich must be taken
into account.    We have said that platinum, gold, and silver,
took the ne ative electricity in their contact with water di
luted with     t acid; whilst zinc, lead, iron, and copper, ac
                   is
  uired positive electricity.   must be concluded from thence,
                                             It
t  at for platinum, and zinc the electric state of the <U+FB01>rst
  .
W111   be             -I-   'T
                            3—3’
                                    =   a pos1t1ve
                                           .
                                                  .   .
                                                      3—
                                                           quant1ty,
                                                                         .
                                                     .
and the state of the second — —Ty = a negatlve quantlty;
which always takes place. »We also <U+FB01>nd that the copper                                                is
less negative with a solution of potash than the zinc         in its                        is
contact with the same liquid.
   We have then a process for determining the relations of
the electric states of bodies in their contact with     uids.    In               li
the contact of the metals      has been found that platmum
                                        it                      al                               is
ways              with any metal whatever; but             not yet               it    is
known,inegative
              be, for example, more negative with gold, than
              it
        with silver; whilst, in the experiments with which we
       is
gold
  avejust been occupied, similar relations are to be found when
one of the bodies      liquid.
                             is
Electric Actions produeed                  by                                         Flames and
                                             the Contact                 of certain
                                           Metals. -
       '
    Hitherto we have applied ourselves to the investigation of
                                                                                            electric

             E<U+FB01>'ects  of the Contact of Flames amt Metals.           *0?
  electric e<U+FB01>'ects   only in the contact of the metals with each
  other, and in that of liquids with the metals and sali<U+FB01>able.
  bases, even when this contact was followed by a chemical ac
  tion. It has also been shown, that in a circuit formed of two
  parts of the same metal, if one of them were made red-hot
  near the points of fusion, an electric current would be esta
  blished in the entire circuit,when itwas closed, of such a kind
  that the side which was not heated would furnish positive
  electricity, and the other negative electricity.         It has been
  found also, that the electricity developed in this phaenomenon
.
  had not suf<U+FB01>cient tension to be rendered sensible with a con
  denser.
      We are at present about to occupy ourselves with another
  class of phaenomena.        Instead of taking a circuit either wholly
  metallic, or of metals in contact with any liquids whats
  ever, we shall substitute for these last, in<U+FB02>amed gases, and
  we shall'observe the phaenomena which will be then pro
  duced.      The <U+FB02>ames which we shall submit to experiment are
  those   which    proceed from the combustion of alcohol, of hy
  drogen gas,     or of a sheet of pa er.                                 I
      Let us place on the capsule 0 wood or of earthenware which
  communicates with one of the plates of the condenser, a wire
  of platinum, or a plate of the same metal of a decimetre in
  length, and which projects beyond the edge of the plate; let
  us put the lower            in communication with the ground; let
  us plunge one ofplate  the extremities of the wire or of the plate in
   one of the <U+FB02>ames of which we have just spoken :—if the metal
   attains the red temperature, it will take negative electricity; 'in
   the contrary case, it will acquire positive electricity. In these
   two circumstances the <U+FB02>ame will always have an electricity
   opposite to that of the metal. To collect that which the <U+FB02>ame
   takes, abit of moistened wood is passed upon the capsule, which,
   not experiencing any combustion, performs the of<U+FB01>ce of a
   conductor, and transmits to the condenser the electricity which
   it has taken from the <U+FB02>ame.
      A copper wire gives a similar result. In general, it ap
   pears that all metals possess more or less of the property which
   we have just observed in platinum and in copper.             Thus, a
   metal plunged in a <U+FB02>ame fed by'a current of hydrogen gas
   takes the negative or positive electricity, according as its tem
   perature is more or less elevated, and communicates to the
   <U+FB02>ame the contrary electricity.       It now remains to determine
   the temperatures at which these phaenomena are produced in
   each metal.       Now, as the passage'from one electric state to
    another is indicated by the absence of electricity, it
                                                                 follqws
                                                                     t lat

 408         M. Becquerel    on the   Electricity of Flames.
  that it sometimes happens that a temperature is communicated
 to the metal which dees not giVe it any electricity.         ‘
      When the electricity acquired by the <U+FB02>ame is received on
 one of the plates of the condenser, we can, if we choose, put
 this in communication with the ground by touching it with a
 bit of moistened wood. Although the <U+FB02>ame, whilst it is con
  tinually renewed, carries away with it the electricity that it
 has acquired in its contact with the metal, the experiment
 proves that the discharge takes place still more rapidly in
 operating as we have just indicated.           But       in place of
                                                           if,
 touching   the  <U+FB02>ame  with a  bit of moistened   wood, a  plate of the
 same metal       used as that which
                  is                       placed on the capsule,
                                           is                              it
is   found that both become established in two different electric
 states; the plate which     is red-hot takes the negative electri
 city, and that which  is  less heated, the positive electricity.
    Entirely similar e<U+FB02>ects are obtained when these two plates are
 made of different metals we believe, nevertheless, that their
                             :
 intensity   ismore marked in certain circumstances.
     When the jet produced in the <U+FB02>ame of a wax-candle by the
 blow-pipe    isused, the same effects are still found.
     Do these phaenomena result from a friction of the <U+FB02>ame on
 the metals; or are they owing to an electro-motive action?
 We incline to the latter opinion. It conceivable that there
                                                is
might be a friction when a metal wire          plunged in the jet of
                                                 is
the blow-pipe; but in    a   tranquil  <U+FB02>ame,  such  as that produced
by the combustion of alcohol, how could            take place
                                                      it         ? Be
sides, how could two plates of the same metal and of unequal
thickness, plunged at the same time in a <U+FB02>ame, each of them take
a different electricity from this cause, only that one has a tem
perature more elevated than the other;             an electro-motive
                                                      if
action be not admitted?          It    also very certain that these
                                      is
phaenomena do not proceed solely from a difference of tempe
rature in several parts of the same metal, for the extremity of
a   plate of platinum has been reddened by Mr. Fresnel’s pow
erful lens without any development of electricity resulting
from it.
     These experiments have not any relation with those of
M. Ermann on the conducting properties of the <U+FB02>ame of al
cohol; they might perhaps have more with the researches of
Volta on the combustion of a bit of amadou <U+FB01>xed to the extre
mity of stem communicating with one of the plates of the con
         a
denser. This illustrious natural philosopher found that when
the apparatus was in the open air unvitiated by proximity to in
habited places, the amadou acquired an excess _of positive elec- _
tricity; which, according to him, proceeded from the ambient
     .                                                               air   :.

     Dr. R. Harlan         on a new Fossil Genus          ofEnalio Sauri.           4-09
air: he thence concluded that the air had always                        an excess    of
positive electricity.
   In our experiments we could not draw the same conclusion;
for we have sometimes one electricity, sometimes another, ac
cording to the temperature of the metals. However, new re
searches will without doubt throw light on these phaenomena.
           Electric   Phcenomena        which accompany Combustion.
   The preceding experiments have naturally led us to inves
tigate what took place during the combustion of certain bodies.
A sheet of common paper rolled up, is placed on the wooden                                  ‘
capsule ; it is set on <U+FB01>re, and then the <U+FB02>ame is made to
communicate with the common reservoir by the means of a
piece of moistened wood, in order that the electricity may
<U+FB02>ow out more rapidly, and the paper acquires positive elec
tricity.      Ifwe operate in a contrary manner, holding the
paper    in the hand, and making the <U+FB02>ame touch a bit of moist
ened wood placed on the capsule, it is found that the <U+FB02>ame
takes, on the contrary, the negative electricity.    It may then
be concluded from these two experiments, that when a piece
of paper burns, the paper takes the positive electricity, and
the <U+FB02>ame the negative electricity.    If ‘alcohol be poured into
a capsule of copper and set on <U+FB01>re, it will be found by the
condenser that the capsule acquires the positive electricity.
   Such are the researches which we have made on the elec
tric e<U+FB01>'ects produced by the contact of certain in<U+FB02>amed gases
and metals, and by combustion.     They are susceptible of many
developments; but we have, notwithstanding, thought proper
to take the liberty of communicating to the Academy the <U+FB01>rst
results which we have obtained in this class of phaenomena.
LXXI.         On a new Fossil Genus, of the Order Enalio Sauri
     (of   Conybeare): and on a new Species of Ichthyosaurus.
     By R. HARLAN,              MD.*
      BOUT   sixteen ears ago there was deposited by Lewis
     and Clark, in              the
                         cabinet of the American Philosophical
Society, a fossil organic remain of some unknown marine ani
mal.   During the expedition of these gentlemen up the river
Missouri in the year 1804, this specimen was found in a ca
vern situate a few miles south of the river, near creek named       a
Soldier’s River. The nature of the soil at this locality they
do not mention, but there can be little doubt of its being se
condary as a few miles down the river, at Council Blu<U+FB01>‘; there,
             ;
     * From  the Journal    of   the Acad.   quNat. Sciences    Philadelphia,
                                                               of               vol. iii.
p.   331, 338.
     Vol.   64!.   No.   320.   Dec. 1824.                 3   F                    are

410           Dr. R. Harlan    on a new  Fossil Genus,
are hills of considerable size, composed almost entirely of fossil
marine shells and other organic reliquiae in a fossil state.
    My attention was <U+FB01>rst directed to this specimen by Mr.
T. Say, who with his accustomed liberality offered every as
sistance in deciphering the same.       At <U+FB01>rst view I recognised
it as a portion of the dental bone of an animal allied to the
Saurian reptiles: a closer inspection proved its approxima
tion to the new fossil genus Ichthyosaurus; an animal, as the
name imports, uniting in its structure both the <U+FB01>sh and the
lizard; having the head of a lacertian animal joined to the
vertebrae of a <U+FB01>sh, and extremities entirely sui generis.     For
a full description of this highly interesting animal, together
with another new fossil genus, the Plesiosaurus, naturalists are
               indebted to an able and elaborate essay, by the
   ev. W.
garticularlyD.  Conybeare and Mr. De la Beche (in the Trans.
qftlze Geolog. Soc. 2d series, vol. i. part 1; and in vol. v.) in
 which they have described four distinct species of the Ich
thyosaurus.
    By the most critical examination of the present specimen, it
is found to possess characters which incontestably render it at
least speci<U+FB01>cally, if not enerically, different from either.
    Our specimen, Plate II. is rendered doubly interesting by
its locality, being the <U+FB01>rst of the genus ever discovered on this
continent.     While we have to lament that so small a remnant
of this animal has been snatched from oblivion, it still serves
to display the utility as well as beauty of the doctrine of the
laws of co-existence in the parts of animals, when employed
 with that caution which renders it a legitimate instrument of
 induction.      A perfect knowledge of these laws enabled
 Cuvier to establish important species, on data far less certain
 than that now under consideration : not to mention many
 others, the Anoplotlzerz'um medium was originally founded on
 a portion of the lowerjaw.
    From the data afforded by the account of the Ichthyosaurus
 above mentioned, the following would appear to be its generic
 charactersz—Teeth <U+FB01>xed in an open sulcus, instead of separate
  alveoli; consisting of two series only, one growing within the
 other; anterior nares opening near the root of the snout, im
 mediately before the lachrymal bones.      Bones of the head and
 face, in number and structure, nearly resembling the Croco
 dile; bodies of the vertebrae concave both at their occipital
 and caudal surfaces; legs four in number, terminating in a
 paddle, composed of a numerous series of polygonal bones,
 and attached immediately to the distal extremities of the hu
 merus and femur; anterior extremities much larger than the
 posterior.    Amphibious ? Oviparous.
                                                                In

               ofthe Order Enalio Sauri (of Conybeare).          411
     In order to demonstrate wherein the present differs from
 those species of the Ichthyosaurus already described, it will
 be necessary brie<U+FB02>y to state their speci<U+FB01>c characters, which, as
 in most other instances, have been drawn principally from the
  teeth.
     1. 1. communis.      Upper part of the tooth conical, not very
 acute, slightly aduncate, and thickly covered with prominent,
 longitudinal striae.
     2. ’I. platyodon.    Upper part of the tooth smooth and <U+FB02>at
 tened, so as to present sharpened edges.
     8. I. tenuz'rostris.   Teeth more slender than the preceding
 species, but is best marked by the extreme length and thinness
  of the snout.
     4. I. intermedius.     The upper part of the teeth much more
 acutely conical     than  in species <U+FB01>rst; and the striaa less pro
 minent, yet less slender than in species third. These species
 vary in size: those of the <U+FB01>rst differ from <U+FB01>ve to <U+FB01>fteen feet,
 but the most gigantic belong to species second.
    The animal to which our specimen belonged may have been
 about six or eight feet in length.          The remnant from which
 these observations were drawn is a portion of the dental bone
 of the right side; its greatest length four inches, greatest
 breadth two inches; alveolar surface three inches and a half
 long, three-tenths in thickness.
     “ The most important difference between the lower jaw of
the Crocodile and Ichth osaurus is, that the bones are not
connected by true suture 1n the latter, but by squamous suture
 as in <U+FB01>shes *2”
     In which circumstance our specimen perfectly corresponds,
  as is demonstrated by <U+FB01>g. &. (a.) The inferior and posterior
 edges being thinned and imbricated for articulation with the
 angular bone.
     There are eighteen teeth in different states of preservation ;
 the longest are sevenftenths of an inch, twotenths only pro
jectinv above the bone; the projecting part enamelled, smooth
 and s ining, lanciform; the edges very sharp: but this will
be better understood by referring to <U+FB01>g. 1st.         The bodies of
the teeth are all hollow, and are <U+FB01>rmly <U+FB01>xed in a longitudinal
groove, there being no distinct, separate alveolae.      The bodies
 of the teeth are in close contact throughout, in which respect it
 differs from the other species of the Ichthyosaurus, the Plesio
saurus, and the Saurian reptilia: it differs, further, from all
these animals in the following respect ;-the body of the bone
 is not perforated by a canal for the inferior maxillary nerve;
in place of which is observed a groove running the whole
                               “"
                                  Conybeare.
                                   3 F2                       length

412 Dr.     R. Harlan     on a new Fossil Genus              qunalio Sauri.
 length of the dental bone, immediately beneath the alveolar
 portion, on the mesial aspect of the bone; the bottom of this
 groove is perforated with foramina for the d1stribution of the
 nerves and blood-vessels, equal in number to the teeth     e. 18).   (i.
    The process of dentition appears also to possess some pe
 culiarities; being two series, one directly above the other,
 both hollow (the cavities in some instances <U+FB01>lled up with cry
 stallized carbonate of lime); the mode of shedding the teeth                    is
 similar, but the manner in which the inférior enters the supe
 rior, differs from the animals above referred to; the inferior
entering the cavity of the superior directly at the centre, and
 not at the side of the body.
    The inferior series are completed before they enter the
upper.     I could observe no appearance of third series, except
                                                        a
indeed the cavity in the second.     The teeth of this species are
                                                                                      '
neither conical nor striated, which is.not the case in the other
 species, excepting the tenuirostris, in which the superior por
 tion is smooth, curved, and conical; the lower half striated.
    The extreme sharpness of the cutting edge of the teeth, and
 the juxtaposition of their bodies, precludes the possibility of
supposing the teeth of the upper jaw to have passed between
 those of the lower jaw, when the mouth was closed, as          the         is
 case in all the animals we have referred to in this paper.
   The row of teeth on the inferior appear to have passed within
those of the superior jaw: this supposition      further strength
                                                         is
ened by the worn appearance of the sides of the teeth.
    This arrangement of the teeth, which would require a pe
culiar con<U+FB01>guration of thejaw, together with the peculiar distri
bution of the inferior maxillary nerve mentioned above, appears
 to me to entitle this animal to rank as a new genus.            In
many respects      approaches
                  it           very nearly the Ichthyosaurus,   but
is   separated from this genus of animals by the peculiarities
expressed above. We propose to distinguish this animal by
 the following name and characters.
                                                                  1
                    SAUROCEPHALUS lancz' ormz's.
    Generic characters.    Bodies of the teeth approximated;
those of the superior and inferior jaws closing like incisors.
Inferior maxillary nerve passing along groove on the mesial
                                                    a
aspect of the dental bone.
    Speci<U+FB01>c characters.   Projecting portions of the teeth smooth
and lanciform.
                               PLATE   III.
Fig. l. Tooth detached.            Fig. 3. The dental bone, mesial aspect.
     2.'l‘eeth 1n their sockets        4.   .   .   .    .  dermal aspect.
           magni<U+FB01>ed.                            a. a.   articulatin
                                                              surface.
             a. The young tooth.       5.   Dental bone seen mm above.
                                                                                 On

    Dr. Harlan     on a new    Fossil  Species qf Ichthyosaurus.     418
 On a new     ewtz'nct  Fossil Species   qftke Genus Icnrnvossvnus.
    SOON after writing my last paper on the‘Saurocephalus, my
 attention was directed to a small fragment of petri<U+FB01>ed bone de
posited in the collection of British fossils in the Philadelphia
 Museum.
    This specimen was originally from Bath or Bristol, and is
easily recognised, at <U+FB01>rst view, for a portion of the dental bone
of some Saurian reptile; thou h from the small size and crush
ed state of the specimen, an from its being in some degree
imbedded in a matrix of calp, it was at <U+FB01>rst di<U+FB01>icult to as
certain to what genus it belonged.
    Nevertheless, an attentive examination of this portion of
dental bone, a little more than an inch in length, and con
taining six teeth, enabled me eventually to ascertain the fol
lowing    facts.
    The remnant is six-tenths        ot' an inch high, and <U+FB01>ve-tenths
broad at the alveolar aspect.          The largest teeth (for they vary
in size) are '65 of an inch long, projecting three-tenths above
the bone; the proj'ecting portion being marked with closely
arran ed, longitudinal striae; a few widely separated lon itu
dinal ines mark the buried portion of the tooth, and the w ole
tooth is conoidal from the base to the apex.
   In the mode of dentition this animal resembles the crocodile;
but it differs in having the teeth set in a continued groove, in
stead of separate alveoli.         It varies from the Plesiosaums in
the  same   respect,    and in  the  teeth, though conical, being not
so long proportionably,         nor in the same degree aduncate as
in that animal         It should be remembered that the teeth of
animals of this order vary in the latter respect 'even in the
same jaw, as is particularly the case in the I. intermedius. v
    Our specimen totally differs from the Sauroceplzalus,             in
the relative size, form and proportion of the teeth and dental
bone, and in the bodies of the teeth not being approximated
or contiguous.
    It resembles the Ichthyosaurus in the relative proportions
of the teeth, in having them set in a groove, and in its mode
of dentition. It approaches most nearly to the I. communis in
the general appearance of the teeth, but di<U+FB02>‘ers from that spe
cies in their relative size and form; these bodies being more
aduncate in the latter.
    It differed from all the four species in the greater relative
thickness of the dental bone. In <U+FB01>ne, it no more resembles
these species, than they respectively resemble each other.
 From these data I am led to believe the present                      to
                                                           specimeip ave

   '414-  Mr. Bakevvell      on  Land found       on the Sands near Boulagn-e.
   have belonged to a species not before described, and propose
   to denominate it Icuruyosaurws cany‘brmzs.
                                      PLATE     III.
                    Fig. 6. (a.) Tooth of the natural size in situ.
                         7.       do.                     magni<U+FB01>ed.
                         8.       do.   transverse section   do.
   [For the following note we are indebted to the Rev. Mr. Conybeare.—Emr.]
      “ In reference to this paper, Mr. Conybeare observes, that, judging from
  the data afforded by the present <U+FB01>gures, the tooth ascribed to Ichthyosam-us
  eoniformi: does not appear to him to differ from those of I. communis suf<U+FB01>
  ciently to warrant the establishment of a new speciesz—the only differences
 described are a less degree of aduncation in the tooth, and a greater thick
 ness in the dental bone; but as it should appear that Dr. Harlan drew his
 conclusions from comparison not with other actual specimens, but only with
 the engravings in the Geological Transactions, some hesitation must be felt
 in admitting them, especially as the aduncation of the teeth in I. cammum's
  is itself very slight; and the character of their striw is but faintly marked
  in many impressions of the lithographic plate in the Geological Transactions.
      “ Mr. Conybeare wishes, however, merely to postpone the adoption of this
  new species of Ichthyosaurus until these points can be determined by the
  comparison of actual specimens, which he hopes to facilitate by transmitting
 some teeth, &c. of the species previously ascertained, to America.
     “ The
             Sauroeephalus does not yet appear to have been found in England,
 and forms an important addition to the very interesting class of fossil Sauri.”
       LXXII.       Laoafound         on the Sands near Boulogne.        By
                          ROBERT BAKEWELL, Esq.
     To   the  Editors   of  the Philosophical       Magazine and Journal.
          Gentlemen,
                    I  was at Boulogne in September last,             I was in
 WHEN        formed    that masses of lava, of different sizes, were fre
 quently found on the sands west of the harbour.                    M. Dutertre
 in the       lower   town    had     several    specimens,     from which he
 obli ingly broke one to give me a part.
         he lava is of a darkish gray colour, porous, but extremely
hard, and <U+FB01>lled with grains of olivine; it bears a close resem
blance to the lava from the Puy de Nugerre in Auvergne, de
 scribed in the second volume of my Travels in the Tarentaise,
 &c., except that the latter contains no olivine, at least in those
parts where I examined it. An inquiry suggests itself of some
importance in Geology—Are these masses of lava which are
left on the sands after high tides, merely fragments that have
been thrown out as ballast somewhere on the coast?                      Or are
they derived from volcanic rocks hitherto unnoticed in Bri
tanny or Normandy, which, like those of Auvergne,
                                                                          lmay
                                                                           lave

On theSeventh Section quessel’s Astronomical Observations.       41 5_
have been erupted from beneath the granite, and intermixed
with' it on the surface '3 If the latter, we may well conceive
that fragments brought down by the rivers might be washed
by the tides and currents as far west as B‘oulogne.
                                  Yours truly,
Torrington Square, Dec. 10, 1824.              R0131, BAKEWELL,
   P.S.—M. Dutertre had other specimens of a different cha
racter, of which the volcanic origin was more problematical:
one semivitreous, containing globules of metallic tin. He had
also a very large deep yellow topaz found on the shore.
 LXXIII.      Introduction to the Seventh Section    of BESSEL’s
                    Astronomical Observations.
                      [Concluded from p. 349.]
               Rosenberger and Scherck have found the proba
MESSRS.
   ble error of observation     from very numerous comparisons,
= 1”'54~1, which determination may be assumed to belong to the
zenith distance 45°; applying to this determination the in
crease of the probable error depending on the zenith distance,
which has been given in the 7th article, the probable errors of
an observation with Cary’s circle will be for the zenith distances
         0°     45°    60°       65°    70°     75°     80°    85°
  ==il”'5l7; l"'54l; l"'555; l”'562; l’l'585; l”'655,- 1"775; 2"‘286.
   A    former determination gave the probable error of a mean
of four observations of a Ursa: Minoris in zenith distance
36° =0'”684-5, likewise independent of the errors of division;
according to the present determination, it would be =O”'77 :
the difference may be accounted for by the uncertainty of the
error of collimation involved in the second, and perhaps like
wise by the greater care taken in observing the pole-star.
Besides these contingent errors of observation, every zenith
distance has the error arising from the peculiar error of the
individual divisions on which they depend : this later one
might have been entirely avoided, if these divisions had been
determined directly by my method, as             I
                                              <U+FB01>rst intended, but
was prevented from doing by other business and by the near
prospect of obtaining Reichenbach’s circle. _ The probable
 quantity of the remaining error of division 1s found by the
 zenith distances of the above-named 38 stars, measured in both
 positions of the instrument, to be =1”-004; so that the pro
bable error of the mean of an observation made in the same
                                                      ‘1
position of the instrument, is = M    Z (1”‘004)’+
                                                     -;-
                                                       i   ;   By this
formula, the probable errors of the single determinations and
the most probable declinations have been computed as follow:
                                                    a Aurigae

 416             Introduction to the Seventh Section
                                                                         '
                        Probable Errors.    Most probable      Probable.
                                         Declination for 1815. Errors.
                        East.    West.
                         11        ll         0     I    II      I!
   a Aurigse                      1,23
                                            45 47     “'72      0-57
                    {
   ,,  Cygni                      Lg:       44   27 26'21       0-58
                    {
   at  Lyrae            1'07      1'06      38 37      4'01     0'75   ‘
  a Geminorum           1'06      1'05      32 16 54'66'        0'75
  <U+FB02>                     1'06      1'05      28 27 441%          0'75
  [3   Tauri            1'08      1'08      28 26 20'09         0‘76
  or. Andromeda:        1'07      1'07      28     4   3'28     076
  a Coronas             1'07      1'07      27 20 84'61         0'76
  a   Arietis           1'16      1'10      22   3‘1  56'11     0'80
  a Bootis              1'05      1'07      20     9   0'75     0'75
  a   Tauri             1‘07      1‘11      16     7  37'29     0'77
  <U+FB02>   Leonis            1'14      1‘10      15 36     20'92     0'79
  0:  Herculis          1'09      1'07      14 36     32'52     0'76
  a Pegasi               1'10     1'08      14: 12 41°94        Of77
                         1'05     1'06      14:    9  1302      0'75
  a   Leonis             1'06     1'07      12 51 59'71         0‘75
  a   Ophiuchi          1'08      1‘08      12 42 10'37         0'77
  7 Aquilae             107       1-07      10 10 1228          0'76
  a.                    1'05      1‘04-       8  23 14‘89       0'74!
  a Orionis             1'07      1'09        7  21 45'21       0'76
  a Serpentis           1'07      1'10        7    0 58'37      0'77
  (3  Aquilaa           1'06      1'05        5  57    9'29     0'75
  0:  Canis Min.        1'05      1'05        5 4-1 23'13       0'75
  0:  Ceti              1'3‘1     1'19        3 21 23'46        0'89
  B   Virginis          1'09      1'09        2 48 23°20        0'77
  0:  Aquarii'          1'85      1'19   -- I    12 4-8'98      0'89
  a I-lydraa
  5   Orionis
                        1'19
                        1'15
                                  1'15
                                  1'13   -
                                         — 7 51 4:4'39
                                              8 25 27'36
                                                                0'83
                                                                0'80
  aVirginis             1'03      1'04:  —-10    11   33'88     0‘73
  1   aCapricorni       1'12      1'09\  -13      4 20'91       0'78
  2a                    1'17      1'35   —13      6 4-0‘6‘1     0'89
  1   a Libree          1'17      1'18   —15     13 14'64       0‘84
  20:                   1'13      1'19   —15 15 58'17           0'82
      Ca_nis Maj.       1'04      1'04   —-16 28 14'68
  a                                                             0'73
  0;  Scorpii           1'14      1'28   —26      0 39'17       0'85
  a   Pisc. austr.      1'38      1'22   —-30 36       2'81     0'91
    The greater part of these observations have already been
computed by Professor Littrow: his results in general agree,
with the present ones, although the change of form of the ele
                                                                ments

                     of  Bessel’s Astronomical Observations.                              4-17
ments of calculation, the furth'er continuation of the observa
tions, and the mode of taking the means, have produced some
di<U+FB01>'erences. The comparison of that computation with the
catalogues of Pond, Oriani, and Piazzi, showed, however, that
my observations give the declinations further south; this
caused new examinations of the divisions, the results of which
have been used.                But these examinations created as little
doubt on the general correctness of the results, as the former
ones ; nor can a <U+FB02>exure of the telescope of this instrument be
apprehended, for both ends and the middle of it are fastened
between the two parallel circles, one of which has the divi
sions on it.         I  trusted, therefore, that in process of time a con
<U+FB01>rmation of even the greatly deviating results would take place ;,
and    I   endeavoured, from the commencement of the observa
tions with the new instrument, to take such measures as would
render its decision as complete as possible.                          I   have here pre
sented to the view of the astronomers these measures, and now
offer, without any further eXplanation, the results of my obser
vations of the 86 stars, made with Reichenbach’s circle, till the
end of this year (1821).
                                           Declinations for 1820.
                           ‘          ’5
                                           PM,            0-  pro", Most probable Prob.
                          BaSt-       4           W95“       ErrOrS- Declinations. 31”“
                                          Errors.        2
                         0 l      l/        I!       I         I!       O    l  n     1!
   . Auriga.
                  §
                       45 48     92024
                                 96514
                                           0-32
                                           0,41
                                                   14-63 28
                                                   9“
                                                              0-31
                                                         20 0.38
                                                                         -
                                                                      45 48    912.    .
                                                                                     018
         .    -        44 38 28‘54 23 0'32 28'04 22 0‘32
   5‘ Clgnl                                                           44 38 28
                                                                                  _    ‘
                                                                                     018
                  g             28.51 14 0.43 29.05 16 0.41
   a Lyra              38 37 147-4410;0'36        18'03 20 0'32       38 37 17'77    0‘24
                       32 l6
                                21'261910'33 2086 34 0'31
      __
   a Geminor.
   7,                  28 27
                                 607281031 5-05 44 0-30
                                                                      32 16 2105
                                                                      28 27    5-54
                                                                                     0‘23
                                                                                     0-22
   11 Tauri            28 26 40-6433 031 40-12 19 0-33                28 26 40-40    0-23
   2 Andromed.         28    5                    46-48 26 0-31       28    5 46-59  6-22
                                4670301031
   4 Corona:           27 19 34-10 30‘ 0-31 34-76 39 0-30             27 19 34-44 022       ~
   m Arietis           22 36
                                22-1916‘0-34 22-45 20 0-32            22 36 22-32 0-23
   at BOOIlS           20    7 25‘32 4‘2, 0'30 25‘55 40 0‘30          20 7 2543; 0'21,
   41 Tauri            16    8 17-0230;0-31       17-30 30 0-31       16    8 17-16 0-22
   8 Leonis            15 34 40-2313 0'35 39-87          17 0'33      15 34 40-04    0-24
   2 Herculis          14 36 1044171083           1046   16 0:34      14 36 10-45    0-24
   7  _-
   11 Pegasi           14
                       14
                           14 ’19-1319 0'33
                            10 56-18 22‘ 032
                                                  18-96 15 0'34
                                                  56.26 17 0-33
                                                                      14 14 1905
                                                                      14 10 5622
                                                                                     0-24
                                                                                     0-23
   m Leonis            12  50 43-59 22. 0-32      43-58  28  0-31     12   50 33-58 0-22
   4 Ophiuchi          12  41 55-5511 0-36        55-75  21  0-32     1-2  41 55-66 0-24
   7  Aquila           10   10 53-82 24 0-32      54-12 23   0-32     10   10 53-97  023
   a                    s 24 0-32 47 0-30          1-06 50 0'30        8   24  0-69  0-21
   1 01101114           7 21 50-48 28 0-31        50-90. 26 0-32       7 21 50-69    022
   l Serpentis          6 59 54'70'2110'33        54‘96 31 0'31        6 59 54'84    023
   p Aquilae            5 57 50-75 27 032 50-93          26  0-32      5 57 50-84    0-23
   -  Canis Min.        5 40 40'4133 0'30 40-23          48 0'30       5 40 40'32    0'21
   .  Ceti              3 22 37-6715 034 37-66           14 0-35       3 22 37-67    024
   a Virginis
   1. Aquarii        -  2 46 42-79      3 0-53 42-82
                         1 11 25-8619 033
                                                         13 0-35
                                                  25-14|29 0-31
                                                                    -  2 46 42-81
                                                                        1 11 25-48
                                                                                     0-29
                                                                                     023
    Vol.     64-.   No.   320.      Dec.   1824-.         8   G                     a Hydra

418              Introduction to the Seventh Section
                                                     Declinptions for 1820.
                                             '             .’
                                                                      '
                                                                                   '    Pr.1\10't              robbleh'
                                                                                                                    E<U+FB02>gg<U+FB02>'
                          E85"
                                             2       mg<U+FB01>-iwes" 2                       Eng-2"! Desclihatitjhs.
  a     Hydra
                     O
                  — 7 53
                         I          II
                                    1'6319
                                          II
                                          0'33
                                                                      II
                                                                    1'73
                                                                            II
                                                                            0'32
                                                                               28
                                                                                    0
                                                                                   7 53
                                                                                 — 8 25
                                                                                        I
                                                                                                    -                II
                                                                                                                     1'68+0'23
                                                                                                                                  II
                  — 8 25            41317 0‘34                      4‘30 19 0'33                                     4‘22‘0'24
                                                                                                                     7'69 022
   B Orio-ni's                                                                                      —-10
                                                                               34       0'31                  13
   a Virgln1s     —-10 13           T7131            0'31           7'67
   ;~m    __      _1;         221%?              2
                                                      .   212       .                .
                                                                                   2212             1;.
                                                                                                    _          22112.21;
                                                                                                                          .       .
                   -
                                    .
      M                                    -   .                                   12    2'2;       __         1%     .
                                                                                                                    12%;          .
                              1%   131212 2211129
                                                               1                         .
   Q“              __.   12         5-                                     4
                                                                                                    -—16 28 37'15 0'23
   a Cams-Maj.     —16 '28 37'28 ‘25 0‘33 +3703 ‘26 0'33
   0: Sc_orp11  ---‘26                                                    24                        -26        1
                                                                                                                                0:26
                              l
                                                                                         0:37                    23.00
                       22:8121                        0:38
                                                      055          i23:19
                                                                       02 20                                  34 ‘28 68         037
                                                                    1129
   a P1sc. ensue-30 34 ‘28
                                                                                        0  51
                                         2816,                                                      ‘--30
   The relation of my two catalogues to one another, and to
                 astronomers, may be seen from the following
thoseot' other
comparison,   in which the proper motion of stars has been so
                       results from the places for 1755.
assumed as
                 it
                  Annual Variation.                                                Differences from
                                   See u 1,1
                                             r
                                             B         esse    1    Pi azn
                                                                               '       0 <U+FB02>'a "1
                                                                                                ‘
                                                                                                    Brinkley       -__"_—
                                                                                                                     Pond'
                                                                                                                                            L
                    ‘820-        'Variat“.            1815,          1800.              1811.        1813.                      1111:1131
                                                                                                                   Seal?-
                                                                                                                    8‘
                                                                                                                                 11524.
                                                                                         II                                            1,
                                         u                I,          I,                                 II          I/
                                                 +167 +188 -o-12
                          H
  a Auriga        +       -0-627 -~1-93 -o~sl
                         4-478
  a Cygni         +12-563 +0227 +053 +214 +1-o2 ,+1-08 +242 +1-53
  a Lyra!         + 2962 +0291 +l-01 +1-69 +1-36 +205 +239 +223
                  -
  1. Geminor.     —      7'190 —0‘5_27+1‘20          —2"27                                          +1'21          +2'05         —0~05
                         8-087     -0'49l -l-77
                                      +0-5o                                                         +l'92          +1-57        —o-54
  p pTauri              -0'540 -1-68 +0-42 +1-69                                                    +l'44          +2-02         +060
               +         3-712
  02 Andromed. +l9'906 +0‘004 —3'73 +052                                                            +243           +3'15         +0'41
  a Corona     —12-483 +0296 -2-2s +3-31 +2-15                                                      +260           +2.71         +256
  4: Arietis   +17-350 -0-247 +0-57 -!—1-67                                                         +243           +2-69         +0-68
  a B00115     -19-009 +0216 +025 +226 +1-35                                                         +2-07         +2-45         +1-57
  2 Tauri         7-855 -0-461 -0-54 +2-86 +2-79
                  +                                                                                  +196 +254 -0-16
  B  Leonis
  01 Herculis     -
               -20-083 -0-036 +0-47 +3-07
                  4614 +0387 -1-o5 +4-20 +235
                                                                                                     +2'95
                                                                                                     +2-54
                                                                                                          +2-09 +196
                                                                                                                    ‘ 3-18       +2.55
  z Pegasi     +19-25s +0116 —0-83 +2.98 +2-51                                                       +293           +4~13        +1~95
  1y           +20-028 -0-017 -3-06 +0-97                                                            +2-80          +2-98 +3-78
                        -0-233 +0-39                                4,                               +2-‘25         +2-61 +2-42
     Leonis _ -17-310
  2                                     2-69 +2~60
  a Ophmchl    — 3'125 +0'400 —0'97 +4‘04 +247                                                             +397 +234
                                                                                                     ‘1'1'88
  y   Aqulla:  + 8286 +0376 431 +240                                                                 +260 +3-s4 +4-03
  w            + 9002 +0084 —0-84 +3-78 +261                                                         +288 +3-43 +231
        _ _
  a               +1267 -0-473 +0191 +0'60 +2 76                                                     +236 +3-6o +1-31
     Or10n15_
  a Serpentls  _11-791 +0-349 -o-47 +234 +212                                                        +3'73 +324 +216
      Aqulla:     8'488 +0369 +0'84 +3'38
                  +                                                                                  +327 +4139 +5‘16
                   _
  5
  2 Canis Min.    8-737 4-422 +082 +428 +3-04                                                        +329 +422 +068
  a Ceti       +14-491 _o-319 -1~72 +1-59                                                            +1-81 +315 +4'33
  ,8 Virginis  -20'289 —-O‘033 —-l'05   1'48                        +                                   .-    .. +219
  0: Aquarii   +17'195 +0227 +2'45 +293                                                       .      +4'04 +4'19 +448
  01 Hydra;    -15-273 -0-273 +0-96 +2-27                                                            +3-85          +3-54        +4138
  1;              4-661 ~0-411 +022 +1-86
                  +                            278                                      -+           +268           +315 +422
     Orionls
  12Virgin1s   -19-027 +0153 -1-34 +2-84 +3-00                                                       +3-13          +326 +4-69
   lzCapncor +10-581 +0-411‘-2-47 +4-89                                                              +3~47          +4-16 +4-59
                                                                                                                          ‘2   a Caprice.

                  of Bessel’s Astronomical              Observations.                        4<19
                  Annual Variation.                      Di<U+FB02>erences from
                    '820'
                               Secular Bessel Piazzi
                              Variat’l. 1815.     1800.
                                                         Oriani Brinkley
                                                          181 l.    1 813.
                                                                             W      Pond.
                                                                                       Nautical
                                                                             Catal. Alman.1824_
                        I]         ll                                            //         1!
   2 n: CapriCOr, +10'609 +O'4ll        -4'-'16  +4155 +3768 +5762          +5'35      +649
   1 a Librae     -15-405 +0311         +l'57 + 204                +        +6'66      +7'27
                  — 15374               _0-03 +204
   2 m                        +0313                               +4'76     +4'65      +505
                  -                     + 010 *1 2'05 +5356 +1259
   1 Canis Maj.   —   4'483 —0'3SU                                          +5'l6 + 1'15
   a Scorpii          8649 l 0484       +052 +305 +2-65 +5'57               +5'7 +400
   a Pisc. austr. +l8'836 +0149         + 00;; +300 +371 +                  +            1 2-68
   Mean of the differences
 from a Auriga:     to L5 Leouis        —0'95    +1-57   +1'73 +1-98        +233 +089
        m Herculis to z Ceti            —0'73    +Q'77   + 2'54 +2-65       +346 +275
        {3Virginis to z Pisc. austr. _027        +302 +363 +306 r468 +409
                              Kb'nz'gsberg Rq<U+FB01>'actz'ons.
                                                               '
 2")
                                                                 The logarithm of the
                                               Barometrical
                                                          _
  “'      ui          A.          71.
                          "7                   Correction.
                                                                refraction expressed in
                                              mm
              L                                                 seconds, with <U+FB01>ve de
 30 1'76158
 35 176129                                                     cimal <U+FB01>gures, is =
                                              “ml              log. tang z+u+A.<U+FB01>—
 40176121                                     325   -1023
 451'76103                    10018
                                              326  _    889
                                                                        7A.'r'+7\
                                                               where r' signi<U+FB01>es the
 50176081                     10023                            centesimal                      of
                                              327_                              degree
                                              328 _
                                                        756
                                                               the thermometer               at
 551-76050               __1~0032                       624    tached to the barome
 60 1'76000                   10046           329  —-   491
                                              330 _
                                                               ter.
61 1'75988                    1'0049                    360
                                                                  The readings of the
621'75973                     100541          331 -_    228
                              10058                            Ko'nigsberg       barometer
681-75957                                     332 -—      97 are to be increased
                                                                                              by
641'75939                     1'0063          333,4.      33 + 0503.
6—5 1-75919                   1'0068          330+      164       The refractions given
661'75896                     10075           335 +     293 with the observations
                                                              to the end of the year
671-75871                     moss           336 +      423
                                                               1821,require to be mul
168-1'75802                   10092          as? + 552 tiplied by the following
691-75808                     10101          238 +      681 factor.                    .  .
                              10111          339 + 809
501—53771                                                            T.
                               .             340 + 987
 711-75726                    10121
                                             5341 +1064
                                                                    — 20° 1   _ 000025
 721'75676
                               .
                              1 0139                                — 10 1    _ 000445
                                                                            1 _ 000280
                               .             24.2 +1192
 731'75615                    10156
                                                                              _ 0-001
                                                                         0
741-75w;                                     343 +1318
                            '
                              10175                                 +  10   1              10
  ~        ”—‘                               34.4 +1445                20   1+   000033
                                                                       30   1 + 000170
761'75355                     1-0220                                   40   1 + 000325
771'752291'0026 11-0252                                                50   1 + 0-00489
                                                                       60   1 + 0-00635
78 1-750721-0020 [10299
                                                                       70 1 + 00076?
791-748761'003511-0357                                                 80 1 + 0-00879
501-7162310041 [104.20                                                 90   1 _+ 0-01000
                                        a   G   2                               Thermo-          .

420              Introduction to the Seventh Section
      Hermometrz'cal Correction     for the true   FAHRENHEIT
                          Thermometer.
     f
  -25°
             'Y-
          +6787
                    1
                    1
                       _J-       ‘
                                      "r-             f-
                                                     +552
                                                           _"/
                                                             - 529
                        +1501,      +2975
  -24     +6688             16
                                 ‘
                                    +2884               56   —  613
  —23     +6588             17      +2793               57   —  697
                    ‘                                        —-
   —-22   +6489             18      +2702               58      781
                                                            -—-
  —21     +6391             19      +2612               59      865
  -—20    +6292             20      +2521               60  —   948
  —19     +6193            21       +2431               61  -—1031
  —-18    +6095             22      +2341               62  —1114
  —17     +5998             23      +2251               63  -—1197
  —16     +5900            24       +2162               64  —l280
  -—15    +5802     ‘      25       +2072               65  —l363
  —14     +5705    1
                           26       +1983               66  -1445
  —13     +5608    1       27       +1894              67   —1528
  —12     +5511            28       +1805              68   —1610
  —11     +5415            29       +1716              69   —1692
  —10     +5318            30       +1628              70   —1774
  --   9  +5222            31       +1539              71   -—1855
  —    8  +5126            32       +1451              72   —1937
  -—   7  +5030            33       +1363              73   +2018
  —-   6  +4935            34       +1275              74   —2100
  —    5  +4839    ,       35       +1188              75   —2l81
  —   4   +4744            36       +1100              76   +2262
  —    3  +4649            37      +1013               77   —2343
                                                  ‘
  —                                              ‘
      2   +4555            38      + 926               78   —2423
  —    l  +4460            39      + 839               79   —2504
      0   +4366            40      +    752            80   —2584
  +    l  +4272            41      +    665            81   —2664
                                                 I
      2   +4178            42      +    579      I     82   —2744
      3   +4084            43      + 493         r
                                                       83   —2824
      4   +3990            44      + 407               84   —2904
      5   +3897            45      + 321         t     85   —2984
      6   +3804-           46      + 235         f
                                                       86   ——3063
      7   +3711            47      +    149      1     87  -—3142
      8
      9
          +3618
          +3526
                           48
                          49       -
                                   +      64
                                          21
                                                 5
                                                 1
                                                       88
                                                       89
                                                           —3222
                                                           —2301
     10   +3434            50      —    106            90  —3379
     11   +3342           51       —-   191            91  -3458
     12   +3250           52       —   276            92   —3537
     13   +3158           53       — 361              93   —3615
     14  +3066            54       ~—  445            94-  —3694
     15  +2975            55   I   —-  529            95   —3772

                combateb     km   2%    nemaegwec     $.56.       .32                                           wee
                                                                        eemmmhg         S\a~§.6        {swam          56%.“.st
.H        Jx          .&           {v         .Q          .&             4n             .§             .Q       .3             pa
                                  we      +   66..“   +                           sew!                                  is“!
      as...6+      3.6+                                   ea..."        mm:                       8.6+         was                   $0.;
          $6           26          2          66;         Ba            s2              $6             86      was             a:        S;
wss
          $6           86          a6         86          s6;           *2              86             $6      is              a."       a6;
          $6           $6          66         N66         3.;           9:              36             E6      6:“             as;       E;
66        $6           666         66         666         66;           2:              666            666     was             a;        66;
2         $6           $6         62          $6          8;            62              $6             $6      66s             62        we;
2         $6           $6         m2          26          26            mi              666            $6      was             63        631.
S         2.6          $6         s2          26          8s            *2              2.6            $6      is              a:        8a
8         6+6          $6         62          36          are            .62            $6             $6      $6.             8;        86
2         $6           $6         Q:          36          .86            Q:             86             $6      was             S6        56
6a        36           86         6:          a6;         Isles         66s             696            6N6     6%              $6        was
we        36           $6         a:          63          ass           666             36             $6      an              $6        ass
as        666          36         s:          a:          is            *8              $6             £6      is              $6        is
6a        8;           36         6:          6:          66;           66s             26             $6      6%              £6        23
we        6:           2.6        a:          2;          $3            66s             36             $6      666             $6        N6;
                                                                                                                                                7
2..       2;           $6         69          .3;         66;           2e              26             Imw6    66s             26        km:
as        63           $6         s2          2;          we;           was             36             +66     66a             26        63
                                                                                                                                                    of Bessel’s Astronomical Observations.
it.       6.3          8a         *2          N6;         6:            is              $6             8;      s66             $6        21
6a        6:           66;        62          a3          a:            68              $6             66...   666             $6        2...
6»        as;          2;         was         :3          63             6;.            $6             63      66a             56        an;
2.        as;          a:         62          666         6:            6mm             86             s:      6;              $6        6:
as    +   as;      +   66;        “2      86+         +   6:            $6        86I
                                                                                              a   +,           a;       $6!          +   6:                    I1121
                                                                                                       66,;

              .§           .Q                   .Q              .§       J»            .&               .0                      -§          .0               .Q
                   _                                                                            -§
                                '1                                                                                              .                                       422
               o                          .
                           \\                    ~\                      ‘\            \\               \\             ~\                   \\               \\
          3            +   00;                006+          M»:      +   00.0      _
                                                                                   +    00.    H00   “0.01         000+         MB      00.01                00;
         0+“               00;                  +0.0        000          00.0          00.“    000      >00          +0.0       000     00.01                00.0
          0+               00;                  2.0         00“          +0.0          Pb;     000      00.0         0b.0       000     00.01                2.;
                           00;                                                                                                  000
                                                                                                                                                   + + + +
          0m.                                   [Mwho       0.:          00.0          00;     000      00.0         00.0               00.01                00;
          00               00;                  00.0        0+~        00.0v           00%     000      00.0         00.0       000     00.01       +        00%        Introduction
          +0               00;                  00.0        ++~        00.0v           00.0    +00      00.0         000        +00     00.01.     +         00.0
          00               070                  +N..0       0.:          0+0           0b;     000      00.0         $10        000     00.01       +        0n;
         70m.              00;                  00.0        0+H          +0.0          00;     000      00;          00.0       000     +0.01      +         00;
                                                                                                                                                                    7
         8.                mo;                   3;         QE           $0            2.;     3m       3      m       i:       ‘23    .36111                a:
         00v               00;                   0+;        0m:        000.            00..-   0+0      +70            00;      000      00.01     +         00.0
          +0               070                  00.0        +0~          00.0      0.7T        ++0      070            00;      +00      00.01      077+
          00               07~                   0+;        000          00.0          “0.0    0+0      0?“            0+;      000      00.01       h0.H+
          00               00;                   +0;        000        ~00.            00.0    0+0      00;            +0;      000      N001        000+
                   7
         IE]               8;            1201.01           web           2.0           go      one      8;             8;       2.».     alone!      1Se+
                       7                        H          H.                                          H             M                  +
          0b               00;                       00.        00       70    h       “0.0    000           00.          00.   0+0         00.0     +       P00
          +h               b0;                   1.;        +0~          070           ~00     +00      ~0.H           HP;      ++0      070+       500+
          0b       .       00;                   00;        00H          +70                   000                              0+0      070+        000+
                                     .                                                 00.0             00.0           0»;
          0“.              00A                  ~    00.    00~          070           00.0    000      00.0           00A      0+0     +   00.0   +         00.0
          00               00;                  00.0        b“;          1+0..0        +0.0    000      00.0           00;      000      000+        +0.0+
          00               P0;                  +0.0                     00.0      00.0.       000      00.0           +0;      000      “00+        000+
                                                            0N."
                           +0;
                                                                                                                                                                        to Bessel’s Astronomical Observations.
          +0                                    00L         +00      00.01             00.0    +00      00;            00.“     +00      000+.       000+
LXXIV.
          00               070                  00.0        00.“     00.01             00.0    000      00.0           00;      000      “0.0+       000+
          00               070                  00A         0:       00.01             00;              070            00;      000      +0.0+               00;
                                                                                               000
Deva;    _E            +   1M0;          1+|mhF            iwmml     +0.01         +   1%.0    000   0701          +   +0;      000     +   +0.0
                                                                                                                                                   + +
                                                                                                                                                             00.0

                                         [12s]
  LXXIV.             Decas tertia novarum Plantarum Succulentarum;
     Autore A.        H. HAWORTH, Soc. Linn. Land—Soc. Horticult.
    Lond.--neenon Soc. Cresar. Nat. Curios. Moscoviensis Socio,
    15‘s. 15‘s.                                              .
     To   the    Editors qfihe Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
        Gentlemen,
  A     THIRD           Decade of New Succulent Plants, I have here
        under the satisfaction of forwarding to you, which, it is
  hoped, will <U+FB01>nd an early admission into your valuable Magap
 zine.      This Decade is composed of minute descriptions of un
 recorded species of the genus Mesembryanthemum; forming,
 indeed, a splendid addition to that extensive and interesting
 group—all pretty recently discovered in the Cape countries
 of Southern Africa, by the enterprising zeal of Mr. Bowie;
 and all sent safe to the Royal Gardens of Kew, through his
 skilful management in the packing and transmittal ofsuccu
 lent seeds and roots.
    In those well-conducted gardens, these <U+FB01>ne plants. seem
 really to be quite at home; and have (except three) already
                 their fructi<U+FB01>cations; and many of them, as Mr. Bowie
produced
   imself assured me while we were examining them, have al
most exactly the face or appearance which they usually _as
sume in the1r own remote and native land.
    The descriptions, therefore, which here follow, ought at
least to be tolerably good; althou h the writer, ever di<U+FB02>idently
fearful of his own powers, barely opes that they may be suf
<U+FB01>cient to enter upon the records of the science which he loves,
and only there remain, till others shall appear from abler
hands.        I    remain, gentlemen,
                                       Your most obedient servant,
Queen's    Elm,     Chelsea,  Nov.   19,  1824.          A_ H, HA‘VORTH,
           'Classis      et  Ordo.       ICOSANDRIA PENTAGYNIA.
                         Genus, MESEMBRYANTHEMUM.
                              Sectio,    CARINANTIA.       _
                'Acaulia:     foliis dense decussatis erecto-incurvis   acute
           triquetris carinatis acinaciformibusve, subtuberculatim
           magnipunctatis:            scapis    ramos1s conspiculs:  corollis
           luteis.
                  '
                                         Speczes.
scapiger. M. (The great scaped), foliis carinato-triquetris vi.
    1.     ridibus margine punctisque asperiusculis: scapo vahdo
           subpaniculato ancipiti.
                 Floref Aug. Sept. G. H. 1.4.
                                                                  Descriptio.

124-   Mr. Haworth’s Third            Decade qf new Succu‘lent Plants.
          Descriptio.       M bellidg'<U+FB02>ori habitu, at longé majus;
       foliis integerrimis,  basin    versus (lepresso-semicylindri
       cis, pone medium acute carinatis. Scapus erectus semi
       pedalis plusve, bracteis magnis acute carinatis          ladii
       formibus, mucrone membranaceo albo incurvo nien
       tibus, basi decurrentibus:        pedunculi subunciales at
       que   ancipites  clavellati  rugosiusculi    superné bracteo
       lati.
           Calyx facile mediocris (ratione plantae magnitudinis),
       foliolis quinque longis subaequalibus         acuminatis, om
       nibus sine membrané ordinari<U+FB01>.            Flores <U+FB02>avi (an po
       meridiani?) petalis ordinariis externé saturatioribus at
       superne aliquantill<U+FB01>m subinde‘ purpurascentibus,           ca
       lycum longitudine.        Germen mediocre altissimé quin
       queporcatum, porcis obtusis. Styli quinque graciles
       subulati, sub lente marginibus ramentaceo-ciliatis.
           Obs. Species conspicua, distinctissima, pone            ca          M
       rinantem locandum.          Florem unum Augusto mense
       solum dissecavi.
                           Sectio,     VAGINATA.
                                     Species.
amdangulum.                         foliis subrectan ulatim tri
                    M. (sharp-angled),
  2.   quetris  acuminatis incurvo-recurvulis    viri ibus, mar
        ginibus asperiusculis.
             Floret                             G. H.    1'3   .
          Obs. Su<U+FB01>-'rutex erecto-d'umosus, longé humilior qu<U+FB01>m
        M. curtum a Nob. cui simillimum, sed foliorum mi
        norum marginibus acutioribus,                  asperioribus.
             Obs.     M   curtum      8   Nob.    est    M         llamatum    Willd.
        et forte vera species.            M   politum Nob. est
                                                curtum   y
        etiam forte distinctum;magis strictum, foliis minoribus
                       M. hamatum Willd. ma          approximat      is
        <U+FB01>acilioribus.
          . vaginatum N0b., et locum ante illu obtinet.
          Obs. Ut in Capensibus aliis, statur<U+FB01> variat.
        B,   feré duplb gracilius,        eédem altitudine.
                             Sectio,      AUREA.
                                   Species.
cymbg'folium.   M. (greater boat-leaved),                foliis cymbiformibus
  3.    pallidé viridibus grandipunctatis,               ramis paucis ancipi
        tibus canis.
             Floret                   G. H.      7'2
                                                 .
             Obs. Species distinctissima,        nulli valdé af<U+FB01>ne. Su<U+FB01>'rutex
                                                                              secundo

   Mr. Haworth’s Third Decade of new            Succulent Plants. 425
         secundo tertiove anno pedalis suberectus, ramis gracili
         bus paucis, et feré durissimis.
              Folia vix uncialia feré omnino distincta, seu basi
         superné solum minimé coalescentia, trigona, sed valde
         compressa et ventrioosé carinata (inde cymbiformia)
         obtusula, cum mucronulo exiguo albo recurvulo.
         Nondum produxit <U+FB02>ores, locus exactus ergo in systemate
         nonnihil dubius, at 0b foliorum singularem insertionem
         forte pone     M   glaucum est.
                                                              '
                           Sectio,   CORALLINA.
              _                    Species.
productum.        M. (gre.t-cupped), <U+FB02>oribus terminalibus ternis:
   4.    foliolis calycinis duobus alté productis.
              Floret Jul. Aug. G. H. F2 .
              Descriptio, Su<U+FB01>'rutex <U+FB01>rmus erectus ramosus            se
         cundo      anno pedalis, cortice laevi castaneo badiove.
         Folia af<U+FB01>nium more ramulorum apicibus conferta sub
          uncialia subincurvo-recurvula obsolete trigona, saapius
         plus minus glaucescentia, angulis obtusissimis; ad lucem
         pellucenter punctulata, punctulis sub lente rotundatis
          confertis distinctis, aliis (punctis) quam caeteris duplo
          majoribus: apicibus (foliorum) subinde abrupté acuté
          que recurvulis.      Flores terminales ternati, rariusve s0
          litarii, antemeridiani mediocres inodori; in plantis pe
          dalibus quasi paniculati, et super pedunculos curvatos
          bibracteatos insidentes; bracteis infra pedunculi me
          dium, et omnino sed dimidiatim foliiformibus.          Calyx
          (cum      germine)    turbinatim    obpyramidalis,    foliolis
          quinque, horum duobus exterioribus quam caeteris du
          plo plusque longioribus et valde foliiformibus; tertio,
            uarto, quintoque ordinariis, at parlim longis. Corolla
            ilutissimé rosea, petalis valde inaequalibus, in‘teriori
          bus (pedetentim) omnino <U+FB01>lamentiformibus.               Fila
          menta vera anthems parvas polliniferas erectas stra
          mineas <U+FB01>nientia.        Styli quinque erecti lanceolati ra
          mentacei lutei, inter <U+FB01>lamenta duplo longiora recon
          diti.    Capsula magna turbinata quinquelocularis.
              Obs. Nulli maximé af<U+FB01>ne, sed Mesem. stipulaceo
           forte magis approximat, et ante id sine dubio locarem.
                          Sectio,   PLANIFOLIA.
          H- Calycibus subpyriformibus,       Scc.  Nob. Revis. Plant.
           Succ. 167.
                                   Species.
 crassicaule.     M. (<U+FB02>at-leaved, strumous,) foliis' lorato-acuminatis
    5.    viridibus glabris; caudice brevissimo crasso.
 Vol.  64..  No.  320‘. Dec. 1824.             s  H              Floret

 426   Mr. H'aworth’s Third Decade qf new           Succulent   Plants.
             Flore!   M1110.    G. H.     b  .
             Descriptio.       Caudea' senectus      carnoso-incrassatus
          subramosus (tertio anno) vix uncialis, subrotundatus
          ramif'erus.     Rami pauci crassi‘ biunciales expansi.
          Folia conferta af<U+FB01>nium more, viridia incurva, denique
          smpé recurvula, et inter crassiora (suae sectionis). Flores
          antemeridiani terminales ternati pallidé lutescentes
          ut in a<U+FB02>inibus, verno tempore, stylis feré nullis.           Pe
          dunculz' quadri~sexve~bracteati,      bractez's pl<U+FB01>s minds re
          motis, per paria foliiformibus, a calyce semper distan
         tibus.     Foliola calycina quinque, horum quatuor Feré
          wqualia, quintum queim cwtera minus.                  Vidi im
         primis    in Regio    Horto     Kewense,  A.  D.   1822.
             Obs. Post Mesem. pallentem Aitoni cui simile certé
          locandum.
             Instanter dignoscitur strumoso caule foliisque planis
         viridibus.               '
                          Sectio,    DIGITIFLORA.
                                    Species.
 acumz'natum.       M. (long-cupped), foliis acuminatis viridibus,
    6.   foliolis calycinis duobus alté productis.
            Flore)! Aug. Sept. G. H. 12 .
             Descriptio.     Suf<U+FB01>'utex l—2-peda1is erectus (ve1 fo
         liorum onere sensim dejectus), ramis numerosis erec
         tioribus.     Folz'a valdé numerosa, in adultis e tri ono
         semiteretia, breviter acuminata.           Flores solitari1 ter
         minales mediocres. Corolla antemeridiana nitidé nivea,
         deml‘im rubedinis minutissim<U+FB01> tincturé, externé prae
         cipué.’ Petala a<U+FB02>inium more angustissima. Filamenta
         et antherae spuriae, exteriores albw.           Filamenta vera.
         breviora, antheris aurantiis polliniferis, petalis tripk‘)
         humiliora.      Styli quinque erecti subulati albi, interné
         planati, antherarum altitudine.            Germen est conum
         obtusissimum       quinquangulare.
             Obs. Post Mesem. sulcatum Nob. cui simile, sine
        dubio locandum, sed ab e0 discrepat caulibus graci
         lioribus debilioribus, foliis 'erectioribus lon ioribusj et
         forté crassioribus sive mim‘is planatis; et a omnibus
         (suaa sectionis) facilé dignoscitur foliolis (duobus ca
         lycinis foliiformibus quém caeteris acuminatim 2-3-p16
         longioribus.
                          Sectio,    SPINULIFERA.
                                    Species.
longispinulum.       M. (rosy-cupped yellow), ramis procumbenti-'
   7.   bus, basi nodoso-strumosis : foliorum spinulis elongatis.
                                                                    Floret

     Mr. Haworth’s Third Decade of new Succulent Plants.              427
             Floret Aug—Nov.         G. H. h .
             Descriptio.   Su<U+FB02>'rutex dodrantalis, ramis paucis te
         retibus seepius procumbentibus, apicibus assurgentibus ;
          caudice nodisque in<U+FB01>mis ramorum senectute incras
         satis, et seepé spinulas 5—7 lineares (e persistente
         'costa foliorum) gerentibus.     Folia subuncialia et inter
         nodiis longiora, linearia canaliculata viridia, obsolete
         papuloso-nitentia uti ramuli juniores.          Flores anteme
          ridiani terminales smpé solitarii, pedunculis validis
          longis tereti-clavatis adscendentibus.           Calyx foliolis
          quinque subaequalibus     ordinariis,    membranis    ante <U+FB02>o
          rescentiam plus minus roseis; petalis pallidé <U+FB02>avis stra
          mineisve; more a<U+FB02>inium angustis, interioribus pede
          tentim minoribus subantheriferis.           Stamina‘ seu <U+FB01>la
          menta paululum sensimque patentia, antheraeque luteo
          colore saturatiores quam petala. Styli quinque erecti
         itidem saturatiores luteo, staminibus breviores.           Ger
          men seu capsula pulposa          5-locularis,    embryonibus
         pauculis pallidis.        Ante   M     tenui<U+FB02>orum Jacq. lo
          candum.
                            Sectio, JUNCEA.
                                 Species.
granulicaule.       M. (shagreen-stemmed)         ramis teretibus, gra
   8.     nulato crebré punctatis.
             Floret                 G.   H.   12 .
              Su<U+FB02>'rutex ramosus, omnium,      M     tenui Nob. excepto,
            racillimus, primi anni erectus dodrantalis, facie         M
        Juncei N0b., cui certé naturali systemate proximum.
             Descriptio.    Rami articulati asperiusculi, ramulis
          glaucescentibus.      Folia subsemuncialia angustissima
          obtusa glaucescentia internodiis longiora subincurvo
          erecta,   obtusa subglaucescentia;          vel obsoletissimé
          trigona semiteretiusculave, angulis marginibusve sub
          lente minute granulato-asperiusculis : juniora obsolete
          canaliculata ut in plurimis; seniora denique marces
          centia subpersistentia.     Verbo tenus speci<U+FB01>co nomiue
           satis ab af<U+FB01>nibus suae sectionis dignoscitur.
                          Sectio, TRXCHOTOMA.
                                 Species.
subincanum.        M. (White-<U+FB02>owered, soft-leaved), foliis expansis
   9. _compresso-tr1gonls subcanescentibus mollibus,                apice,
         vrecurvis   mucronulatis.
             Floret Aug. Sept.      G.       l2 .
                                                              Descriptio.

428           Mr. Lecount’s Tables of the Mean Time
            Descriptio.     Frutea: <U+FB01>rmus ramosus erectus bipedalis
         ultrave, ramis teretibus.          Folia subuncialia laevia
         crassiora quam in a<U+FB02>inibus, apice obtuso mucro
         nulo re<U+FB02>ectente (quasi externo) ab ima parte apicis
         singuli folii.    Folia juniora molliter incanescentia (uti
         ramuli incipientes) et sub lente optimo obsolete pube
         rula: seniora viridiora sed mollia tactu. Flores anteme
         ridiani mediocres (at magni maximive suae sectionis)
         nivei terminales saepé ternati.       Stamina <U+FB01>lamentis in
         conum concinné collectis, petalorum vix semialtitudine.
         Antherw pollinosae luteae.
             Obs. Calyx (cum germine) hemisphaericus, foliolis 5,
         horum duobus quam caeteris productim duplo longi
         oribus.
             Obs. Nulli multum a<U+FB02>ine, sed forte magis approxi
         mat    M   trichotomo Thunb. quam cazteris; unde ante
         id locarem.
                            Sectio, BARBATA.
                                  Species.
bulbosum.       M. (bearded tuberous) ramis villosulis, foliis hori
   10.    zontalibus, radice tuberoso.
             Floret Aug.      G. H.    To .
             Descriptio.     Suffrutex subpedalis, radice senecto
         lignoso    strumosé    tuberoso subgloboso supra terram,
         pomi mediocris magnitudine.            Rami effuso-decum
         bentes teretes pubescentes, internodiis folio longioribus.
         Folia viridia numerosiora brevioraque quam in        M   in
         tonso Nob. (in Philosoph. Mag. Jul. 1824), magisque
         approximata in juniorum ramorum apicibus, laeviora
         et solum sub lente villosula, apicibus multiradiatis.
          Flores antemeridiani       mediocres hilariter rubicundi
         observavi in Regio Horto Kewense, sed nondum dis
         secavi.
             Obs.    Pone Mesem. intonsum Nob. locandum; et
          radice tuberoso superterraneo facillimé distin      itur ab
          omnibus, .M. tuberoso solum excepto; atque a eo bar
          bigeris foliis.
 LXXV.         Tables for facilitating the Calculation of the Mean
   Time    of the Passage of Stars over the Meridian ,- for the Use
   of those   who observe      Clochs 0r Chronometers showing Mean
   Solar Time. Computed by Mr. P. LECOUNT
                            of the following tables is this: Let
THE111*construction
              and 17R®=the right ascension of a star and the
                                                                 sun;

                                                                                           -       ~
              ofthe Passage ofStars                       over the        Meridian.                     4-29          _
sun; let ZR=1= MT. be the same diminished by the acceleration
of the stars (at the rate of 3' 55”“91 for 24- hours).       .
   Then will the mean solar time elapsing from the appa
rent noon to the passage of any star over the meridian =
(jRat—BQ) MT.
   The mean time at the apparent noon is = equation of time;
consequently the mean time at the star’s passage = equation
of time +(rR=11=-.ZR®) MT.; or, ZR-k MT. —(./R® MT.
 —e nation of time).
      he <U+FB01>rst quantity is nearly the same all the year; its
changes are not affected by the subtraction of the acceleration
of the stars.   This quantity for the mean position on the lst
of January 1825, is contained in Table I. for the Greenwich
stars.   For every day in the year there must be applied to                                                 it,
the difference between the star’s mean right ascension on the
lst of January, and its apparent right ascension on the day
of observation. The second quantity (IRQ MT. —- nation                                     e
of time) changes from day to day        55"‘91. Table    . con  3'                       I
tains its amount on certain days (for noon at Greenwich), and
the multiple of    55"‘91 to be added to <U+FB01>nd the same for any
                     8'
intermediate day,      easily taken from Table
                              is                       the last                    III.;
<U+FB01>  ure of the date being always the multiple required to be
a (led to the value for the next preceding da in Table II.
In order to calculate this number for any 0 er meridian,
the value for Greenwich                is   to be                                  for
                                                                               d         gistzzil}
longitude      by
               the proportional part of    55"‘91 for the longi~     3'
tude, which may be done by the common table for the acce
leration of stars contained in all nautical and astronomical
books.    If the number of Table II. to be subtracted from the
B   of Table     exceeds the latter number, add 24- hOurs to the
                I.
ZR, and calculate the number ‘of Table II. for the next day.
   Example.-—Required      the time of passage of Sirius on the
 15th of January 1825,   in  longitude  hours west :—       5                                  ,       I,
    For January 10, by Table                    II.         .        .    .    .   19"15 40'95
    For days, by Table III.
          6                                     .     .     .        .    .    .      23 35'46                    _
    January     16        .    .   .    .       .     .     .    '.       .        19 39           16'4-1
    For   5   hours western longitude, add                                .   .                    4915
                                   f                                               19 40               5‘56
       1R. Sirius 1st Jan. 1825, by Table                                 I.
      = . . . . . .              6h 36' 20"-s4
                                            .
      For app. 1R. Jan. 15 ,.' .     + _ '60                             2
                                                                                   6     36 23'414
    Mean tlme.of           of Sirius,
                   passage                                                _    .   10 56           1788
      Jan. 15, in long.
                                                                 .
                           west    5
                                        .                                                          TABLE

280        Tables     qf the Passage qf Stars                 over the 'Meridz'an.
                                         TABLE        15‘
  No.          Names.           11. M.     s       No             Names.            H.   111. s.
     l                           0   4 14'17        24          Arcturus            14    5  22-22
         7 Pegasi
         n Cassiopeia            0 30 32-53         25      1                       14 38    37-15
     2                                                              Libra
     3      Polaris              0 58     4’77      26      2   }“              g   14 38    48-56
     4   a Arietis               l  57     0‘54     27      [3 Ursa: Maj.           14 48    52-74
         a Ceti                  2 52 40-13         28      2 C01. Bor.             15 24 45-07
     5
     6   a Persei                3 11 20-82         29      a Serpentis             15 33       6'09
            Aldebaran            4 25      9-87     30          Antares             16 16       1-20
     7
     8      Capella              5   2 56-88        31      u Herculis              17     3 52-28
            Rigel                5   5 17-81        32      a Ophiuchi              17 23 57-51
     9
   10    8   Tauri               5 14 22-67         33      7 Draconis              17 49 37-08‘
   11    a Orionis               5 44 45-53         34      a Lyrae                 18 27 59-02
   12       Sirius               6 36 20-34         35       'y                     19 34 43'55
   13       Cash)!               7 ‘22 12-72        36      a      Aquila            19 39      1'11
   14                            7 28 54-68                 B                   {    19 43
             gn<U+FB01>cym
               o ux              7 33 21-45         3%
                                                    3        l              -       '20 4 22-74
                                                                                              3 ‘66
   15                                                               Cap“-
   16    a Hydra:                9 17 27-78         39       2}“                ‘1  20     5    234
   17        Regulus _           9 57 24-65         40       a. Cygni               ‘20 32      5'86
   18     a Ursa M81.           10 51      4'18     41       a.           .         21 10 55'03
                                                                  C e? h e‘
   19    p Leonis               11 38 13-10         42       0                  i   21 22 51-27
   ~20    a Virginis _          11 39 40-02          43     a   Aquarii             21 53 11-98
   21     'y Ursae Ma].         11 42 39-70          44         Fomalhaut           22 44 13-55
   22       Spica Virginis      13 13 48-76          45      u Pegasi               22 52 17-71
   23      n Ursa!  Maj.        13 38 23-89          46      a Andromeda            23 55 25-96
                         TABLE         11.                                     TABLE      111.
    Month.         H.  M.    s.    Month.        1-1. m.    s.                Days!
    Jan.      0 18 36   21'84      July     10   7  11 16-55                          M     s_
             10 19 15   40'95               20   7  50 35'6'2                   1      3  55-91
             20 19 55   00'02               30   8  29 54‘64                    2      7 51-82
             30 20 34    19'18              31   8  33 50'60                    3     lo
             31 2o 38    15-12      Aug.     10  9 13      9-70                 4     15  43-64
      Feb,   10 21 17    34-24              20   9 52 28-80                     5     19 39-55
             20 21 56    53-34              30  10 31     47-91                  6    23 35-46
             23 22 28    20-59              31  10 35     43-84                 7     27 31-37
     MarchIO 23 07 39'62            Sept.    10 11 15      2'92                  S    31 27-28
                                                                                    ——
             20 ‘23 46 58-72                20  11 54     21'93                  9    35 23-19
             30 0 30 13‘58                  30  12 33     41-03
             31    0 34 9'58        Oct.     10 13 13      0'05
     _April 10 l 13 28'71                    20 13 52 19'15
              20 1 52 47-76                  30 14 31 38'17
                                       '
              30   2 32 6'30                 31 14   35 3413
      May     10   3 11 25-88       Nov.     10 15   14 53-21
              20   3 50 44‘92                2° 15   54 12'27
              30   4 30    4‘01              30 16   33 31'31
              31   4 33 59'94       Dec-     10 17 12 50‘47
      June    10   5 13 1910                 20 17 52       9'63
              20   5 52 38-20                30  18 31 28-74
              30   6 31 57'39                31  18 35 24'6‘1
     * The Nautical Almanack not being calculated                         to 100dths       01' seconds,
 the 100dths are not always correct in this table.

                                                          E    481    1
LX XVI.    Meteorological Register lrept atWICK in the County of
  Caitlmess, near    Extremity of Scotland, in the Year 1823.
                                   57w
                     Longitude‘4°           10'       West; Latitude             58° 28'        North.
Height of Thermometer above the Sea 45 Feet :—Quarter of a Mile from
                   the Head of the Bay of Wick.               _
                                                      JANUARY.
                    Thermometer.      E          g'
                                                          a?
                                      n2 2 ‘5’
                      2'      a                  8
1823-                 .5      p}                 Z        5                     Weather.
Jan.                 2       2                   3    3
 l                  38    39'50       29'8                SE Windy, and snow showers      Hard gale
                                                                                                         '
                    41'33 42          29'7                SE Windy and dry                all these
  9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2
                    42    44'33       29'6                SE Windy and showery                  E
                                                                                             days    3
                    44    42'33       29"?                SE Windy and rain all day; very stormy
                    41'33 39'67       29'9                SE Windy and dry all day            _
                    38‘33 38'67       30                  SE Windy and rainy; very rough and cold
                    42    41'67       30'1                SE   Moderate, dry and mild
                    4O    39'67       30°2                E    Moderate and rainy
                    40'67 40'50       29'9                SE Moderate and dry‘(<U+FB01>ne day)
 10                 41    40'67       29'!)               S  Moderate     do.    ‘do.
 1
 1                  39'67 37          29'9                S  Moderate     do.     do.
 12                 35    35'50       29'8                S  Moderate and thick; evening showery
 l3                 37‘50 32'50       29-5                N Moderate and dry; very <U+FB01>ne
 14                 27'50 36          29'3                N Moderate and hard dry frost; (very <U+FB01>ne)
 15                 35       36       29‘?                SE Sleet showers, and very raw and cold
 16                 36       35       29'6             N Dry frost A.M.3 snow, ground white P.M.
 17                 35    30          29'5             N Hard frost and snow (little
                                                                                     snow) <U+FB01>ne
 18                 32'67 36          29'4            NE Morning, snow showers afternoon sleet
                                                                                           ,-
 19                 38'67 37          29'6            SE Fine mild thaw
 20                 37       36'33 29°9               SE Thaw with frequent _sleet showers
 21                 27       26    30'1               NW Hard frost and very <U+FB01>ne;      little snow
                                                                                                 a
 22                 27       29       30'1            NW Hard frost      do.     snow
 23                 19'50    l6                       NW Hard frost      do.     do.
 24                 24       15       30              NW Hard frost      do.     do.   (very calm)
 25                  17   31'50 30                       Hard frost
                                                          5              do.     do. (evening soft)
 26                 36'50 36'50 29'9                  SE Fine mild thaw
 Q7                                                   SE Gentle
                                                                 thaw:
 28                                                      Gentle thaw
                                                          S
 29                 42'33 42    28'9                  SE Snow all gone; <U+FB01>ne mild day
 30                 40'67 37'67 29'2                  NW Mild, calm, clear and dry
 31                 40'33 4O    29’3                      S    Mild       d0.      d0.
AVge                 35'87   35'811   29'3
    [The above Register, with which we have been favoured by our friend
 W. S. MacLeay, Esq. bein       record of meteorological phwnomena at the
                                                      a
 northern extremity of the 'ngdom, will be very useful, we conceive, in com
 paring the climate of distant parts of the island—E0112]              FEB.

432                          Meteorological Register              for     1823,
                                                 FEBRUARY.
               Thermometer;       :53       :3
                                                  1'
                 4 =-    =1s         z8           5
                                  65 ,2 E
1823.                                                                   Weather.
Feb.            2        2                  ‘5   a
                                                       _
    1          38'33 34'33 29'3                   NE   Sleet and snow showers
               34       32 292                     E Frost and snow showers; ground white
   6 5 4 3 2
               30'33 30'33 293                    NE Frost             do.         do.
               24       30 29'4                   NE Frost             do.         do.
               21    1233 29'7                     N Frost and clear and calm; intense frost
               33'67 30    29'7                   S  Severe snow showers; high wind and drift
     7"        32'67 33'67 29'3                    S Constant drift and high wind; very rough
               34    30'50 29'1                   N Calm and <U+FB01>ne; much snow on ground
  9 8          35       36       29'1             W Calm and <U+FB01>ne,- a very moderate thaw
 10            33       32'67 28'9                N Calm and <U+FB01>ne; no thaw
 1
 l             37       3867 28'7                  S   Rain A.M.,' dry, moderate   thaw RM.
 12            36    30    28'4'                  W Morning     thaw afternoon
                                                                     ;             frosty
 13            35°33 34'67 29'1                   W Fine and    clear; frosty
 14            36'33 34'33 29'3                   N Fine and    clear      do.
 15            37'33 36    30                     N Fine and    clear      do.
 16            34    37    30'3                   N Fine and    clear      do.     very <U+FB01>ne
 17            36    35    29'9                   S  Windy, dry and frosty
 18            37    35'67 292                    S  Dry A.M.; very windy and rainy P.M. _
 19            38'67 32'67 288                    SW Very <U+FB01>ne, clear and dry
 20            37    38'33 29'4                   SW Very <U+FB01>ne       do.
 21            40'33 35'33 288                    S  Very rainy A.M.; <U+FB01>ne, complete thaw P.M.
 2'2           38    36    28'9                   5W Very <U+FB01>ne clear and dry
 23            38       39       29'1             SW Very <U+FB01>ne clear and dry
 24            4'0      38       29'2             NW Morning wet; afternoon windy and dry
 25            4O    39'50       29'1             S
                                                     Morning <U+FB01>ne; evening rough and rainy
 26            41    36'33       29                E Dry clear and <U+FB01>ne; evening rough
 27            40'33 34'50       29'3             NE Dry, clear and <U+FB01>ne; cold
 28            3967 36'67        29'5              N Hail showers and cold
Avge           35'64 34'26 29'3                                                             -
                                                  MARCH.
Mar.
   1           42    39          29'6            NW Clear with some hail showers
               44'67 35°50       292             NW Windy and sleet showers; very violent
  6 5 4 3 2
               42    36'50       29               W Windy and rain occasionally; viol. gusts
               38'50 38    28'5                   N Windy and much rain all day; very rough
               4O       30 29'3                   N \Vindy and sleet showers; very rough
               35'67 30'50 29'6                   N Ground white; calm and clear
               37    37    29'1                     Hard frost A.M.; day clear and dry; cold
  8 7
                                                  S
               35    35‘33 28'9                   S    Windy and sleet showers all day
                                                                                                Mar.

                                     kept at l/Viclc, in the      North of Scotland.             +33
                       Thermometer.              E 22’
                                                  8 ='
                         <2s             a: s
1823.                                                                     \Veather.
Mar.
                                                 5:3 a
                         2           2          m
         9             39    39    29‘?                    Sleet showers A.M.; clear and <U+FB01>ne 2.1M.
 10                    4O    38‘33 29'2                    Windy and dry A-M.; sleet showers P.1(.
 1
 1                     41'67 38    29'2                    Fine, clear and dry
 12                    43’50 42    29'7                    Ditto      ditto
 13                    46    38'33 29'6                    Clear and showery alternately
 l4                    43'38 40    30‘1                    Very <U+FB01>ne, clear and dry
 15                    4-5   40    30-2                    Ditto         ditto
 16                    42'33 38'33 29'9                    Clear and showery alternately
 1?                    43'33 35    29"]                    Windy and hail showers; very rough
 18                    35 7 28'33 29‘5                     Ground white; windy, and snow showers
 19                    35           2967        29-6       Ditto            ditto        ditto
 2O                    33'67 34'67              29'2       Morning, snow showers; afternoon, thaw
 21                    4O    43'33              23'7       Morning, rainy afternoon, <U+FB01>ne and mild
                                                                         ;
 22                    44'50 35'67              28'6       Fine, clear and dry
 23                    37    32'67              29'5       Very <U+FB01>ne, clear and dry
 24                    43'50 43'33              29'8       Ditto         ditto
 25                    46           44°33       29'9       Ditto         ditto
 26                    41           39°50       29'9       Windy, clear and dry
 27                    43           41          29'9'      Ditto         ditto
 28                    44           42‘33       29'9       Ditto         ditto
 29                    45           42'50       29'8       Very <U+FB01>ne, mild, clear and dry
 30                    45           41'50       29'6       Ditto      ditto       ditto
 31                    48           39-50       297        Ditto      ditto       ditto
Av‘e                   41'28 37.72 29'47
                               '
                                                         APRIL.
Apr.
       1               45‘33        45'67       29'5      Fine and mild;  a  few mild showers
                       48'67        43'50       29'2      Ditto ditto; afternoon, mild showers
     9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2
 _                     41'67        39'33       28'9      Constant rain, and very high wind
                       39'33        34'67       29        Moderate, but showery and clear alterm'.
                       42           39          29        Ditto               ditto    ditto
                       45'50        37'50 29'5            Very <U+FB01>ne, clear and dry
                       4-5'67 42'50 29-8                  Ditto         ditto
                       49    43'50 299                    Very calm, clear and dry
                       45    4233 30                      Ditto            ditto
 10                    44'67 40’50 30'1                   Ditto            ditto
1
1                      46'33 42'67 30'2                   Ditto            ditto
 12                    48'33 44    30'1                   Perfectly calm, clear and dry ’
l     3                4867 4233                30        Calm, clear and dry
 14                    4‘7          44-50 30              Ditto      ditto                 _
     Vol.               64.        No.    320. Dec. 1824.                 3
                                                                          I                  April

    434                          Meteorological Register            for   1823,
                   Thermometer.        E    g.       _
                     ='      s         E 3          “5
                                       a Z
                     ,3      A:                                        Weather.
    1823_
                                            ’6'
    April.          2        2         =3
      15           53    43'50      30‘1            5W Calm,    clear and dry
      16           51'50 46'33      29‘6            NW   Windy, clear and dry
     17            47    38'67      294‘            NW   Ditto        ditto    some showers
     18            39    38'50      29'3             N   Morning, groundcovered with snow; snow
     19            42'33 33'67      29‘4             N   Snow showers, and rough        [showers
     20            41    36'50      29'7             N   Calm, clear and dry; very cold
     21            4167     39      298              N   Ditto     ditto      very <U+FB01>ne
     22            43    38'50 29‘7                 5    Fine, clear and dry
     23            40'50 38'50 29'6                 5    Morning, showery; afternoon, clear&dry
     24            42‘33 35'67 29°6                  N   Frequent hail showers, and very cold
     25            41    3367 29'?                   N   Ditto        ditto
     26            45       58         29‘8          N   Ditto        ditto
'     27           42'50 41'50 29'9                  N   Fine, clear and dry
      28           41'50 4O    29"?                 NW   Showery and very rough
      29           49'50 43'67 30                   NW   Fine, clear and dry
      30           54    50    29'9                 SW Windy, clear and dry
    Av‘re          45'07 39'28 29'66
                                                         MAY.
    May
        1          52       5O         30'1         W  Windy, clear and dry; morning showery
                    5567    46         30-1         w  Ditto _       ditto
       6 5 4 3 2
                   47'67    42'33 30'3               N Clear, dry and cold          ,
                   43'67    43   \30-2              s  Ditto      ditto
                                            129'8
                   50'50    48                      SW Morning showery     afternoon clear
                                                                           ;               &  dry‘
                   54'50    47         298          S  Fine, clear and dry
                    49      45'67 29'6               E Morning very <U+FB01>ne; evening rainy
          9 8 7
                    54      44    29'2
                                   i                NE Morning very <U+FB01>ne; evening showery
                    47'33   41'33‘ 23'3              N Morning showery; evening showery and
       10           48'67   43‘83 29'6              SE Very <U+FB01>ne, clear and dry             [windy
      1
      1             40'67   44   [29'2              SE Constant rain all day
       12           52‘67   44'33 29‘1              SE Mild, and thick fog all day
       13                              29           NE Excessive rain all day; very rough
                    44'67142
       14                  43          29'3         NW Morning ~rainy; afternoon <U+FB01>ne and dry
                    43'67‘
       15           45'67 44        996             NW Windy, clear and dry
       16           48‘33 52           29'8         5W Morning rainy; evening <U+FB01>ne and dry
       1   7        46     4O          29'3          W Windy and showery; very rough
       18           47'83 44           296           w Ditto         ditto
       19           56      47         29‘7         SW Very <U+FB01>ne, clear and dry; calm
                            45'33‘ 29‘7
                                                     E   Fine, clear and dry
       _20          53'50'
       21           48'50: 45‘50 29'7                E   Morning <U+FB01>ne and dry; evening rainy
                                                                                             May

                         kept at     Wua in         the     North QfScotland.                  4-35
              _._'%.
              Thermometer.
                    2,         5
                                    i; d
                                     0 O
                                     E °
                                             '5'
                                              1:
1823.               <          s    '32      g                            Weather.
May-            2          2        6‘3  3
 22,          51    48‘33 29'6               5  Morning foggy,- afternoon            <U+FB01>ne and dry
 23           51'33 4‘5'67 29'5              S  Morning rainy,- noon and             evening foggy
 2%           51'50 46‘50 296                SE Morning foggy; afternoon             rainy
 25           51    4-8'50 29'6               E Morning foggy; afternoon              rainy
 26           49'50 48     29‘7               E Morning foggy; afternoon             <U+FB01>ne
 27           544   48'33 30                 E  Fine, clear and dry
 28           54-        4850      30        s      Ditto       ditto
 29           55'50 49'50 29'9               W  Morning rainy; afternoon <U+FB01>ne and clear
 30           58'50 51'50 30                 SW Fine, clear and dry
 31           58    50'50 30'1               NW Ditto       ditto    very <U+FB01>ne
Av“           50'4-6 46'04- 29'66
                                                   JUNE.
June
   1          53'50 4-9'50 30                3 Rough and showery
   2          55'50 4~5'50 29-2              W Strong gale and showery
              5O    4'5'50 291               W Windy and showery
   4- 3       50    48'50 291                s Fine, clear and dry
              52    50'33 292                   Very <U+FB01>ne, clear and dry
  9 8 7 6 5
                                              8
              57'67 52     29'6               N Calm; very <U+FB01>ne, clear and dry
              51'33 4-9'67 29'5              s  Slwwery
              55'67 51     294               sw Fine, clear and dry
              59         4-8-33    296       sw Calm and rainy
 10           54-        4-6       30         N    Very calm, <U+FB01>ne and dry
 11           54-        51'50 29'9           N    Ditto         ditto
 12           61     57     298               W    Very <U+FB01>ne and dry
 13           63     48     29’6             NW    Windy and clear
 14-          54-‘67 4'3‘67 29'7              W    Ditto      ditto    evening showcry'
                                                                                                   >
 15           51     414‘33 30                N    Windy and showery‘; rough and cold
 16           53     48'50 30'1               N    Windy and dry
 17           53°50 4:8'50         302       N     Fine, clear and dry
 18           52'67 50'50 30'3               N     Ditto      ditto
 19           52'33 51'67 302                N     Ditto      ditto
 20           54-50 48'33 30'2               N     Ditto      ditto
 21           53         4550 302            N     Dittov     ditto
                                                          '
 22           52'67 442'38 802               N     Ditto      ditto
 23           53'67 2533 30                  N     Ditto      ditto
 24-          54'67 4:3    296               S      Mild    and showery
 25           47'67 41'67 29‘3               S      Calm and showery, hail showers
 26           51‘50 42'67 29’4               N      Morning rough; aftern. calm 8: showery
 27           53'3‘5 51            29'4~     S      Calm and showery
                                                     312                                      June

  436             Meteorological Register for        1 823,
        Thermometer.    E  :5    _
           =:       ='   E 3   E
           4'       a:   0 Z                          Weather.
  1823.
  June.    2       2    9% ‘5
    28   55'50 49— 29'3         S   Very calm, clear and foggy alternately
    29   56'     51    29'9    N    Very calm, clear and <U+FB01>ne
-   30   54'50 522% 299         s   Ditto              ditto
  AV“    54-‘03 48'27 29'73                                            ‘
                                   JULY.
  July                                  _   V
      1 56      46     29'9    N Fine rain ,- evening dry and clear
     2  51°50   49     29'4'   N Fine, clear and dry
     3  54      4-9    30     NW Cloudy and dry
     4' 59      51'33  299     S    Ditto      ditto
     5  59      54'67  29'2    s    Rain all day
     6  59'50 50'33    29'1   SW Cloudy end <U+FB01>ne
     7  56'50 51'33    29'3    N Cloudy and very <U+FB01>ne
     8  57      50'50  29'6    N Sho wery and calm all day
     9  55      48'50  29'8    N Cloudy and dry
    10  60      52'50  29'8    S    Ditto      ditto
    11  57'50 52'67    29'?   SW    Rainy and calm
    12  56      52     29‘?    N Cloudy and calm
    13  55      52'50 29'3    SW Rainy and calm
    14- 53      50'67 29'4     N Cloudy and dry
    15  59      51'50 29‘5    SE Forenoon <U+FB01>ne and dry,- afternoon rainy
    16  54      47'33 295      N Cloudy, windy and cold
    17  55'50 51'33 29'6       N Clear, dry and <U+FB01>ne
    18                         SE   Rainy all day
    19  58'33 57'67 29'5       8    Ditto     ditto
    20  62      53     29'4'   S    Fine and dry
    21  63      56     29'3   SW Very <U+FB01>ne and dry
    22  59‘33   53'33  29'4‘   N    Rainy and calm all day
    23  62'50 52       29'4‘   S    Calm and clear; very <U+FB01>ne
    24  55'67 4‘7'33   29'5 NW Windy and dry
    25   55     51'50  29's    3    Fine clear and dry
    26   59     52     29'6    Sv Forenoon <U+FB01>ne & dry;        afternoon   showery
    27   56'67 54'     29'8 SE Fine, clear and dry
    28   5667 53'67 29'5 8 Ditto               ditto
    29   60'50 53'67 29‘5      S    Ditto      ditto
    30   60      53    29'5 SW Ditto           ditto
    31   58'50 5463‘ 29'?       s Dim,         "3m,
  Av“    57'44- 51'73I29'51'
                                                                       AUGUST

         kept at Wick, in the North                       of Scotland.          437
                               A UGUST.
Thermometer.
                  Barometer
                                                              Weather.
                                             Morning <U+FB01>ne afternoon showery
                                                         ,-
                                             “harm and slight showers
                                             Forenoon very <U+FB01>ne; evening rainy‘
                                             Forenoon heavy rain evening <U+FB01>ne
                                                                   ,-
                                             Rainy and rough all day
                                             Showery all day
                                             Showery and rough all day
                                             Fine, clear and dry
                                             Ditto,      ditto   very <U+FB01>ne
                                             Showery and mild
                                             Forenoon <U+FB01>ne; afternoon very rainy
                                             Forenoon rainy; afternoon clear&  <U+FB01>ne    _
                                  Very <U+FB01>ne, clear and dry
                                  Rainy all day                     "
                                  Very <U+FB01>ne, clear and dry
                                  Ditto            ditto
                                  Calm, and very heavy showers of rain
                                  Fine, clear and dry
                 29'3             Ditto      ditto
                               SW Ditto      ditto
                                  Ditto      ditto
                 296              Ditto      ditto
                 29-6             Ditto      ditto; evening showery
                 298              Ditto ditto
                 29-6             Rainy all day
                 29-9          SE Fine, clear and dry
                 29-9          U) Forenoon windy; afternoon rainy
                 29'8             Fine, clear and dry
                                                              '
                 29-8             Ditto      ditto
                                    ‘mmmmm
                 29-7             Morning <U+FB01>ne; afternoon heavy showers
                 29-9                        Fine, clear and dry
                 29°59
                              SEPTEMBER.
         55~5o   29-8           SE           Forenoon <U+FB01>ne; afternoon rainy
         49    29-5            SW            Fine, clear and dry
         50-50 29-5            NW            Showery and windy
         52-67 29-6            N‘V           Morning rainy; afternoon <U+FB01>ne and windy
55       49    29'8             N            Calm and showery
51-671   47ml    so             N            Calm and dry
                                               ‘                            s  ept.

  438               Meteorological Register        for  1828,
        T?-
        Thermometer.      E
                          t
                             ;E
                             s    "2
                                     _
                          22
                                 _
  Sept. .   <5     “i                                   Weather.
  1823.   2       2      ,5 ‘5
     7  50'33 47       30'2        N   calm and dry
     8  51      49     30-1       w    Ditto      ditto
     9  57      54     29'9      W     Morning calm and dry; evening rainy
    10  57‘67   54'33 30'1        W    Cloudy, calm and dry
                                                                   '
    11  53'67 53       30'1       SE   Foggy, calm and <U+FB01>ne
   12   58      54°33 29'8_       SE   Hazy and rough; evening rainy
    13  55'50 47'50 29'6          SE   Fine, clear and dry
   14           55     29°5      SE    Morning windy and clear; evening hazy
        55'6\7
    15  56      51'50 288         SE   Heavy rain all day
    16  55'50 53'50 29'3           S   Forenoon clear and dry; evening rain &
    l7 57'50    49     29'3      SW Fine, clear and dry                      [wind
    18  54-     57-33 30           w Ditto        ditto
'
    19  56-50 4-8       297      SW Ditto         ditto
   20   5360    47      29-7     sw Ditto         ditto                     [rainy
   21   50      47-67 294        SW    Morning cloudy and dry; evening very
   22   5233 4467 29'4             N Cold, dry & clear; incessant rain at night
   23   47 '33 50       295      SW Cold and. showery; very rainy all day
   24   55'50 49        29'3       W Cold and showery                ~
   25   56'67 48'50     29'3       W Incessant rain all day
   26   48'67 41'67     29'4       W Windy and some showers
   27   49      37'67   29'4       W Cold and frequent severe showers
                                                                       '
   28   46'50 40'83     29-8       W Cold and showery
   29   48      48-67   29-6     sw Windy      and showery
   30   47'50 36-50     29         W Calm and showery
  AV"   53' 7 48'98     29'61        '
                                 OCTOBER.
  Oct.
      1 42'50 42       29'1     'NW Calm and-showery
     2  4‘2     4‘4    29        NW Rough and rain all day
     3  49'50 47'50 29'4         SW Calm and cloudy; evening rainy
     4‘ ‘1'8’50 4‘2'67 29'6      SW Calm and <U+FB01>ne all day
     5  51'50                    SE    Very windy and incessant rain; very
                52‘33IQQ'4
     6  56      49'33'29'4         5   Fine, clear and dry                [stormy
      7 54'33 46       29'6        S   Fine morning; afternoon showery
      8 51'50 47'33 29'5           S   Morning <U+FB01>ne and dry; evening showery
      9 46‘67 44'67 29'2           S   Very <U+FB01>ne and clear all day
    10  47      48     29          S   Windy, clear and dry
    1 1 47      48     28'9        E   Very windy and constant rain
    12  51'50          29'2        E   Morning   cloudy and dry; evening rainy
    13  50
                47'50l 29'4:       N   Morning   <U+FB01>ne, clear & dry,- evening rainy
                47'33‘
    14  49'67 48'67|29'2         NW Morning      rainyyafternoon <U+FB01>ne
    15  49‘67 50'67 28'9         NW Rainy all     day
                                                                             Oct.

               kcptat Wick, in      the  North of Scotland.                439
      Thermometer.      5  =5
          .         .   o  o   .5
         E         S    E o     c:
1824.    <3        #1   EZ                          Weather.
 Oct.   2         2    53
                          3
  16  51       50'50 29'2     NE Showery and rough all day
      5067 4933 298
  17                          NE Ditto                  ditto
 18   51       49      29'3   NE Showery      and <U+FB01>ne alternately
 19   47       4433 29'8       N    Clear and dry; evening showery
 20   48'50 47         80-2    E Clear and dry all day
 21   49       41‘7‘33 303      S \Vindy, clear and dry
 22   4933     46      30-1      5 Ditto          ditto
 23   ’19      ’18     30        5 Ditto          ditto
 24-  50       44:33 30         N Calm, clear and dry
 25   47'50 43-50 802          W Ditto            ditto
 26   50'50 39         30‘2    W Ditto            ditto
 27 50°50      51'50   29"?     S Ditto           ditto
 28 4433 41'67 29'4'          NW Windy and sliowery
 29 40         34'50 29'3 SW Windy          and sleet, showery
 30 37‘67 38'50 29'2 NW Windy               and sleet, showery;   very stormy
 31   39'50 33         29'3 12'; Windy      and dry
AVE" 48'12 45'59 29'4‘9
                             NOVEMBER.
Nov.
   1  39       42'67   29'8    SW Fine & frosty A.M.; calm, clear & dry m1.
             -
   2  47       49      29-?     s    Windy and dry
   3  50'33 4<9        29'5     S    Calm and dry A.M.; damp and hazy       1".M.
   4  48'50 51         29'4-   SE    Calm and damp A.M.; rainy EM.
   5  50°33 50'50      29'7     E    Calm and hazy
   6  50       5033 29-9       E   _ Ditto     ditto
   7  4:8      49      30      S     Calm, cloudy and dry
   8  47'50 47         30-3     N    Ditto     ditto
   9  4:2'67 33'33     30'4:   E     Calm, clear and dry; very <U+FB01>ne
  10  42       40'50   30-4     s    Ditto        ditto       ditto
  11  44‘      A5      30'3     S    Calm, cloudy and dry; very <U+FB01>ne
  12  4-1‘33 44967 30'1         S    Calm, clear and dry; very <U+FB01>ne
  13  47'50 47         29'9    W     Cloudy and damp
  14  48       48'50   30     NW     Thick rain all day
  15  4:8'67   48‘50   30'1   NW     Cloudy all day
  16  43       4:6'50 30'1      W    Clear and dry all day
  17  4-6‘50 40        30'1   NW     Windy, clear and dry
  18  4133 41'50 302           SW    Calm, clear and dry; very <U+FB01>ne
  19  41'50 42'67 29'7         SW    Morning showery; afternoondry& cloudy
  20  46'50 51         29'5     W    Cloudy and damp all day
  21   50       416    29'5     W    Ditto             ditto
  22   45       4'7    29'6     W    Calm and thick rain alljay
  23  ‘18       46.50 29'6      W    Calm and cloudy all day
                                                                          Nov.

M0                      Meteorological Register                    for     1828.
              Thermometer.         3“}
                                          8 ='
                                                  _
              '§—=‘—     r-i
                                   t
                                          Z
                                                 "s
                                                                       Weather.
1823.           4
                                   :2 2   a"
Nov.           2        2
 24.                   4-9         29‘5          SW Windy and showery
              47'33;
 25           51'33 53         >   296           SW Windy and dry
 26           53       4-8'50      296           SW Ditto          ditto
 27           50       5050 29'5                 sw Ditto          ditto
 28           M        42-33 295                 sw Ditto          ditto
 29           44       47'67 29'1                 S    Windy & rough all day       ;   evening showery
                                                                                             '
 30           45       38'50 28'6                 S    Ditto, clear and dry
Av” 43'37 4622                     2      '77
                                                 DECEMBER.
Dec.
  1           42'67 38             28'3          SW \Vindy, and hail showers;              very stormy
              38‘50 33             29'1          SW Fine, clear and dry all day; calm
  3 2         31     40'67         29            NW Very <U+FB01>ne, and hard frost A.M.; eveng soft
    4!        42'67 39     28'9                  NE Cloudy and raw
              37'50 36'33  29'4                  W Ditto     ditto
  9 8 7 6 5
              33     36'33 29'7                  SW Frosty A.M.; evening fresh  calm all day
                                                                                       ;
              42   4 49    29'8                   W Windy and raw all day; eyeng very windy
              44    34     29'6                   W Very windy, and sleet showers; stormy
              38-50 26'33 29'8                    w Ditto             ditto           ditto
 10           38'67 45'50 29'9                   SW Moderate and cloudy
 ll           39    34     29'2                  SW Windy and showery      rough
                                                                              ;
‘12           32'50 36     29                    NW Windy, & snow showers A.M. eveng hard    ,-
 13           38    36’67 29'8                   SW Moderate and showery                                [gale
 14           37    88-50 299                     sw Ditto            ditto
 15           34'67 42   _ 29'7                  SW    A   little frost A'.M.; <U+FB01>ne, clear and dry 2.x,
 16           43    37'50 294                    SW Fine,
                                                          clear and dry; very mild     .
 l7                 33     28'9_                 SW Windy
                                                            and dry                   [snow
 18           3238 27'33 28'3                     N Fine, calm and frosty; ground white with
 19           24    35'50 29'4                    W Fine, and frosty A.M. evn! thaw,
                                                                              ;        white      g‘l
 20           4O    42'67 29                     SE Strong wind, and showery; snow all gone
 21           42    42     29'4                   E Calm, damp and cloudy
 22           35    38'50 29‘6 _                 SW Calm, clear and dry; very <U+FB01>ne
 23           40-67 4050 29'5                    sw Ditto        ditto      ditto
 24           37    45'33 29'6                   SW    Calm, cloudy and damp
 25           45'67 46'33 29'4 '                 SE   Calm, thick and soft; very mild
 26           38'33 40'67 29'7                    W   W'indy and dry
 27           45    38'67 28'9                    S   Morning rain; evening fair and mild
                                                  '
 28           57'67 43‘50 28'9                        Morning <U+FB01>ne; evening rain and Wind
 29           4O    4O     28'5                   IS  Fine, clear and dry all day
 30           39       41          286             W Ditto      ditto     ditto
 31           4,0      34,         29-1             N Calm  and   showery
Avga          38'18,38.77i29‘26

                                [  441    ]
LXXVII.         OnaHydro-pneumatic Pump. By Mr. S. SEAWARD.
     To theEditors ofthePhilosophieal Magazine and Journal.
        Gentlemen,
              the Notices to Correspondents contained in a late
FROM              I                          I
       Number, observe that the letter had the honour of ad
dressing to you, in vindication of my claim to the invention of the
Hydro-pneumatic Pump, has been refused insertion in your va
luable work, partly because it did not offer any “ proofs.”
    I  beg to acquaint you that, in consequence of my being sta
tioned in a distant part of Cornwall, 1 am precluded, for the
present, from collecting the necessary evidence, which on my
return to London I shall have no dif<U+FB01>culty in obtaining, to
the full establishment of my claim.
    In the mean while permit me to offer to your notice two or
three facts which can be easily veri<U+FB01>ed.
    Having conceived the idea of compressing gas by the me
 dium of a liquid body, I submitted my <U+FB01>rst ideas to paper, in
 the form of sketches, long before I had any communication
 with Mr. Martineau on the subject.            This document is now
 and constantly has been in the possession of my brother, who
 will be happy to show it to any person who is inclined to give
 it an examination.       It is true my <U+FB01>rst plan differed materially
 in   form   and  size from   the pump afterwards made, although
in principle it will be found substantially the same.
     I  afterwards, with the advice of m brother, arranged and
planned the pump in all its essential eatures, both as to size
 and disposition of parts, exactly as described in your Number
 for July.
                  I
     This plan submitted to Mr. Martineau, and eXplained to
 him the nature of the machine, with its intended operation;
 and now I can solemnly aver, that up to this time neither my
  self nor any person whom I consulted had the slightest idea
  that any thing of the kind had ever been suggested before.
     However,     I was now informed that Mr. David Gordon of
  the Portable Gas Company had already proposed a pump on
  similar principles, and had published his ideas on the subject,
  about four years ago, in the Repertory of Arts. As soon as
                                       I
  I was acquainted with this fact, waited upon that gentleman
  to ascertain whether he intended to pursue the idea any fur
  ther; he candidly informed me he did not, but wished me suc
  cess in my endeavours, as he approved my plan.
      From this period, no time was lost in proceeding with the
  pump, which was made and completed entirely under my ma»
  nagement and direction, .as must be notorious to everybody
  in Mr. Martineau’s factory.        If  the above facts be correct,—
      Vol. 64. No. 320. Dec. 1824-.             3 K               and

4-49        Analysesqu a Series quapers, by          Mr. C. Bell,
and they admit of easy proof,-—I will leave it to the judgement
of any impartial man whether I have been guilty of falsehood
in claiming the invention, quali<U+FB01>ed as that claim is by a pro
per acknowledgement of Mr. D. Gordon’s priority.
     I beg here to observe, that in publishing a description of
the pump in question, I had not the slightest idea of giving
 any offence to Mr. Martineau, as such publication was ac
 tually contemplated by me while I was in his employ.                You,
 Gentlemen, may remember that I promised you the description
                                I
 of this pump at the time furnished you with the 'account of
 my high pressure gauge .- at that period          I considered myself
 in the enjoyment of Mr. Martineau’s approbation and con<U+FB01>
dence.      I have also to remark, that when he wished to make
me a compensation for an invention of mine,            I  unhesitatingly
refused to take any reward, as I considered. myself bound,
while in his employ, to do every thing in my power to promote
his interests,—a conduct on my part which I conceive was de
 serving of a different return from the one I have met with.
     I will now beg to ask Mr. Martineau, who the person is
 that he conceives is entitled to the credit of the invention;
who was the person who suggested'the “ essential parts of the
pump,” and what these are; who instructed or directed me in
preparing the drawings for the same; and also whether any
machine of the kind was ever made or attempted in his or any
other factory before I submitted to him my plan ?              If  he will
candidly answer the foregoing queries, it may be the means
of throwing some light upon this mystery. Your kind inser
tion“ of this will particularly oblige                  Yours, 8(0
Cornwall, Nov. 13, 1824.                         SAMUEL SEAWARD.
LXXVIII.        Analyses of a Series of Papers on          the Stmcture,
    Distribution, and Functions        if  the Nerves,-
     BELL, Esq. ,- which have appeared in some late
                                                           by CHARLES
                                                           Volumes of the
    Philosophical    Transactions.
                         [Concluded from p. 359.]
WE
_
           were engaged in our last Number in considering the
        provision   which exists for preserving the eye-ball from
injury by the involuntary winking of the eyelids, as pointed out
by Mr. Bell, and which instinctive action was seen to depend
on some minute branches of the portio dura of the face sup
plying those parts: but the author, in the <U+FB01>rst part of the pa
   * We have inserted this letter in
                                     compliance with an urgent claim made
on us on the part of Mr. Seaward, although, as the apparatus has we learn
failed to answer the purpose for which it was intended, the subject has
ceased to be of public importance—EDIT.
                                                                      per

on the Structure,      Distribution, and Functions ofthe Nerves. 443
per on this subject, took occasion to observe that the shutting
of the eyelids     was not the only part of this act of preservation,
for the motions of these are at the same time attended with a
rolling of the eye-ball. The question, how is this relation be
tween the eyelids and eyeballs established? leads therefore to
an examination of the fourth nerve.
                           “ 172s fourth   Nerve.
     “ This is a <U+FB01>ne nerve, which take its origin from              the brain,
at a part remote from all the other nerves which run into the
orbit.     It threads the intricacies of the other nerves without
touching them, and is entirely given to one muscle, the su
perior oblique.        \Ve may observe too, that this sin ularity
prevails in all animals.        What of<U+FB01>ce can this nerve have in
reference to this one muscle? Why is its root, or source,
different from the other nerves, from the nerve of vision, the
nerve of common sensibility, and the nerve of voluntary mo
tion? We now re<U+FB02>ect, with increased interest, on the of<U+FB01>ces
of the oblique muscles of the eye, observing that they perform
an insensible rolling of the eyeball, and hold it in a state of
suspension between them. We have seen that the effect of
dividin the superior oblique was to cause the eye to roll
more orcibly upwards; and if we suppose that the influence
of the fourth nerve is, on certain occasions, to cause a relaxa
tion of the muscle to which it goes, the eyeball must be} then
rolled upwards *.
     “ The course of inquiry leads us, in the next place, to ob
serve the vicinity of the root of this fourth nerve, to the origin
of the respiratory of the face, and we <U+FB01>nd them arising from
the same track of <U+FB01>brous substance. The column of medul
lary matter which constitutes that part of the medulla oblon
gata from which the respiratory nerves arise, terminates up
    * “ The  nerves have been considered so generally as instruments for stimu~
lating the muscles, without thought of their acting in the opposite capacity,
that some additional illustration may be necessary here. Through the nerve:
is established the connexion between the muscles, not only that connexion
by which muscles combine to one effort, but also that relation between the
classes of muscles by which the one relaxes while the other contracts.           I
appended a weight to a tendon of an extensor muscle, which gently stretch
ed it and drew out the muscle ; andI found that the contraction of the op
ponent <U+FB02>exor' was attended with a descent of the weight, which indicated
 the relaxation of the extensor.    To establish this connexion between two
classes of muscles, whether they be grouped near together, as in the'limbs,
 or scattered widely as the muscles of respiration, there must be particu
 lar and appropriate nerves to form this double bond, to cause them to con
 spire in relaxation as well as\to combine in contraction. If such a rela
 tionship be established, through the distribution of nerves, between the
 muscles of the eyelids and the superior oblique muscle      of the  eyeball, the
 one will relax while the other contracts.”                                    _
                                    3  K  2                             wards,

444              Analyses   of a Series of Papers,   lgy   Mr. C. Bell,
  wards, or at its anterior extremity, just under the corpora qua
  drigemina, and there the fourth arises.        Is    possible then,
                                                           it
  we say, that there can be any correspondence between the ge
  neral act of respiration, and the rolling of the eye? Led thus
  to make the experiment,        was grati<U+FB01>ed to <U+FB01>nd
                                  I                         so easy to
                                                                it
  give   the  proof.  On  stopping  the nostrils with   the  handker
  chief, every effort to blow the nose will be attended by a ra
  pid rising of the cornea under the upper eyelid. And‘ on every
  occasion when the eyelids su<U+FB01>'er contraction through the agenc
  of the respiratory nerve of the face, as in sneezing, the eyebail
is    rolled upwards through the agency of the fourth nerve.
      “ It plain that we must consider the nerves and muscles of
            is
  the eyelids in a. double capacity, in their voluntary, and invo
. luntary
             actions.  In the <U+FB01>rst, the motions of the eyelids com
  bine with the whole muscles of the eyeball, as we may perceive
  in the voluntary contractions and squeezin of the             e; but
                                                                     e
  in the insensible and involuntary motions o the eyelids, there
  would be no sympathy with the muscles of the eyeball, and
  therefore no correspondence in the motion of these parts,
  without a nerve of the nature of the fourth         that ;         is,
                                                               a nerve
  which having diverged from the root of the respiratory nerves,
  takes its course to the oblique muscles.         In one word, the
  connexion of its root declares the of<U+FB01>ce of this nerve.
      “ The eXpression of the eye in passion, con<U+FB01>rms the truth of
  this relation being established by a respiratory nerve, and con
  sequently by a nerve of expression.      In bodily pain, in agony
  of mind, and in all this class of passions, the eyes are raised
  and dragged, in conjunction with the changes to which the
  other features are subjected.      If be asked now, as has
                                            it                              it
  been asked for some hundred years past, why the fourth nerVe
    0es into the Orbit, where there are so many nerves, why                     it   is
  so distant in its origin <U+FB01>om the other nerves, and why         sends     it
  08' no twig or branch, but goes entirely to one muscle of the
  eye? The answer           is,
                          to rovide for the insensible and instinc
  tive with of the eyeba         and to associate this motion of the
                                  l;
  eyeball Wit the winking motions of the eyelids; to establish
a    relation between the eye and the extended respiratory sy
           all tending to the security or preservation of the organ
 itSe .
 sterlr}:
                            “
                     Wtke voluntary Nerves.
     “ The voluntary nerves of the'eye'are the third and sixth.
 The third nerve         from the crus cerebri, that track of
'medullary matter which gives 01? all the nerves purely of vo
 lition.     given to the muscles of the eye generally, and to
             It   is
 no part but muscles.   Forjthese reasons we retain the name
                                  -                      motor

on the Strzwture, Distribution,     and Functions      of the Name. 445
motor oculz', given by Willis, although his reasons for calling
 it so were fanciful and unsatisfactory.         The <U+FB01>fth nerve, by its
 ophthalmic division, gives branches to the muscles of the eye,
 but not so profusely as to the surrounding parts; and not more
 than suf<U+FB01>cient to give them sensibility in the degree possessed
 by muscular substance generally.           Since the branches of this
 <U+FB01>fth nerve, transmitted to the muscles of the eyelids and fore
 head, do not minister in any degree to muscular action there,
 it would be unwarrantable to suppose that they served the
purpose of giving action to the muscles within the orbit. For
 these reasons, I conceive the third nerve to be that which
 gives volition to the muscles of the eye, and- that it             of all
                                                                   is,
 the nerves of the body, the most perfectly and directly under
 the power of the will.                                              I
    “The sixth nerve called abducem, and motorextemus. With
                       is
regard to its origin and distribution, there        is  no obscurity in
 this nerve;  it  arises from the same track of medullary matter
which gives rise to the motor nerves, and          it    isdistributed to
a voluntary muscle, the rectus externus.           In this respect       it   is
like a subdivision of the third, and without doubt            it   isa vo
luntary nerve; but there
                               is
                               a      circumstance in its connexion
which   I  cannot explain.      It receives a gross branch from the
    eat visceral nerve called Sympathetic.         This nerve, ascend
lng through     the  base  of  the  skull, unites  with  the sixth nerve
asit    is entering the orbit.       Some havin proceeded so far,
would be inclined to call this an accidenta connexion, and so
leave it; but similar investigations, for many years, have
brought me to the conviction that there           is  no accident in an
animal body; and Comparative Anatomy proves this to be a
regular established relation.                                             .
    “ To return to the consideration of these nerves of volition
as they regard the eye, we may af<U+FB01>rm, that although they
want sensibility in the~common acceptation of the term, they
no doubt furnish the mind with the rudiments of certain sen
sations, and so far resemble the nerves of the senses.              From
experiments     narrated  in  the  <U+FB01>rst  part of this paper,  it appears,
that we are sensible to the degree of agency exercised by the
voluntary muscles of the eye.           These nerves, the third and
sixth, although they receive no external impression, are ne
vertheless agents which give rise to the perceptions of place
or relation, in aid of that sensibility enjoyed        bythe optic nerve
and retina.
   “I hope have now unravelled the intricacy of the nerves of
             I
the head, and have correctl  assigned to each nerve its pro
per of<U+FB01>ce.- In our books ' Anatomy, the nerves are num
                                                       bered

4546       AnalySes        of a   Series    of Papers,     by   Mr. C. Bell,
bered according to the method of Willis, an arrangement
which was made in ignorance of the distinct functions of the
nerves, and merely in correspondence with the order of suc
cession in which they appear on dissection.
   “The <U+FB01>rst nerve is provided with a sensibility to e<U+FB01>luvia, and
is pro erly called olfactory nerve.
   “    e second is the optic nerve, and all impressions upon it
excite onl sensations of light.
   “The t ird nerve goes to the muscles of the eye solely, and
is a voluntary nerve by which the eye is directed to objects.
   “ The fourth nerve performs the insensible traversing mo
tions of the eyeball.   It combines the motions of the eyeball
and eyelids, and connects the eye with the respiratory system.
   “ The <U+FB01>fth is the universal nerve of sensation to the head and
face, to the skin, to the surfaces of the eye, the cavities of the
nose, the mouth, and tongue *.
   “ The sixth nerve is a muscular and voluntary nerve of the
e e.
 y“ The     seventhis the auditory nerve, and the division of                    it,
called portio  dam,     the motor nerve of the face and eyelids,
                            is
and the respiratory    nerve,  and that on which the expression
of the  face depends.
   “The eighth and the accessory nerve are respiratory nerves.
   “The ninth nerve         the motor of the tongue.
                                 is
   “The tenth      the <U+FB01>rst of the spinal nerves;
                      is                              has a double  it
root and double of<U+FB01>ce;
           a                      both a muscular and a sensitive
                                       it   is
                          ’
nerve.
   “ Had taken the nerves of any other complex organ rather
         I
than of the eye,     should have had an easier task. If
                      I                                        had         I
taken the nerves of the tongue,        should have been able to
                                                 I
prove by experiment, and in a manner the most direct, that
the three nerves belong to three distinct functions, and stand
related to three different classes of parts.     could have shown
                                                            I
that taste and sensibility belong to the ofiice of the <U+FB01>fth nerve,
voluntary motion to the ninth, and deglutition to the glosso
pharyngeal nerve of the tongue.
   “In    concluding these papers,               I   hopeI      may be permitted to
  "' “In this view of the <U+FB01>fth nerve, have not tOuched upon its resemblance
                                            I
to the spinal nerves.     But    we had ascended from the consideration of the
                                  if
spinal nerves to the nerves of the head, we should then have~ seen that the
<U+FB01>fth was the spinal nerve of the head; that         had
                                                      it    anglion at its root, at
                                                                a
double origin, and from its power over the muscles 0 the jaws and masti
cation, thatit   was  a double nerve in function, being that nerve which be
 stows sensibility, at the same time that        sends branches to the original
                                                 it
muscles; that    is to say, to that class of muscles which are common to ani
mals in every gradation. In all these respects      resembles the spinal nerves.”
                                                      it
                                                                               offer

    on the Structure, Distribution, and Functions qftlte Nerves.    44-7
 o<U+FB01>'er a few words in favour of anatomy, as a means better
 adapted for discovery than experiment.             The question lies
 between observation and experiment, and it may be illustrated
  by astronomy and chemistry.          In the <U+FB01>rst, the objects being
  beyond the in<U+FB02>uence of man, he makes observations, not ex
  periments ; and the science at len th attains a state of perfec
  tion which raises our estimate of t 1e human intellect.        In the
  latter, for the most part, the subjects lie out of the sphere of
 mutual in<U+FB02>uence; they must be brought together by arti<U+FB01>ce,
  and chemistry becomes a science of experiment.             But anato
  my is more allied to the former than to the latter science, in
  as much as things are obvious to the eyes.             In the animal
 body    the  parts present  distinct textures, and  are  laid in a na
  tural and perfect order; it is necessary only to trace the tubes
 or to observe the symmetrical order of the nervous cords, in
 order to discover their respective uses : the motions, whether
 of the solid or <U+FB02>uid parts, are so regular and uniform, that the
 whole offers a subject for observation and induction.            Ana
 tomy is already looked upon with prejudice by the thoughtless
  and ignorant: let not its professors unnecessarily incur the
  censur'es of the humane.        Experiments have never been the
-means of discovery; and a survey of what has been attempted
  of late years in physiology, will prove that the opening of
 living animals has done more to perpetuate error, than to con
 <U+FB01>rm the just views taken from the study of anatomy and na
 tural motions.
      “ In a foreign review of my former papers, the results
                                                                   have
  been considered as a further proof in favour of experiments.
  They are, on the contrary, deductions from anatomy; and              I
 have had recourse to experiments, not to form my own opi
  nions, but to impress them upon others.         It must be my apo
  logy, that my utmost e<U+FB01>'orts of persuasion were lost, while          I
  urged my-statement on the grounds ofanatomy. I have made
  few experiments; they have been simple, and easily perform
   ed; and I hope are decisive.
        If
      “ we turn to the opinions which have been entertained on
   the subject of the brain and nerves, we <U+FB01>nd one theory to have
  prevailed from the Greek authors to the time of Willis, and
 to have descended from him with little alteration, to modern
   writers.    The brain has been supposed to secrete and supply
   a nervous <U+FB02>uid, and the nerves to be the conduit pipes for its
   conveyance. In every age the brain has been considered a com
   mon sensorium, and all the nerves to be capable of conveying
   sensation, unless when they had ganglia. If ganglia intervened,
   then the nerves were said to be cut off from the brain ; and
  those so distinguished were called vital nerves, neither serving
                                                                     the

4-4-8       Analyses of a Series quaprrs,   by Mr. C. Bell,
the purpose of governing the muscles, nor of conveying sen
sation.      With all this apparent simplicity of doctrine, there
never has been presented such a crude heap of errors, in the
histor of any department of science.
     “ hese notions were obviously founded on the mistake, that
the same nerve served different purposes, and that a <U+FB02>uid
moved in the same tube outwards to stimulate the muscles,
and inwards to convey sensation of external impressions.         So
inconsistent are those opinions with the structure of the frame,
that the simplest dissection proves them false.
     “ So far is it from being true that ganglia cut of sensation,
that    I  have ascertained, and proved by experiment, that all
the nerves, without a single exception, which bestow sensibility
 from the top of the head to the toe, have ganglia on their
 roots; and those which have no ganglia are not nerves of sen
 sation, but are for the purpose of ordering the muscular frame.
      “ The hypothesis, that the nervous <U+FB02>uid streams out from the
          'o<U+FB01>icina along the nerves, has had an unfortunate in
    uence in directing the labours of the experimentalists. During
 great
 the last age it kept the pupils of Haller engaged in inquiries
 regarding the in<U+FB02>uence of the nerves: de nutritione imprimis
 nervosa .- and de nervoru-m in arterias imperio ,- and the interest
 of this question has not subsided, but, on the contrary, has in
 creased among us.
     "‘ This notion of a <U+FB02>uid moving backwards and forwards in
 the tubes of the nerves, equally adapted to produce motion
 and sensation, has perpetuated the error, that the di<U+FB02>'erent
 nerves of sensation are appropriated to their o<U+FB02>ices by the tex
  ture of their extremities, “ that there exists a certain relation
  between the softness of the nervous extremities, and the na
  ture of the bodies which produce an impression on them.”
  On the contrary, every nerve of sense is limited in its exercise
  and can minister to certain perceptions only. Whatever may
  be the nature of the impulse communicated to a nerve, pres
  sure, vibration, heat, electricity, the perception excited in the
  mind will have reference to the organ exercised, not to the
  impression made upon it.        Fire will not give the sensation of
  heat to any nerve but that appropriated to the surface. How
  ever delicate the retina be, it does not feel like the skin.
   The point which pricks the skin being thrust against the re—‘
   tina, will cause a spark of <U+FB01>re or a <U+FB02>ash of light. The tongue
   enjoys two senses, touch and taste; but by selecting the ex
   tremity of a particular nerve, or what is the same thing, a
  particular papilla, we can exercise either the one or the other
   sense separately.      If we press a needle against a nerve of
   touch, we shall feel the sharpness, and know the part of the
                                                              tongue

    on the Sirurim-r, Dish-ibutz'vn,     and Functions oft/1e Nerves.     4-4-9
    tongue in contact with the point; but if we touch a nerve of
                                     of form or of place, we shall
    taste, we shall have no perception
    experience a metallic taste.
       “ The innovations of     the celebrated continental authority
     Bichat, did not bring us a step nearer the truth.       When he
    at once threw of? respect for his contemporaries, and for the
    authority of those who had preceded him, he equally disre
    garded the facts of anatomy. There may be merit in taking
     new views of a subject; but Bichat was continually holding a
     thing up by the wrong end, and presenting it in an aspect so
     singular, as to puzzle any one to say whether or not it was
    that with which he had been long familiar; accordin           he
                                                                  what
    had been termed the sympathetic          stem of nerves,
                                             s                      ly,
                                                                 called
    the ganglionic system; although         tey are not more distin
    guishable by ganglia than the other nerves, upon which in
    deed the gan lia are remarkable for their size, number, and
    regulari .         hese ganglia must not be thrown out of the
    system    a together, merely because they are contained within
    the skull and vertebrae, which circumstance should rather
    mark their importance.
        “ Bichat persuaded himself that his ganglionic system was
    isolated, and a thing by itself; when, on the contrary, the
.   connexions of this part of the nervous system are universal.
    The wide spreading <U+FB01>fth pair, and the thirty spinal nerves,
    give large and conspicuous roots to‘this system. '         It
                                                               exhibits
    a tissue extending universally.
        “ It was a still more unfortunate mistake of this ingenious
    physiologist, to suppose the sympathetic nerve to be the same
    with that, which in the lower animals (the vermes),            seen
                                                                    is
    coursing from one extremity of the body to the other.        In the
    leech, or worm, those nerves produce union and concatenation
    of all the voluntary motions, and bestow sensibility as well as
    motion; yet he saw in the sympathetic system of the human
    body, only the developement of the same system of nerves,
    although he'was'aware that in man the sympathetic nerve be
    stowed neither sensibilit nor the power of motion.
        “Bichat announced       is  system with a popular eloquence,
    which had a very remarkable in<U+FB02>uence over all Europe. Phy
    siologists yielding to him, mistook the importance       of
                                                            the
                                                                several
                                                                                  '
    parts of the nervous system      ; and even  the multiplied expe—
    riments of Le Gallois failed to convince them of the nature
    of the spinal marrow.                                I
        “ The ex eriments of M. Le Gallois were of .the rudest kind
    possible.
                ‘
                  ’ilhe spinal marrow was cut across, or destroyed,
b        passing skewers into the spinal canal, and the effects were
    observed; as the spinal marrow were simple body. Where
                  if                             a
        Vol. 64-. No. 820. Dec. 1824-.               3   L          as,

  450       Analyses   of Mr.  'C. Bell’s Papers on the Nerves.
  as, 1) such destruction of its substance, the original ganglia,
  whic form a series along the spine, must have been hurt;
  the track of nervous matter which gives rise to the nerves of
  sensation : that also which gives roots to the nerves of volun
  tary motion; and the lateral column connected with the of
  <U+FB01>ces of respiration, must all have been destroyed by such coarse
  experiments.       It cannot surprise us that the results were 0
                                                                           '
  scure and contradictory.
      “ But the most extravagant departure from all the legitimate
 modes of reasoning, although still under the colour of anato
 mical investigation, is the system of Dr. Gall.             It is suf<U+FB01>cient
 to say, that without comprehending the grand divisions of the
 nervous system, without a notion of the distinct properties of
 the individual nerves, or having made any distinction of the co
 lumns of the spinal marrow, without even having ascertained
 the difference of cerebrum and cerebellum, Gall proceeded to
 describe the brain as composed of many particular and inde
 pendent organs, and to assign to each the residence of some
 special faculty.
      “ When the popularity of these doctrines is considered, it
 may easily be conceived how dif<U+FB01>cult it has been, during their
 successive importations, to keep my pupils to the examples of
 our own great countrymen.           Surely it is time that the schools
of this kingdom should be distinguished from those of France.
 Let physiologists of that country borrow from us, and follow
up our opinions by experiments*, but let us continue to build
that structure which has been commenced in the labours of
 the Monros and Hunters.                                        ~
      “ The whole history of medical literature proves, that no so
lid or permanent advantage is to be gained, either to medical
or general science, by physiolo ical experiments unconnected
with anatomy.          To disregard t e anatomy of the nervous sy
stem, or to take it in the gross; to make a new science qf life ,
and in<U+FB02>uenced by a false analogy to call it a <U+FB02>uid; to attempt
to direct it alon a cord or a wire, is to transgress all the
rules of philosoplguical inquiry, and must be attended with the
rapid decline of anatomical studies. They will be considered
as imposing restraints on genius, or be rejected as useless;
and with them pathology, and all that is most necessary to
medical science, will fall into disuse.
   "'  “ See the experiments of M.          on the distinctions   in the roots
                                   Magendie
of the spinal nerves."                                                       .

                                 [   451   ]'
LXXIX.           On some Extraordinary Inconsistencies in the Green
           'wz'clz Observations for 1821. By S. LEE, Esq.
     To  the Editors   of the Philosophical Magazine    and Journal.
        Gentlemen,
                                                    I
INextraordinary
        my letter of the 24th November
                         inconsistencies in
                                              last,   pointed out some
                                              the Greenwich observa
tions for 1821. 'I now proceed to notice some others of a
different description, and which for the reasons already given,
I   have arranged in three separate additional classes.
    Class IV. eithibits a comparative view of the intervals of time
between the meridian passages of certain stars, as observed
on the same night, with the transit instrument and the muraL
circle.
     Class V. contains the north polar distances of           Draconis,
and some other remarkable stars, taken out of t e observa
tions with the mural circle, from readings with two and with
six microscopes.                     '
     Class VI. gives the intervals of time between the passage of
some of the principal <U+FB01>xed stars, by the wires of the transit
                                                                        -
instrument, as observed on different nights.
     With respect to the three <U+FB01>rst classes, little more can be
said than that they prove extreme carelessness in the observer,
the transcriber, or the computer; for, as I have already stated,
the are not the faults of the printer.
       he fourth class show that proper care has not been taken
to bring the plane of the mural circle truly into the plane of
the meridian.          It may be alleged, that a small deviation
therefrom does not, in most cases, occasion any considerable
error in the north polar distances: but it must also be ad
mitted, that Sllch want of adjustment, however insigni<U+FB01>cant
its effect, ought not to be allowed to remain in one of the prin
cipal instruments of the Royal Observatory at Greenwich.
     It is very remarkable that so few transits should have been
taken with the Circle, and that the stars observed should, be so
ill adapted to the purpose of ascertaining the correctness of
 its position.      Indeed, it is hardly possible to imagine a more
injudicious selection.                                      ,
     The observations which form the <U+FB01>fth class were extracted
for the purpose of ascertaining the stability of the Circle.
     A very slight comparison of these extracts with one an
other, will convince any one (supposing the observations to
 have been carefully made and accurately recorded) that the
instrument must be extremely unsteady.
     Such extravagant variations of north polar distance from
                                     3 L 2
                              '
                                                                    one

452     Mr. Lee   on some    Extraordinaiy Inconsistencies
one night to another, frequently in direct opposition to what
might have been expected from refraction, aberration, or nu
tation, and so capricious as to defy even a southern motion to
explain—ought to have attracted the attention of the observer,
and instantly led to a suspicion of something wrong : but full
ei ht months were suffered to elapse before any notice was
ta en of them. Such a lamentable ignorance of the state of
the instrument could never have existed for a single day, had
the Circle been provided with a plumb-line or a level, or had
the zenith sector been employed in conjunction with          it,for
ascertainin its line of collimation.
    The six     class consists of observations of the passage of
certain remarkable <U+FB01>xedstars, by the wires of the justly'cele
brated tenfeet transit instrument, and are intended to show
the degree of con<U+FB01>dence due to an observation by any single
wire.  A    comparison of the observations of the same star on
different nights, plainly shows that the Greenwich transits are
liable toerrors which one would hardly expect to <U+FB01>nd in obser
vations with an instrument of only as many inches focal length.
     The-observations of transits with the mural circle appear
to be noted down with         ver culpable degree of negligence:
as a proof of which,       is a
                      it       only necessary to citea   few exam
ples from the Observations of 1822 just published—On          (( 3d
 of June, Castor passed the meridian instead of Proqyon. On         l?
20th of July, Arcturus  is    made to pass the meridian twice in
the space of little more than two hours.       On (3 28th of July,
at Opkiuchi passed the meridian of the Circle-room about 1'1 .1m
before it   passed the meridian of the Transit-room; and            3‘
 30th of July, in the Transit-room a Corona? passed the me
 ridian 8m 21? before a Serpentis, but in the Circle-room not
 till 1m 38‘ after that star.                          -    V    ,
     The intervals between the transits of a Lyme and a2 Ca
pricorm' in the Circle observations for the same year, fre
 quently diifer more than 2” from the true interval; which (if
 these observations are to be relied on) show that in 18% that
 instrument was still more out of the meridian than in 18Q1.
     During the whole of the year 18%1, only sixteen eclipses of
 Jupiter’s satellites were observed at Greenwich; though no
 less than eighteen were observed in the last <U+FB01>ve months alone
 by Mr. Beauny at Bushy.          Noocc'ultations of the stars .by
 the moon are to be found.       The occultation of the. Pleiades
b     the moon on the 13th of October     is  not noticed, though
 observed at Bushy; and the weather seems to have been fa
 vourable, for the transit of a Pegasz', which took place on that
 night about a    quarter of an hour before the occultation, was
 observed at Greenwich.
               '
-                                                                  The

                   in    the Greenwich Observations                       for       1821.           4153
  The comet also which       was observed by Dr. Burney at
Gosport, on the evening of   the 24th of February, and on se
veral evenings after, appears to have been overlooked.
   It seems to be the practice at Greenwich (for six nights in
a week at least) to cease observing <U+FB01>om midnight to sun-rise.
For it would be dif<U+FB01>cult to prove from the observations of
1821, that either the astronomer or any of his assistants
quitted their warm beds much more than about 40 nights
out of 365, for the purpose of making an observation.
   There is no institution in the world. so amply endowed in
every respect as the Royal Observatory at Greenwich.           It
was a favourite object with the late king; and the truly royal
muni<U+FB01>cence of its present patron must be acknowledged with
gratitude by _every sincere friend to astronomy.   Provided with
no less than four assistants, whose salaries, added to his own,
amount to upwards of 12001. a-year,—surely the Astronomer
Royal might appropriate a rather larger portion of the ni ht
to the cultivation of the science over which he is appointe to
preside, with so many advantages and encouragements.         In
struments and books have been furnished here in abundance,
without the least regard to expense, and every accommoda
tion that private comfort can require, granted without reserve.
                        I am, gentlemen, yours, 8w.
London, Dec. 20, 1824.                           STEPHEN LEE.
                                            CLASS          IV.
                                                                          ‘ '
                               Merid. Pass. by Transit.                           By Circle.
                                    u.       M.       s,              _         a. M. s.
 6 Feb.       6, Aldebaran          4 25 20'84                                  4 25    6'00
                    Capella         5  3 10'74                        ,7 -      5   Q 54'50
                    Intervals       O 37             49'90                      0 37 48'50
  5 Feb-6          Capella          5
                                        5
                                                 3
                                                 3
                                                     10-74__ 0 ,_ 54
                                                     10-20
                                                                                5
                                                                                5
                                                                                     a2     54-50_ __5°
                                                                                            54-00 .0
  z;          7:
    Therefore the  rates of the two clocks were so nearly alike
that no allowance need be made on that account.             But the
interval between the passage     of Aldebaran        Capella is 1"4
                                               and
of time greater by the   transit  than by  the circle.
                         II. M- S.              H. 11., S
  9 Sept. 7, at Lyra    18 30 4068              18 30 22-00
                    at   Aquilze   19 41 51'7‘2                                 19 41       34'50
               Intervals            1       1_i      not                        1    11     12-50
  <2 at
          Sept.6
          --7,’           --
                     a Aquila      19
                                   19
                                            41
                                            41
                                                     52-30_
                                                     51-72
                                                                 ._
                                                                 0    58
                                                                                19
                                                                                19
                                                                                     41.
                                                                                     41
                                                                                            3450
                                                                                            34-50
                                                                                            '
                                                                                                    h
                                                                                                    0   0
                                                                                                Therefore

4.54                Mr. Lee              on some             Extraordinary Inconsistencies
  Therefore allowing 003 for the di<U+FB01>'erent rates of the clocks,
the interval between the passage of a Lyra: and a Aquila is
1"43 of time less by the transit than by the circle.
                                                              CLASS          V.
                           1.    N.P.D. of Polaris above the Pole.
                                         ‘
                                             With           2 Microscopes.                            With         6 Microscopes.
         9      July            27,                i        3'9
                                                                  21"-o_8,,_l
                                                                                                 i          31';
                                                                                                                   26'6_7,,_8
                August                                                                                      39
                                 4, 3,
                                                        39
     b 9
                                                   1                                                  1
                                                   1
                                                           12-9+2
                                                        39 15'6
                                                                                      _7
                                                                                                 l             128+l _0
                                                                                                            39 13'8
                           2.    N.P.D. of Polaris below                                              the       Pole.
                July        31,                                                                   35:?          21'      46-2
    I; a        August          4,
                                          35%2'145-9_5,,.7
                                                              44-2
                                                                                                                                    4,,_8
                                          358 21                                                  358 21                 444—
                                             8.        N.P.D. of Capella.
   1;          July        28,                         43     1'1
                                                                    3'6-5_5,,6
                                                                                                           43      11'    223M
               August       a,                     44
                                                                                                                                        5%
  9                                                         11      24-9                               44 11 22-9—
                                             4-.       N.P.D. of                 {3   Taul'i.
  a            January 29,                     (ii          32    3I§~1                               si        32       3i-7
                                                                                 0,,_8                                             010
  r;                        31,                61       32 3311+                                      Cl       32 31-1
                                             5.        N.P.D.          y     Draconis.
                                                   o
                mm                                                                                     0
                                                        I         I:                                                     II
    J                       19                                                                        38 29
                                 ’            g:                                                            21.7-0'56”'5
                                                              Zgjiw'ams
               !
                                 59%
                                             :3                                                       as 28
                                                                  25.94                               as 28 25-2+0
                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                         2 O
                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                           O 2
                                -.
                21
                (D
                                             38 28
                U“
                '3
                5
                so
                 .,
               "'<
                                             38 28                28.9“)
                                                                                  3                                   25-4+0                   3
                            28’                                    09                                 3232221.
                                                                          -0
               L4
               =                 ,           38 29
               >
                    uiq
                    m 1:        1            as        2             -5
                                                                                      13-4                                     -   —O    11'   1
   ®$00¢006w
                    H                                                                                 s'
                                                        23                                             1;:
                                                                                      O O 6
                                             as                                                                 :3
                                                                                              3 3 9                                            7 5 4
                                3:                                                                                                       5
                                                                  ZZZ-4+0                                                432-1514")
                                4,           38 28 54-7+0                                             as 28 54-4+°
                                                                                                                                   _°
                                                                                                                                         ]
                                             38 2s 55-o+°
                                                                                                                                         1
                                5
                                ,                                                                     38 28 52-7
                                               6.       N.P.D.              a.   Lyme.
                                                        gé                                                    ll
               July                           5i
                                                                                                                I
  '7                       28,                                    {5.4           N                    51°22 14.6
                                                                                      '9
  9            August           3,            51        22          85-6                              51 22  _6.9_7II.7
                                               7.       N.P.D. a Cygni_
  0            January 28                         4;        21’        .3
                                                                                                           o              I!
                                ,                                                 n,                  45 2|                         I
                                                                                                                         “8+4”
                                                                                      7
                            31,                45 21                15.0+6                            45 21
                                                                                                                                        CLASS

            in                                                                                    4!; L1
                 tire Green-wich            Observations          for     1821.
                                          CLASS         VI.
         Passage by the       Wires of the Transit Instrument.
                                    l.     Aldebaran.
                               5'                  S.             5-             S.           5
0'       February 6,          42-5                2-0           20-9           39 8          59-0
                                         19-5            18-9           18-9          19-2
                       8,     41'8                 0'4          19'7           39'2          58'2
                                         18-6            19-3           19-5          19-0
                                     2. Capella.
         February 5,          18'5               44'5           10'!)          37-2           3'5
                                     26-0                26-4           26-3          26-3
Q
         -—-——-—       7,     17'5               43'6           10'4           41’5           3‘0
                                     26-1                26-8           31-1          21-5
                       13,    14'6               41'4            7'6           33'6           0-0
                                     26-8                26-2           26-0          26-4
                                          3.     Sirius.
                                            ‘
)1       February 8,          18"2                37'3          56-5           15-5          14-5
                                         19-1            19-2           19-0          59-0
                       19,    14'6               34'!           53-2           12'3          31'2
                                         19-5            19-1           19-1          18-9
                                          4-.    Castor.
         March     14,        511                 12-5          34-5           55'7          17'5
                                     21-4                22-0           21-2          21-8
G April             8,        55'5               17'8           390             0'6          22'1
                                                         21-2           21-6                         .
                                     22-3                                             21-5
                                     5.         Procyon.
         February      15,    57-7                160           34'3           52'6          10"3
                                         18-3            18-3           18-3          17-7
                       19,    56-6               15-2           33-5           51-8          104
                                         18-6            183            18-3          18-6
         March         16,,   41°3                0'3           18'3           37'2          55'4
muons:    —            30,    29-0
                                         19-0
                                                 48-6
                                                         18-0
                                                                 8-5
                                                                        18-9
                                                                        18-8
                                                                               27-3
                                                                                      18-2
                                                                                      18-4
                                                                                             45-7
                                         19-6            19-9
                                    6. a         Aquarii.
         October 31,          59-2               17-8           36-3           59-6          13-2
                   '
                                         18-6            18-5           23-3          13-6
         November        6,   58-5               16'5           35-2           53-5          11-9
                                         18-0            18-7           18-3          18-4
         ——---—         23,   54-2                12-8          30-9      -    49-3           7-7
                                         18-6            18-1           18-4          18-4
                                                                               LXXX.          Upon

                                    [Ms-.1
LXXX.            Upon       the System   of   Vegetable   Physiology   of M.
     AUBERT nu Pn'rrr Thomas: in Reply to SirJAs. Enw.
     SMITH. By J. Lmnuw, Esq. F.L.S. &c. &c.
     To   the   Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
            Gentlemen,
           I communicated to you in Au ust last, an abstract
 ‘V HEN
     of the opinions upon Vegetable P ysiology of M. du
Petit Thouars,          I
                      at the same time expressed a hope that that
 remarkable     theor     would attract attention in this country.
 Little, however,            did
                             anticipate the honour of a reply from
                              I
 the distinguished    President    of the Linnean Society, and still
 less did I suspectrthat my plain and inoffensive statement would
 have   caused  uneasiness where        should most have desired ap
                                         I
 probation.
     Much as      due to courtesy, to personal respect, to rank,
                  is
 and to scienti<U+FB01>c reputation, yet          feel that more
                                           I                 due to the
                                                               is
 interests of science, and that those interests would be compro
 mised by a silent acquiescence on my part, in the accuracy of
 the statements of your learned correspondent.
    To his <U+FB01>rst statement,that no comparison has been made by
 me between the opinions of M. du Petit Thouars and those of
 other eminent botanists,        beg to answer; that did not pro
                                   I                       I
 pose  to institute a   comparison     between certain systems of ve
getable physiology,      but that     avowedly con<U+FB01>ned myself to the
                                       I
simple    statement    of  particular    opinions of an original cha
 racter, without reference to any other opinions whatsoever; that
if
I     had attempted to compare one theory with an0ther theory,
or one discovery with another discovery,            should have neces
                                                    I
sarily been obliged to consider such opinions only as are ori
   inal; and that, therefore, an examination of those contained
in Sir James Smith’s excellent Introduction to Botany would
have been rendered super<U+FB02>uous, by a previous consideration of
the works of the writers from whom they have been judi
 ciously adopted.
    The intimation that M. du Petit Thouars’ opinions are not
peculiar to himself, can have arisen only from the circumstance
that the President of the Linnean Society has not ever seen any
of the works of one of the most acute physiologists of our time.
The unvar ing candour of Sir James Smith having induced him
to make this avowal, can only lament that he should have been
                            I
prevented by such a cause from acquiring that degree of informa
tion upon the subject of my letter which was indispensible to him
before forming an opinion upon it.           In this place, and within
the limits necessarily prescribed to communications of the pre
                                                                  sent

                    Notices respecting           Ncw Books.                   457
sent nature, it would be impossible to enter into a minute dis
cussion of the accuracy ofSir James Smith’s statement,--that his
published opinions, and those of M. (111 Petit Thouars are the
 same. Fortunately, however, such a measure is unnecessary;er
 Ihave reason to think that when Sir James Smith is informed
 that all the Linnean botanists, and many even of those who
profess other things in France, the Thouins, Lefebures, Fe
buriers, Bernéauds, and other equally celebrated men, are
violently opposed to M. du Petit Thouars, he will consider
whether he may not have been too hasty in identifying himself
with the heterodox opinions of my friend.
    To the latter part of Sir James Smith’s letter I do not feel
it necessary to reply.    The complaint that I had overlooked
in the preface to my little translation of the late M. Richard’s
admirable treatise upon fruits and seeds, all that the Linnean
school of botany had been doing for thirty years before, must
have arisen out of a misconception of my meanimr, or from
some ambiguity of expression on my part.                       I
                                                    said that with
reference to the subject of the work in question, that     of fruits    is,
and seeds, nothing had been done in the form of an elemen
tary work.     For the truth of such statement, a   appeal to the
                                                             I
world.                                                -     ~
            I   am, gentlemen, your obedient servant,
v'I‘urnham Green, Nov.
                         4,   1824.                         JOHN LiNDLay,
            LXXXI.            Notices respecting        New Boo/rs.
                              Recently published.
        Geological Society                           Half-volume
                                          has just published   a
'I‘HE
    of Transactions, being     Part II. of Volume      of the SC   I.
 cond Series.   It contains the following papers               :
    Notes on the Geography and Geology of Lake Huron; by
 John .Bigsby, M.D.—Observations on the South-western Coal
   J
 District of England; by the Rev. W. Buckland, and the Rev.
 W. D. Conybeare.—-Geological Observations on Part of Glou
 cestershire and Somersetshire; by Thomas Weaver, Esq.—
                                     “ Remarks on the Strata at
 Extracts from a paper entitled,
 Stinchcombe near Dursle       in Gloucestershire;”
                                      ,                   George        by
 Cumberland, Esq—On         1e  Crag
                                 t    Strata at Bramerton,   near
 Norwich; by Richard Taylor, Es . of Norwich.—On the
 Alluvial Strata and on the Chalk of orfolk and Suffolk, and
 on the Fossils by which they are accompanied; by. Richard
‘Taylor, Esq. of Norwich.—On the Strata observed In boring
 at Mildenhall, Suffolk: extracted from       letter addressed to
                                                        a
   V0]. 64. No. 320. Dec. 1824-.          M         3 W. Somer

 458               Notices respecting New Books.
 W.    Somerville, M.D.; by Sir Henry Bunbury, Bart—On
 the Discovery of an almost perfect Skeleton of the Plesiosaurus;
 by the Rev. W. D. Conybeare.—Notice          on the Megalosaurus
 or reat Fossil Lizard of Stones<U+FB01>eld; by the Rev. W. Buck
 lan .—On the Geology and                      of the Island of Su
 matra, and some of the adjacent Topography
                                     Is ands; by the late William
 Jack, M.D.—Geolo ical Observations made on a Voya             from
 Bengal to Siam an Cochin China; by J. Crawford,                q.—
  Notes made in the Course of a Voyage from Bombay to
 Bushire in the Persian Gulf; by J. B. Fraser, Esq—An Ac
 count of some Effects of the late Earthquakes in Chili: ex
 tracted from a letter to Henry \Varburton, Esq.; by Mrs.
 Maria Graham.—-Account of some Terraces, or ancient
                            J
 Beaches, in the Isle of ura; by Capt. Vetch, R. E.-With
 various other papers and notices; the whole illustrated by
 25 Plates, Maps and Sections, many of them coloured.
     The Second Part of the First Volume of The Memoirs of
  the  Astronomical Society has just been published, and the
 following are its contents:
     Observations on the Collimation Adjustment of a Transit
 Instrument; together with some Arguments in favour of cer
 tain Circumpolar Stars bein added to our standard Catalogue,
 to facilitate a rigorous and frequent Examination of the Posi
 tion of the Instrument with regard to the Meridian, and of
the Altitude of the Pole, relative to the Observer’s Station.
 B James South, Esq.—Tables of the Semidiameter of the
    con in Time, Ste.     By William Lambert, Esq.—Observa
tions of the Planets during the Period of their respective Op
positions in 1820, 1821, and 1822; with the Computation of
their Geocentric Longitudes and Latitudes, by means of the
assumed Parallax therein mentioned, and of his own Tables
of Refraction.      By S. Groombridge, Esq.-—On the Triangu
lation of the Cape of Good Hope.         By Captain G. Everest.—
The Right Ascension and Declination of the Comet of Ja
nuary 1821.       By J. N. Nicollet. — On the Correction of the
Transit Instrument.        By J. J. Littrow.—On the Aberration
of Light.     By Benjamin Gompertz, Esq.—On the Measure
ment of Altitudes by the Barometer.         By Professor Littrow.
—A Note respecting the Application of Machiner Y to the
Calculation of Astronomical Tables.         By Charles Babbage,
Esq.—Observatio'ns       on the Application of Machinery to the
Computation of Mathematical Tables.          By Charles Babbage,
Esq.—On some new Tables for determining the Time, by
means of Altitudes taken near the Prime Vertical.        By Francis
Baily, Esq.—On a new Method of computing Occultations of
                                                                 the

                            Royal  Society.                   459
the Fixed Stars.      By J. F. W. Herschel, Esq.——The Results
of Computations relative to the Parallax of a Lyrae, from Ob
servations made with the Greenwich Mural Circle. By the
Rev. Dr. Brinkley.—- On the Di<U+FB01>'erences of Declination of
certain Stars, according to different Astronomers ; and on Re
fraction, 8:c. Extracted from a Letter of M. J. J. Littrow.
——On the Theory of Astronomical Instruments.            By Benja
min Gompertz, Esq.— On the Theory of Astronomical In
struments.     By Benjamin Gompertz, Esq.— A Supplement
to the Theory of Astronomical Instruments; being the Equa
tion of the Re<U+FB02>ecting Instrument.        By Benjamin Gompertz,
Esq. — On the Mercurial Compensation Pendulum.                 By
 Francis Baily, Esq.—Subsidiary Tables for facilitatin         the
 Computation of Annual Tables of the apparent places of orty
 six principal Fixed Stars, computed by order of the Council of
this Society: to which is pre<U+FB01>xed a Statement of the Formula:
employed, and Elements adopted in their Construction. Drawn
 up by J. F. W. Herschel, Esq.—Reports of the Council to the
 Third and Fourth Annual Meetings—Prize Questions; Ad—
 dresses of the President; List of Presents, Sec. 8w.
           LXXXII.      Proceedings  of Learned Societies.
                          ROYAL socm'rv.
 THE      Anniversary Meetin of this Society was held as usual
      on St. Andrew’s Day, lgovember 80, 1824.
    The illustrious President, after announcing the additions
made to the number of members of the Society in the last
year, and stating the deaths that had taken place, referred
to the Baron Maseres, as the only scienti<U+FB01>c author and con
tributor to the Transactions whose loss he had to announce:
he paid a handsome tribute of respect to the deep mathe
 matical knowledge and disinterested love and patronage of
 science of this learned Judge; who published many important
 algebraic works at his own expense, and enabled other per
 sons to bring forward publications which without his protec
 tion would never have seen the li ht.       He then proceeded
 to announce the award of the meda on Sir Godfrey Cople ’s
 donation; which the Council has bestowed on the Rev.            r.
 Brinkley, President of the Royal Irish Academy, for his va
 rious communications to the Royal Society.
    “ Some persons who have not closely followed the usages
 of the Council may be surprised,” said the learned President,
 “ that in two successive years this token of the respect of the
 Society should have been given for labours in the same sci
                                 3 M 2                       ence,
                                                              \

 4-60                    1 Royal Society.
  ence,  particularly when no great discoveries have resulted
  from them: but where a prize is to be given annually, which
  is one of the conditions of the donation, it cannot always be
  bestowed for grand and brilliant results; and no branch of
 human knowledge more demands encouragement than astro
 nomy: for, having arrived almost at a mature state, it offers,
 perhaps, fewer objects of new inquiry than any other science,
  and improvements can be made in it only by the greatest de
 licacy of observation, by great labour, and that at a time
 which is usually devoted to repose, and often with a sacri<U+FB01>ce
  of health. The astronomer requires not days or nights only,
 but months or years for his results, and demands all the sym
 pathy and all the attentions and kind feelings of his brethren
 in science.”
     The learned President paid some high compliments to Dr.
 Brinkley, dwelt upon his profound mathematical knowledge,
 the most essential quality of an accomplished astronomer;
 upon his accuracy, acuteness, and minute spirit of observation ;
 and upon the strength of his reasonings, and the candour
 and justice of his philosophical views.    “ You know, gentle
 men,” he said, “that Dr. Brinkley and the Astronomer-royal
 are at issue upon two great points of astronomy;—-0ne af<U+FB01>rm
 ing, the other denying, asensible parallax of some of the <U+FB01>xed
 stars.   One denying, the other af<U+FB01>rming, a southern motion
 of a considerable part of the sidereal system. The Council
 of the Royal Society,” observed the President, “did not, by
 their vote of the medal to Mr. Pond last year, mean to de
 cide on the evidence on these subjects, or to give an opinion
 on these obscure and di<U+FB02>icult questions in astronomy, depend
ing upon such nice observations. They make the same reser
 vation this year; founding their award upon the great and ge
 neral scienti<U+FB01>c merits of Dr. Brinkley, and on the approxi
mations that he has made to the solutions of these problems.
 The learned President gave a history of the progress of side
real astronomy, and particularly of the inquiries made re
specting parallax, or the di<U+FB01>'erences of the angles made by
<U+FB01>xed stars with the two extremities of the earth’s orbit.-—He
detailed the opinions or observations and experiments of
Galileo, Flamsteed, Hooke, Bradley, Mitchell, Herschel,
Cassini, La Caille, and Piazzi.    He stated that Dr. Brinkley’s
latest and most re<U+FB01>ned result on the parallax of a lynx
(the star in which he has most invariably observed the phas
nomenon) of one second and a few hundredth parts, is not
opposed to Dr. Bradley’s view of the subject, or to the pho
tometrical considerations of Mr. Mitchell and Mr. Gauss.
He stated that with respect to the southern motion, Dr.
                                                      Brinkley’s

                           Royal Society.                       461
Brinkley’s opinion was supported by that of other astrono
mers. “ These questions,” added the illustrious President,
“ are not matters of useless controversy, nor even of mere cu—
riosity; all the laws, all the phaenomena of astronomy, are
more or less connected with them.         The <U+FB01>xed stars are in
the system of the heavens, what land-marks or the extremities
of base lines are to measures upon the earth; and the correct
ness and use of our calculations depend upon the supposition
of the permanency of their arrangements.”
   “ In waiting,” he continued, “ for new elucidations on this
subject, he could not_ but congratulate the Society on the existing
state of astronomy and the number of its cultivators, which
rendered it impossible that any great problem could long re
main unsolved.       “ Whilst such philosophers exist,” he said,
“ as Dr. Brinkley at Dublin; M. Bessel at K'onigsberg; Dr.
Schumacher at Altona; Arago at Paris; Olbers at Bremen;
and Gauss and Hardinge at Gottingen; the science cannot
but be progressive, its results cannot but-become more per
fect and more refined.       The improving state of astronomy
abroad, and the increased perfection of instruments, ought,”
said the learned President, “ to be subjects of congratulation
to us, not of jealousy or uneasiness—for the language of
science is universal: she is of no country; her results are
for the whole human race; and belong not merely to the pre
sent generation, but to posterity.     And Astronomy above all
branches of human knowledge demands for its advancement
the co-operation of philosophers in the most remote parts of
the lobe.”—Amongst other instances of this truth, he gave
the tgact, that the return of the Comet within a period of four
years, calculated by Encke, would_not have been veri<U+FB01>ed, but
for the observatory established by the liberality of Sir Thomas
Brisbane in New South Wales.
    After comparing the astronomy of ancient and modern na
tions, and pointing out the improved state of this science as
one of the great characteristics of the present times, he con
cluded by some observations upon its utility, and its e<U+FB02>‘ects in
 enlightening and exalting the human mind.
    “ By means of this science,” added the learned President,
 “ the trackless ocean is safely navigated, and in unknown
 seas the distance of the vessel from known land discovered:
all vague and superstitious notions respecting the heavenly
 bodies, which in ancient times had such an e<U+FB02>'ect upon the
 destinies of nations and individuals, have vanished.         Man,
 acquainted with his real situation in the scale of the universe,
has learned likewise to appreciate more distinctly, his objects,
 and the end of his creation,—-a mere atom <U+FB01>xed upon a small
                                                              point

462                        Royal Society.
point of space, and limited as it were to moments of time,—
yet by his intellectual powers he has elevated his mind from
the minute base of the earth unto the heavens, and measured
and even wei bed bodies at many millions of miles distant
from him, an some of them invisible except by instruments
of his own invention :—he has been enabled to predict their
past and future changes, and to account for those motions of
them, which at <U+FB01>rst view'appeared disorderly, by constant and
immutable laws: and as his science has become more perfect,
so he has seen more distinctly the order and harmony of the
system of things, and the whole of created nature, exhibiting
one design of perfect wisdom, a single work of in<U+FB01>nite power.”
 This is a short sketch only of the speech—after which the So
ciety proceeded to the election of Of<U+FB01>cers, when, on the ballot
being closed, it was found that the following were the lists :
   Of the Old Council.-—Sir Humphry Davy, Bart.; William
Thomas Brande, Esq.; Samuel Goodenough, Lord Bishop
of Carlisle; Major Thomas Colby; John Wilson Croker,
Esq.; Davies Gilbert, Esq. ; Charles Hatchett, Esq.; Sir
Everard Home, Bart; John Pond, Esq.; William Hyde
 Wollaston, M.D.; Thomas Youn , M.D.
   Of the New Council.-— William                    M.D.; Francis
 Baily,  Es  .;   John  George Children,abirigton,
                                              sq. ; John William,
Viscount      udley  and Ward;   John   Frederick    William Her
schel, Esq. ; Captain Henry Kater; Thomas Andrew Knight,
Esq.; Alexander MacLeay, Esq.; Sir T. S. Ra<U+FB02>les, Knt.;
Edward Adolphus, Duke of Somerset.
   President.—Sir H. Davy.
    Treasurmu—Davies Gilbert, Esq.
   Secretaries—W. T. Brande, Esq. and J. F. W. Herschel,
 Es .
   liq'meign Secretary—T. Young, M.D.
   The Society dined to ether at the Crown and Anchor;
 The President in the chair, supported by the Right Hon.
 Robert Peel, and Lord Bexley.       There were present m0st of
the distinguished cultivators and lovers of science. Several
speeches were made, showing the <U+FB02>ourishing state of science
and of the Society, and the harmony existing between the
                                                                ‘
patrons and votaries of science.
   Dec. 9.—Three Series of Astronomical Observations made
at Paramatta, were communicated by Sir Thomas Brisbane;
and the reading was commenced of An Explanation of an op
tical deception produced by viewin the spokes of a revolving
wheel throu h the intervals of' vertical bars. By P. M. Roget,
 M.D. F.R.      .
   Dec. 16.—The reading of Dr. Roget’s             paper  was  con
                                                            cluded;

               Linnean Society—Geological     Society.          463
 eluded; and a paper was read, communicated by the Presi
 dent, On a new Photometer, by A. Ritchie, A.M.
     Dec. 23.—Two papers by the Rev. B. Powell, F.R.S. were
 read, supplementary to a former paper, relating to the Solar
 Light and Heat :—when the Society adjourned to January 13.
                         LINNIEAN SOCIETY.
     Dec. 7.—W. G. Maton, M.D., Vice-president, in the chair.
     Mr. Sowerby exhibited some specimens of Ber lfrom the
  Mountains of Morne in the county of Down. T e reading
 of the Third Part of Dr. Hamilton’s Commentary on the
 Hortus Malabaricus was continued. Among the plants which
 were the subject of investigation were the following: Codda
 Panna, Niti Pamza, Todda Panna, Katou Indel, Tsja/ca Ma
 ram, Ata Maram, Anona Maram, Ansjeli, Kata Tsja/ca, 8w.
    Dec. 21.—A letter from Mr. Youell was read, stating that
 Ardea cayanensis had been taken near Yarmouth : also a <U+FB01>ne
 specimen of the Green Ibis 0f Latham, and which had been
 deposited in the Norwich Museum.            Mr. Y. also corrects
 some erroneous statements of Mr. Bewick respecting the Fu
 lica atra.
     Read also an account, by the Rev. W. Kirby, of a remark..
 able Fungus, which he names Atractus, and places between
 Clatkrus and Phallus .- and a Description of such Genera and
 Species of Insects, alluded to in the
                                       “ Introduction to Entomo
       ”
 lo      of Kirby and Spence, as appear not to have been before
 su ciently noticed and described: by the Rev. W. Kirby.
                       GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
    Dec. 3.—A notice was read, “ On some Fossils found in
the Island of Madeira ;” by the late T. E. Bowdich, Esq.
    In this notice, the author describes a formation of branched
cylindrical tubes incased with agglutinated sand, which occur
in great abundance near Fanical, 15 miles from Funchal, in
the Island of Madeira.      Mr. Bowdich is inclined to refer these
 to a vegetable origin.    They are accompanied by shells, some
decidedly terrestrial, and others which appear to belong to a
marine genus. In conclusion, some account is given of the
general features and structure of the neighbouring district.
    An extract of a paper was then read, entitled “ An Inquiry
into the Chemical Composition of those Minerals which be
long to the genus Tourmaline ;” by Dr. C. G. Gmelin, Pro
fessor of Chemistry in the University of Tubingen, and For.
Mem. G. S.
    Professor Gmelin,    in this memoir,   details at length, the
                                                           various

 464i                Astronomical Society.
  various analyses of minerals of the Tourmaline family which
 have been made by former chemists.           He then describes the
 methods which he adopted in his own experiments,   i
                                                            and adds
 the results which he obtained from them.
    The author divides the different species of Tourmaline into
 the followin     sections :    1st,  Tourmalines     which contain
 lithion; 2d, B‘ourmalines which contain potash pr soda, or
 both these alkalies together without lithion and without a con
 siderable quantity of magnesia; 3rd, Tourmalines which con
 tain a considerable quantity of magnesia, together with some
 potash, or potash and soda.
    “ It appears,” he says, in conclusion, “that when we com
 pare the analyses of the different species of Tourmalines, the
 most essential ingredients are boracic acid, silica, and alu—
 mine, whose relative quantities do not var much.          It appears
 further, that any alkaline substance, thong in no considerable
 quantity, may be likewise an essential ingredient.          The dif
 ferent nature of these alkaline substances may be employed
by the chemist, as we have used           it,
                                            to divide these minerals
 into different sections.    Butit   will appear to be quite useless
 to attempt to give mineralogical formulae for the chemical com-\
position of these minerals, when     it    considered; 1st, that we
                                          is
 can by no means rely upon the correctness of any statement
 regarding the quantity of oxygen in boracic acid; 2dly, that the
quantity of alkaline bases, whose oxygen would be unity,       is  so
small, that   itcannot be determined (with suf<U+FB01>cient accuracy)
without great errors in the computation of the relative quantity
of oxygen in the other ingredients; Bdly, that in one species no
account could be given of a considerable loss of weight.          He
has, however, calculated the quantities of oxygen in every
species, with the intention of comparing the sum of the oxy
      contained in the bases, with the sum of that contained in
gen acids, viz. boracic acid and silica.
t   e                                         The result of this cal
culation is  then fully stated.
                     ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY.
    Dec. 10.—At the meeting this evening, the publication of
the Second Part of the First Volume of the Memoirs of the
 Society was announced, the contents of which will be found
in our “ Notices respecting new Books.”
    A paper, drawn up by Dr. Gregory, was read, containing
a Description of a Box of Rods, named the Rhabdological
Abacus, presented to the Society          by
                                        the family of the late
Henry Goodwyn, Esq., of Blackheath.        It appears that these
rods were invented by Mr. Goodwyn, for the purpose of fa
cilitating the multiplication of long numbers of frequent oc
                                                         currence;

                         Astronomical Society.                                   465
    .currence; the      were probably su gested by Napier’s Rods,
    and are, for t e purposes which t e inventor had in view, a
    great improvement upon them. The rods, which are square
    prisms, contain on each side successively the proposed num
    ber in a multiplicand, and its several multiples up to 9 times ;
    and these in the several series of rods are repeated suf<U+FB01>ciently
    often to serve for as extensive multiplications as are ever likely
    to occur.    Thus, if the four faces of one rod contain respec
    tively,  once,  twice, three times, and four times a proposed
    multiplicand ; another rod will exhibit in like manner 2, 3, 4,
    and 5 times the same; athird rod 3,           4-,   and
                                                        5,     times the
                                                                  6
    same; and so on, to nine, and in several cases, more rods.
        The numbers are arranged uniformly upon equal and equi
    distant compartments, while, at a small constant distance to
    the left of each product, stands the number              2,   3,   4,
                                                                     860.   5,
     which it  represents. Hence, in performing a multiplication,
    the operator has only to select from the several faces of the
    rods the distinct products which belong 'to the respective digits
    in the multiplier, to place them in due order above each other,
.   to add them up while they so stand, and write down their
     sum, which   is   evidently the entire product required, and ob
     tained without the labour of multiplying for each separate
    product, or even of writing those products down.             For still
     greater  convenience,     the rods may be  arranged upon a board
     with two parallel projections placed aslant at such an angle
    as of necessity produces the right arrangement.          There are
    blank rods to place in those lines which accord with          cypher
                                                                       a
     in the multiplier; and the arrangement may easily be carried
    on from the bottom product upwards, by means of the indi-
     catin digits.
        A etter was ready from Captain Ross, a member of this
     Society, giving an account of observations made on the 00
    cultation of Jupiter by the Moon on the 5th of April last;
    transmitting also an account of observations upon the same
    occultation, by Mr. Ramage, of Aberdeen, with one of his
    own 25-feet re<U+FB02>ecting telescopes.
        Mr. Ramage observed the immersion.          On the approach of
    Jupiter’s  satellites _to the  moon  no diminution   of their light
    was perceptible. On coming into contact with the moon’s .dark
    limb, they did not disappear instantly, like <U+FB01>xed stars, but
    formed an indentation or notch in the limb, as           they were
                                                             if
    imbedded in    it,  but Were at the same time separated from                 it
    by a <U+FB01>ne line of light.         This indentation continued visible
    until about half their diameters were immersed, when             dis    it
    appeared.     All the satellites presented this phsenomenon; but
        Vol. 64. N0. 320. Dec. 1824.          3  N                    the

466           Royal Academy Qf Sciences of Paris.
the 4th and 3rd with the greatest distinctness.      On Jupiter’s
approach,   no difference  of his light or shape was  perceptible ;
but after the contact had taken place, he appeared to exhibit
no de<U+FB01>ciency of disc, but presented a complete <U+FB01>gure, as if
placed between the moon and the earth; this appearance
continuing for a few seconds.        When the planet was almost
entirely immersed, his retiring limb appeared as though it
were considerably elongated, or formed a segment of a much
larger circle than had been previously presented.       The posi
tion of Mr. Ramage’s telescope did not allow him to observe
the emersion.
   Captain Ross was prevented by the state of the weather
from seeing the immersion, but was fortunate enough to ob
serve the emersion, seeing <U+FB01>rst, a considerable elongation,
which gradually diminished as more of the planet appeared
from behind the moon.
   Part of a letter was read from Mr. R. Corn<U+FB01>eld, a member
of this Society, in reference to the same occultation.     He ob
served it at Northampton with a good Newtonian re<U+FB02>ector.
Mr. Corn<U+FB01>eld and two other contemporaneous observers, with
good instruments, noticed, that when Jupiter had about half
disappeared, there was exhibited an adhesion or protuberance
on each side of the planet, which as Jupiter sunk behind the
moon, became lar er and larger, so that just before the entire
                    516
disappearance of        planet it  exhibited a considerable elon
gation deviating greatly from a circular curve of the same
diameter as the planet.
   Phwnomena somewhat analogous, expecially in reference
to the indentations and adhesions, were noticed by several
astronomers, who observed the transit of Venus in l769.——See
the accounts by Captain‘Cook, Mr. Charles Green, Mr. Charles
Mason, M. Pingré, 8m. in the Philosophical Transactions for
1770 and 1771, which are here adverted to, because the con»
sideration of kindred phenomena may assist in the explication
of the whole.
            ROYAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF PARIS.
  July  19.——The Academy continued the examination of the
questions addressed to   by the Government, relative to the
                          it
precautions required in the use of steam-engines.    M. Che
vreul read a Memoir on different species of bile, and in parti
cular on the presence of cholesterine in human bile and in
that of the bear.
  July 26.—-M. Roques proposed to found prize for the dis
                                              a
                                                           covery

         Account      of an Examination qf Fused Charcoal.        ~167
covery of a method of rendering the cornea transparent—M.
1e Baron Blein communicated a new Memoir on Colours.—M.
 Gay-Lussac gave an account of an experiment relative to Mad.
Gervais’s apparatus, which proved that a very small quantity
only of volatilized wine could be collected by its means.—
M. Latreille read a note on a new genus of Spider, which he
has named Myrmecia.—M. Yvart made a verbal report on
the Agricultural Annals of Roville, published by M. Dom
basles. A report was received from NI. Bosc, on a species of
Leech found at Martinique; and another from M. Cauchy, on
the mathematical researches of Professor Simonoff of Casan.
      LXXXIII.         Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
      ACCOUNT   OF AN EXAMINATION           OF FUSED CHARCOAL.
                        BY LARDNER VANUXEM.
         specimen     examined was sent to Dr. Cooper by Pro
rl‘HE
    fessor Macneven      of New York, who obtained it by means
 of the de<U+FB01>agrator invented by Dr. Hare.                     _
                                                                 .
    Dr. Cooper was so good as to present me with the fused
 charcoal, knowing that I was extremely desirous of experi
 menting upon   it,  being very sceptical as to its resultin from
 the fusion of the carbonaceous part of the charcoal, be ieving
 on the contrary that     was little else than the metallic, earthy,
                         it
 saline, or alkaline materials, probably enveloping charcoal in
 the black globules, or   ifiron were present, combined with that
 metal, constituting a product analogous to steel.
    My opinion that the fused charcoal in question was derived
 from the impurities of the charcoal, was principally owing
 to the sources of error not having been removed; and that
these sources are very considerable,        well known, not only to
                                            is
those who have been engaged in the analyses of the different
kinds of our ordinary combustible substances, but        is obvious
to the common observer, by the quantity of ashes which             is
left, when wood or coal has been incinerated.
   Dr. Macneven did not mention that he made any experiment
upon the fused charcoal, other than that of ascertaining its
comparative density with sulphuric acid, in which liquor          it
sunk.
    The fused charcoal consisted of one large, and one small
globule, connected together by a thread, or thin bar of the
same material, and resembled a double-headed shot; exter
nally its colour was black and without lustre, and was per
fectly opaque.     It weighed 2'5 centigrammes, or 0385 of a
gram.
                                3   N   2          _              In

                            \
4'68       Account   of an Examination qf Fused Charcoal.
    In the <U+FB01>rst experiment it was heated red hot by a blowpipe   in
.a silver spoon with caustic potash, which had no action upon    it;
for when well washed and dried, the weight remained the same.
    It was then put into an a ate mortar, pressed, and struck
with considerable force: <U+FB01>nding it yielded without breaking,
and observing that it received a polish, it was examined, and
found to resemble iron.    To con<U+FB01>rm the analogy, it was next
tried with a <U+FB01>le, which acted upon it as it would on soft steel
or iron; after this it was subjected to a magnet, to which it
 readily attached itself; and lastly, with a hammer: by its great
malleability conjoined with the characters just mentioned, it
  roved its identity with iron.
   The fused charcoal was next subjected to the action of nitric
acid in a small platina capsule, there was no effect till the acid
 was heated, it then attacked the mass, very violently disenga
ging nitrous fumes, and separated it into several pieces; al
though fresh additions of nitric acid were made, yet the whole
did not dissolve. The unattacked part was separated from the
liquor, and examined with a microscope; it still exhibited
the same appearance, and still was magnetic. However, by a
further division of the substance, it was all dissolved by nitric
acid, except one small piece reserved for exhibition.
   The nitric liquor was evaporated to dryness; muriatic acid
and water were then added to dissolve the iron, which took up
the whole of     it,leaving a small quantity of whitish matter,
from which the liquor was separated by decantation       ; this mat
ter resembled silex; the quantity, however, was too small to as
certain correctly its nature, for weighed no more than 00025
                                     it
gramme.
   Ammonia added to the liquor, gave the reddish brown pre
cipitate of hydrate of per-oxide of iron       ; separated from the
liquor, dried and calcined,      weighed
                                it           0'0175, equal to 0012
gramme of metallic iron.
   Hence we have for result—
         Iron                                         0'0120
         Silex  "H"..-.-.....................-.--... 0'0025
         Loss                                         0'0105
                                          Gm. 00250
  From the results obtained,       very evident that this pro
                                     it   is
duct of the fusion of charcoal must consist merely of the im
purities contained in the charcoal, and     not a fusion of its
                                                is
carbon, as has been supposed    :  moreover,   must consist chie<U+FB02>y
                                               it
of iron; for its lustre, its being acted upon by <U+FB01>le in the man-'
                                                     a
ner aforementioned, its great malleability, &c. &c., preclude
all idea   of any considerable intermixture of other substances
                                 .        .                   with

                Chalk in N. America.— Trumpeter-bird.             4-69
    'with it.   The great loss in the analysis is due to the violent
     action of the nitric acid upon it (the capsule being small), also
     to the <U+FB01>ling of the same, and to the great dif<U+FB01>culty Of cor
     rectly operating upon so small a quantity of matter.-—Journal
     qf the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences.
      ExISTENCE OF THE CHALK FORMATION IN NORTH AMERICA?
        Geologists have hitherto believed that the Chalk Forma
     tion is entirely wantin in America: Thus, Messrs. Conybeare
     and Phillips, in their Dutlines of the Geology of England and
     Wales, observe (p. 67): “ Chalk has not been found in any
     part either of North or South America yet explored, and Mr.
      Maclure positively asserts that it does not exist on that conti
     nent.”    Dr. Bigsby, however, in his notes on the geography
     and geology of Lake 'Huron, printed in the newly published
     Part Of the Geological Transactions, states (p. 191), whilst de
     scribing the secondary rocks of that district, which are a por
     tion of an immense basin that extends from the southern shore
    Of Lake Winipeg, through Lake Superior, &c., to the Gulf
     of Mexico, that “ Dr. Wright, Inspector of Hospitals, has a
     specimen of chalk from the neighbourhood ofLa/re Superior.”
     This statement appears to demand an examination of the 10
     cality, in order that so important a circumstance may not rest
     for proof merely on the characters of a specimen.      The sub
    ject is one of much interest in geology, and worthy Of imme
     diate attention. We would sug rest the determination of the
     point to the American Geologica Society.
            THE TRUMPETER-BIRD, A TRUE VENTRILOQUIST.
       Dr. Traill informs  us, that one of his friends in Liverpool
    has a living specimen of the Psophia crepitans, the Trumpeter
    of En lish ornithologists.   It    he says, a very social bird,
                                     is,
    followmg every individual of the family, and allowing itself tO
t   be caressed.    The noise  itmakes has been supposed by some
    naturalists to have proceeded from the anus.- but Dr. Traill
    has ascertained that the bird   is
                                     a genuine ventriloquist, of the
    most perfect sort.   In this specimen, too, the bill  isremark
    able, by having the lower mandible about one quarter of an
    inch longer than the upper.     This seems to be the usual form
    of the bill, but may easily be lost in dead specimens, or in
    stu<U+FB02>'ed skins.—-Some of the frog tribe are also remarkable for
    their ventriloquial powers—Edin. Phil. Journ. vol. xi. p. 417.
                            GRANITE COLUMNS.
       The <U+FB01>rst Of the immense columns designed by Air. Smirke
    for the interior of the King’s Library, was delivered at the
                                                                 new

  470            Calendar    quora,      Fauna, and Pomona.
 new building on Friday, the 19th of November: they are of
 the red Peterhead granite, and the shafts twenty-one feet six
 inches long, in one piece. It is intended to have them highly
 polished; and as they are the produce of our own country, and
 superior to any brought from Egypt and deposited at the
  Museum, they are interesting in a national point of view.
 Calendar      of Hora, Fauna, and Pomona, at Harf<U+FB01>eld in Sussex,
             continued from November 22 to December 17.
     Nov. 22. St. Cecilia.-—Pr0digious                quantity of rain, the
 marshes still <U+FB02>ooded.          Bul<U+FB01>nches already numerous.
     Nov. 25. St. Catherine—Fair day. Tussilago fragrans
 begins to blow.        Viburnum Tinus in <U+FB02>ower.
     Nov. 26.-.-White frost. Iobserved today a number of Linnets
 devouring the seeds on the old standing dry stalks of aine
 tlzera biennis in the garden.              The Anemone hortensz's is in
 <U+FB02>ower today—a circumstance that not unfrequently occurs in
 the winter months.          There are also <U+FB02>owers left here and there
 on Marygolds, Leopard’s-bane, and other plants.
     Nov. 27.—The Rooks and Daws very clamorous as they pass
 over to and from their pastures in the morning and evening.
 VVet weather.
     Nov. 29.—A chan e in the weather this evening, which
was indicated by head-aches.               The wind fell, and the sky be
came very clear, so that Iliad an excellent opportunity of ob
serving both Saturn and Jupiter soon after their rising *. Some
 Polyanthuses and Primroses in blow.
     Nov. 80.—Hard rain the whole day.
    Dec. 1.-The marshes and low meadows <U+FB02>ooded.                          Wild
 fowl seen in the water.
    Dec. 2.—A clear morning and stormy afternoon again fol
lowed by a ni ht of heavy and continual rain, which produced
a great <U+FB02>ood 1n the meadows of the Medway..
    Dec. 6.—-Fair day: from the motion, however, of a paper kite
<U+FB02>ying in the air I predicted rain, which fell in torrents at 10
P. M.-|-     Polyanthuses blow here and there.
    Dec. 12.—Weather at length <U+FB01>ne, open, and mild: the Hal
                                                                           cyon
   "' I
        noticed again tonivht the phaenomenon of brilliant colours produced
                                                                                 '
by looking at the stars With a vibrating telescope.       Aldebaran showed the
most glowing red in great abundance.        Capella red, blue, yellow, and black
interstitial spaces. I cannot account for the fact that the planets never pro
duce this phaanomenon.      It looks as if there were some great difference be
tween borrowed and original light. See the Phil. Mag. for last March.
   1- Prognoslication of the change of wind.-—Having frequently amused my
self on <U+FB01>ne Sunday evenings in summer with a very large paper kite,
in order to watch the different currents of wind in the air, I had occasion
                                                                              to

                                 Meteorology.      _                      4-71
cyon days seem really to have set in this year, and to have be
gun on the very day stated in the Roman Calendar as Dies
Alcyonii *, for last ni ht the change of weather took place.
     Dec. 16.—The Hailcyon days continue to afford pleasant
weather for winter, the air being calm and mild.                  The Sweet
Coltsfoot is in full <U+FB02>ower all over the garden ; for I <U+FB01>nd that
this species increases with me so as to become a terrible weed,
whereas the White Coltsfoot seldom becomes troublesome by
its increase. The Laurestine Viburnum Tinus in <U+FB02>ower.
     Dec. 17.—Mr. B. M. Forster discovered Agaricus violaceus
in the garden today, which is unusually late in the year.
This is the species called Blewits or Water<U+FB01>aps. The spe
cimen found today was of an unusually pale colour, and rather
buff than violaceous.               -—-—
                                METEOROLOGY.
      To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
         Gentlemen,
      In order to reply to Dr. Burney’s letter in your last Num
ber,     I have looked over my Journal, and <U+FB01>nd the observation
on the barometer on the mornin of the 12th of October, is.
put down 2975 ; and although Iliave for eight years been in
 the constant habit of noting down the indications of the se
veral instruments, I will not be positive that it is in this in
 stance correct, on the contrary, as the morning was stormy, I
 am inclined to think with Dr. Burney, that there is an error,
 and that it should be 28'75.             In looking over my observa
tions for the last eight years,          I  <U+FB01>nd that the barometer has
 sometimes       stood as high as 300 during a storm, but this is
 unusual.
     I am of opinion that the observations are most valuable,
when taken simultaneously.                I  am also of opinion, that it
would tend materially to elucidate Meteorolo ical Science, if
some scienti<U+FB01>c person in Scotland-f would an ertake to make
observation simultaneously with us.               I understand the ther
 mometer in Scotland, a week or two since, was as low as 16.
     Boston, 25th Dec. 1824.          Yours 8w.         SAMUEL VEALL.
 to notice the following curious fact,—that when the kite on mounting very
high acquired a different direction from getting into a different current of
air, the wind usually blew from the same quarter on the earth’s surface be
fore the expiration of 24 hours.    Thus the changes of the wind seem to take
   lace <U+FB01>rst in the higher regions of the air, and are propagated downwards.
    have con<U+FB01>rmed this experiment, and established the fact, by the use of
  small air balloons, but the kite answers the purpose quite as well.
     “‘ See Perennial Calendar, or Companion to the Almanaclc. i. vol.
                                                                         8vo.
 (Published by Harding and Co. Finsbury Square,) 1823, under Dec. 12.
     1- See a Meteorological Register
                                        for 1823, in our present Number, kept
 in the northernmost part of Scotland.
                                                                        LIST

   It72                      List of New Patents.
                            LIST OF NEW PATENTS
      To Louis Lambert, of No. 10, Rue de la Gout,        Paris, and 29, Cannon
  street,   London, for improvements in the material and manufacture of pa
  per.—Dated 23d of November 1824.—6 months to enrol speci<U+FB01>cation.
      'l‘o Stephen Wilson, of Streatham, Surry, esquire, who, in consequence
  of communications    made to him by a certain foreigner residing abroad, is
 in possession of a new manufacture          of stuffs with transparent and co
  loured <U+FB01>gures called
                         “ Diaphane Stuffs.”—-25th November.—6 months.
      To William Shelton Burnett, of New London-street, London, merchant,
  for certain improvements in ships’ tackle.-——25th N ovember.—6 months.
      To John Osbaldeston, of Shire Brow within Blackburn, Lancashire,
  calico-weaver,   for his improved method of making healds in the weaving
 of cotton, silk, woollen, &c. --29th November.—6 months.
      To Thomas Hancock, of Goswell Mews, Goswell-street,               Middlesex,
  patent cock manufacturer, for his method of makin          or manufacturing an
 article which may be in many instances substituted or leather, and be ap
 plied to various other useful purposes.-—29th N ovember.-6 months.
      To William Furnival, of Anderton, Cheshire, salt-manufacturer, for cer
  tain im rovements in the manufacture of salt.— 4th December.—6 months.
      To Villiam Weston Young, of Newton Nottage, Glamorganshire, en
 gineer, for certain improvements in manufacturing salt, part of which are
 applicable to other useful purposes. --4th December.—4 months.
      To John Hillary Suwerkrop, of Vine-street, Minories, London, merchant,
  who, in consequence of a communication made to him by a certain foreigner
  residing abroad, is in possession of an apparatus or machine, which he
  denominates “ A thermophore, or a portable-mineral           or river-water bath
 and linen-warmer ;” and also for other apparatus or machines connected
 therewith for <U+FB01>ltering and heating water.—4th December.—2 months.
      To George Wycherley, of Whitchurch, Salop, saddler, for improved
  methods of making saddles and side-saddles.—4th         December.'—6 months.
      To Robert Dickenson, of Park-street, Southwark, Surry, for his improved
 air-chamber for various purposes.-—7th December.—-6 months.
      To John Thom son, of Pembroke-place, Pimlico, and of London Steel
 Works, Thames        ank, Chelsea, for his improved mode of making re<U+FB01>ned,
 or, what is commonly called, “ cast-steel.”-- 9th December.—2 months.
     To Robert Bowman, of Aberdeen, Scotland, chain-cable maker, for his
 apparatus for stopping, releasing, and regulating chain and other cables of
                                   “ elastic
  vessels, which he denominates              stoppers.”— 9th Dec.~—4 months.
     To William Moult, of Lambeth, Surry, engineer, for his improvement or
 improvements in working water-wheels.—9th           December—6 months.
     To Sir William Congreve, of Cecil-street, Strand, Middlesex, baronet,4
 for his improved gas-meter.-—-l4th December.-6 months.
     To Samson Davis, of U per East Smith<U+FB01>eld, Middlesex,gun-lock maker,
 for his improvements app icable to <U+FB01>re-arms.—l8th Dec.-—6 months.
     To David Gordon, of Basinghall-street, London, esquire, for certain
 improvements in the construction        of carriages or other machines‘to be
moved or propelled by mechanical means.—l8th Decen1ber.—6 months.
     To Samuel Roberts, of Parke Grange, near Shef<U+FB01>eld, Yorkshire, silver
 plater, for his improvement    in the manufacture of plated goods of various
descriptions.—18th     December.-2 months.
     To Pierre Jean Baptiste Victor Gosset, of Clerkenwell Green, Middle
sex, for certain improvements in the construction         of looms or machinery
for weaving various sorts of cloths or fabrics.—18th December.-6 months.
     To Joseph Gardner, smith, and John Herbert, carpenter, both of Stan
ley St. Leonards, Gloucestershire,     for certain improvements on machines
for shearing or cropping woollen cloths.—18th December.—- 2 months.
                                                                  A  METEORO

                                                                                                                                        Dr.         BURNEY               at    Gospm'l',     Mr.     CARY         in Londonltlnti       Mr.      VEALL     at 13051071.
A                                             TABLE:                 comprising         the Observation;                        of
    METEOROLOGICAL
                                                                                                                                                                          of        Thermometer.             RAIN,
                                                                 o’Clock,   4.111.                                  CpoUns-                                     Height
             Gosron'r,             at half-past     Eight
                                                                                                                                                                               1“                                                       “mi
                                                                            .        -                        -                         .-                                                                 d
                               .5             e     .    é                                    .                                                         lime-er-
                                                                                                                                                           nches,&c.                __                               1:
     Dasof                   "a        5          _3                   .p   E_§
                             82“                  “:8,                      3%           =gwa§5%€3~——~e--E§-S                                                                       g“             g                 98                               ‘
      Mgnth,                                                                ““1         '5“         E        Q      g                                                                                u      g
                             97-3       Q                   >'      E3                                                    1‘;                           Lond             Bost                                        m     London.                Boswn'
      1824.                                       g,     m                                                                                    2                                     a:         ma)         'J
                                                                                                    m
                                       E E5                                 {2                                                 E6   Ea
                                                                                                                                                        11m“:          8§A.M:
                                                                                                                                                                                         g5Z
                             FEE              Edd“?
                                                                                                       1                                                                                                                                 Fine              1
                                                                                 .........                        1                                  29-81               29-50      374340         390                     Cloudy
      Nov.     26                       35    52-                     N.
                             29-64“                                                                                                               1                                                41                      Fair          Cloudy
                                                                                           1... 1....                                   ..           29-70               29-63      394337
               27            29-65      42                          N.E.     0140-010                                                                                                                                                    Rain
                                                                                    290...      1.....                                             129-65                29-40      505452         48                      Cloudy
      1)       28                       52                          sw.                                                                                                                                                              .                     S.
                             29-70                                                                                                        11                                                       47      ...       ‘25   Fair     -    Fine, brisk            wind
                                                                    SW-             '070 -- 1'1"“                                                    29‘30               29'90
            29               2924       50                                                                                                                                          5050|42                          -20   Rain                             mm. and
                                                                                                                                                   1 1
                                                                                                                                                     29-33               29-25                     42                                    Cloudy,rain
                                        50                          SW.          151-000                                                                                            465450
             30              29-50                                                                                                                                                                 405               '60   Fair          Cloudy                   [p.m.
                                                                    NW.          .........                  1..                                          29-44           29-05      4041;33
        Dec.1                29-32      44                                                                                                         1                                                                       Rain          Fine,   rain      and    snow
                                                                     S.                      975
                                                                                                                                   1      1              29-55           29-40      324340         33
                             29-59      38                                                                                                                                                                                 Fair          Fine
                                                                                                                   -l         I.                          2957           2925       3640.35        .33               '58                                         [p.m.
                                        38                          NW.           15         ‘090
                             2943                                                                       1 1                                       l1                                               33                      Cloudy        Snow
                                                                    NE-                      '290                  -   l---        l...                   2940    2950              3539742
                             2941       42
                                                                                                                   .   l...                               29'73129'45               37 41.32 36-5                    '50   Cloudy        Cloudy,rainearlya.m.
                                                                     N.                                                              l,__...
                             29-44      41                                                                                                         1                                                                       Fair          Fine, rainp.    m,
                2 3 4 5‘ 6
                                                                                  15         -200       1          .                                      296512905                 304043285              1-70
      O                      29-80      33                                                                                                                                                                  .-.. 08        Fair          Cloudy
                                                                                             ............              1...                               29-55   29-25             384237137
                             29-54      42                                                                                                                                                                                               Cloudy,     1'ain11.m.
                                                                                                          1   l        l--         ..                     29'85   29'63             384542    39            ...            Cloudy
                                        41                                                    ‘040                                                                                                                                       Fine
                             29-86                                                                      1 1                  l1              1 1   1 1                                        36                     -07   C10udy
                                                                                                                                                          29-70   29-54             42-3830
                78 9                    43                                        I5          -415                                                                                                                                       Fine
                             29-74                                                                                     11                                                                     29-5                         Fair
                10                      3                                                    ..... '.       1...                                          30-05          29-70      3238130
                             29-86                                                                                                           1     1                                                                       Cloudy        Cloudy
                                                                                                            1...                                           30-15'        29-35      404546.38
                11           30-08       45                                                                                                                                                                                Fair          Fine
                                        4                                                                   1...       1..                                 30-31         29-95      4650;47‘48-5
                12           30-25                                                                                                                                                                                         Cloudy        Fine
                                                                                                                       1..                                 30-45i50-12              4747146245             045
       (1       13           30-40       48                                                                                                                                                                                Fair        7 Fine
                                                                                                                       1.                     .            304213016                4649   714-2_
                14           30-44       49                                                                                                        1 1                                                                     Fair          Cloudy
                                                                                                            1...       11                    .             300212930                4749   9143
                15           30-10       48                                                                                                                                                                                Fair          Fine
                16            29-93      45
                                                                                                        l         l    l-
                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                           2995   2972
                                                                                                                                                                  2977
                                                                                                                                                                                    444337135
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Rain       .Cloudy
                                                                                                                                                           30-07                    3743743216
                 17           30-05      45                                                                            11                                                                                                Cloudy           Rain
                                        4                                                                          1                               v1      30-17         29-95                                                                                         s.
                 18           30-14                                                                                                                                                 434945942              0-10      ~05 Fair            Cloudy            [the
            ,    19           30-12I     49
                                                                                                            1     l     1--                   .            30-09         29-77
                                                                                                                                                                         29-02
                                                                                                                                                                                    4951749
                                                                                                                                                                                    514735
                                                                                                                                                                                              48
                                                                                                                                                                                              50-5                           Sturmy_     Cloudy,briskwindfr.
                                                                                                             1...                                              29-47
       Q         20           29-45      51                                                                                                                                                                                  Rain        Cloudy,     stron    SW.
                                                                                                                                1......i                       2969      29-10      435150   43
                 21                      48                                       '05                                                                                                                                                    Rain                 wind
                              29-49                                                                                           l    1                                                5051135150                       ~26     Stormy
                                                                                               '160...                                                         28—90     28-70
                 22           29-04      51                                                                                                                                                                          -11     Fair        Fine
                                                                                               -180...                 1                                       29-94     29-52      323733
                                                                                                                                                                                             3-2
                 23           29-77      35                                                                                         1                                                                                -11                  Rain
                                                                                                             1...       1...                                   29-60     29-16                41                             Stormy
                                         48                                                    025                                                                                  434542
                24            29-51                                                                                                                                                                                  ‘11                  Cloudy
                                                                                                                                                   11 1 1111
                                                                                                             1...       l---                                   2955      2922       475555    52            0'65             Cloudy
                                                                                  '11          '025
                25            29-62      52
                                                                                 1-10 449018                        726
                                                                                                                              9
                                                                                                                              7               722              29-75     29-38       42            40-46    2-90      2921
      Averages:              297374443            52-27 73-9
                                                                                                                                                        l

                                                 4 4
                          INDEX            TO      VOL.           wa.
  ALHIDADE,                                    25    Calendar of Flora,     Fauna, and Pomo<
  Ammonia, its action on copper,               72       na,        77, 157, 288, $18,    397, 470
  Analyses of American Brine-springs,                Camp/tor, analysis of,                    151
      74; Essonite,150; Pi_nite,ibid; Cam            Campo     Santa, of Pisa, Gothic ‘ orna
      phor, 151 ; Holywell water, 394 ;                 ments of,                              278
      fused charcoal,                       467      Carriages, on the wheels and springs of,
  Antiquities ,                 209, 273, 316                                                  $94
  Arbury Hill, latitude of,                  140     Celery, early,                            as?
  Architecture, Gothic,                     273      Chalk formation in America,               469
  Astronomical information, 67, 68, 878              Charcoal,   said to be fused,             467
  Astronomical observations,          Bessel’s,      Chemical   contributions,                 821
                  17, 102, 170, 2‘19, 341, 415       Combustion, electricity of,               409
  Atkinson, (1.) on the plants of York               Comet,                                    209
     shire,                                 21 1     Conybeare,    (W. D.) on Ichthyosaurus
 Bakewell, (11.) on Lava found at Bon                   and Saurocephalus,                     414
     logne,                                 414      Cooper, on solar time,                    210
 Barlow, (Pro<U+FB01>) on the local attraction              Copper sheeting, method      of preserving,
     of  vessels,                           283                                           30, 233
 Barometric and pluviometric observa                 Crystals, contractions of by heat, 152;
     tions,                                 208         axes of double refraction in,          162
 Becquerel,      (M) his electro-motive re          Daniell’s    Meteorological   Essays, review
     searches,                              401         0 ,                                    218
 Bell, analysis of his papers on the nerves,        Davy, (Sir          on the preservation of
                            41, 119, 352, 442           Copper Sheeting of ships,         80, 283
 Bellani, on shooting stars,                294     Decimal notation,                   308, 862
 Beryl,                                     468     Drebereiner,     on conversion of oxalate
 Berzelius, ( Prof.) on Silicium and                   and formiate of ammonia. into hydro
     Zirconium,                            392         cyanic acid, 234; his new mode of
 Bessel, Introduction to his Astronomical              producing <U+FB01>re,                              3
     Observations,         17, 102, 170, 249,       Earthquakes,                        238, 815
                                     541, 415       Egyptian Antiquities,                     316
 Bessel’s Meridian Circle,                    67    Electra-chemistry,                     7, 401
Bevan, (B) on the heights of stations               Electra-Magnetism,                        242
    in the Trigonometrical Survey, 140              Enalio Sauri,                             409
Binomial Theorem,                          270      Encke planet,                             178
Biol, (M.) on the pendulum,                161      Engine, explosive,                        154
Birlls, migration of                    50, 91      Equations, functional,      solution of, 197
Bag, disruption of,                        229                                                383
Bolides, on their general nature,          289     Essonite,   analysis of,                   150
Books, new, 62, 143, 218, 304, 871, 457            Euclid.      On his Twelfth Book,          181
Brnndes, on shooting stars,                294     Evans, (Rev. L.) Demonstration of
Brayley, (E. W.) on the progress of                    Newton’s Binomial Theorem,             270
   science respecting igneous meteors,             Eqilosive Engine,                          154
   and meteorites, in 1823,          111, 287      Farey, (J.) on the velocity of sound,
Brine-springs,                               74        178; on the Encke planet, 180; on
Buds, theory of,                            82        shooting stars,                           ib
Burney, (Dr.) Meteorological obser                 Fire-balls, on their general nature, 289
   vations, 208; on the Meteorological             Flames, electricity of,                   406
   Register,                              370      Flora, English,(Sir J. E. Smith‘s,) 226,
Calculus of variations,                   330                                                 339

                                         INDEX.                                           475
Forster, (Dr.        T.) calendar of Flora,       Latitude, on <U+FB01>ndin ,                     851
    77, 157, 238, 318, 997, 470; his atmo         Lava found at Bou ogne,                  414
    spheric researches, 294; on shooting          Lecount, (P.) tables of mean time of
    stars, ib.                                        passage of stars over the meridian, 428
Fossils,             3l5, 316, 389, 390, 409     Lectures,                                 288
Folhergill, (W.) on the toad,                 85 Lee, (S.) on the Greenwich observa
Fruits, how a<U+FB01>'ected by pollen,              191      tions,                         367, 451
Fruit-trees, effects of age on,              194 Lindley, (J.) on the vegetable ph si
Galbraith, (W.) on the pendulum, 161                 ology of M. du Petit Thouars, 81,1
Ganges, geology of,                          149                                    228, 456
 Gases, speci<U+FB01>c heat of, 2(1), 262; pump         Logan Rock,                        313, S83
    for compressing,               12, 129, 441  Lunar Tables, new,                         68
Geodetical problem, solution of,                  Lyceum of New York, annals of,
                                    J
                                              35                                            76
 Geology of the Ganges and umna, 149             M'artineau, (J.) on a hydro-pneumatic
 Gilbert, (D.) on the wheels and springs             pump,                                 11 1
    of carriages,                           394  Mean Solar Time,                    295, 350
 Glanders, cure of,                         285  Mean time of stars passing the meri
Glass, its impermeability to water under             dian,                                428
                                            ‘
    high pressure,                            72 Measures, new,                     302, 862
 Glosterian, on mean solar time,            295  Illerizlian Circle, Bessel’s,              67
 Gmelin, (Pro<U+FB01>) analysis of two mine             Mesembryanthemum,        new species of, 61,
    rals,                                   150                                      109, 443
 Gilbel, (Dr.) analysis of camphor,         151  Meteorology,        so, 111, 155, 160, 180,
 Gooseberry plant,                          236      2:37, 240, 287, 317, 320, 380, 400,431,
Gothic ornaments of the Duomo, &c.                                                        471
    at Pisa,                                278  Meteorological    Essays and Observations,
Granite columns,                            470      review of,                            218
 Greenwich      observations, inconsistencies    Meteors,    Igneous, progress of science
    in,                                867, 451      respecting in 1829,             111, 287
 Groombridge,      (S.) R. A. and Declin.        Meteorites, progress of science respect
    of four minor planets,                  359      ing in 1823,                    111, 287
 Gunn, (Rev. W.) on Gothic architec              Meteors     seen    in America,     113,   in
    ture,                              273, 282       France, 118, in Martinique, 292, in
Harlan, ( Dr.) on Saurocephalus, 409                 Sussex, 293, at Islington,           294
Hart, (J.) on Light produced by an               .Migralion of birds,                  50, 91
    air-gun,                                   8 Minerals, American cabinet of,           390
Haworlh, (A. H.) on succulent plants,            Natural History, works on, 68,‘ 146,
    184, 298 ; on Mesembryanthema, 61,               227, 373; neglect of, by the British
                                       109, 423      government,                            71
Haycrq<U+FB02>,       (Wm.) on       the  speci<U+FB01>c heat  Nectarines, new varieties of,             194
    of  gases,                         200, 262  Mroes, on the structure of, 41, 119,
Heights of stations in the trigonometri                                                   442
    cal survey,                             140  Nerves, Optic, semi -dccussation of, 184
                                     _
Herapatlt, (John) on functional equa             New South Wales,                         211
    tions, \                                 197 Newton’s, (Sir I.) Binomial Theorem,
Herapath, (W.) chemical contributions,               demonstration of,                    270
                                            32]  Mtric acid and charcoal, action of, 398
Herrings, shower of ?                        152 Northern Ezpcdilion,                     388
Hibernation,                             52, 89  Odontalgia,      and carious teeth, local
Ichthyosaurus,                         409, 418      causes of,                           236
Ivory, (J .) solution of a geodetical pro        Oxalate and Formiate of Ammonia, 234
    blem,                                     35  Org/gen, combinations of,               322
Jenner,    (Dr.)  0n the migration of birds,     Parke, (Mungo)                           209
                                         50, 9]. Parlby’s r‘ifle rockets,             75, 154
Jumna, geology of,                           149 Patents,       79, 159, 239, 318, 898, 472
Jupiter, occultation of,                    465  Pendulum,                                 16!
Kater's pendulum,                            161 Finite, analysis of,                      150
Krusenstern,                      on the local   Planets,    the four minor, R. A. and
    attraction O(Admiral)
                     vessels,               288       Decl. of,                           359
Knight, (T. A.) on the in<U+FB02>uence of the           Plants,     eographical distribution of in
    pollen on plants, 191 ; effects of age            York ire,                           2i]
    on fruit-trees; new varieties of Nec         Pollen, in<U+FB02>uence of on plants,           191
                   '                             Pollock, ( T.) on thc voltaic pile,       129
    tarines,                                 194

  4-76                                   INDEX.
  Pump, a hydro'pneumatic, for com                  Tea, adulteration of,                   151
     pressing gascs, &c.       12, 129, 441         Tellurium, odour of,      .              83
  Re<U+FB02>ection,                               255      Telescope, <U+FB02>exure of,
                                                                                       ‘    170
  Reqn'ration,  nerves of,           42, 119        Thenard, (M.) on Doebereiner’s ex
  Review of books,                  226, 218           periment,                             10
  Reviews, misrepresentations   of, 227, 889        Thouars, du Petit, vegetable physio.
  Ritchie, (J.) the late African traveller,            logy,   '-                 81, 228,456
   , letter from,                           69      Tiarks’s (Dn) trigonometrical surveys,
 Rockets, ri<U+FB02>e,                      75, 154                                 a              283
  Scholz, on selenium, and tellurium, 88           Tiarks, (Dru) on his tables for solar
  Schweigger,    (Dr.) on Doebereiner’s                time,                          211, 350
     new mode of producing <U+FB01>re,               3    Time, mean solar,                        210
 Seal, a lame one,                         286     Tilanium, metallic,                      892
 Seaward, on a hydro-pneumatic pump,                Toad, natural history of,                85
                               12, 129, 441        Tourmaline,                             468
 Selenium,                                  88     Tredgold, ('l‘.)on weights and measures,
 Sexual imjndse, in birds,           56, 10]                                          302, 362
 Shooting stars,                    180, 294       Trona Lake,                             387
'Silioium,                                 392     Trumpeter bird a ventriloquist,         469
 Smith, (Sir J'. E.) on vegetation,       241,      Vanurem, (L.) on fused charcoal 467
     456; his English Flora, on a review            Veall, (Mr-l meteorological observa
                               of, 226, 339            tions,                   287, 870, 471
 Smith, (M.) on <U+FB01>nding the latitude by              Vegetable physiology of M. du Petit
     the altitudes of two stars, 851 ; on              Thouars,                  81, 241, 456
     mean solar time,                      850     Vegetation, theories of Sir J. E. Smith
 Society, Royal French Academy, 65,                    and M. du Petit Thomas, 241, 456
     148, 205, 381, 466; Horticultural,            Vessels, local attraction of,           288
     147,877; Native Calcutta, 149; Caen,          Vollaic pile, action of,         7, 82, 129
     288; Academyof Sciences of Copen              lValrh, (J.) on the Twelfth book of
     hagen, 207 ; Royal Academy of                     Euclid, 181 ; on the calculus of
     Brussels, 208; Royal, 874, 459;                  variations,                          380
     Linnaean, 874,468 ; Geological, 875,          Wasps, absence of,                 284, 288
     468; Astronomical, 878, 464; Lon              Water-spout, effects of,                152
 . don Mechanics’ Institution,            880      Water, its electro-motive       action on
 Sound, the velocity of,                   178        metals,                              401
 Steel, method of cutting by soft iron, 73         Webster, (Mr. )geolog. observationsf<U+FB02>li
                                                                              '
 Sturgeon, (\V.) on ElectrO-Magnetjsm,             Weights and Measures,              802, 362
                                          242      Wollaslon, (Dn) on the semi-decussation
 Stars, Circumpolar,                      249         of the optic nerves,                 184
 Succulent plants, new,            184, 298        Woolnoth, (J. C.) analysis of Holywell
 Taylor, (Arthur) on the Gothic orna                  water,                               394
     ments of the Duomo, &c. of Pisa,              Yorkshire, plants in,                   21 l
                                          278      Zirconium,                              S92
                    END OF THE SIXTY-FOURTH                       VOLUME.
                                                 A\
                                      ll.l¢l\h   rl.\.\|.\| n1
                                                 ,
                                                   \
                                        LONDON:
                       PHIN'LED  IY  RICHARD    TAYLOR,      SHOE-LANS
                                             1824.

                                            P/zzljllay.   m.   LXH‘   H .1‘
                           fZa/z,
                              z u m 4Lz m
1154.2.                            f
    .
   RQSNN
                  .
  3.5%
                       ~
           Hy.   w0 .w R £ a m a       p.
  SESSQ
                                                          J‘J‘vrtu' J1


               -                                      V01.LXIVJ’! .1L
               Electr<U+FB02> —<U+FB02>[agnca'c Apparatzar .
                                                  .
                                                        olPorrzr Jc.
MHaycrn/fr Apparam    <U+FB01>rr arc-army tkcHeat of  Gamer.


     1m. MyJEZlLUV. PZJZZ.
H70.
                           (1
                      ‘F“347

I

Jaysrsflw ~





      .   .
 WK
                               .
 .
__see mom     EEgg;use
              So   6     ime
                               a

