This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com








                          I £ £ Phii Mag. 7ei3 f/a.. /.
FRANCIS XAYIE31 baron ton SACI,
£thtcr 'ftAc "Astronomical Carrespauilmc e ."

                                         THE
                LONDON and EDINBURGH
 PHILOSOPHICAL                                           MAGAZINE
                                           AND
          JOURNAL                         OF         SCIENCE.
                                      CONDUCTED BY
SIR DAVID BREWSTER, K.H.LL.D.F.R.S.L.&E.&c.
RICHARD TAYLOR, F.L.S.G.S. Astr.S.Nat.H.Mosc.&c.
                                          AND
RICHARD PHILLIPS, F.R.S. L.&E. F.G.S. &c.
      " Nec aranearum sane textus ideo melior quia ex tx fila gignunt, nec noster
   vilior quia ex alienis libamus ut apes." Just. Lips. Monil. Potit. lib. i. cap. 1.
                                       VOL. IX.
 NEW AND UNITED SERIES OF THE PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZLNE,
       ANNALS OF PHILOSOPHY, AND JOURNAL OF SCLENCE
                          JULY—DECEMBER, 1836
                                   LONDON:
 PRINTED B* RICHARD TAYLOR, RED LION COV^Jf.fij^^fREET,
                         Printer to the University of London.
  SOIJ> BY LONGMAN, REES, OBHE, BROWN, GREEN, AND LONGMAN; CADI LI.;
      BALDWItl AND CRADOCX; SHERWOOD, GILBERT, AND PIPER; SIMPKIN
           AND MARSHALL; WHITTAKER AND CO.; AND S. HIGHLEY,
                LONDON: BY THOMAS CLARK, AND ADAM AND
                   CHARLES BLACK, EDINBURGH; SMITH AND SON,
                      GLASGOW; HODGES AND m'artHUR, DUB
                         LIN; AND C. W. M. REYNOLDS, PARIS.

The Conductors of the London and Edinburgh Philosophical Magazine
and Journal of Science beg to acknowledge the editorial assistance
rendered them in the publication of the present volume by their friend
Mr. Edward William Bbayley, F.L.S., F.G.S., Librarian to the
London Institution.
  December Iri, 1836.

                              CONTENTS.
                       NUMBER LI.—JULY, 1836.
                                                                     Page
Mr. H. F. Talbot's Facts relating to Optical Science. No. III.           1
      H. S. Boase's
Dr.Physical    Geology" Remarks on Mr. Hopkins's " Researches in         4
Rev. E. Craig's Remarks on Microscopic Chemistry                        10
Notice of the Harvest-bug                                               15
Dr.toH.     Irritability
       theJohnson         of Animals
                      on the  Divergence of Plants, and its Analogy     17
   in reply
Mr.W.         to Woolhouse
          S. B.                on the Theory of Vanishing Fractions,
                  Professor Young                                       18
Prof. T. Graham on the Water of Crystallization of Soda-alum 26
 Prof. Sir VV. R. Hamilton's Second Theorem of Algebraic Eli
   mination, connected with the Question of the Possibility of
   resolving, in finite Terms, Equations of the Fifth Degree . . 28
Dr. D. E. Riippell's Observations on the FossilGenera Pseudam-
   monites and
   contained       a Letter to R. I. Murchison,
                in Ichthyosiagonites               Esq
                                        of the Solenhofen Limestone, S2
Mr. C. T. Beke on the former Extent of the Persian Gulf, and
   Carter
   on       (concluded) of Babylon and Babel ; in Reply to Mr. 34
       the Non-identity
Letter from Baron von Humboldt to His Royal Highness the
   Duke of Sussex, K. G.,.President of the Royal Society of
   London, on the Advancement of the Knowledge of Terre
   strial Magnetism, by the Establishment of Magnetic Sta
   tions and corresponding Observations                                42
Prof. Schoenbein of Hale on a peculiar Voltaic Condition of
   Iron; in a Letter to Mr. Faraday: with further Experi
   ments
   in      on the
      a Letter        Mr. Phillips
                  to same  Subject, by Mr. Faraday; communicated 53
Notice of the Magnetic Action of Manganese at low Tempera
   tures, as stated by M. Berthier ; in a Letter from Mr. Fara
   day                                                                 65
Proceedings of the Zoological Society                                  66
                at the Meetings of the Royal Institution               71
                          Cambridge Philosophical Society              71
On the feeble Attraction of the Electro-magnet for small Par
   ticles of Iron at short Distances                                   72
   the Aurora Borealis
Observations                 of April
                  on the Solar        22 of May 15, 1836; and on 73
                                   Eclipse
British Association for the Advancement of Science                     74
Meteors observed in India in 1832                                      74
M. Dufresnoy's Analysis of Plombgomme                                  75
On the Action of Iodine on Organic Salifiable Bases                    76
On a New Mode of Analysis of closely aggregated Minerals...           76
    somei'eriodide
On the                 of Iron
            New Combinations        of Carbohydrogcn or Methylene     79
                                                                      77
                                      a2

IV                              CONTENTS.
                                                                   P»g«-
Meteorological Observations made at the Apartments of the
    Royal Society by the Assistant Secretary; by Mr. Thomp
    son at the Garden of the Horticultural Society at Chiswick,
    near London; and by Mr. Veall at Boston                          80
                    NUMBER LII.— AUGUST.
 Rev. W. Ritchie on the Cause of the remarkable Difference
    magnet on
    between       Attractions
              theSoft            Distance
                      Iron at a of a Permanent and of an Electro-     81
 Remarks on the Rev. J. H. Pratt's Demonstration of a Propo
    sition in the Mecanique Celeste                                   8*
 Mr. J. D. Smith on the Hydrates of Barytes and Strontia              87
 Mr. J. G. Children's Notice respecting Dr. Ehrenberg's Collec
    tions of dried Infusoria, and other microscopic Objects           90
 Prof. J. R. Young's concluding Remarks on the Theory of
     Vanishing Fractions                                              92
 Mr. J. Nixon's Heights of Whernside, Great Whernside, Rum
     ble's Moor, Pendle Hill, and Boulsworth                          96
 Mr. J.W. Lubbock on a Property of the Parabola                      100
 Mr. E. Rudge on the Position of the South Magnetic Pole ., 1Q4
 Mr. G.J. Knox and the Rev. T.Knox on Fluorine                       107
 Mr. G. Bird on certain new Combinations of Albumen, with an
     Account of some curious Properties peculiar to that Sub
     stance                                                          109
  Rev. Baden Powell's Remarks on the Formula for the Disper
     sion of Light {concluded.)                                      116
  Mr. F. W. Mullins on certain Improvements in the Construc
     tion of Magneto-electrical Machines, and on the Use of
      Caoutchouc for Insulation in Voltaic Batteries                 120
  Letter from Mr. Faraday to Mr. Brayley on some former Re
     searches relative to the peculiar Voltaic Condition of Iron re-
      observed by Professor Schoenbein, supplementary to a Letter
      to Mr. Phillips, in the last Number                             122
   Mr. T. Weaver on the Carboniferous Series of the United States
  l of North America                                                  124
   Mr. W. Sturgeon on Electro- pulsations and Electro-momentum 132
   New Books:— Chev. F. M. G. De Pambour's Practical Treatise
      on Locomotive Engines upon Railways                             135
   Proceedings of the Zoological Society                              1 36
   Effects of compressed Air on the Human Body                        147
   Gastric Juice                                                      1 48
   Bibrowide of Mercury                                               148
   Fluorine                                                           1 49
   Antimonial Copper (E'clatant)                                      149
   On the Action of Bromine upon ^Ether                               149
   On the Composition of the crystallized Hvdrate of Potash . . 151
   On the Combinations of Chromium with Fluorine and Chlorine 151

                                  CONTENTS.                                  V
                                                                        Page
On the Action of Sulphuric Acid on Oils                                  153
On Ethal                                                                 15*
On the Action of Oxalic Acid on the Sulphates of Iron and
    Copper                                                               155
Locality of Native Mercury                                               156
Donium, a new Metal contained in Davidsonite                             156
Geology of Manchester                                                    157
Ehrenberg'a New Discovery in Palaeontology : Tripoli com
    posed wholly of Infusorial Exuviae                                   158
 British Association for the Advancement of Science                      158
 Scientific Memoirs, Part 1                                              159
 Meteorological Observations                                              159
                     NUMBER LIII— SEPTEMBER.
          Ivory onTerms
 Mr.ofJ.periodic     such Functions as can be expressed by Serieses 161
 Prof J. F.W. Johnston on the probable Cause of certain Optical
     Properties observed by Sir David Brewster in Crystals of                ~f
     Chabasie                                                             166
  Sir David Brewster's Observations relative to the preceding
     Paper                                                                »?0
  Mr. W. Hopkins's Reply to Dr. Boase's " Remarks on Mr.
     Hopkins's
     ber   for July' Researches in Physical Geology'," in the Num-<        '
                                                                          171
  Dr.and    Andrews
        T. of  Heated on    for Conducting
                        Airthe   Electricity Power of certain Flames 176
  On a new Method of taking Deep Soundings in the Ocean . .                185
   Dr. J. Apjohn on certain Statements relative to his Hygro-
      metrical Researches contained in Dr. Hudson's Papers in
     serted in Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. vii. and vol. viii. .     187
   Dr. H. Falconer and Captain P. T. Cautley on the Sivatherium
     gijrtmteum, a new Fossil Ruminant Genus, from the Valley
      of the Markanda, in the Sivalik branch of the Sub- Hima
      layan Mountains                                                       193
               HumanExperimental
   Mr.ofJ.theBishop's   Voice          Researches into the Physiology       201
   Mr. W. S. B. Woolhouse's Reply to Professor Young's con
       cluding Remarks on the Theory of Vanishing Fractions .. 209
    Dr. R. Hare's Examination of the Question, whether the Dis
       cordancy between the Characteristics of Mechanical Elec
       ference and
       tricity,      the Galvanic
                 of Intensity and Quantity;
                                    or Voltaic with
                                                Fluid, canObservations
                                                    some                in '
                                                           arise from Dif-
       Favour of of
       pendently         Existence
                    theChemical    Reaction,
                                     of an Electro-motive      therewith:
                                             but cooperatingPower   inde-" :i
       respectively submitted to the British Association for the''-'
        Advancement of Science                                               2*P2
    Mr. G. Rainey on the Difference between the Attractive' ' '
        Powers for soft Iron of the Electro-magnet and the Stee"! ''' *
        Magnet ; in Reply to Dr. Ritchie                                     220

 vi                            CONTENTS.
                                                                  Page
 Rev. W. Ritchie's Remarks on certain proposed Improvements
    in the Magneto-Electric Machine                               222
 Proceedings of the Zoological Society                            224
 British Association for the Advancement of Science               228
 Aurora Borealis observed in the Isle of Wight, on August 10th 230
 G. Bonnet on the Reducing Powers of Ar&enious Acid               230
 Rudernatsch on the Composition of Plagionite                     232
 R. Hermann on some Triple Combinations of Chloride of Os
    mium, Iridium and Platinum, with Chloride of Potassium
    and Muriate of Ammonia                                        232
 Notice of the Life and Contributions to Science of the late M.
     Nobili                                                       234
 Meteorological Observations                                      239
                    NUMBER LIV.—OCTOBER.
 Mr. C. Williamson on the Limestones found in the Vicinity of
    Manchester                                                    241
 Mr. A. De Morgan on the relative Signs of Coordinates .... 249
 Rev. J. H. Pratt's Reply to Disjota's Remarks                   254
 Mr. J. D. Smith's Experiments on the supposed new Metal
    Donium                                                       255
Dr. Schoenbein's Further Observations on the Action of Nitric
    Acid upon Iron                                               259
 Mr. E. M. Clarke's Description of his Magnetic Electrical
    Machine                                                      262
Mr. J. F. W. Johnston on the Iodides of Gold                     266
Mr. J. Bishop's Experimental Researches into the Physiology
    of the Human Voice (continued)                               2G9
Dr. H. Falconer and Capt. P. T. Cautley on the Sivatherium
   giganteum, a new Fossil Ruminant Genus, from the Valley
    of the Markanda, in the Sivalik Branch of the Sub-Hima
   layan Mountains (concluded)                                   277
Mr. F. W. Mullins's Observations on the Construction of Vol
    taic Batteries; with a Description of a Battery exhibited at
   the Royal Institution of Great Britain, June 3, 1836, in
   which an uniform and powerful current is sustained for any
   period required                                               283
Rev. W. Ritchie's Remarks on Mr. Rainey's Theory of Mag
   netic Reaction                                                287
Mr. H. F. Talbot on the Optical Phenomena of certain Crystals 288
Proceedings of the Royal Astronomical Society                    291
         ——— Zoological Society                                  298
British Association for the Advancement of Science               312
Mr. J. W. Doebereiner on several new combinations of Platinum 314
On Decrepitation                                                 316
Atomic Confusion. — Monohydrated Sulphocarbetheric Acid 317
Hydrosulphuric and Hydroselenic /Ethers                          318
Meteorological Observations                                      319

                               CONTENTS.                        vii
                  NUMBER LV—NOVEMBER.
                                                              PaKe
Dr. Gregory on a volatile Liquid procured from Caoutchouc
   by Destructive Distillation j with Remarks on some other
   Empyreumatic Substances                                    821
Dr. Henry's Experiments on Gaseous Interference               324
Prof. Young's simple Method of proving the Law of Gravita
   tion                                                       338
Mr. J. T. Graves's Explanation of a remarkable Paradox in
   the Calculus of Functions, noticed by Mr. Babbnge .... 334
Mr. J. Bishop's Experimental Researches into the Physiology
   of the Human Voice (concluded)                             342
Mr. VV. C. Williamson on the Limestones found in the Vicinity
   of Manchester (concluded)                                  348
Dr. J. Mitchell on the Beds immediately above the Chalk in
   the Counties near London                                   356
Mr. J. Saxton on his Magneto-electrical Machine ; with Re
   marks on Mr. E. M.Clarke's Paper in the preceding Number 360
Mr. W. Hopkins's Reply to Dr. Boase's " Remarks on Mr.
   Hopkins's ' Researches in Physical Geology'," in the Num
   ber for July (concluded)                                   366
Prof. Young's Addendum to Article LXV. in the present
   Number                                                     370
New Books :—Maund's Botanist                                  371
   M. Gaudichaud's Vegetable Physiology                       872
Proceedings of the Royal Society                              376
                      Geological Society                      382
          .           Zoological Society                      388
Ehrenberg's Fossil Infusoria                                  892
Mr. W. R. Birt's Meteorological Observations made during the
   Solar Eclipse of May 15, 1836, at Greenwich                398
On a new Species of Acetate of Copper                         895
Facts relative to the History of ^Ether                       395
Has Heat Weight ?                                             896
Dr. Hudson's Reply to Dr. Apjohn's Paper inserted in the Phi
   losophical Magazine for September                          398
Fuseli's Portrait of Priestley                                898
Meteorological Observations                                   399
                NUMBER LXVL—DECEMBER.
Mr. H. F. Talbot's Facts relating to Optical Science. No. IV. 401
Mr. R.C.Taylor on the Carboniferous Series of the United
   States of North America                                    407
Mr. F. O. Ward's Physiological Remarks on certain Muscles of
   the Upper Extremity, especially on the Pcctoralis Major . 411
Mr. J. Tovey's Researches in the Undulatory Theory of Light,
   in continuation of former Papers                           420

 viii                             CONTKNTS.
                                                                        Vapv
 Mr. L.Berzclius
 Prof.     Thompson      Meteoric
                     on on           Stones of preparing lodous Acid 429
                             a new Method                                4i'2
 Mr.   J. T.Graves's
     Calculus   of Functions,
                        Explanation
                                 noticed   a remarkable
                                        of by Mr. BabbageParadox in the 443
 Dr. J. Inglis on the Conducting Power of Iodine for Electricity         450
  Rev. J. W. MacGauley's Account and Explanation of some
     remarkable Results obtained during a Course of Electro-
     Magnetic Experiments                                               452
 On the Art of Glass- Painting                                          456
 Mr N. T. Wetherell's Observations on some of the Fossils of
     the London Clay, and in particular those Organic Remains
     Londonhave
     which          Birmingham
               and been               discovered in the Tunnel for the
                           recentlyRailroad                              462
        G. Rainey's
 Mr.Rainey's    TheoryReply       to Dr. Reaction
                           of Magnetic     Ritchie's Remarks on Mr. 469
 Rev. N. J. Callan on a new Galvanic Battery                            472
 Dr. Dal ton's Observations on certain Liquids obtained from
     Caoutchouc by Distillation                                         479
                    SUPPLEMENTARY NUMBER.
 Dr. Dalton's Observations on certain Liquids obtained from
     Caoutchouc by Distillation                                         481
 On Voltaic Electricity                                                 484
 On the Constitution of Bitumens, by M. Boussingault                    487
 Proceedings of the Geological Society                                  489
                           Zoological Society                           503
                           Royal Society                                522
 Artificial Production of Crystallized Minerals                         537
 Direct Demonstration of the Rule for the Multiplication of
     Negative Signs                                                     540
 On the Solubility of Carbonate of Lime, &c, in Hydrochlo-
     rate of Ammonia                                                    540
 Method of detecting Sulphurous Acid in the Hydrochloric
     Acid of Commerce                                                   543
 On Platina. By J. W, Dobereiner                                        544
 Meteorological Observations                                            544
                                   PLATES.
         the Observatory
   I. A Portrait            of Francis
                  of the late  Seeberg. Xavibr Baron von Zach, Director of
 II. A Plate illustrative of Dr. Falconer and Capt. Cautley's Paper ou
         the Sivatkerium giganteum, a newly discovered extinct animal, con
         necting the Ruminantia with the Pachydermata.
III. A Plate illustrative of Mr. J. Bishop's Experimental Researches into
         the
         Motion
IV. A Plate  Physiology
              illustrative
                 of the Arm.
                         ofoftheMr. O. Ward's
                                 Human   Voice. Physiological Remarks on the

                                 THE
               LONDON and EDINBURGH
 PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                  AND
         JOURNAL                   OF        SCIENCE.
                        [THIRD—<U+2666>—    SERIES.]
                          JULY 1836.
I. Facts relating to Optical Science. No. III. By H. F. Talbot,
                            Esq., F.R.S.*
          Optical Properties of the Iodide of Mercury.
     HEMICAL writers have observed that this substance ex-
      hibits remarkable changes of colour. It is orange-red
 when cold, but becomes yellow when moderately heated. As
it grows cold again, the red tint reappears.
   Sometimes, however, the yellow exhibits more permanency,
as has been remarked by Dr. Inglis in his Essay on Iodine f.
He says " that the yellow crystals of the biniodide retain
that colourfor a considerable time, unless suddenly cooled or
agitated, when the characteristic crimson tint of the biniodide
again appears."
   Wishing to examine into the cause of these facts, I placed
a small portion of the red iodide between two plates of glas.s,
and warmed it over a spirit-lamp. It immediately sublimed
into a yellow powder composed of minute crystals. As it
cooled, blood-red spots appeared upon the surface of the yel
low mass and gradually spread themselves over the whole,
with the exception of some portions around the circumference
which usually remained yellow. When examined with a mi
croscope this powder presented the curious appearance of
  • Communicated by the Author. Nos. I. and II. of these " Facts" will
be found in Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. iv. pp. 112, 980.
  f See the Number for January last, (vol. viii.) p. 18.           ''i
Third Series. Vol.9. No. 51. July 1836.                      B

2 Mr. Talbot's Facts relating to Optical Science. No. III.
orange-red crystals lying interspersed among yellow ones,
which resembled them in size and shape, and were different
in no respect but in colour.
    Upon repeating this experiment I found that by continuing
the heat a little longer I could obtain much larger crystals,
such that the field of view of the microscope would only con
tain a few of them at a time ; and with these it became possi
ble to see the phsenomenon much more distinctly and advan
tageously. These large crystals have the shape of thin flat
lozenges or oblique-angled parallelograms of a pale yellow
colour. They are very transparent, act strongly upon light,
and form a very pleasing and convenient object for the po
larizing microscope. But the most important and singular
phenomenon which they exhibit, is the sudden change of
colour which they are capable of undergoing, and to which
 I do not think the science of optics has hitherto furnished any
 parallel. The change takes place in some of the crystals du
 ring the process of cooling, in others shortly afterwards, while
 in others the yellow tint remains permanent for many hours,
 or even days. In general, a crystal which is about to change
 colour, is known by the appearance of a red streak along one
 of its sides or edges.
    If then the observer selects one of these and fixes his atten
 tion upon it, he will shortly afterwards see it change colour
 from pale yellow to a fine and deep orange-red. The change
 generally occupies only a few seconds, and the red tint ad
vances uniformly across the crystal, i. e. the boundary of the
 red and yellow is a straight line parallel to two sides of the
 thomboid, and its motion is across the crystal from one of
 these sides to the opposite one.
    The change of colour is accompanied by a visible internal
 motion in the crystal, like a sinking or giving way of succes
 sive ranks of particles, one consequence of which is, that the
 crystal after the change is generally less transparent than it
 was before. This phenomenon is, I think, the most evident
 proof which we yet possess of the dependency of colour upon
 internal molecular arrangement.
    As this substance sublimes very readily, I tried what might
 be the effect of placing a hot piece of glass over the crystals
 while they were under examination with the microscope. Im
 mediately each crystal became surrounded with a cloud of
 little particles which appeared to me to be rhomboids like the
 larger ones from which they were derived.
    The cracking of the larger crystals from heat must be an
 effect of unequal expansion, and it appears not unlikely from
 this experiment that the sublimation of the substance is pro

     Mr. Talbot's Facts relating to Optical Science. No. III.                 3
duced by this cause acting more energetically at a high tem
perature.
                        On Prismatic Spectra.
   It is much to be desired that an extensive course of experi
ments should be made on the spectra of chemical flames, ac
companied with accurate measurements of the relative posi
tion of the bright and dark lines, or maxima and minima
of light which are generally seen in them. The definite rays
emitted by certain substances, as, for example, the yellow rays
of the salts of soda, possess a fixed and invariable character,
which is analogous in some measure to the fixed proportion
in which all bodies combine, according to the atomic theory.
It may be expected, therefore, that optical researches, care
fully conducted, may throw some additional light upon che
mistry. Some experiments which I formerly made upon this
subject will be found in Brewster's Journal for 1826*. In
addition to the substances there enumerated as giving a pecu
liar optical character to flame, I have found that the salts of
copper are exceedingly remarkable. They give spectra so
covered throughout with dark lines as to resemble in that re
spect the solar spectrum. The flames of boracic acid and
nitrate of barytes also possess somewhat of a similar character.
The most convenient way of obtaining brilliant spectra of
these substances is to deflagrate them with chlorate of potash,
but this is attended with the inconvenience that the spectrum
produced by the chlorate is seen in conjunction with the other*
and an allowance must be made accordingly. Another good
method is to sprinkle the substance in powder on the wick of
a spirit-lamp, and direct a current of oxygen upon it. With,
regard to the accurate measurement of the lines, it requires
the use of very superior apparatus. I have sometimes ina^e,
approximate measurements by fixing a divided scale trans
versely to the linear aperture through which the light pf jlh/^
burning by
panded        the prism
            body    was observed.
                          into a spectrum
                                       This parallel
                                              aperturetowas       scale, ex^
                                                             the then       by
 means of which it could then be measured. An objection
 may, perhaps, occur to the reader, that the scale would thus
 be as much refracted as the light itself, and therefore could
 not serve to measure it. But this difficulty was avoided by
 a simple contrivance, viz. by illuminating the scale with ho
 mogeneous light.
                  Spectra ofvarious Galvanic Flames.
    Silver leaf deflagrated by galvanism gave a spectrum with
       * Vol. v. p. 77. See also the present Journal, vol. iv. p. 1 1 4. ¦ . , <
                                    B 2

4             Dr. Boase's Remarks on Mr. Hopkins's
several definite rays, among which two green rays appeared
to me to possess nearly the same tint, although differing in
refrangibility.
    Gold-leaf, and copper-leaf each afforded a fine spectrum
exhibiting peculiar definite rays. The effect of zinc was still
more interesting; I observed in this instance a strong red ray,
three blue rays, besides several more of other colours. These
experiments were made in the laboratory of the Royal Institu
 tion in June 1834.
    Errata. In the memoir on Light, vol. v. p. 326, line 22,
for "jointed" read "joined."
    P. 328, line 3 from the bottom, for " observations" read
" obscurations".
    The conclusion of the article in vol. iv. p. 290, is inaccu
rately expressed; it should stand thus: " But when the obli
quity reaches a certain point one of the images suffers total
internal reflexion before the other does. This would equally
happen whether the balsam were employed or not: but its
use is attended with advantage because this effect then takes
place at a much greater angle of obliquity, and consequently
the separation of the images is more perfectly and conveni
ently obtained."
II. Remarks on Mr. Hopkins's " Researches in Physical Geo
    logy." By Henry S. Boase, M.D., fyc, Secretary to the
    Royal Geological Society of Cornwall.*
r|"'HE vast accumulation of facts during the present cen-
       tury concerning the structure of the earth, has esta
blished the title of geology to rank among the more important
branches of human knowledge : and the attempts which have
been lately made to solve geological problems by mathemati
cal analysis, lead us to expect that it may one day attain to a
more exalted position among the sciences. In Germany, this
application was made many years ago, more particularly by
Schmidt and Zimmermann, in illustration of the phenomena
of veins. And in France, Elie de Beaumont and Dufrenoy
have called in its aid to support the doctrine of elevation-cra
ters. But to Mr. Hopkins we are gready indebted for vindi
cating the character of the science in this country by making
a more extended application of this agent, and for the im
portant results at which he has arrived f.
   • Communicated by the Author.
   f Mr. Hopkins's Abstract of his Memoir on Physical Geology appeared
in our last volume, p. 227, el seq.

                 " Researches in Physical Geology."            5
    I am not duly qualified to offer an opinion concerning the
mathematical portion of Mr. Hopkins's work: but, admit
ting the great merit of the application of his propositions in
pointing out what state of things is, or is not, compatible with
the action of an elevatory force, I would venture to offer some
remarks respecting the accuracy of the data on which his
reasoning is founded. And I the more readily enter on this
examination, as he has stated that his " speculations are
thrown out with the hope of indicating some of the more cri
tical points of inquiry on which the ultimate determination of
this question must turn, and which are generally best indi
cated in such cases by theoretical discussion."
    I have, in my " Treatise on Primary Geology," expressed
an opinion that many supposed cases of elevation may be ex
plained by the lines of structure, and by depositions on un
even surfaces; but waiving this at present, I will at once
proceed to consider the nature of the elevatory force and
its modes of action, adopted by Mr. Hopkins as the basis of
 his investigations.
    The elevatory force which acted upon the lower surface of
the uplifted mass is supposed to have been some expansive
fluid. Now until the mass be ruptured this may be a satis
factory cause ; but is it not probable that immediately the re
sistance has been overcome by the production of fissures, an
explosion would follow, which would be as much more ter
 rific in its devastations than modern volcanos, as the vent, ex
 tending across whole continents, would vastly exceed the di
 mensions of a crater? Can the present state of things — strata
dipping on either side of mountain ranges traversed and in
 tersected by regular systems of veins and dykes—be supposed
 to have resulted from such tremendous convulsions ? And
 again, the internal pressure being removed by the rupture of
 the elevated mass, and the support consequently withdrawn,
 ought not the strata to have fallen down and have obliterated
 the spaces in which the veins and ranges of granite are said
 to have been subsequendy formed?
     This objection might be, in some measure, got over by sup
 posing the uplifted and fissured mass to have been acted on
 whilst a solid layer was interposed between it and the moving
 power, whereby the fractured strata would be supported;
 but such an expedient, even if admissible, would only be an
 imaginary solution of the difficulty, and would be at variance
 with Mr. Hopkins's deduction that the fissures must neces
 sarily commence in the under part of the mass.
     Granting, however, the probability of this modus operandi,
 and the accuracy of theJirst approximation, we will proceed to

 6           Dr. Boase's Remarks on Mr. Hopkins's
 the modifying circumstances, the possible existence of which
 Mr. Hopkins has admitted, and stated that they would render it
 very difficult to calculate with any precision the resulting phae-
 nomena. One of the most influential of these circumstances
 is the jointed structure in the mass subjected to the action
 of the elevatory power. Mr. Hopkins, duly impressed with
 its importance, has made many interesting remarks thereon,
 more particularly concerning the coincidence of lines of struc
 ture and of fissure.
    The structure of rocks is a subject which has engaged my
 attention for many years ; and in the seventh volume of this
 Journal (p. 376 et seq.) I endeavoured to show that the joints
 have not been mechanically produced, as Prof. Sedgwick sup
 poses, but have resulted from an arrangement of the particles
 by the attraction of cohesion during the process of consolida
 tion, being in its nature similar to crystallization. The Pro
fessor has, indeed, referred to Mr. Hopkins's " Researches"
 in support of his views, but it will be seen by the following
passage that Mr. Hopkins, on physical grounds, has arrived at
the same conclusion as myself. " It has been shown that ex
traneous forces could only tend to produce systems of fissures
crossing each other at right angles, whereas regular systems
ofjoints appear to meet each other frequently at acute angles,
and consequently must necessarily have been owing to some
different cause. I do not therefore conceive that any general
tension of the mass produced by extension from elevation, or
contraction in the course of solidification, can have had any
material effect on the formation of joints. It is probably,
I think, to be referred entirely to some kind of internal mole
cular action."
    That the lines of structure are perfectly independent of any
elevatory power would seem to be implied by their occurring
even inclined in opposite directions entirely within horizontal
strata; and also by their existence in solid rocks between beds
of incoherent substances, as, for instance, in the oolite of Buck-
land Point, in the parish of Mells, which Mr. Townsend has
described as rhombohedral beds dipping at an angle of 40°,
and confined between two horizontal beds of clay*.
   If then solid rocks have necessarily a jointed structure, one
of the data on which Mr. Hopkins's calculations are founded
is invalidated, in as much as the elevatory force can never
have acted on a solid mass without the interference of this
modifying circumstance. The abstract consideration of the
question I can easily conceive to be required in order to ar-
              • Greenough's Geological Essays, p. 13.

               " Researches in Physical Geology"                7
rive at a just estimation of the individual value of the moving
power; but it would seem to be almost impracticable to cal
culate the result of such an action on a mass traversed by
joints at acute angles to each other,—a condition found to be
very prevalent in existing rocks. I am aware that it is not
generally admitted that all solid rocks have a jointed structure;
but Mr. Hopkins ought not to object to it, as he regards such
structure to have proceeded from an " internal molecular ac
tion."
    Now, if rocks having a jointed structure be acted on by an
expansive fluid so as to overcome their continuity, it might be
expected, as I have elsewhere stated, that the dislocations
would take place on the lines of structure, as being the direc
tions of least resistance. Mr. Hopkins also adds an excellent
practical remark, " that the accuracy of coincidence, between
the lines of structure and of fissure, is essential to the theory
which would assign the latter phtenomena to the prior exist
ence of the former. A difference of a few degrees in the an
 gular position of the above lines would, if clearly established,
 be fatal to this theory : because, as I have already explained,
although a fissure produced by an elevatory force would cross
 a line of less resistance under a certain condition without
change of direction, that condition cannot be generally satis
fied when the angle between the fissure and line of less resist
ance is small ; in such a case the fissure will be propagated
 exactly along the latter line. " Such an occurrence, it ap
 pears to me, might rather suggest a doubt concerning the
 supposed action of an elevatory force, since our daily ex
perience shows that all solid rocks do now possess a jointed
 structure. Mr. Hopkins, however, is of opinion that should
 this coincidence be established, it is more probable that the
 lines of structure have been influenced by the dislocation of
 the mass than vice versd. This result of the mathematical
 analysis seems to have reduced the argument in favour of an
 elevatory force ad absurdum ; for undisturbed horizontal strata
 have a jointed structure, and in rocks having a rhomboidal
 structure the joints meet at acute angles, which Mr. Hopkins
 himself states must necessarily have been owing to some dif
 ferent cause than that of extraneous forces, such as extension
 from elevation or contraction during solidification.
    Mr. Hopkins has visited Cornwall, and found it, like others,
a stumbling-block. He does not view its perplexing pha>
nomena as indicative of a defect in the theory of geology, but
regards them as exceptions to the general rule. " In this
 mining district," he says, it appears most necessary to re

  8          Dr. Boase's llemarks on Mr. Hopkins's
  cognise the influence of a previously veined or jointed struc
  ture on the direction of its dislocations." And yet two or
  three pages afterwards we find a different opinion, viz. that
  the great system of metalliferous veins was formed in open
 joints superinduced after the great dislocations which accom-
 Eanied the injection of the granite. I am glad to find that
    is " hasty inspection" of Cornwall has confirmed my more
 lengthened observation on the coincidence of the directions of
 veins with those ofjoints; but he surely jumps too hastily to
 the conclusion that this circumstance destroys the contempo
 raneous hypothesis which I have advocated. Although the
 direction of veins may correspond with lines of structure, they
 are not identical therewith. The joints pass indiscriminately
 through both veins and rock, whether granite or slate, or both
 conjointly; so that individual concretions or blocks, formed
 by the intersection of parallel systems ofjoints, contain more
 or less of these, according as the vein contracts or expands in
 its dimensions: —just as the lines of structure in sedimentary
 rocks pass through concretions and organic remains, so do
 they traverse the granite, slate, and veins, showing in both
 cases that the things intersected must have existed previous
 to the consolidation of the mass.
     Mr. Hopkins regards the contemporaneous formation as
 " an inconceivable process," more especially for those who
 consider the slate as a sedimentary rock. Such a notion,
 however, is not perhaps so absurd as it at first sight appears
 to be, but is consistent with the prevailing theory ; for if the
 primary slates be metamorphic rocks, why not the granite
 also? Vast districts in the North of Europe and elsewhere
 consist of gneiss, which some have called granite, and others
granitic gneiss. Why was it not as easy for the central fire to
change fossiliferous strata into granite, as into granitic gneiss?
 And if so, then the primary slates and granite might be con
temporaneous; though in this case formed by a superin
duced or secondary action, whilst in the one which I advocate
they have resulted from the original fusion of the earth.
Mr. Hopkins acknowledges that " the perfect continuity of
the veins of Cornwall in passing from the killas to the granite
forms a curious feature in the geology of that district if we
are to regard the former as a sedimentary deposit." It cer
tainly places the prevailing theory in a most perplexing di
lemma, which however it appears to me is satisfactorily solved
by admitting the contemporaneous nature of the granite and
slate.
    As the metalliferous veins of Cornwall do not seem to be

                " Researches in Physical Geology."                      9
referrible to the same cause as those of Flintshire and Derby
shire, Mr. Hopkins has sought for some other mode of ob
taining fissures in which they might be formed ; and he thinks
that such may l>e found in the structural joints of the granite
and slate produced since the elevatory injection of the granite.
But before admitting this, let us inquire whether such a for
mation in joints would be analogous to the metalliferous veins
of Cornwall. Existing joints removed from atmospheric
agency are merely linear*, whilst the veins are of all dimen
sions from a line to even thirty feet in thickness. How few
joints comparatively have veins ; and how frequently both the
rock and vein possess structural joints in common ! Again,
what proof is there that the Cornish slate was not constituted
like all other solid rocks which we now find endowed with
joints, whether horizontal or inclined? Even Mr. Hopkins
admits that these joints have arisen from molecular action,
and are consequently independent of the origin or the posi
tion of the unconsolidated rock.
    Before concluding I embrace this opportunity, as imme
 diately connected with the foregoing subject, to notice a pas
sage in Mr. Lyell's address to the Geological Society con
cerning my comments on Professor Sedgwick's paper on the
structure of rocks. He observes that I consider certain pas
sages in this paper inconsistent with each other, and he con
fesses that at first they struck him in the same light, but that
 the Professor has explained the apparent inconsistency. Now
 the tendency of this remark of the President of the Geologi
 cal Society is to imply that I am equally mistaken, and though
 this is only one of many points which I have discussed, yet all
 may fall under the same imputation. The haste consequent on
 preparing for an annual meeting may account for the oversight,
 but the fact is, that the Professor's reply to Mr. Lyell is no
 explanation, but merely a repetition of the statement which is
 as clearly expressed in the paper itself, and which I have en
 deavoured to show cannot be maintained. This being so,
 and the examples brought forward by the President being
 also opposed to the Professor's hypothesis, perhaps he may
 be induced to give the case a more careful consideration.
    * Since writing the above I have learnt that Mr. Robert Were Fox has
 advanced a new opinion concerning the formation of veins—on the sup
 position of a gradual contraction of the mass producing a progressive en
 largement of joints.
     Tliird Series. Vol.9. No. 51. July 1836.                 C

                             [   io   ]
 III. Remarks on Microscopic Chemistry. By the Rev. Edward
                       Craig, M.A., F.R.S.E.*
 TT has been suggested to me that a short notice of some
 -¦¦ modes which I have adopted for examining under the mi
 croscope the phsenomena attendant on chemical action, might
 tend in some degree to facilitate the researches of other and
 abler men in this department of inquiry. Not that the subject
 can be regarded as altogether new : after the lengthened and
 accurate observations of Leeuwenhoeck, Hooke, and others,
 on minute substances, it is impossible that the particular point
to which my attention has been turned can altogether have
 escaped notice ; yet the microscopic investigation of chemical
 agents in a state of reaction has certainly not occupied atten
 tion as much as it seems to merit.
    M. Raspail published recently in Paris, a work which he
entitles Nouvel Systeme de Chimie organique, fonde sur des
methodes nouvelles d! Observation. I have met with this work
since the origination of my own modes of observation ; and
it fully justifies the idea, that notwithstanding the long time
that the microscope has been in use, it has never been effec
tively applied to the object in consideration.
    M. RaspaiPs work is a detailed account of the examination
oforganic structures ; and the mode of observation for this pur
pose on which he lays the most stress, as having a claim to
novelty, is the microscopic investigation of the visible effect
produced on such structures by chemical agents. " I carry,"
he says, " the laboratory of the chemist on to the port-objects
of the microscope." His very elaborate and valuable treatise
closes with a note to the appendix, vindicating the novelty and
originality of his modes of observation.
    My own observations, conducted by one so much a novice
in matters of scientific inquiry, are in themselves necessarily
unimportant; they have, however, been carried on inde
pendently of any knowledge of M. Raspail's work; and they
have a different object, in as much as M. Raspail confined
himself to means for observing a particular class of phaeno-
mena. The particular object to which my attention was turned
was the adoption of arrangements by which chemical action
generally in the minutest visible quantities of substances might
be examined.
    Some months ago I was led by the statement of Dr. Brown,
the eminent scientific botanist, to examine the motion of small
molecules of matter floating in water, and excluded from the
   • Read before the Royal Society of Edinburgh in December 1834; and
now communicated by the Author.

    The Rev. E. Craig's Remarks on Microscopic Chemistry. 1 1
pressure of the atmosphere : this suggested a further inspec
tion into the form and character of the smallest discoverable
particles of any pure chemical precipitates, many of which I
found to be circular in the form of their molecular particles.
From this the step was made naturally and almost necessarily
to the observation of chemical action. The plan adopted for
placing very small particles of matter in a floating state of thin
film under the microscope, presented also an ample means
for submitting to equally accurate scrutiny equally small por
tions of substances in a state of reaction : a few sentences will
detail the plan. The pbaenomena may in a few cases be de
scribed, and then the interminable field of such inquiry will
be fully open to any one who delights in the novelty of new
modes of scientific research. The veriest tyro and the most
advanced chemist will be alike interested in the wonders that
open to his view.
    The microscope which I use was made by Chevallier of
Paris, and is peculiarly well adapted for the purpose. The
port-object is a broad brass tablet perforated in the middle to
receive reflected light from below, and fitted also with a
powerful convex lens to throw light from above. It is steady
and firm, which is very desirable. The whole additional ap
paratus necessary is a number of small plates of thin and
very flat glass, filed at the edges to prevent them from cutting
the finger, and a few glass rods with small rounded ends
for taking up a drop of liquid. The glasses should be free
from flaws and fitted to lie closely with even pressure upon
one another.
    When I wish to examine the action of two substances I lay
 a plate of glass on the port-object, and put on it a very mi
nute portion of one substance ; I adjust this to the focus of
the lens in use, and ascertain the form and character of the
 substance in a quiescent state. I then lengthen the distance
 of the object-glass from the object a little to prepare for the
 subsequent observation ; for I find that in the use of high-
 powered lenses the introduction of a second plate of glass al
 ters the focus : and this must be provided for, as one instant
 lost, after the two chemical agents are in contact, is of im
 portance. I then draw the glass a little aside, and holding in
 my hand another plate of glass, I put on it the other sub
 stance, say a drop of acid. I spread both to an equal extent
 on their respective glasses, and then quietly and carefully
 turning down the one upon the other, I push them gently
 forward, by the application of a fine point to the edge of the
 lower glass only, to their proper place on the port-object.
  The upper glass should never be touched after it is turned

12 The Rev. E. Craig's Remarks on Microscopic Chemistry.
down, as it will disturb the action. It should therefore be
somewhat smaller in dimension then the lower glass, to di
minish the risk of its being moved accidentally. The pres
sure of the one glass upon the other spreads the whole com
pound into one nearly uniform film upon one level, and con
sequently the whole action going on may be examined by
gently moving the glass in different directions.
   The few experiments which I describe are those of com
binations and decompositions with respect to which the results
are universally known. They are detailed, therefore, only
to exemplify the very great facility with which the most mi
nute phenomena attending chemical action can be seen by
means of the apparatus described, and which are lost sight of
in operating with larger quantities, in the retort or the test-
tube.
   For instance : put on the lower glass a very small portion
of carbonate of copper, and on the upper glass a drop of ni
tric acid, and bring them together. The carbonic acid is
seen to evolve in beautiful globules with more or less violence,
which gradually merge into each other: the round particles of
the carbonate gradually disappear as the solution of the ni
trate of copper is formed. A few massy crystals of a deep blue
colour appear amongst the remains of the carbonate, whilst in
the clear solution multitudes of small rhombic tabular crystals
are deposited in all their possible varieties of proportion.
Raise the upper glass gently and add a drop of ammonia;
the crystals of the nitrate instantly dissolve and disappear.
The nitrate of ammonia is spread over the glass in a great
variety of forms, and this is interspersed with groups of prisms
of the deep violet- coloured ammoniuret of copper.
   The phsenomena attendant on the production of the chloro-
chromic acid are equally beautiful. The action of the sulphuric
acid on the chloride of sodium for the elimination of the mu
riatic acid is at first very violent. The whole field becomes
turbid with green and red particles rushing onward in different
currents. At length it begins to clear. Often from one brighter
spot a series of globules begin to arise, increase, and rush for
ward in one continued course, attended on each side by a mul
titude of small drops of the chloro-chromic acid ; and finally,
as the action subsides, a field of clear amber-coloured liquid
appears filled with varied crystals of sulphate of soda and sul
phate of potash, sprinkled irregularly with the blood-red
drops of the acid, and occasionally mixed with cubes of the
chloride of sodium and cubes of the bichromate of potash that
yet remain undecomposed.
   On bringing together the ferrocyanate of potash and sul

   The Rev. E. Craig's Remarks on Microscopic Chemistry. 1 3
phate of iron, the process of crystallization is very distinctly
observed. Sulphate of potash in solution is at first formed, in
which the small particles of the deep Prussian blue float.
The course of these coloured particles floating in the colour
less fluid exhibits the currents that run in it, and soon die
crystallization of the sulphate of potash commences in a va
riety of characteristic forms, the particles of the pigment indi
cating the flowing of the tide in which they float, as the solu
tion gradually forms itself into masses of crystallization along
the line.
   One of the most remarkable changes in the character of
crystallization is seen if sulphuric acid be added to carbonate
of copper : crystals speedily appear in the form of six-sided
tabular prisms. Add a little ammonia; the form of crystalliza
tion is changed entirely to long rectangular prisms with the
angles replaced. Add a little more ammonia and the form
changes to several varieties of the rhombic octohedron : a little
nitric acid restores again the form of the rectangular prism.
And in all these successive changes it is not that a few crystals
of another form have been superadded, but each time the me
tamorphosis is seen to take place in the whole mass.
    The microscopic history of iodine in the exhibition to it of
a variety of agents is most interesting. Its effect as a colour
ing matter on the oval molecules of starch is very pretty. It
is equally curious to see the application of a portion of nitric
 acid swell those coloured globules from their centre till they
 are torn by the internal force and dissipated. If solution of
iodine be added to sulphate of soda in solution, the result is
 very beautiful. The alcohol takes up a portion of the water
 from the sulphate of soda, which consequently crystallizes in
 long prisms. The iodine deprived of the alcohol appears in
 cherry-red drops, and in dark rhombic metallic-looking cry
 stals.
    It would be easy to multiply instances, but these must suf
 fice as a specimen of the interesting objects that await experi
 ment as the reward of the observer. The range of experi
 ments may easily be extended to those processes which require
 heat : longer glasses must then be used which reach beyond
 the edge of the port-object, and a small spirit-lamp applied
 under the projecting portion of the glass will give any degree
    heat required
 of Some           results for
           curious either         have been or
                            alsoevaporation    boiling.on the appli
                                            observed
 cation of the galvanic pile to chemical substances under the
 microscope. For this purpose it is desirable to use a lens of
 somewhat smaller power. The observation cannot well be
 carried on except on a single plate of glass ; and the lens used,

 14 The Rev. E. Craig's Remarks on Microscopic Chemistry.
therefore, should be of such a focus as to allow of its being
above the reach of the vapours that arise, and that would
otherwise condense on it and obstruct the view. Some little
tact and experience also are required to manage the wires of
the battery, because under the compound microscope they
appear reversed. I will give an instance or two. When the
copper wires were put into a drop of ammonia, a very beauti
ful greenish foliated or dendritic structure started from the
positive pole, and rushed towards the other. On withdrawing
the wires a little from each other, a new growth arose out of
the extremity of the previous formation, and generally on
coming within a certain distance of the negative pole it as
sumed the metallic lustre.
   Galvanic action has been long known to coagulate albu
men : on examining this action under the microscope this
thicker or white portion showed itself to be a vesicular struc
ture which shrunk up in folds separated in several directions
by stronger integuments; while the thin liquid which pre
viously filled them, and gave them in a state of distension com
plete transparency, spread over the glass dividing and drying
in compartments like those of a dragon-fly's wing.
   These statements will be ample to put any one in posses
sion of the mode for making similar observations. Further
illustrations are unnecessary. The object of this notice is
merely to describe a simple arrangement for approaching
more nearly the pha:nomena of chemical action. The micro
scope will thus open to the chemist new and interminable
fields of fascinating inquiry, which cannot but have their use ;
for although in this mode of operating the several substances
must meet each other in unweighed and indefinite propor
tions, yet the plan seems to hold out some advantages, at
least to facilitate the incipient processes of analysis, and to
serve as a guide to subsequent experiments of a more mea
sured kind and on a larger scale. If the observation of re
sults is recorded and classified, they must at last lead the
practised observer to more than conjectural conclusions as to
what he sees ; the visible effects under the action of certain
agents will become daily more accurately known, till at length
the microscopic examination of any substance will go very
far to establish its real character.
   N.B. Since this paper was read its author has applied a
micrometer to the microscope for measuring the angles of the
minutest crystals that appear on the field. A short notice of
this appeared in Jameson's Journal.

                              C   15    ]
  IV. Notice of the Harvest-Bug.          By A Correspondent.*
                   Acarus autumnalis, Shaw.
                   Acarus Ricinus, Latreille.
 I F powers of annoyance form a claim to attention, there is
-* none superior to that possessed by the minute insect known
in England as the Harvest-bug, and on the Continent, where,
according to Latreille's personal experience, its effects are
equally serious, as la Louvette.
    No good description of it is however extant, and the en
graving in Shaw's work bears a very slight resemblance to
nature, owing doubtless to the extreme difficulty of obtaining
specimens of an insect so nearly invisible to the naked eye.
Having been so fortunate as to procure several uninjured
harvest-bugs, and having
submitted them to a high
ly powerful magnifier, so
as to make a drawing,
which underwent many
comparisons with the liv
ing subject, and is as cor
rect as it is possible to
render it, an engraving
from it is annexed, for
the examination of the
curious, together with
such particulars as differ
from the account of esta
blished authorities ;—not
from any wish to cavil or
find fault with those who
have done so much for entomology, but with an anxiety,
laudable it is hoped, to add (without punning) a mite to
truth.
    The Acarus in question then is a hexapod, of a brilliant
scarlet colour : its motion is very swift, and the only way in
which the observer can satisfactorily contemplate it is by im
mersing the insect in a drop of water, in which it swims vi-
gorouslyf, and from which it cannot escape.
    The body is oval, sprinkled with stiff hairs, and sixteen very
strong ones fringe the hinder part ; the legs are horny, like
those of a beetle : each foot is furnished with two, and some-
  * Communicated by Thomas John Husscy, D.D., Rector of Hayes, Kent,
  f One specimen was still swimming after a lapse of seven hours.

 16                    Notice of the Harvest-Dug.
 times three, strong claws, with which it works so rapidly,
 mole-fashion, that it inserts itself beneath the skin in a few
 seconds. Shaw states that it " adheres to the skin by means
 of two strong hooks attached to the fore part of the body,"
 but these I have never been able to see : he appears not to
 have been aware of its burying itself beneath the surface, in
 which case it is no longer possible to extract it; a small tu
 mour then forms, the itching of which is intolerable. Patience,
 the panacea universally recommended, is as universally neg
 lected. Serious consequences often arise in an irritable. consti
 tution, from broken sleep, and the skin being torn in frantic
 endeavours to procure relief. External applications are of
 little avail, the creature being safe beneath the skin ; sal vola
 tile, seldom had recourse to till the nails have failed, will
 change the itching to a pungent smart. As however is the
 case with all similar scourges, there are individuals perfectly
 exempt from its attacks.                                   • . . ¦ i
5 j Shaw, Latreille, and White of Selborne all state that this
 insect is located upon corn, kidney-beans, and various other
 vegetables ; this they probably adopted from each other, the
 original foundation being popular belief: but having been as
 sured in the course of my researches on this subject that*
 Daddy Long-legs (Phalangiutn Opilio) was the father of
 Harvest-bugs, and the common red garden spider their pro
 lific mother, and having heard a regular war determined
 against them as the origin of all the suffering, I may be ex
 cused for doubting the value of popular opinions; and let us
 hope that these absurd fancies of persons who ought to have
 known better will vanish before the light shed by the ¦popular
 study of entomology.
     The evidence then appears strongly to favour the opinion
 that the habitat of the harvest-bug is upon, or close t<>, the
 ground. White says that " upon the chalk-downs the war-
 rener's nets are sometimes coloured red by thenjf ;" and in
 credible as this may appear to one engaged in contemplating
 a single specimen, there is no doubt of the truth of the state
 ment, even though it had rested on meatier authority, for the
 hem of many a Hampshire petticoat has been similarly dis
 coloured, the wearer of which by throwing it off in time pre
  vented the ravages of the insect being extended to the upper
  part of the person. Experienced sportsmen well know that
     * Probably from his being frequently covered with another parasitic
 Acarus, Actum ocypele.
   . f Chalk is the favourite soil ; and perhaps their abounding in corn-fields
 is owing to the earth being *o dry among the ripe straw, aud so warm
 also.

            Dr. H. Johnson on the Divergence ofPlants.                 17
on the moors they escape the enemy by wearing a close boot.
After walking some time upon gravel, far removed from any
plant whatever, the stocking will be found sprinkled with
them, when, running rapidly upwards, they ensconce them
selves wherever the dress is most closely confined to the body.
Animals, particularly horses, suffer dreadfully from this cause,
the tender skin of the lips and nose being frequently covered
with nests of harvest-bugs, which have fixed there during
grazing, but which probably cannot bury themselves as in the
human being from the toughness of the skin. The cat's
whiskers have a scarlet spot at the insertion of each hair *, and
she bites her paws all day, yet does not relinquish her fa
vourite bask on the warm gravel, which probably is the cause
of her annoyance, because the rabbits, shut up in a building,
though fed even on the freshest of kidney-bean plants, are
not aware that harvest-bugs exist
     If it be asked where was the embryo harvest-bug,—where
was the insect whose life, beginning as it would seem with the
greatest heat of summer, ended with the first cold of autumn,—
during the intermediate nine months ? we may reply, Probably
buried in embryo in the soil. But research would afford no
 information on this subject, from the minuteness of the insect.
    Rectory, Hayes, Kent, March 1836.                        A. M. H.
 V. On the Divergence of Plants, and its Analogy to the Irri
          tability of Animals. By Henry Johnson, M.D.
    To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
        Gentlemen,
 ¥N No. 33 f of your valuable Journal you have done me
 -*¦ the favour to insert a short communication on the subject
 of a newly discovered property in plants supposed to be ana
 logous to animal irritability, and which communication has
 been honoured by the notice of two "friends," whose in
 quiries and remarks are appended to my paper.
     I take great shame to myself for having allowed a whole
 year to elapse without any attention having been paid, or at
 least any answer returned, to these very valuable and obli
 ging notices, for which, whilst I apologise for my apparent
 neglect of them, allow me to offer through you my best thanks
 to your ingenious and able correspondents.
    * They probably do not breed in the animal skin any more than in that
 of their superior prey, because though visible in large groups, each indi
 vidual seems equally mature.
    t Lond. & Edinb. Phil. Mag., March 1835, vol. vi. p. 164.
  Third Series. Vol.9. No. 51. July 1836.                       D

 18 Mr. Woolhouse on the Theory of Vanishing Fractions,
    At the foot of page 1 66, your botanical friend asks me if
 I have ever tried the effect of division on Dirca palustris, or
 on any plant of the natural order Thymeleae.
    The Dirca palustris is an exotic, and, I believe, a rare plant,
 which never having seen, I have of course not had an oppor
 tunity of making it the subject of experiment.
    Belonging to the natural order Thymelecc there is one
 genus only found in England*, the genus Daphne, and of this
 1 have, during the present month, had an opportunity of ex
 amining two species, the Daphne Mezereum and Daph. Lau-
 reola. On dividing the recent green shoot of this year I found
 it in both decidedly divergent. They form, therefore, no ex
 ception to anything which I have stated in my paper.
    At page 169, your medical friend remarks, that the phse-
 nomena described in my paper most closely resemble the con
 traction of the ligamentum nuchse by which the head of ani
 mals is retracted after death, and which Bichat attributes to
 vital contractility.
    Not having, at present, access to the works of Bichat, I am
 unable to learn the evidence on which he grounds this opinion.
 Whether true or not, however, I do not see that it affords
 an objection to anything which I have advanced.
    If this contraction of the ligamentum nuchse be an instance
 of vital contractility, and susceptible of excitation by stimuli,
 it would appear to me to be identical with the irritability or
 contractility of muscular parts, and analogous to divergence :
 and therefore not a " distinct property."
    If stimulants do not excite contraction in the ligamentum
 nucha;, the property, whether vital or not, on which its mo
 tions depend, differs in this essential particular from diver
gence.                      I am, Gentlemen, yours, &c.
   Shrewsbury, May 28, 1836.              HENRY JoHNSON, M.D.
!v,fc" On the Theory of Vanishing Fractions, in Reply to Pro
         fessor Young. By Mr. W. S. B. WooLHousE.f
      rHEN Professor Young's first letter on the theory of
        vanishing fractions made its appearance in the April
 Number of the Philosophical Magazine, the anomalous ob
jections that were urged against my general principles with
 such apparent confidence were accounted for in my mind by
ithfel!belief that he had been carried away by a partial and
"flery imperfect perusal of the contents of my essay. Professor
             * Gray's Natural Arrangement of British Plants,
             t Communicated by the Author.

                      in reply to Professor Young.             19
 Young seemed to imagine that I had contented myself with
 testing the accuracy of those principles by particular examples,
and appeared to be unacquanted with the circumstance that
 my especial object in writing that essay was to show the im
propriety of multiplying and dividing by zero in analytical
reasonings, and to establish the applications of the differential
and integral calculus in a more consistent and logical manner.
 But having already given in my former communication what
I consider to be a complete demonstration of the general
principles alluded to, it is indeed strange that Prof. Young, in
his present letter, should have followed the same course of
objection and evinced the same inattention to my repeated
denial of the logical accuracy of processes in which multipli
cations or divisions by zero are concerned. At page 396,
I have distinctly proved the fallacy of such processes by show
ing that in the one case we may pass from a condition that
determines a particular value to another of an indeterminate
character, and that in the other we may pass from a condition
that is satisfied by any value to another that would limit the
unknown to a particular value. But even after this Professor
Young proceeds entirely on the incorrect supposition that not
only those operations, but that analytical processes under all
circumstances must necessarily lead to justifiable results; and
this he does without condescending to adduce a single argu
ment in favour of so objectionable a supposition.
    Prof. Young writes rather largely in reply to my observa
tions on what I designated in my former letter " the theory
of analytical results," and endeavours to make out that I have
fallen into a mistake. I introduce the subject by first ob
serving, that " I never before beard of the incompetency of
an analytical result to afford any positive information that an
investigation could admit of." The mathematical readers of
the Journal who have read the paragraph containing my en
tire explanation of this point, will readily perceive that Prof.
Young through thewholeof his observations has misinterpreted
the meaning of this isolated sentence, which I think he would
not have done had he taken " a more enlarged view" of the
analysis. As a matter of course, I allude to analytical results
arrived at by a process of general reasoning, not a solution
obtained by imperfect means. In every analytical investiga
tion I consider that the generality of the process requires that
each step shall hold good both directly and conversely, and
consequently that each successive equation shall be fulfilled
by neither more nor less than the several roots that are con
tained in the equations that have preceded. As an instance,
suppose an equation with all its terms collected to one side

 20 Mr. Woolhouse on the Theory of Vanishitig Fractions,
 should resolve itself into two factors, and become of the form
           \xl ^i*fe)'=i ';C;r*:,^ v.;;
 Its complete solution will evidently comprehend the whoLe
 of the solutions that can be obtained from the two separate
 equations ,<r. ,;l ,      •                        I        I p.-,,.,
                       , - F'(*»y) *»<<>.       <0)     ¦¦/      I- lJ
 each of which will determine a separate sjstem of values. It
 is hence clear that if we had to resolve only one of the two
 equations (f3), (y), that we should arrive at only a part of the
 solutions to (a), and therefore that neither 0) nor (y), sepa
rately considered, can be regarded as a complete deduction
from the preceding equation. This principle, which applies
to kny' number of factors, is so well understood by mathe
maticians that it would be a waste of time to discuss it at
length. When an investigation is conducted in the general
manner, just described, it is obvious that the final result
must furnish every value capable of satisfying the original
analytical conditions. Prof. Young must have overlooked al
together the general nature of complete analytical processes
when he mentions " singular solutions" that occur in the in
tegration of differential equations, as a case in opposition to
my remarks. He must be aware that a direct process of
integration of a differential equation, that admits of a singular
solution, will always determine that solution at the same time
with the general solution. The operation will lead to an equa
tion consisting of two factors, similar to the foregoing equation '
 (at), and when decomposed into the two separate equations
 (j5), (y), the one will give the general while the other will give
the singular solution, and both solutions taken together will
form the complete solution. I should have thought that Pro
fessor Young would have better examined the matter before
he favoured me with the gratuitous compliment that I had
done myself a " wanton injustice." We might similarly refer
to the case of a general solution of a functional equation,
usually obtained by the assumption of a particular solution :
with very few exceptions the general solution so elicited does
not comprehend all the forms, but only represents one of an
infinite variety of classes of solutions that will satisfy the pro
posed equation
perfect              andwould,
           result, ; ft   it cannot,
                                however,
                                     therefore,  be recognised
                                           be wrong   to adduceasina •
stances of any kind in which the results are arrived at by in
direct and defective means; for in that case they would no
more be the results of investigation than the mere anticipa
tion of a value by trial in the original equations : we cannot

                 v       in reply to Professor Young.                     21
 be assured in such cases that we obtain a complete solu
tion as we necessarily do in perfect processes. The process
in the ellipse question is founded on general reasoning as
fa? as the vanishing fractions, and those fractions ought there
fore to supply all the values that can satisfy the original equa
 tions. I still hold myself justified, therefore, in maintaining
that Prof. Young not only involves himself in a " palpable
inconsistency," but that he also takes an imperfect view of the
"theory of analytical results," when he denies die competency,
of the results of the ellipse question to furnish die requisite
values, and at the same time agrees to receive them from the,
original analytical conditions.
    With respect to the quadratic equation, advanced at page
519, the common process of resolution is perfecdy general
tainingit either
when                the positive
          is considered      that the
                                    or radical
                                       the negative       capable
                                                surd issign.            sus^
                                                                 Theof roots
4y §, presented by the involved quadratic, rigidly satisfy the
original analytical condition; for the radical term may, aiialy-x
tieally, be interpreted either as being + or — , and so far as
the analysis is concerned it is perfectly immaterial which in
terpretation is adopted. Thus the result 4 satisfies the con
dition 2x -)- */ x*— 7 = 5 with the same analytical strictness
that it satisfies 2x— </ x* — 7 = 5; the only difference is that
in the one case the + and in the other the — interpretation
of the root is not complied with. It may be observed, how
ever, that the nature of a problem originating such an equa
tion may exclude all — interpretations, and therefore limit the
calculation
sitive        to the +obtained
       information,         value offrom
                                      the root.
                                            the analytical     case the
                                                  In such aresult,      po- .
                                                                     would
be that the numbers 4, § furnish every solution to the original
tion
analytical
the nature
roots  andnot
     ; as    the
             condition;
              ofsatisfying
                   the problem,
                   final     the
                          conclusion
                              the rejective
                                  implied
                                     would
                                       would information,
                                             bebethe
                                                   that
                                            condition exclusion
                                                        of
                                                         the-f
                                                            suggested
                                                             problem
                                                                   of both
                                                                        did
                                                                         by ,
                                                                interpreta-
not admit of any solution whatever. How my ingenious
friend can for a moment imagine that this example, or indeed
that any of the " cluster of instances" contained in Mr. Hor-,,
ner's paper, is either consistent with his view of the matter or
inconsistent with mine is to me very extraordinary. , For, my
part 1 am convinced that any impartial person who gives the
slightest attention to the case will be led to an exactly oppo
site conclusion.
   I have before observed that Prof. Young throughout the
whole of his letter goes entirely on the wrong hypothesis that
analytical processes under all circumstances must necessarily
lead to justifiable results. I beg again to advance the con

  22    Mr. Woolhouse on the Theory of Vanishing Fractions,
  trary doctrine, that a result can be received as general only so
  far as the reasoning employed in deducing it is fairly applica
  ble to the particular instances. In the present case consider
  the general equations given in my former letter, viz.
                     0 = (x— a)' 9 x— y (x— of $x ... (p)
                     0 =3 (x— a)'-13 fix— y$ x                     (?)
  If we proceed from the first of these equations to the second,
  we divide by the factor (x— a)*5 ; and if we proceed from the
  second equation to the first, we multiply by the same factor.
  The logical accuracy of either of these processes must neces
  sarily fail for the particular case in which x is equal to a, as
  I have shown in my former letter ; for in this case the first
  equation is evidently satisfied bj' any value of y while the lat
  ter limits it to a particular value. The complete solution of
  the first equation (p) must comprehend both systems of values
  obtained from the two separate equations indicated by the two
 factors, viz.
                        0 — x—a                                (r)
                        0 = (x— a)"-*3 fix— y <p x ... (s)
 and as the former does not contain the quantity y, that vari
 able may obviously possess any value whatever in the first
 system when x fulfills the equation o = x— a. The system of
 values given by the condition (s) will determine the curve
  M N described at page 28 of my essay, while the former sy
 stem will determine the indefinite straight line R S; and both
 the curve and straight line will complete the geometrical re
 presentation of the equation (p), while the curve alone is the
 representation of (q). It would be just as improper to reject
 the system of values furnished by (r) in the present case, as it
 would be to reject the system of values furnished by the equa
 tion ((3) in page 20, in resolving the equation (a). If in the
 equation (a) we were to adopt the hypothesis that the quan
 tities must not fulfill the condition ((3), the whole of the solu
 tions would be comprised in the result obtained by the ge
 neral resolution of (v) ; but if this hypothesis were removed
 the result so obtained would evidently fail to represent all the
 solutions to the proposed equation. In the same manner, if
 in the equation (p ) we were to adopt the supposition that the
condition (r) must not be satisfied, or that x must not = a,
the whole of the solutions would be comprised in the resolu
tion of (s) alone; but the result would necessarily fail to be
complete when the supposition becomes removed*.
   • The celebrated Bishop Berkeley, in hi» able"work entitled the " Analyst,"
has, with singularly acute and convincing arguments, amply elucidated
this fallacy of shifting the hypothesis.

                 in reply to Professor Young.                  23
    In speaking of dividing by zero, it must be understood that
in deducing the equation
                    i-£=%£                      W
from (p), we do not in this case actually perform the opera
tion of division so long as the fraction is not reduced to
lower dimensions. The equation (t) in its present shape is
synonymous with the condition (p), being merely the same
condition differently written down. I have had occasion to
say before that the mere placing of a quantity in the denomi
nator of a fraction cannot be strictly recognised as an actual
performance of division.
    From the foregoing observations the effect of the fault com
mitted in dividing by zero is very evident. We proceed from
the condition (p), which contains an infinite number of values
of y, to another that contains only one value. The fault is
similar to that which would be committed in dividing the
equation (a) in page 20, by F {x,y), and then taking only the
resulting equation (y) for the solution of (a), which would
necessarily exclude from the results the solutions contained
in (j3). But the error in the present case would be greater as
we should exclude from the result the infinite number of
values contained in (r). If we were permitted to multiply and
divide by zero we should be at liberty to play many curious
tricks with analytical equations. As an instance, if any equa
 tion were proposed for solution, of the form <f>     y) = 0, we
might first multiply by any arbitrary function 9 {x,y) which
 would give Q(x,y) 6 {x,y) =0; we might next divide by
 41 [x>y\ which would give 9 (x,y) = 0, that is, we should be
 able to make any function whatever of the same quantities
 equal to zero, which is a manifest absurdity.
     On the whole we may remark, that when the value of a
 symbol y which ought to be determinate comes out in a va
 nishing fraction (<), the fault alluded to has occurred in
 the process. The symbol y and its corresponding vanishing
 fraction as they appear in the equation ( t ) cannot in this case
 represent the solution of the original condition, but a solution
 of the equation which is antecedent to the final result and
 which possesses an infinite number of values; and consequently
 the symbol given in the final result is not strictly synonymous
  with the same symbol as it appears in the original equation.
  It is therefore vain to refer to the original condition for the
  interpretation of this vanishing fraction, for in that case we
  interpret the root of the first condition, whereas the fraction

  24    Mr.Woolhouse on the Theory of Vanishing Fractions,
  represents the root of another condition that has been impro
  perly derived from it.
      At page 516, Prof. Young states that I have only discussed
  the converse of the Proposition III. in my former letter. This,
  however, is not the case, for in that letter I distinctly go into
  the demonstration of each of the four propositions extracted
  from my essay. Indeed, immediately after, at page 518, Pro
  fessor Young himself admits that I have done so ! ! In allusion
  to my having rejected as illogical the processes in which mul
  tiplications or divisions by zero occur, he there states that " if
  only results obtained under such restrictions as these are ad
  mitted to come under the second and third principles, then the
 generality of those principles is, of course, at once given up,
  and my friend and I are thus far agreed." Now these re
  strictions are no more than the necessary exclusion of results
  obtained by imperfect and fallacious reasoning, nnd cannot
  fairly be considered as limitations to the generality of the pro
 positions. It is now distinctly avowed by Prof. Young that
  the generality of the propositions objected to is established
  for all cases in which these restrictions are attended to, or in
  which the fallacious reasoning does not enter. Proceeding
 on this admission, it necessarily follows that in every case in
 which the final result fails to conform with the propositions
 the fallacious reasoning must have been introduced some
 where in the process of solution. In every possible case, there
 fore, of nonconformity with the Proposition II. or III. we ob
 serve that the fact itself is a sure indication that a multiplica
 tion or division by zero has occurred in the investigation, and
 therefore that the case must be rejected at once as not offering
 a legitimate result. It^would be utterly useless, therefore, to
 enter into Prof. Young's observations at page 517, on the ex
 pression for the radius of curvature*, since neither this nor
 any other particular example of nonconformity can have the
 least weight unless my friend can show the operations of mul
 tiplying and dividing by zero to be strictly logical.
     Prof. Young is quite out in supposing that the restrictions
 to correct reasoning will limit the application of the principles
    • I would, however, here remark that the conditions P = 0, Q = 0,
will not neceuarily cause a value of d r to be zero, as Prof. Young alleges.
Such a doctrine would imply that any vanishing fraction j=r   P would neces-
sarily attain its greatest or least value when its numerator and denominator
both vanish, which is not the case. The conditions P = 0, Q = 0 will
not, therefore, determine the points of higher contact referred to by Pro
fessor Young. In his example of the parabola the determination of the
true result is purely accidental.

                         in reply to Prof. Young.                        25
 to "comparative]}' few cases." On the contrary, the false
 cases very seldom occur, and they can generally be corrected
 by a slight reference to Proposition IV. This is, in fact, the
 very way in which I dismiss Prof. Young's query respecting
 the sum of the geometrical series. I refer to Proposition IV.
 not to interpret but to correct the resulting expression for the
 particular case in which the reasoning has failed. Had the
 expression been a just deduction, Proposition III. would have
 applied to it, and the sum in that case would have been arvy-
 iKins. How Professor Young could have misconceived me
  I am quite at a loss to explain, as I have distinctly pointed
 out the fault that occurs in deducing it.
     In Prof. Young's first letter, at page 298, he states that
  "when we are operating with equations of the first degree
  containing several unknown quantities, the symbol ° is, in
  fact, the very form which the result usually takes when the pro
  sured that
  posed   equations
               Prof. involve
                      Young, incompatible
                                 after a little reflection,        feelven-
                                                conditions."will Inot   as-r
, mre again to assert the truth of this hasty and erroneous state
  ment. At page 520, however, he has attempted to refute my
  observation that ^ can never be the symbol of absurdity in
  the result of an investigation logically conducted ; but it will
  be seen that my friend's remarks are founded on the same
  erroneous hypothesis, that the result is justifiable in whatever
  way it may have been deduced. When it is the result of a
  logical process it is obvious, since the antecedent equation is
  satisfied by any value, that all the preceding equations, and
  consequently the original condition, must likewise be satisfied
  by any value. The symbol ^ , whenever it is the result of a
  strict investigation, may therefore possess any value, and can
  not possibly be the " symbol of absurdity," however much
   Prof. Young may be " surprised" at the statement.
      In thus candidly replying to my friend's letter, I am dis
  posed to give him every credit for his own opinions. I think,
   however, that he ought not, for his own sake, to have pro
   ceeded to such a length with his remarks, without having, in
   the first place, made some attempt in support of his objec
   tionable premises. Should Prof. Young still entertain the same
   opinions I shall make no further attempt to change them,
   though I may be allowed to maintain my own. It will not be
   necessary to enter into any further details at present, as I have
   doubtless said quite sufficient for the mathematical readers
       Third
   of the     Scries. At
          Journal.     Vol.
                         least
                             9. INo.
                                  am 51.   satisfied
                                      wellJuly                 E shown,
                                                1836.with having

2G                Prof. Graham on the Water of
by concise, general, and undeniable reasoning, that my friend
might have advantageously spared himself the trouble of
offering his numerous observations, had he paid more regard
to the logical strictness of his assumptions.
   London, June 4, 1836.
VII. On the Water of Crystallization of Soda-alum.             By
    Thomas Graham, F.R.S.E., Professor ofChemistry in the
    Andersonian University, Glasgow; Corr. Member of the
    Royal Academy of Sciences of Berlin, fyc*
r I ""HE double sulphate of alumina and soda crystallizes in
  *• the form of the regular octohedron, like the sulphate of
alumina and potash, while the former salt is supposed to con
 tain twenty-six atoms of water, and the latter contains only
twenty-four. The coincidence in form of these two salts is
 most interesting, for in no other corresponding salts of potash
and soda has such a relation been observed from which any
inference in respect to isomorphism could properly be drawn.
 Yet if the soda-salt contains two atoms more of water than the
 potash-salt, the conclusion which follows is, not that soda and
 potash are isomorphous bodies, but that soda plus two atoms
 water is isomorphous with potash, as ammonia plus one atom
 of water is isomorphous with the same body. But the last
 analogy is superficial and likely to prove illusory.
    The exact determination of the water of crystallization of a
 salt is often a problem of no inconsiderable difficulty, as many
precautions must be taken which are by no means obvious.
 To have alumina free from potash or ammonia, it was pre
 cipitated from pure potash-alum by means of carbonate of
 soda. A solution of sulphate of alumina was formed by dis
 solving the precipitated alumina in the proper quantity of sul
 phuric acid, and the requisite proportion of sulphate of soda
 was added. A considerable crop of crystals of soda-alum
 were obtained from the above solution allowed to evaporate
 spontaneously in air.
    Like most very soluble salts the crystals of soda-alum,
 when newly prepared, retain hygrometrically a notable quan
 tity of the saline liquor in which they have been formed. But
 the crystals of this salt cannot be dried easily, as after they
 lose their hygrometric water they are nearly as efflorescent as
 sulphate of soda itself. Before being submitted to analysis
 the crystals had been kept for five months of cold weather in
 a large phial stopt by a cork. Their surfaces remained per-
                    * Communicated by the Author.

                 Crystallization ofSoda-alum.                    27
fectly bright, and not in the slightest degree effloresced ; but
the crystals had lost, from the escape of their hygrometric
water, that extreme and watery clearness which we have in
the crystal newly removed from its mother-liquor. From my
experience in respect to such salts, I had reason to believe
that the crystals of soda-alum were now in a most suitable
condition for analysis.
    Upon a very damp day the crystals were reduced to pow
der and pressed in blotting-paper. A large crystal exposed
to the air at the same time lost nothing. 20*35 grs. of the salt
so prepared were exposed on a sand-bath to a heat, which was
gradually raised so as to effloresce the salt without melting it or
causing vesicular swelling. In eight hours the salt had been
 heated above the melting point of tin, and had lost 8-98 grains.
 It was thereafter heated, in a gradual and cautious manner,
 to low redness by the spirit-lamp, and the loss became 9*65
 grains. By a continued exposure to the same heat for half
 an hour more, the salt lost only one hundredth of a grain ad
 ditional. Supposing it now to have lost all its water, the salt
 will consist of
                                                      Theory of 24
                                                     atoms of water.
 Sulphate of alumina and soda 10-69         100-         100*
 Water                             9-66      90-37         88-9
                                  20-35 J 90-37           188-9
    The calcined salt dissolved slowly but completely in boiling
 water. By precipitation with muriate of barytes it afforded
 21*22 grains sulphate of barytes, equivalent to 7*37 grains
 sulphuric acid. Or the crystallized salt contains 34*73 per
 cent, of sulphuric acid, while the theory of twenty-four atoms
 of water supposes it to contain 34*93 per cent, sulphuric acid.
    It follows from this analysis that soda-alum contains twenty-
  four atoms of water and not twenty-six.
    There is no reason to question the perfect accuracy of the
  analysis of potash-alum by Berzelius, which gives to it like
  wise twenty-four atoms of water. Dried in the manner de
  scribed for soda-alum, I found it to consist of
                                                     Theory of 24
                                                    atoms of water.
     Sulphate of alumina and potash... 100*             100*
     Water                                 84*8          83-4
                                          184-8         183*4
     In such analyses, there is imminent danger of the water
  carrying off a little acid with it, unless it is expelled in the
                                  E2

28     Sir W. R. Hamilton's Tlieorem connected with the
most slow and cautious manner. It is probably from this
cause that the water has come to be overestimated in the case
of the alums. But they stand a low red heat without decom
position, if first made quite anhydrous.
VIII. Second Theorem of Algebraic Elimination, connected
   with the Question of the Possibility of resolving, in Jinitc
    Terms, Equations of the Fifth Degree. By Professor
   Sir William Rowan Hamilton, Astronomer Royal of
   Ireland.
     (In continuation of a Communication in the last volume, p. S38.)
 Theorem II. IF « be eliminated between a proposed equa-
                    tion of the fifth degree,
            *5+A«4+B*8+C/+D«+E = 0                                  (55.)
 and an assumed equation, of the form
                       y = Qx+f(x)                                    (2.)
 in whichf (x) denotes any rational function of x,
             /(*)= * ,             ^               :                  W
                         K'x + K"x -f ...
 and if the constants of this function be such as to reduce the
result of the elimination to the form
                   y + B'y+Ify + E' = 0                              (56.)
 independently of Q: then not only must we have
                       A = 0, C = 0,                                (57.)
so that the proposed equation of the fifth degree must be of
the form
                  ri + Ba3+Dj + E = 0,                              (58.)
but also the function f(x) must be of the form
          f(x) = qx + (xb + Bx' + T>x+E).<t>(x), ...                (59.)
 q being some constant multiplier, and <f> (x) some rational
 function of x, which does not contain the polynome x6 + B x3
 + D x + E as one of the factors of its denominator ; unless
we have either, first,
                              E = 0,                                 (60.)
 or else, secondly,
                            5D = Ba,                                 (61.)
or, as the third and only remaining case of exception,
        5s E4 + 2* B E» (2* 5s Ds- 3* 52 B* D + 3s B4)
               + 24D3(24D--23B2D + B4) = 0                          (62.)

       Question of solving the Equation of the Fifth Degree.       29
     Demonstration.— If we denote by xt x% x3 x4x6 the five roots
 of the proposed equation of the fifth degree, and put, as is
 permitted,
/(*,) = *, + ?*!, /(*a) = K + qx^fiis) = h3 + qx3,\ (Q)
f(x4) = h4 + qx4,f{Xi) = qx5,                                  Jv
 and                       Q + q m Qf,                            (8.)
 the result of the elimination of x between the two equations
 (55.) and (2.) may be denoted thus,
 (y-Q'x.-h,) (y-Q'*,-^) (y-Q?xa-hJ {y-Q! »A-K
                            xiy-QtxJ = 0;                       (10.)
 and if this result is to be of the form (56.), independently of
 Q, and therefore also of Q', we must have the six following
 relations :
            *l+*8+*»+*4 + *6            Q*                      C11-)
      Xj X% #3*T"#a ^3^4         ^5 H~ <£*5 #1 "I" ^'5 &\
  •\- X| X$ -f" X% X^ X§ -{-XgXfr Xj "f" X\         X5 '3 = 0y (13*)
                         hl+h2 + h3 + h4 = 0                    (16.)
      + A2(&c.) + A3 (&c.) + A4 (&c.) = 0                       (63.)
         h1h9(x3+xi + xb) + hl hs (&c.) +A,A4 (&c.)
          + As h3 (&c.) +A2A4 (&c.) + h3 h4 (&c.) = 0,          (64.)
         hikih3 + hlhih4+hlh3h4+h2h3h4= 0;                       (19.)
  of which the two first give
                          A = 0, C = 0,                          (57.)
  and the three last may, by attending to the first and third,
  and by eliminating h4 , be written thus :
           A, (*,*-*„*) + hq (x2*-x4*) +h3 (^s-x44) = 0,         (20.)
          hlixl + hi3xi + h3tx3+(hl + hi + h3)ix4 = 0,           (21.)
           (h + h) (*„+*.)       +       = 0                     (22.)
   Selecting, as we are at liberty to do, the first of the three
   factors of (22.), namely,
                               rt2 + hg = 0,                      (23.)
   and eliminating h3 by this, we reduce the two conditions (20.)
   and (21.) to the two following :
                     h^xf-xtf+h^x'-x*) = 0,                       (24.)
                     h ,*(*,+ x4) + h* (a;a+:r3) = 0,             (25.)
   which give, by elimination of h3 ,
    h^+xJiixt + xMx.-XtT + ixt + XsXxt-Xt)*} =0. (26.)

30    Sir W. R. Hamilton's Theorem connected "with the
And from these equations (of which some occurred in the
investigation of the former theorem, but are now for greater
clearness repeated,) we see that we must have
          A, = by
and therefore,        ht = 0,
                 0, (9.),        h3 = 0,  h4 = 0,           (29.)
            = 7*i> /(*s) =             /(*a) = ?*s>
                     f{x4) = ?*4,/(a;5) = qxp               (45.)
unless we have either
                         xx + x4 = 0                        (65.)
or else
        (*i+*4)          ^V + fo+^s)         ^a)9 = 0>      (30.)
or at least some one of those other relations into which (65.)
and (30.) may be changed, by changing the arrangement of
the roots of the proposed equation of the fifth degree.
   The alternative (65.), combined with (57.), gives evidently
                            E = 0;                          (60.)
but the meaning of the alternative (30.) is a little less easy to
examine, now that we do not suppose the coefficient B to
vanish, as we did in the investigation of the former theorem.
However, the following process is tolerably simple. We may
conceive that xt x2 x3 x4 are roots of a certain biquadratic
equation,
                 x4 +ax* + bx*+ cx +d = 0,                  (66.)
and may express, by means of its coefficients abed, the sym
metric functions of xx x^x3x4 which enter into the develop
ment of the product formed by multiplying together the con
dition (30.), and these two other similar conditions,
     (x^Xg) (ar1-x8)J+(xa + ^4) (Xt-Xt)1 = 0, ... (67.)
     (x, + xs) (x}-xj*+(x3 + x4) (^a-^)' = 0. ...           (68.)
If we put, for abridgement,
                *,8 + *9» + *8»+<r43 = f,                   (69.)
             -a-.arj (xt + xt)— 0:3^(0:3 + x4) = g, ...     (70.)
      -xx xs {x, +x3) -*a x4 {x3 + x4)
      —xlx4(xl + x4)—xix3(xi + x3) = h                      (71.)
           {xix3(xl+x3)+xix4(xi + x4) }
           {x, x4(x, + x4) + xt x3{xt + x3)} = i, ...       (72.)
the condition (68.) will become
                         f+g = 0,                           (73.)

     Question ofsolving the Equation ofthe Fifth Degree.        31
and the product of the two other conditions (67.) and (66.)
will become
                      f*+hf+i = 0,                           (74.)
so that the product of all the three conditions becomes
           f3+ (g + h)f8 + (gh + l)f+gi = 0;                (75.)
and the symmetric functions f, g + h , gh + i, gi, may be
expressed as follows,
             f = — a3 + So6-Se,                              (76.)
         g + h=o6-S<:                                       (77.)
        gh + i = a?c— 4>a*d— 2abc + Sc*,                    (78.)
           gi = asd-lcc3bd + iaicd + abc'i-ci.               (79.)
Again, the proposed equation of the fifth degree,
                 «5 + Ba! + Di+E = 0,                       (58.)
must be exactly divisible by the biquadratic equation (66.),
because all the roots of the latter are also roots of the former;
and therefore we must have
            B = b-a\ D = d-a*b, E = —ad,                    (80.)
and                        c = ab                            (81-)
   This relation c — ab reduces the expressions (76.). ..(79.)
to the following,
                ?=-«*,
           g + h = -2ab,
           gh + i = 0*6 + 0*6' — 4aso",                      (82.)
              gi = atd;
and thereby reduces the condition (75.), that is, the product
of the three conditions (66.) (67.) (68.), to the form
               — a— 3a76-a56* + 5a5d = 0,                    (83.)
which gives either
                             a = 0                           (84.)
 or else
                   a4 + 3a96+6* = 5d,                        (85.)
 and therefore, by (80.), either
                            E = 0                             (60.)
 or else
                          5D = B9                             (61.)
    Thus, when we set aside these two particular cases, we see
 by (45.), that under the circumstances supposed in the enun
 ciation of the theorem, the function f(x)—qx vanishes, for
 every value of x which makes the polynome j^ + Bo^ + Dx + E
 vanish ; and that therefore if we set aside the third and only
 remaining case of exception, namely, the case in which the

32     Dr. Ruppell on the Fossil G«J«aPseudammonites
proposed equation of the fifth degree has two equal roots, and
in which consequently the condition (62.) is satisfied, the
functionf(x) must be of the form (59.) ; which was the thing
to be proved.
   Corollary.—Setting aside the three excepted cases (60.)
(61.) (62.), the coefficients of the equation (50.) of the fifth
degree in y will be expressed as follows,
          B' = Qi B, D = Q'4 D, E' = Q'5 E ; . . . (86.)
and if we attempt to reduce it to De Moivre's solvible form,
by making
                              D' = }B"                              (50.)
we find
                            Q'4=0,                                   (51.)
that is,
                             Q' = 0,                                (52.)
so that the relation between y and x reduces itself to the
form
              y = {a:5+Bx3 + T>x+E).^{x)                             (87.)
which can give no assistance towards resolving the proposed
equation (58.) of the fifth degree in x.
     Observatory, Dublin, June 11, 1836.
IX. Observations on the Fossil Genera Pseudammonites and
   Ichthyosiagonites ofthe Solenhofen Limestone, contained in
   a Letter to\.l. Murchison, Esq., V. P.R.S., $c. By D. E.
   Ruppell, M.D., of Frankfort.*
      Dear Sir,
 ¥ SEND you herewith the few words you requested me to
     draw up concerning the fossils I wish to exhibit at the
Geological Society.
    In a paper which I published in 1829, I ventured to ex
press my opinion upon the generic character of two fossils,
fragments of which are commonly met with at Solenhofen,
and in other calcareous strata of formations of similar age.
 Having met with some of these fossils in what I considered
to be a more than usually perfect condition, I was led to adopt
   • Communicated on the part of the Author by Mr. Murchison, who
takes this method of laying before the public the notice, which would have
been read before the Geological Society, at its last meeting of this ses
sion, had not the letter of Dr. Riippell been missent. The fossils alluded
to were exhibited. Mr. Murchison is convinced that this small fragment
will be read with interest as coming from the pen of the distinguished
traveller whose researches have thrown so much light on the physical geo
graphy and natural history of Nubia and Abyssinia.

       and Ichthyosiagonites ofthe Solenhofen Limestone.      33
my present ideas of the animals to which they belonged. I
perceived that the forms which naturalists had united in one
genus under the name of Trigonellites, Tetlinites, Ichthyosia
gonites, and Lepadites, (words which are all synonymous,) be
longed really to two distinct genera. One of these fossils is
not unfrequently found with an Ammonite-like shell, but
which has only an apparent likeness to the true Ammonite,
for it has no internal septa. In many of these Ammonite-like
shells there are found, near to their opening, two calcareous
plates resembling in appearance a bivalve shell. These must
in my opinion have belonged to the animal which inhabited
the Ammonite-like shell, and may have served as a kind of
operculum to it, or perhaps as an organ for mastication. I
formed this opinion by observing that whenever these two
fossils, apparently so dissimilar, are found near one another,
the right-hand side of the bivalve-like shell is uniformly of
the same length as the largest diameter of the external whorl
of the Ammonite-shaped fossil. Besides, I perceived that the
 two parts which form this kind of operculum are in some
 other points perfectly distinct in structure from any living bi
valve shells, namely, the valves are not connected with liga
ments, and have a sharp edge on the side where they unite;
the other margin, opposite to this sharp edge, is a thick cal
careous mass. The laminae which are on the convex side of
these opercula have not, like other bivalves, a central point
round which they increase, but are placed somewhat in a dia
gonal position, a circumstance which is never met with in a
real bivalve shell.
   Since I wrote the paper alluded to, I have observed a con
siderable number of these fossils, all of which confirmed
the constant proportion of the diameters of the bivalve and
ammonite-like shell when found together. I remain, there
fore, confident that they belonged to one animal, forming
quite a new type in the series of Mollusca, for which I have
proposed the name of Pseudammonites.
    Some naturalists have expressed the idea that the finding
both these fossils so frequently together was a consequence
of the animal of the Ammonite-like shell having eaten the
other. But if so, how does it happen that there is so con
stantly a fixed proportion in their relative sizes, and why are
more than one pair never found in each shell ? Besides, had
the one served as food for the other, why are the apparent
bivalve shells always in a fine state of preservation, lying
parallel to each other?
    The other fossil, in shape somewhat similar to these oper
 cula, I consider to be an internal shell met with in a large
    Third Series. Vol.9. No. 51. July 1836.           F

  34     Mr. Beke on theformer Extent of the Persian Gulf,
  elliptic muscular mass. 1 have exhibited before the Geological
  Society one of the specimens which suggested to me this idea,
  and the sight of it illustrates those facts which I have ex
  plained in my work better than a more lengthened descrip
  tion. That a bivalve may have been an interior shell is rather
  an unexpected exception to all known rules of conchology.
  It is, however, not a theory of mine, but is borne out by plain
  facts. To this singular genus I gave the name of lchthyosia-
 gones (1829). It has been changed since to Aptychus, I know
  not why; and again, both the types of Pseudammonites and
 Ichythyosiagones have been mixed together as species belong
  ing to the same genus, more particularly in a paper printed
 last year in the memoirs of the Linnrean Society of Normandy,
 by Mr. Eudes de Longchamp, who proposed a new name
 for the genus " Munsteria " !
     The object I have had in presenting to the meeting of the
 Geological Society some of the fossils I have spoken of, is to call
 the attention of English geologists to these shells, that a new
 investigation may be made by some conchologist, in order to
reexamine the question whether these fossils are to form the
 types of two distinct genera, according to my observations ; or
 if they are to be considered as of one genus, but specifically
differing from each other, which seems to be the opinion ofthose
persons, who are influenced in drawing their conclusion from
 the apparent similarity of the external form of these shells.
                         Yours very truly,
                                                     D. E. Ruppell.
X. On theformer Extent of the Persian Gulf, and on the Non-
    identity of Babylon and Babel; in Reply to Mr. Carter. By
    C. T. Beke, Esq., F.S.A.
                [Continued from page 515, and concluded.]
/~\N the subject of the unlikelihood that Babel would, in the
       earliest post-diluvian ages, have been built in the lowlands
of the Euphrates (supposing them to have existed), Mr. Car
ter observes that " no allusion is made to his answer that the
cities and settlements of a hot climate, and more particularly
those ofan early people, are of necessity fixed in such places."
In a former paper of mine* I stated that a portion of Mr.
Carter's arguments, which I then combated, was "founded
upon the assumption that society in the time of Noah existed
in a state of infancy as regarded its culture and knowledge;"
he having remarked in the paper to which that was a reply f,
   * Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. iv. p. 281.        t Ibid., p. 182.

          and on the Non-identity of Babylon and Babel.                 SB
that " navigation in early society is usually performed in boats
made of a single tree." In his answer*, however, that gen
tleman says, " Mr. Beke has here mistaken my meaning. I
have not expressed any opinion respecting the general culture
and knowledge of mankind at that period. My remark was
confined to their navigation only." Under these circumstances
I was desirous of avoiding, if possible, anything which might
bring us into discussion respecting the state of " early society ;"
especially as it was manifest, from more than one expression
in Mr. Carter's second paper, that his opinion and mine were
not at all likely to coincide. But as it is necessary that I
should refer to the subject, I must be permitted to say that I
do not consider the instance adduced from the evidence of
Col. Chesney of the villages of the half-savage residents on
the banks of the Euphrates, which are frequently washed away
by the stream, as at all analogous to the cities—not merely
"inclosed lands," or "small villages," or "little settlements,"
—of mankind in the post-diluvian ages. As I have in the
 third chapter of my Origines Biblicce explained at length my
 views in connexion with this pointf, 1 will merely remark
that the nearest analogy to the earliest post-diluvians is pro
bably to be found in the European settlers in the New World,
both people having sprung from a previous civilized and arti
ficial state of society. Now we see that even in the tropical
portions of the Americas, where they have quite as great a
 "notion of the value of water" as the inhabitants of the East
 can possibly have, although for the purposes offoreign com
merce (which the earliest post-diluvians had not,) they have
 in some cases fixed upon situations like that of the deadly
 New Orleans, yet these offsets from the Old World have not,
 " heedless of all the good reasons to the contrary, chosen for
 their settlements every such impracticable spot they could
 find."
     But is there not an entire fallacy in the argument as to the
alleged value of water in hot climates ? The value of water in
such climates is, properly speaking, principally of an artificial
character, arising from the scarcity of that element. In those
cases in which it is to be procured in plenty, the general habits
of the people show that the real value is not so great as it is in
more temperate regions. Of course it is not intended to be
 denied that water has a considerable real value in the former
 countries also; but if it be on account of that value (for so I un
 derstand Mr. Carter's argument,) that the people dwelling near
    * Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. v. p. 244.
    t See also a paper entitled " Views in Ethnography," &c, published in
 Jameson's New Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, vol. xviii. pp. 285 — 296,
 in which some of my opinions on this topic are yet further elucidated.
                                     F2

  36    Mr. Beke on theformer Extent of the Persian Gulf,
  the Euphrates are induced to erect their habitations in " im
  practicable spots," where they are constantly liable to be
  washed away, should we not find the inhabitants of Mesopo
  tamia generally settled on the banks of the two rivers instead of
  being dispersed over the interior, and ought we not likewise to
  see the people of Arabia flocking to the shores of the Euphra
  tes, and employed in " following their villages afloat to arrest
  the materials of their dwellings," instead of remaining in their
  unwatered deserts? As to the mere erection of cities in plains,
  by the sides of rivers, and even in marshy situations, this is
  no peculiarity whatever of hot climates, but is equally preva
  lent even in the coldest. When opportunities occur, settle
  ments are, in all countries, usually made on the banks of ri
  vers; but then they are not in the first instance founded from
  choice in impracticable spots, but are placed on the higher
  grounds, where they can enjoy all the benefits of the supply
  of water without being liable to the tides and ordinary floods;
  it being afterwards only, as population increases, that the
  buildings are extended over the lower lands, from which the
  waters have been banked out.
     Mr. Carter asserts, however, that " the earliest settlements
  on record were, in fact, fixed in such places ;" and he in
  stances the cities of Egypt, those of the vale of Siddim, and
  also Nineveh in particular; which last city, he says, was built
  " in the lowlands of the Tigris, a valley eight or ten miles
  broad, and where the floods were so great that of old it
  was like a pool of water," referring to Nahum, ii. 8. as an
 authority for the fact. I regret to be obliged to observe
 that he has altogether mistaken the meaning of this text.
 In our authorized version (which alone he would seem
 to have consulted,) it is unquestionably said, " But Nineveh
 is of old like a pool of water;" but by this expression
 our venerable translators evidently intended, not a natural,
 but an artificial pool, as in 2 Kings, xx. 20. Neh. iii. 15.
 Eccl. ii. 6. and many other places, where the same expression
 occurs : and this, in fact,—or afish-pond in particular, as in
 Cant vii. 4.—is the real meaning of the word                     which
 is used by the prophet with reference to the immense popu
 lation of Nineveh :—" that great city, wherein were more than
 six score thousand persons that could not discern between
their right hand and their left handf." The comparison of
   • The Arabic jg^ has the same signification. In its primitive meaning
it is, a reservoir of water at which the camels Jcnccl C^il). badach, to
drink : literally, therefore, a kneeling-place.
   t Jonah iv. 11.

           and on the Non-identity of Babylon and Babel.                      37
 the city may be either to a. pool (reservoir)full ofwater, or to
 aJish-pond swarming with Jish : the context shows that the
general idea of fulness cannot be mistaken :—" But Nineveh
 is of old [full or swarming] like a pool of water ; yet they shall
fee away : stand, stand ; but none shall look back                       she is
 empty, and void, and waste*."
     As regards the " cities of the plain," it may be perfectly
 true that Jordan " overflowed all his banks in the time of
 harvest," without its thence following that those cities were
affected by the inundation any more than Jericho, and the other
cities which were, and still are, erected along the valley of
 that river.
     On the subject of Egypt, the opinion is already' expressed
 at length in my Origines Biblicce, that the Mitzraim of Scrip
 ture was nowhere within the valley of the Nile : it becomes
 unnecessary, therefore, that I should here say anything upon
 this particular point. But leaving this quite out of the ques
 tion, we find from the earliest writer of profane history, that
 even within Egypt itself, the natives—a totally distinct people
 (I may just remark,) from the Mitzrites of the north, in the
 neighbourhood of Canaan,— came originally from the higher
 lands of the south, and that it was only " as their country be
 came more extensive that some remained in their primitive
 places of residence, whilst others migrated to a lower situation;
 whence it was that the Thebaid went formerly under the name
 of Egypt f."
      Independently therefore of " all the good reasons to the
 contrary", the opinion is unfounded,—for what evidence we
 have is directly opposed to such an opinion,—that " the
 earliest people on record chose for their settlements every
 such impracticable spot they could find."
      On separate grounds it is yet contended, that the Babel of
 Genesis was actually built in the lowlands of the Euphrates,
 for that " Isaiah xxiii. 13. seems distinctly to identify Nim-
 rod's Babel and Babylon," from which text it is inferred that
 " the Assyrian Nimrod founded Babel, formed into a social
 community the remnant of the people scattered and broken at
 the Dispersion, and the Assyrian of later days set up the towers
 and raised up the palaces thereof; " and it is subsequently
 argued as follows : " As Shinar must have embraced no very
 extensive range, and Nimrod's Babel (or Babylon) and the
     • Diodati's Italian translation represents the idea of the original far bet
  ter than our English version : " Or Nineve e stata, dal tempo che e in essere,
  come un vivaio <f acque : ora fuggono essi : fermatevi, fcrmatevi ; ma niuno
  •i rivolge     Ella e votata, c spogliata, c desolata."
     t Euterpe 15.

38     Mr. Beke on theformer Extent of the Persian Gulf,
 Babylon of the prophets were in it, that we have here two
places of the same name,—both moreover built in the very
infancy of society, and both by 'the Assyrian,' is an inference
not sanctioned by true historical construction." But upon
what construction, I would venture to inquire, is the former
part of this text of Isaiah, " the Assyrian founded it," to be
referred to " the Assyrian Nimrod," and the latter portion of
 the same text, " they set up the towers thereof," to be ap
plied to "the Assyrian of later days"! And again, upon what
construction is the epithet " the Assyrian " given to Nimrod,
who, according to Mr. Carter's own interpretation of Gen. x.
 10, was no Assyrian at all, but a foreigner who founded an
 intrusive monarchy in the land of Asshur ?
    In citing this text, " Behold the land of the Chaldeans :
 this people was not, till the Assyrian founded it for them that
 dwell in the wilderness : they set up the towers thereof, they
 raised the palaces thereof, and he brought it to ruin, " (This
 last portion of the verse is omitted to be quoted,) Mr. Carter
 says, " No one can doubt that this refers to the celebrated
 Babylon." Unfortunately, it happens that a very great many
do doubt it, among whom it will be sufficient to name R.
Jonathan ben Uzriel, the translator of the Peshito, Jerome,
 Theodosion, Saadias, Jarchi, and Kimchi, without enumera
ting a whole host of modern translators and commentators.
 In fact, Gesenius says that the last three portions of this verse
are, almost unanimously, referred to the destruction of Tyre by
the Chaldeans*. As rendered in our authorized version
(agreeing with Diodati) the meaning is not all obvious ; but
our translators could certainly never have intended to refer it
(as Mr. Carter reads their words,) merely to the foundation of
Babylon, or else what is the meaning of the last portion of it,
" and he brought it to ruin " ? Mr. Carter does not, indeed,
cite these words, but it is impossible to detach them from those
which precede them ; and I apprehend that gentleman would
find a difficulty in showing their applicability to the founder
of Babylon, whether that founder were Nimrod " in the in
fancy of society," or " the Assyrian of later days f."
   *" Diedrei letztenVersgliederbeziehen sicb fast ohneWidcrspruchaufdie
Zerstoriing von Tyrus durch die Chaldaer."—Commentar. u. d. Jetaiat; in loc.
   f In explanation ofthis passage it may be allowed me to remark, that the
"towers" have generally been understood to be the war-towert of the be
sieging Chaldeans, and the " palaces " to be thote of Tyre which were,
either (according to Saadias and Theodosion,) " raised (or roused) up "
with affright or tumult through the siege, or (according to the Targum of
Jonathan, the Vulgate, Jarchi, and Kimchi,) demolished by the enemy. I
have for several years past had this very difficult and still unintelligible text

         and on the Non-identity of Babylon and Babel.                    39
   The greatest weight of authority unquestionably is for re
ferring the former half of this verse to the foundation of the
Chaldean Babel or Babylon by the Assyrians ;—not, however,
by any one individual, " the Assyrian," but "Vl$tt {Asshur),
that is, the people of Asshur, or the Assyrian nation generally.
Yet this is so far from aiding Mr. Carter's opinion as to that
city's having been " a settlement of the earliest antiquity,"
" made in the very infancy of society," that it proves directly
the contrary; for if the Babel of Genesis "was not till the
Assyrians founded it," it is manifest that the Assyrians must
already have existed as a nation, and that some time—pro
bably a considerable time: "...this people was not till the Assy
rians founded it,"—had first elapsed. And not merely so,
but it would also seem completely to establish the non-identity
of Babel and Babylon ; for (as Mr. Carter himself observes,)
" why was Babel " said in Gen. x. 10. to be "only the begin
ning of his kingdom, if we are not to understand that it was
Nimrod who also builded Nineveh " ? But if so, it follows
that Babel must have been erected before he " went out into
Assyria" ; whilst, on the other hand, the prophet tells us that
the Chaldean Babel " was not till the Assyrians founded it"—
in other words, that it did not exist until after the establish
ment of the Assyrian Empire by Nimrod.
   Without however placing entire dependence upon this
argument, on account of the darkness of the text of Isaiah, I
must most distinctly assert, that this text does not (nor indeed
does any other throughout the sacred volume,) in the slightest
manner connect the two cities: the whole that can be inferred
from it with respect to the age of Babylon is, that that capital
was already in the prophet's time a great flourishing city. It
is from the Jews of the Captivity alone that we derive the pre
valent erroneous notion with respect to the identity of the
Babel of Genesis with the far more recent Babylon (Babel).
From the similarity of the names of the two cities and the
existence in the latter of the famed tower of Belus, they (per
haps not unnaturally,) fell into the error of imagining them to
be the same ; and hence arose all the fables respecting the
tower of Babel, for which not the slightest ground exists in
the pages of Scripture. But that Babylon could not have been
founded near the time of Nimrod — that in fact it did not exist
until a comparatively late period, must assuredly be the only
under my consideration, and I am willing to regard it, on the whole, as an
authority in favour of my hypothesis as to the late foundation of Babylon,
although I must, at the same time, confess that I am far from being satisfied
with any particular interpretation of it which has yet been given.

 40    Mr. Beke on theformer Extent of the Persian Gulf,
 inference which is to be drawn from the circumstance that—
 whilst Assyria (Asshur) is mentioned in the very earliest por
 tions of the particular history of the Israelites and their imme
 diate progenitors*, and is brought into direct connexion with
 the history of the kingdom of Israel in or before the time
 of Jeroboam II. t» when Nineveh had "of old" been a
 great and populous city,—Babylon itself, a city nearer to
 Canaan than Nineveh, and indeed almost in the road between
 them, is not even mentioned until some time afterwards,
 although Shinar was known to the Israelites from the earliest
 period J. And it is most worthy of remark that even when
  Babylon is first referred to in the scriptural history, it is merely
 as one of the places from which the king of Assyria brought
 inhabitants to repeople the country of the captive Israelites §,
 and as the city where the same monarch carried Manasseh
 king of Judah into captivity ||. It is true that Babylon is men
 tioned a short time previously to the latter of these two events,
 in the time of Manasseh's father % as having had its own ru
 ler; but the comparison of the whole scriptural history evinces
 that the kings of Babylon were Assyrian viceroys, and not in
  dependent sovereigns :—that this was actually the case is ex
 pressly recorded by Alexander Polyhistor **.
     Upon the hypothesis of the distinction between Babel and
 Babylon, and of the late foundation of the latter city, the
 scriptural history, as connected therewith, becomes quite in
 telligible; which otherwise it certainly is not. We can also
 fully understand how Herodotus, in mentioning the Assyrian
empire, should describe Babylon merely as one of its great
 cities, which only " became the royal residence after the de
struction of Nineveh ff." In entire accordance with the same
hypothesis is that historian's statement that the Assyrian Se-
miramis (whom he makes to have preceded Nitocris only five
generations,) "raised certain mounds [at Babylon]...//// when
the whole plain was subject to inundations from the river %\ >"
and yet more particularly so is that of Megasthenes, who tells
us that " from the beginning all things were water; called the
   * See Gen. xxr. 18. Numb. xxiv. 22.
   ¦f Compare Jonah iii. 2. et seq., and 2 Kings xiv. 25.
    I See Josh. vii. 21 : the expression, which in our authorized version is
rendered " a Babylonish garment," is in the original ~1VJ£^ fVWN {ad-
direth Shinhar), " a garment (mantle) ofShinar."
   $ See 2 Kings xvii. 24.       || 2 Chr. xxxiii. 11.    T Isa. xxxix. 1.
   •• Euseb. Arm. Chron. 42, in Cory's Ancient Fragments, 2nd Edit,
pp. 61, 62.
    ft Clio, 178.                       n Clio, 184.

            and on the Non-identity of Babylon and Babel.                        41
sea, and that Bel us caused this state of things to cease, and
appointed to each its proper place, and surrounded Babylon
with a wall *."
     As to the supposition that " Shinar must have embraced
no very extensive range," there is not the slightest ground for
it Like Asia—which name was gradually extended from a
small portion of Lydia, first to Asia Minor, and then to an
entire quarter of the globe,—and many other names of coun
tries, it may well have had very different applications at dif
ferent times ; and in the latter portions of the Scriptural hi
story the same name was probably given to the whole country
beyond the Euphrates, of the north-western portion of which
the early Shinar was only a small division.
    I have at present to add but little on the geological portion
of the subjectf. Were the " power of the Euphrates, Tigris,
and neighbouring streams to form new lands and expel the
ocean," a solitary case and opposed to the usual course of
nature, Mr. Carter might justly characterize it as "extraor
dinary," and might even be excused for imagining it to be
"supposed"; but seeing that all rivers on the face of the
earth under similar, or even yet less advantageous circum
stances, do actually possess this power!, it would indeed be
extraordinary if these rivers alone were to be excepted from
the rule. Even an instance of the formation of rock within
the limits of the most recent fluviatile deposits is furnished us
   • Tlitprct ftkv i% d^xVS viu^ tl»cu, Sabcurattt x-et^softtunu. BijAo* Sf a<fi*
•x-xvcrcti, X"i1' iiaffT* AironlficttTcc, xal Ba/3i*<5»* Ttlx" xfp/C«7ie<».
Etaeb. Pr<ep. Evan. lib. 10. in Cory's Arte. Frag. p. 45. It is deserving of
attention that Megasthenes further states that when Nebuchadnezzar re
built Babylon " he constructed dykes against the irruptions of the Persian
Gulf :" ivtTuxtari if xmI rij; 'Epvi)pi)< SaKaoorif Tij» iiriKhvtfi».{ibid.),—a pre
caution which would seem to have been rather needless and extraordinary,
unless the sea then approached much nearer to the city than it does at
present. The lakes and marshes of the Euphrates would, doubtless, at that
period have extended very far northward, and might well have been " called
the sea."
   I I must remark that my paper in the Number ofyourJournal for July last,
(1835,) was (as, indeed, you are well aware,) not written for the pages ofthis
Journal, it having been destined by me for an entirely different purpose ;
and it was consequently not meant as an answer to Mr. Carter's arguments.
In consequence, however, of my subsequently requesting you to give it in
sertion ¦ as a continuation of my former paper," that gentleman was, I
allow, entirely warranted in regarding it in the light of a further answer.
This explanation will account for the want of connexion which exists be
tween that paper and my former communications,—a want of connexion
which is commented upon by my opponent.
    % See the many instances adduced by Mr.Lyell in his Principles of Geo-
logy, vol. i. ch. 13, 14.
     Third Series. Vol.9. No. 51. My 1836.                            G

42        Baron Humboldt on advancing the Knowledge
by Mr. Lyell * ; so that the discovery even of rock by Alex
ander, would prove literally nothing against the fact of the
     Far asof
 increase      is from
            it land  in the
                          being    my wish
                               locality      to dogmatize upon a sub
                                        in dispute.
ject which is unquestionably attended with many difficulties;
 I am even willing to admit that the gain of land to the ex
tent originally contended for by me, although far from being
disproved by Mr. Carter, is also far from being proved by me.
But this is not the point principally in dispute, which (inde
pendently of the grounds upon which the identity of Babel
and Babylon is denied by me,) must, in the first instance at
least, confine itself to the question,— Has or has not a change
of such importance taken place as materially to affect the geo
graphy of the localities in question, and such, therefore, as to
render the descriptions of ancient writers inapplicable to the
present state of the country? I am willing to believe that, upon
further consideration, Mr. Carter himself will see reason to
admit this to be the case. For myself I only wait for suffi
cient evidence, or even reasonable arguments, to relinquish
any portion of my hypothesis: — which hypothesis I am wedded
to in as much only as I believe, it to approach the truth, and
which, therefore, I shall most cheerfully abandon so far as it
can be shown to be incorrect. I am, Gentlemen, yours, &c.
   Bremen, Feb. 3, 1836.                         CHARLES T. Beke.
XI. Letterfrom Baron von Humboldt to His Royal Highness
    the Duke of Sussex, K.G., President of the Royal Society of
    London, on the Advancement of the Knowledge of Terrestrial
    Magnetism, by the Establishment of Magnetic Stations and
    corresponding Observations.^
       Sir,
T^HE generous interest taken by Your Royal Highness in
  ¦* the advancement of human knowledge, encourages me to
hope for the favourable reception of the request which with re
spectful confidence, I now venture to address to you. I take
the liberty of soliciting your attention to the labours requisite
for the investigation, by precise means, almost constantly em
ployed, of the variations ofterrestrial magnetism. By obtaining
the cooperation of a great number of zealous observers, pro
vided with instruments of similar construction, M. Arago,
   * " That a great proportion, at least, of the new deposit in the delta of
the Rhone consists of rock, and not of loose incoherent matter, is perfectly
ascertained. In the museum at Montpellier is a cannon taken up from the
sea near the mouth of the river, imbedded in a crystalline calcareous rock."
— PrmcvpUl of Geology, vol. i. p. 234, 1st edit.
   ¦f We translate this letter from Schumacher's Attronomitche Nachriehten,
No. 306, which has been kindly communicated to us for the purpose.

                    of Terrestrial Magnetism.                 43
Mr. Kupffer, and myself" have succeeded in the last eight years
in extending these researches over a very considerable part
of the northern hemisphere. Permanent magnetic stations be
ing now established from Paris to China, following towards
the east the parallels from 40° to 60°, I feel myself justified
in soliciting, through the intervention of Your Royal Highness,
the powerful cooperation of the Royal Society of London, to
sanction this enterprise, and also to promote its success by the
establishment of new stations, as well in the vicinity of the
magnetic equator as in the temperate part of the southern
hemisphere.
    An object which is equally important whether it be consi
dered in connexion with the physics of the earth or the im
provement of nautical science, has a double claim upon the
attention of a Society, which has from its commencement, with
constantly increasing success, cultivated the vast field of the
exact sciences. Our information respecting the progressive
development of the knowledge which we possess of terrestrial
magnetism must be indeed imperfect, if we are ignorant of the
numerous valuable observations which have been made at dif
ferent epochs, and are still being made, in the British isles,
and in various parts of the equinoctial zone subject to the
same empire. Our present object is to render these observa
tions more useful, that is, better adapted to manifest great
physical laws, by coordinating them according to a uniform
plan, and connecting them with the observations now in pro
gress upon the continent of Europe and Northern Asia.
    Having been much occupied during my travels in the equi
noctial regions of America, during the years 1799— 1804, with
the phenomena of the intensity or the magnetic forces, and the
inclination and declination of the magnetic needle, on my re
turn to my own country I conceived the design of examining
the progress of the horary variations of the declination, and
the perturbations to which it is liable, by employing a method
which, I believe, has never yet been followed upon an exten
sive scale. In a large garden at Berlin, during the years
 J 806 and 1807, particularly at the period of the equinoxes
and solstices, I measured the angular alterations of the mag
netic meridian, at intervals of an hour, often of half an hour,
without interruption during four, five, and six days, and as
many nights. Mr. Oltmanns, whose numerous calculations of
geographical positions have recommended him to the notice
of astronomers^ kindly shared with me the fatigues of these
labours. The instrument which we employed was a magnetic
telescope {lunette aimantee) of Prony, capable of being reversed
 upon its axis, suspended according to the method of Coulomb,
                                G2

 4'4      Baron Humboldt on advancing the Knowledge
 placed in a glass frame, and directed towards a very distant
 meridian mark, the divisions of which, illuminated during the
 night, indicated even six or seven seconds of horary variation.
 In verifying the habitual regularity of a nocturnal period*,
 I was struck with the frequency of the perturbations, espe
 cially of oscillations the amplitude of which extended beyond
 all the divisions of the scale, and which occurred repeatedly
 at the same hours before sunrise, and the violent and ac
 celerated movements of which could not be attributed to any
 accidental mechanical cause. These vagaries of the needle, the
 almost periodical return of which has recently been confirmed
 by Mr. Kupffer in the narration of his Travels in the Caucasus,
 appeared to me the effect of a reaction of the interior of the
earth towards the surface; I should venture to say, of magnetic
 storms, which indicate a rapid change of tension. From that
time it has been my desire to establish on the east and west
of the meridian of Berlin apparatus similar to my own, in
order to obtain corresponding observations made at great di
stances and at the same hours ; but the political tempest of
Germany, and my hasty departure for France, whither I was
sent by the Government, delayed for a length of time the ex
ecution of this project Fortunately my illustrious friend
M. Arago, after his return from the coasts of Africa and the
prisons of Spain, undertook, I think about the year 1818, a
series of observations upon magnetic declinations at the Ob
servatory of Paris, which, made daily at intervals uniformly
fixed, and continued upon the same plan to the present day,
are considered, with regard to their number and mutual con
nexion, superior to everything that has been attempted in
this kind of physical investigations. Gambey's apparatus,
which is employed, is of perfect execution. Provided with
micrometers and microscopes, it may be employed with more
certainty and convenience than Prony's instrument, which is
attached to a strong magnetized bar of 20^ inches in length.
    During the progress of these observations M. Arago has
discovered, and proved by numerous examples, a phsenomenon
which differs essentially from the observation made by Prof.
Hiorter at Upsal in 17*1. He has discovered not only that
the Aurora boreales disturb the regular progress of the horary
declinations there when they are not visible, but also that
early in the morning, often ten or twelve hours before the lu
minous phsenomenon is developed in a very distant place, its
appearance is announced by the particular form presented by
the curve of the diurnal variations, that is, by the value of the
maxima of elongation of the morning and night. Another new
fact was manifested in the perturbations. Mr. Kupffer having

                     of Terrestrial Magnetism.                45
 established at Cazan, nearly the eastern limit of Europe, one
 of Gambey's compasses, exactly similar to that employed by
 M. Arago at Paris, the two observers were convinced by a
 certain number of corresponding measures of horary declina
 tion, that, notwithstanding a difference of longitude of more
 than 47°, the perturbations were isochronous. They were like
 signals which from the interior of the earth simultaneously
 arrived at its surface on the .borders of the Seine and the
 Wolga.
    When in 1827 I again fixed my residence at Berlin, my
 first care was to renew the series of observations which I had
 made at short intervals during the days and nights of the
 years 1806 and 1807. I endeavoured at the same time to
 generalize the means of simultaneous observations, the acci
 dental employment of which had just produced results so im
 portant. One of Gambey's compasses was placed in the mag
 netic pavilion, in which no portion of iron was introduced,
 which had been erected in the middle of a garden. Regular
 observations could not commence till the autumn of 1828.
 Being called, in the spring of 1829, by His Majesty the Em
 peror of Russia, to undertake a mineralogical tour in the
 North of Asia and on the Caspian Sea, I had an opportunity
 rapidly to extend the line of stations towards the east. At
 my request the Imperial Academy and the Curator of the
 University of Cazan erected magnetic houses at St. Petersburgh
 and Cazan. In a committee of the Imperial Academy, at
 which I had the honour of presiding, a discussion took place
 on the immense advantages, with regard to our knowledge of
 the laws of terrestrial magnetism, presented by the vast extent
of country limited on one side by the curve without declina
 tion of Doskino, (between Moscow and Cazan, or with more
 precision, according to M. Adolphe Erman, between Osabli-
 kowo and Doskino, in lat. 56° 0', and long. 40° 36' east
of Paris,) and on the other, by the curve without declina
tion of Arsentchewa near Lake Baikal, which is believed to
be identical with that of Doskino, with a difference of meri
dians of 63° 21'. The Imperial department for Mines having
generously concurred in the same object, magnetic stations
have been successively established at Moscow, Barnaoul, the
astronomical position of which I find to be at the foot of
Altai, in lat. 53° 19' 21", long. 5h 27' 20" east of Paris, and
at Nertschinsk. The Academy of St. Petersburgh has done
still more, and has sent a courageous and clever astronomer,
M. George Fuss, the brother of its perpetual secretary, to
 Pekin, and has procured the erection there of a magnetic
pavilion, in the convent garden of the monks of the Greek

46       Baron Humboldt on advancing the Knowledge
church. This undertaking cannot be mentioned without re
calling the fact, that, according to the Penthsaoyani, a me
dical natural history composed under the Soung dynasty,
nearly four hundred years before Christopher Columbus and
the natives of Europe had the least idea of magnetic declina
tion, the Chinese suspended the needle by means of a thread,
to allow it perfect freedom of motion ; and that they knew that
when thus suspended, according to the method of Coulomb,
(as in the Jesuit Lana's apparatus in the seventeenth century, )
the needle declined to the south-east, and never rested at the
true south point Since the return of M. Fuss, M. Kowanko,
a young officer of mines, whom I had the pleasure to meet
in the Oural, continues the observations of horary declination,
corresponding to those of Germany, St. Petersburgh, Cazan,
and Nicolajeff in the Crimea, where Admiral Greigh has esta
blished one of Gambey's compasses, the care of which is con
fided to the director of the Observatory, Mr. Knorre. I have
also obtained the establishment of a magnetic apparatus at the
depth of thirty-five fathoms in an adit in the mines of Freiberg
in Saxony, where Mr. Reich to whom we are indebted for his
valuable labours upon the mean temperature of the earth at dif
ferent depths, is assiduously engaged in making observations at
regulated intervals. M. Boussingault, who neglects nothing
which is calculated to advance the progress of the physics of the
earth, has sent us from South America observations of horary
declination made at Marmato, in the province of Antioquia, in
north lat. 5° 27', in a place where the declination is eastern,
as at Cazan and Barnaoul in Asia; while on the north-western
coasts of the new continent, at Sitka in the Russian settle
ments, Baron von Wrangel, also provided with one of Gam
bey's compasses, has taken part in the simultaneous observa
tions made at the time ofthe solstices and equinoxes. A Spanish
admiral, M. de Laborde, having been informed of a request
that I had made to the Patriotic Society of the Havannah, had
the kindness, unsolicited, to desire me to send him instruments
proper for determining with precision the inclination, the ab
solute declination, and the horary variation of declination and
intensity of the magnetic forces. The valuable instruments
desired, exactly
vatoryof          similar in
          Paris, arrived  to safety
                             those in the possession
                                          island of Cuba ; but
                                                     of the    the
                                                            Obser
alteration in the maritime command at the Havannah, and other
local circumstances, have hitherto prevented the employment
of them, and the establishment of a magnetic station under
the tropic of Cancer. The same has also occurred up to the
present time with regard to one of Gambey's compasses which
M. Arago had caused to be erected, at his own expense, to

                    of Terrestrial Magnetism.                  +7
obtain observations in the interior of Mexico, where the soil
is elevated six thousand feet above the level of the sea. Lastly,
during my last residence in Paris, I had the honour of pro
posing to Admiral Duperre, Minister for marine affairs, the
establishment of a magnetic station in Iceland. The pro
posal was received with the utmost eagerness, and the instru
ment, which is already ordered, will be deposited during the
present summer at the port of Reikiawig, when the expedi
tion which has been sent to the north in search of M. de Blosse-
ville and bis companions in misfortune returns to Iceland to
continue its scientific labours. There cannot be any doubt
that the Danish Government, which protects with generous
ardour astronomy and the advancement of nautical science,
will favour the establishment of a magnetic station in one of
its provinces bordering on the polar circle. At Chili also
M. Gay has made a great number of corresponding horary
observations, according to the instructions of M. Arago.
    I have entered upon this long and minute historical detail,
to show how far I have hitherto succeeded, in conjunction with
my friends, in extending the number of simultaneous observa
tions. After my return from Siberia, Mr. Dove and I pub
lished, in 1830, a graphic delineation of the curves ofhorary
declination of Berlin, Freiberg, Petersburgh, and Nicolajeff
in the Crimea, to show the parallelism of these lines, notwith
standing the distance of the stations and the influence of ex
traordinary perturbations. In the comparison of the observa
tions of St. Petersburgh and NicolajefF, use has been made
 of observations taken at the very small intervals of twenty mi
 nutes. It must not, however, be imagined that this parallelism
 of inflections always exists in the horary curves. We have
found that even in places very near to each other,—for instance,
 at Berlin and in the mines of Freiberg,—the magnetic reac
 tions from the interior to the surface of the earth are not al
 ways simultaneous ; that one of the needles presents consider
 able perturbations, while the other preserves that regularity,
 which under each meridian is the function of the true time of
 the place. In the memoir published in 1830, 1 proposed the fol
 lowing periods for simultaneous observations at all the stations.
 March 20th and 21st. ~] From four o'clock in the morning of
 May 4th and 5th.            the first day, to midnight of the se-
 June 21st and 22nd.         cond day. The observations to be
 Aug. 6th and 7th.         > continued at each magnetic station
 Sept. 23rd and 2*th.        during the day and night, at inter-
 Nov. 5th and 6th.            vals not exceeding one hour,
 Dec. 21st and 22nd. J
    As several observers situated upon the line of the stations

48         Baron Humboldt on advancing the Knowledge
have found these periods too near to each other, it has been
thought advisable to insist in preference upon the time of the
solstices and equinoxes.
   England, from the time of William Gilbert, Graham, and
Halley to that of the more recent exertions of Messrs. Gilpin,
Beaulby (at Bushy), Barlow, and Christie, has produced a
rich collection of materials applicable to the discovery of the
physical laws which regulate the variation of the magnetic de
clination, either in one place according to the different hours
and seasons, or at various distances from the magnetic equator
and the lines without declination. Mr.Gilpin made observations
during twelve hours every day for more than seven months.
The numerous observations of Colonel Beaufoy were regularly
published in Thomson's Annals.         The memorable expedi
tions to the most inhospitable regions of the North have fur
nished Messrs. Sabine, Franklin, Hood, Parry, Henry Foster,
Beechey, and James Clarke Ross with a rich harvest of im
portant observations. Physical geography is indebted for a
considerable increase of knowledge respecting terrestrial mag
netism and meteorology to the attempts which have recently
been made to determine the form of the north-west passage
or strait ; and to the perilous explorations of the frozen coasts
of Asia by Captains Wrangel, Lutke, and Anjou. During the
progress of these noble efforts, an unexpected impulse has
been given to the physical sciences by the light thrown upon
them by a branch of natural philosophy the theoretical pro
gress of which for two centuries had been extremely slow.
Such has been the effect of the grand discoveries of Oersted,
Arago, Ampere, Seebeck, and Faraday upon the nature of
electro-magnetic forces. Excited by the talents and ingenious
exertions of learned travellers cooperating for the promotion
of one object, Messrs. Hansteen, Due, and Adolphus Erman,
by the fortunate union of very precise astronomical and phy
sical means, have explored, throughout the immense extent
of Northern Asia, the isoclinal, isogonal, and isodynamic
curves for very nearly the same epoch. When speaking of
this great project, long since conceived and proposed by Mr.
Hansteen, I ought, perhaps, to pass over in silence the obser
vations upon magnetic inclination which I made upon the
rarely-visited frontier of Chinese Dzoungarie and on the
coasts of the Caspian Sea, published in the second vo
lume of my Fragmens Asiatiques. My learned countryman
Mr. Adolphus Erman, who embarked at Kamtschatka and re
turned to Europe by Cape Horn, had the rare advantage of
continuing throughout a long voyage the measure of the three
manifestations of terrestrial magnetism at the surface of the

                     of Terrestrial Magnetism.               49
globe. He employed the same instruments and the same me
thods which he had made use of from Berlin to the mouth of
the Oby, and thence to the Sea of Okhotsk.
   That which characterizes our epoch, at a time distinguished
by grand discoveries in optics, electricity, and magnetism, is
the possibility of connecting phaenomena by the generalization
of empirical laws, and the mutual aid afforded by sciences
which had long remained isolated. At the present day simple
observations upon horary declination or magnetic intensity,
made simultaneously in situations very distant from each other,
reveal, so to speak, what passes at profound depths in the
interior of our planet, and in the superior regions of the at
mosphere. The luminous emanations, the polar explosions
which accompany the magnetic storm, appear to follow great
changes in the habitual or mean tension of terrestrial mag
netism.
   It would tend greatly to promote the advancement of the
mathematical and physical sciences if, under the Presidency
and auspices of Your Royal Highness, the Royal Society
of London, to which I make it my boast to have belonged for
twenty years, would exert its powerful influence to extend the
line of' simultaneous observations, and to establish permanent
magnetic stations, either in the region of the tropics, on each
side of the magnetic equator, the proximity of which neces
sarily diminishes the amplitude of the horary declinations, or
in the high latitudes of the southern hemisphere and in Ca
nada. I venture to propose this latter point, because obser
vations upon horary declination made in the vast extent of the
United States are still very rare. Those, however, of Salem,
in 1810, calculated by Mr. Bowditch, and compared by Arago
with the observations of Cassini, Gilpin, and Beaufoy, merit
great praise, and might serve as a guide to observers in Ca
nada in investigating whether the declination there does not
diminish between the vernal equinox and the summer solstice,
contrary to what occurs in Western Europe. In a memoir
that I published five years ago, I suggested as magnetic sta
tions extremely favourable to the progress of our knowledge,
New Holland, Ceylon, the Mauritius, the Cape of Good
Hope (rendered illustrious by the labours of Sir John Her-
schel), St. Helena, and some point on the eastern coast of
America to the south of Quebec. In the last century, in the
years 1794 and 1796, an English traveller, Mr. Macdonald,
made some new and important observations upon the diurnal
motion of the needle at Sumatra and St. Helena, which have
since been confirmed and extended upon a large scale in the
scientific expeditions of Captains Freycinet and Duperrey ;
    Tfiird Series. Vol. 9. No. 51. July 1836.       H

50       Baron Humboldt on advancing the Knowledge
the former having the command of the sloop Uranie from
1817 to 1820, and the latter, who has six times crossed the
magnetic equator, commanding the sloop Coquille from 1822
to 1S25. To promote the rapid advancement of the theory
of terrestrial magnetism, or at least to establish with more
precision empirical laws, it is necessary at the same time to
prolong and to vary the lines of corresponding observations;
also to distinguish in observations of horary variations, what
arises from the influence of the seasons, of serene and cloudy
weather and of abundant rains, of the hours of day and night,
and of the true time at each place, that is, from the influence
of the sun, and of all isochronous influences at the different
meridians. To these observations of horary declination must
be united those of the annual movement of the absolute decima
tion, of the inclination of the needle, and of the intensity of
the magneticforces, the increase of which from the magnetic
equator to the poles is unequal in the Western American and
the Eastern Asiatic hemispheres. All these data, indispensa
ble bases for the future theory, can only acquire certainty and
importance by the means of establishments which shall remain
permanent for a great number of years, of Physical Obser
vatories in which the investigation of numerical elements may
be repeated at settled intervals of time, and with similar in
struments. Travellers who cross a country in but one direc
tion and at one epoch merely prepare the way for an under
taking which should embrace the complete delineation of the
lines without declination at intervals equally distant ; the pro
gressive removal of the points of intersection of the terrestrial
and magnetic equators ; the changes of form in the isogonal
and isodynamic lines ; and the influence upon the slow or ac
celerated movement of the curves, which indubitably arises
from the configuration and articulation of the continents. It
must be considered fortunate if the isolated labours of tra
vellers, whose cause it is my office to plead, have contributed
to give animation to a species of investigation which is the
work of centuries, and which requiries the concurrence of
numerous observers, distributed according to a plan arranged
after mature consideration, under the direction of several of
the great scientific centres of Europe. The directors should
hot always confine themselves to the narrow limits of the
same instructions, but they should vary them freely in adapta
tion to the progressive state of physical science, and the im
provement of instruments and methods of observation.
   When soliciting "Your Royal Highness to condescend to
communicate this letter to the illustrious Society over which
you preside, it is not in any degree my office to inquire, which

                    of Terrestrial Magnetism.                 51
are the magnetic stations that merit preference at the present
time, or that local circumstances may admit of establishing.
To have solicited the concurrence of the Royal Society of
London will be sufficient to give new life to a useful enter
prise in which I have been engaged for very many years. I
venture simply to express the wish that, should my proposi
tion be received with indulgence, the Royal Society would
enter into direct communication with the Royal Society of
Gdttingen, the Royal Institute of France, and the Imperial
Academy of Russia, in order to adopt measures the best
adapted for the combination of what it may be proposed to
establish with what already exists upon a very considerable
extent of surface. Perhaps also measures might be previously
concerted for the publication of partial observations, and also
(if the calculation would not require too much time, and too
much retard the communications,) of the mean results. Oneot
the happy effects of civilization and the progress of reason is,
that when addressing learned societies, their willing concur
rence may be relied upon if the object for which it is solicited
tends to promote die advancement of the sciences or the intel
lectual development of humanity.
   Labours of astonishing precision have been performed,
within the last few years, with instruments of extraordinary
power, in a magnetic pavilion of the Observatory of Gbttin-
gen, which are well worthy of the attention of philosophers,
as they offer a more precise method of measuring the horary
variations. The magnetized bar is of much larger dimensions
than even the bar of Prony's magnetic telescope ; and the ex
tremity is furnished with a mirror, in which are reflected the
divisions of a scale which is more or less distant, according to
the angular value desired to be given to these divisions. By
die employment of this improved method the necessity for the
observer's approaching the magnetized bar is obviated, and
by preventing the currents of air produced by the proximity
of the human body, or during the night, of a lamp, observa
tions may be made in the smallest intervals of time. The
great geometrician Mr. Gauss,—to whom we owe this mode of
making observations, as well as the means of reducing the in
 tensity of the magnetic force in any part of the earth to an
absolute proportion, and the ingenious invention of a magneto
 meter put into motion by a multiplier of induction,—pub
 lished in the years 1834; and 1835 several series of simulta
 neous observations made with similar apparatus, and at inter
 vals of five or ten minutes, at Gottingen, Copenhagen, Altona,
 Brunswick, Leipzig, Berlin (where Mr. Encke has already
 established a very spacious magnetic house, near the New
  Royal Observatory), Milan, and Rome. Mr. Schumacher's
                                 H2

52         Baron Humboldt on Terrestrial Magnetism.
German Ephemeris (Jahrbiickfilr 1836) proves graphically,
and by the parallelism of the smallest inflections of the horary
curves, the simultaneity of the perturbations at Milan and
    Mr. Gauss two
Copenhagen,               madehaving
                    firstcities  observations
                                       a difference
                                                at theoflatitude
                                                       times which     I pro
                                                                  of 10°  13'.
posed in 1830, but with the intention of referring the angular
dimensions of magnetic declination to the smallest intervals of
time. (On the 7th of February 1834, alterations of six minutes
 of the arc corresponded to a single minute oftime.) Mr. Gauss
 reduced the forty-four hours of simultaneous observations
 to twenty-four hours ; and appointed six [seven ?] periods of
 the year, viz. the last Saturday of each month consisting of
 an uneven number of days, for the stations which are provided
 with his new apparatus. The small magnetized bars which
 he employs as magnetometers are of four pounds weight, and
 the large ones of twenty-five pounds. The curious apparatus
 of induction proper to render sensible and measurable the
 oscillatory movements predicted by a theory founded upon
 Mr. Faraday's admirable discovery, consists of two bars fast
 ened together, each of twenty-five pounds weight. I thought
 it proper to mention the valuable labours of Mr. Gauss, in
 order that those members of the Royal Society of London
 who have rendered most service to the study of terrestrial
 magnetism, and who know the localities of the colonial esta
  blishments, may take into consideration whether bars of great
  weight, provided with a mirror, and suspended in a pavilion
  carefully closed, should be employed in the new stations to be
  established ; or whether Gambey's compass, hitherto uniformly
  used in our present stations in Europe and Asia, should still
  be employed. In discussing this question the advantages will
  undoubtedly be estimated which, in the apparatus of Mr.
  Gauss, arise from the smaller mobility of the bars by currents of
  air, as well as from the facility and rapidity with which the
  angular divisions may be read in very short intervals of time.
  My desire is only to see the line of magnetic stations extended,
  whatever be the means by which the precision of the corre
  sponding observations may be attained. I ought also to men
   tion that two accomplished travellers, Messrs. Sartorius and
  Listing, provided with very portable instruments of small di
  mensions, have very successfully employed the method of the
  great geometrician of Gbttingen in their excursions to Na
  ples and in Sicily.*
     Your Royal Highness will, I hope, excuse the length of this
     • An abstract of a memoir by Prof. Gauss in which his apparatus and me
  thod of observation are fully described will be found in Lond. St Edinb. Phil.
  Mag., toI. ii. p. 291, et icq.—Ebit.

 Prof. Schoenbein on a peculiar Voltaic Condition ofIron. 53
 communication ; but I thought that it would be useful to unite
 under one point of view what has been done or proposed in
 different countries towards the attainment of extensive simul
 taneous observations upon the laws of terrestrial magnetism.
    Accept, Sir, the acknowledgement of the profound respect
 with which I have the honour of being,
                      Your Royal Highness's, &c. &c,
   Berlin, April, 1836.           ALEXANDER VON HUMBOLDT.
 XII. On a peculiar Voltaic Condition of Iron, by Professor
    Schoenbein, of Bdle; in a Letter to Mr. Faraday: with
   further Experiments on the same Subject, by Mr. Faraday,
    communicated in a Letter to Mr. Phillips.
        To Michael Faraday, Esq., D.C.L., F.R.S., &c.
       Sie,
  A S our Continental and particularly German periodicals are
      rather slow in publishing scientific papers, and as I am
anxious to make you as soon as possible acquainted with
some new electro-chemical phaenomena lately observed by me,
I take the liberty to state them to you by writing. Being
tempted to do so only by scientific motives, I entertain the
flattering hope that the contents of my letter will be received by
you with kindness. The facts I am about laying before you
seem to me not only to be new, but at the sa^ne time deserving
the attention of chemical philosophers. Les void.
    If one of the ends of an iron wire be made red hot, and at
ter cooling be immersed in nitric acid, sp. gr. 1*35, neither the
end in question nor any other part of the wire will be affected,
whilst the acid of the said strength is well known to act rather
violently upon common iron. To see how far the influence of
the oxidized end of the wire goes, I took an iron wire of SO
in length and 0"'-5 in thickness, heated one of its ends about 3"
in length, immersed it in the acid of the strength above men
tioned, and afterwards put the other end into the same fluid.
No action of the acid upon the iron took place. From a si
milar experiment made upon a cylindrical iron bar of 1 6' in
length and 4'" diameter the same result was obtained. The
limits of this protecting influence of oxide of iron with regard
to quantities I have not yet ascertained ; but as to the influ
ence of heat, I found that above the temperature of about 75°
the acid acts in the common way upon iron, and in the same
manner also, at common temperatures, when the said acid con
tains water beyond a certain quantity, for instance, 1, 10, 100,
and even 1000 times its volume. By immersing an iron wire
in nitric acid of sp. gr. 1*5 it becomes likewise indifferent to
the same acid of 1*35.

54 Prof. Schoenbein on a peculiar Voltaic Condition of Iron,
   But by far the most curious fact observed by me is, that
any number of iron wires may be made indifferent to nitric
acid by the following means. An iron wire with one of its
ends oxidized is made to touch another common iron wire ;
both are then introduced into nitric acid of sp. gr. 1*35, so
as to immerse the oxidized end of the one wire first into
the fluid, and to have part of both wires above the level of
the acid. Under these circumstances no chemical action upon
the wires will take place, for the second wire is, of course, but
a continuation of that provided with an oxidized end. But
no action occurs, even after the wires have been separated
from each other. If the second wire having become indif
ferent be now taken out of the acid and made to touch at any
of its parts not having been immersed a third wire, and both
again introduced into the acid so as to make that part of the
second wire which had previously been in the fluid enter first,
either of the wires will be acted upon either during their
contact or after their separation. In this manner the third
wire can make indifferent or passive a fourth one, and so on.
   Another fact, which has as yet, as far as I know, not been
observed, is the following one. A wire made indifferent by
any of the means before mentioned is immersed in nitric acid
of sp. gr. 1*35, so as to have a considerable part of it remaining
out of the fluid ; another common wire is put into the same
acid, likewise having one of its ends rising above the level of
the fluid. The part immersed of this wire will, of course, be
acted upon in a lively manner. If the ends of the wires which
are out of the acid be now made to touch one another, the
indifferent wire will instantly be turned into an active one,
whatever may be the lengths of the parts of the wires not im
mersed. (If there is any instance of chemical affinity being
transmitted in the form of a current by means of conducting
bodies, I think the fact just stated may be considered as such.)
It is a matter of course that direct contact between the two
wires in question is not an indispensably necessary condition
for communicating chemical activity from the active wire to
the passive one ; for any metal connecting the two ends of
the wires renders the same service.
   Before passing to another subject, 1 must mention a fact,
which seems to be one of some importance. An iron wire
curved into a fork is made to touch at its bend, a wire pro
vided with an oxidized end ; in this state of contact both are
introduced into nitric acid of sp. gr. 1*35 and 30°, so as
first to immerse in the acid the oxidized end ; the fork will,
of course, not be affected. If now a common iron wire be
put into the acid, and one of the ends of the fork touched by
it, this end will immediately be acted upon, whilst the other

                  in a Letter to Mr. Faraday.                     55
end remains passive; but as soon as the iron wire with the
oxidized end is put out of contact with the bend of the fork,
its second end is also turned active. If the parts of the fork
rising above the level of the acid be touched by an iron wire,
part of which is immersed and active in the acid, no commu
nication of chemical activity will take place, and both ends of
the fork remain passive; but by the removal of the iron wire
(with the oxidized end) from the bend of the fork this will be
thrown into chemical action.
   As all the phenomena spoken of in the preceding lines are,
no doubt, in some way or other dependent upon a peculiar
electrical state of the wires, I was very curious to see in what
manner iron would be acted upon by nitric acid when used
as an electrode. For this purpose I made use of that form
of the pile called the couronne des tasscs, consisting of fifteen
pairs of zinc and copper. A platina wire was connected with
 (what we call) the negative pole of the pile, an iron wire with
the positive one. The free end of the platina wire was first
plunged into nitric acid sp.gr. 1-35, and by the free end of
the iron wire the circuit closed. Under these circumstances
the iron was not in the least affected by the acid ; and it re
mained indifferent to the fluid not only as long as the cur
rent was passing through it, but even after it had ceased to
perform the function of die positive electrode. The iron wire
proved, in fact, to be possessed of all the properties of what
we have called a passive one. If such a wire is made to
touch the negative electrode, it instantaneously becomes an
active one and a nitrate of iron is formed ; whether it be sepa
rate from the positive pole or still connected with it, and the
acid be strong or weak.
   But another phenomenon is dependent upon the passive
state of the iron, which phenomenon is in direct contradiction
with all the assertions hitherto made by philosophical experi
position of The
menters.           contained
             wateroxygen   at the
                               in the
                                   anode
                                      acid,arising from
                                             does not   the decom-
                                                      combine  with
the iron serving as the electrode, but is evolved at it, just in
the same manner as if it were platina, and to such a volume
as to bear the ratio of 1 : 2 to the quantity of hydrogen evolved
at the cathode. To obtain this result I made use of an acid
containing 20 times its volume of water; I found, however,
that an acid containing 400 times its volume of water still
shows the phasnomenon in a very obvious manner. But
I must repeat it, the indispensable condition for causing the
evolution of the oxygen at the iron wire is to close the circuit
exactly in the same manner as above mentioned. For if, ex
empli gratia, the circuit be closed with the negative platina
wire, not one single bubble of oxygen gas makes its appear

 56 Prof. Schoenbein on a peculiar Voltaic Condition ofIron.
 ance at the positive iron ; neither is oxygen given out at it,
 when the circuit is closed, by plunging first one end of the
 iron wire into the nitric acid, and by afterward sputting its
 other end in connexion with the positive pole of the pile. In
 both cases a nitrate of iron is formed, even in an acid con
 taining 400 times its volume of water ; which salt may be
easily observed descending from the iron wire in the shape of
 brownish-yellow-coloured streaks.
    I have still to state the remarkable fact, that if the evolution
of oxygen at the anode be ever so rapidly going on, and the
iron wire made to touch the negative electrode within the
acid, the disengagement of oxygen is discontinued, not only du
 ring the time of contact of the wires, but after the electrodes
 have been separated from each other. A few moments hold
ing the iron wire out of the acid is, however, sufficient to re-
 communicate to it the property of letting oxygen gas evolve
at its surface. By the same method the wire acquires its evolv
ing power again, whatever may have been the cause of its
loss. The evolution of oxygen also takes place in dilute sul
phuric and phosphoric acids, provided, however, the circuit
be closed in the manner above described. It is worthy of
remark, that the disengagement of oxygen at the iron in the
last-named acids is much easier stopt, and much more difficult
to be caused again, than is the case in nitric acid. In an
aqueous solution of caustic potash, oxygen is evolved at the
  ositive iron, in whatever manner the circuit may be closed,
  ut no such disengagement takes place in aqueous solutions of
hydracids, chlorides, bromides, iodides, fluorides. The oxy
gen, resulting in these cases from the decomposition of water,
and the anion (chlorine, bromine, &c.) of the other electrolyte
decomposed combine at the same time with the iron.
    To generalize these facts, it may be said, that independently
of the manner of closing the circuit, oxygen is always dis
engaged at the positive iron, provided the aqueous fluid in
which it is immersed do not (in a sensible manner) chemically
act upon it ; and that no evolution of oxygen at the anode
in contact with iron under any circumstances takes place, if
besides oxygen another anion is set free possessed of a strong
affinity for iron. This metal having once had oxygen evolved
at itself, proves always to be indifferent to nitric acid of a cer
tain strength, whatever may be the chemical nature of the fluid
in which the phenomenon has taken place.
   I have made a series of experiments upon silver, copper,
tin, lead, cadmium, bismuth, zinc, mercury, but none showed
any resemblance to iron, for all of them were oxidized when
serving as positive electrodes. Having at this present mo
ment neither cobalt nor nickel at my command, I could not

    Mr. Faraday on a peculiar Voltaic Condition of Iron.             57
try these magnetic metals, which I strongly suspect to act in
the same manner as iron does.
    It appears from what I have just stated that the anomalous
bearing of the iron has nothing to do with its degree of affi
nity for oxygen, but must be founded upon something else.
Your sagacity, which has already penetrated into so many
mysteries of nature, will easily put away the veil which as yet
covers the phenomenon stated in my letter, in case you
should think it worth while to make it the object of your re
searches.
    Before I finish I must beg of you the favour of overlooking
with indulgence the many faults I have, no doubt, committed
in my letter. Formerly I was tolerably well acquainted with
your native tongue ; but now, having been out of practice in
writing or speaking it, it is rather hard work to me to express
myself in English.
    It is hardly necessary to say that you may privately or
publicly make any use of the contents of this letter.
                     I am, Sir, your most obedient Servant,
                                              C. T. Schoenbein,
   Bile, May 17, 1836.         Prof, of Chem. in the University of Bile.
       Dear Phillips,
    The preceding letter from Professor Schoenbein, which I
received a week or two ago, contains facts of such interest in
relation to the first principles of chemical electricity, that I
think you will be glad to publish it in your Philosophical Ma
gazine. I send it to you unaltered, except in a word or two
here and there; but am encouraged by what I consider the
 Professor's permission (or rather the request with which he
has honoured me,) to add a few results in confirmation of the
 effects described, and illustrative of some conclusions that
may be drawn from the facts.
    The influence of the oxidized iron wire, the transference of
 the inactive state from wire to wire, and the destruction of that
state, are the facts I have principally verified ; but they are so
well described by Professor Schoenbein that I will not add
a word to what he has said on these points, but go at once to
other results.
    Iron wire, as M. Schoenbein has stated, when put alone in
 to strong nitric acid, either wholly or partly immersed, ac
 quires the peculiar inactive state. This I find takes place best
 in a long narrow close vessel, such as a tube, rather than in
 a flat broad open one like a dish. When thus rendered qui

 58    Mr. Faraday on a peculiar Voltaic Condition ofIron.
 escent by itself, it has the same properties and relations as that
 to which the power has been communicated from other wires.
    If a piece of ordinary iron wire be plunged wholly or in part
 into nitric acid of about specific gravity 1-3 or 1*35, and after
 action has commenced it be touched by a piece of platina wire,
also dipping into the acid, the action between the acid and the
iron wire is instantly stopped. The immersed portion of the
iron becomes quite bright, andremains so, and is in fact in the
 same state, and can be used in the same manner as the iron
rendered inactive by the means already described. This pro
 tecting power of platina with respect to iron is very constant
 and distinct, and is the more striking as being an effect the
 very reverse of that which might have been anticipated prior
 to the knowledge of M. Schoenbein's results. It is equally
 exerted if the communication between it and the iron is not
immediate, but made by other metals; as, for instance, the
wire of a galvanometer ; and if circumstances be favourable,
 a small surface of platina will reduce and nullify the action of
 the acid upon a large surface of iron.
   This effect is the more striking if it be contrasted with that
produced by zinc ; for the latter metal, instead of protecting
the iron, throws it into violent action with the nitric acid, and
determines its quick and complete solution. The phenomena
are well observed by putting the iron wire into nitric acid of
the given strength, and touching it in the acid alternately by
pieces of platina and zinc : it becomes active or inactive ac
cordingly; being preserved by association with the platina,
and corroded by association with the zinc. So also, as M.
Schoenbein has stated, if iron be made the negative electrode
of a battery containing from two to ten or more pairs of plates
in such acid, it is violently acted upon ; but when rendered
the positive electrode, although oxidized and dissolved, the
process, comparatively, is extremely slow.
   Gold has the same power over iron immersed in the nitric
acid that.platina has. Even silver has a similar action ; but
from its relation to the acid, the effect is attended with pecu
liar and changeable results, which I will refer to hereafter.
   A piece of box-wood charcoal, and also charcoal from other
sources, has this power of preserving iron, and bringing it
into the inactive state. Plumbago, as might be expected, has
the same power.
   When a piece of bright steel was first connected with a piece
of platina, then the platina dipped into the acid, and lastly the
steel immersed, according to the order directed in the former
cases by Professor Schoenbein, the steel was preserved by the
platina* and remained clear and bright in the acid, even after

    Mr. Faraday on a peculiar Voltaic Condition of Iron.        59
the platina was separated from it, having, in fact, the proper
ties of the inactive iron. "When immersed of itself, there was
at first action of the usual kind, which, being followed by the
appearance of the black carbonaceous crust, known so well in
the common process ofexamining steel, the action immediately
ceased, and the steel was preserved, not only at the part im
mersed, but upon introducinga furtherportion, it also remained
clean and bright, being actually protected by association with
the carbon evolved on the part first immersed.
   When the iron is in this peculiar inactive state, as M. Schoen-
bein has stated, there is not the least action between it and the
nitric acid. I have retained such iron in nitric acid, both
alone and in association with platina wire for 30 days, without
change ; the metal has remained perfectly bright, and not a
particle has been dissolved.
   A piece of iron wire in connexion with platina wire was
entirely immersed in nitric acid of the given strength, and the
latter gradually heated. No change took place until the acid
was nearly at the boiling-point, when it and the iron suddenly
entered into action, and the latter was instantly dissolved.
   As an illustration of the extent and influence of this state,
I may mention, that with a little management it can be shown
that the iron has lost, when in the peculiar state, even its power
of precipitating copper and other metals. A mixture of about
equal parts of a solution of nitrate of copper and nitric acid
was made. Iron in the ordinary, or even in the peculiar state,
when put into this solution, acted, and copper was precipitated ;
but if the inactive iron was first connected with a piece of pla
tina dipping into the solution, and then its own prepared sur
face immersed, after a few seconds the platina might be re
moved, and the iron would remain pure and bright for some
time. At last it usually started into activity, and began to pre
cipitate copper, being itself rapidly corroded. When silver
is the metal in solution, the. effect is still more striking, and
will be referred to immediately.
   I then used a galvanometer as the means of connexion be
tween the iron and other metals thus associated together in
nitric acid, for the purpose of ascertaining, by the electric cur
rents produced, in what relative condition the metals stood to
each other; and I will, in the few results I may have to describe,
use the relations of platina and zinc to each other as the terms
under of comparison by which to indicate the states of these
metals various circumstances.
   The oxidized iron wire of Professor Schoenbein is, when in
association with platina, exacdy as another piece of platina
would be. There is no chemical action, nor any electric cur

 60     Mr. Faraday on a peculiar Voltaic Condition of Iron.
 rent. The iron wire rendered inactive either by association
 with the oxidized wire or in any other way, is also as platina
 to the platina, and produces no current.
     When ordinary iron and platina in connexion by means of
 the galvanometer are dipped into the acid, (it matters not which
 first,) there is action at the first moment on the iron, and a
 very strong electric current, the iron being as zinc to the pla
 tina. The action on the iron is, however, soon stopped by
 the influence of the platina, and then the current instantly
 ceases, the iron now acting as platina to the platina. If the
 iron be lifted into the air for a moment until action recom
 mences on it, and be then reimmersed, it again produces a
 current, acting as zinc to the platina ; but as before, the mo
 ment the action stops, the current is stopt also.
     If an active or ordinary, and an inactive or peculiar iron
 wire be both immersed in the nitric acid separately, and then
 connected either directly or through the galvanometer, the se
 cond does not render the first inactive, but is itself thrown into
action by it. At the first moment of contact, however, a strong
 electric current is formed, the first iron acting as zinc, and the
 second as platina. Immediately that the chemical action is
 reestablished at the second as well as the first, all current
ceases, and both pieces act like zinc. On touching either of
them in the acid with a piece of platina, both are protected,
and cease to act; but there is no current through the galva
nometer, for both change together.
    When iron was associated with gold or charcoal, the pha?-
nomena were the same. Using steel instead of iron, like ef
fects ensued.
    One of the most valuable results in the present state of this
branch of science which these experiments afford, is the addi
tional proof that voltaic electricity is due to chemical action, and
not to contact. The proof is equally striking and decisive with
that which I was able to give in the Eighth Series of my Ex
perimental Researches (par. 880)*. What indeed can show
more evidently that the current of electricity is due to chemi
cal action rather than to contact, than the fact, that though
the contact is continued, yet when the chemical action ceases,
the current ceases also ?
    It might at first be supposed, that in consequence of the
peculiar state of the iron, there was some obstacle, not merely
to theformation of a current, but to the passage of one ; and
that, therefore, the current which metallic contact tended to
produce could not circulate in the system. This supposition
was, however, negatived by removing the platina wire into a
         * See Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. vi. p. 36.—Edit.

     Mr. Faraday on a peculiar Voltaic Condition of Iron.        61
second cup of nitric acid, and then connecting the two cups by
a compound platina and iron wire, putting the platina into the
first vessel, and the iron attached to it into the second. The
second wire acted at the first moment, producing its correspond
ing current, which passed through the first cup, and conse
quently through the first and inactive wire, and affected the
galvanometer in the usual way. As soon as the second iron
was brought into the peculiar condition, the current of course
ceased ; but that very cessation showed that the electric cur
rent was not stopped by a want of conducting power, or a
want of metallic contact, for both remained unchanged, but
by the absence of chemical action. These experiments, in
which the current ceases whilst contact is continued, combined
with those I formerly gave, in which the current is produced
though contact does not exist, form together a perfect body
 of evidence in respect to this elementary principle of voltaic
 action.
    With respect to the state of the iron when inactive in the
nitric acid, it must not be confounded with the inactive state
 of amalgamated or pure zinc in dilute sulphuric acid. The
 distinction is easily made by the contact of platina with either
 in the respective acids, for with the iron such association does
 nothing, whereas with the zinc it develops the full force of
 that metal and generates a powerful electric current. The
 iron is in fact as if it had no attraction for oxygen, and there
 fore could not act on the electrolyte present, and consequently
 could produce no current. My strong impression is that the
 surface of the iron is oxidized, or that the superficial particles
 ofthe metal are in such relation to the oxygen ofthe electrolyte
 as to be equivalent to an oxidation ; and that having thus their
 affinity for oxygen satisfied, and not being dissolved by the acid
 under the circumstances, there is no renewal ofthe metallic sur
 face no reiteration of the attraction of successive particles of the
 iron on the elements of successive portions of the electrolyte,
  and therefore not those successive chemical actions by which
  the electric current (which is definite in its production as well
  as in its action) can be continued.
     In support of this view I may observe, that in the first ex
  periment described by Professor Schoenbein, it cannot be
  doubted that the formation of a coat of oxide over the iron
  when heated is the cause of its peculiar and inactive state :
  the coat of oxide is visible by its colour. In the next place
  all the forms of experiment by which this iron, or platina, or
  charcoal, or other voltaic arrangements are used to bring or
  dinary iron into the peculiar state, are accompanied by a de
   termination of oxygen to the surface of the iron; this is shown

 62   Mr. Faraday on a peculiar Voltaic Condition of Iron.
by the electric current produced at the first moment, and
which in sucli cases always precedes the change of the iron
from the common to the peculiar state. That the coat of
oxide produced by common means might be so thin as not to
be sensible and yet be effectual, was shown by heating a piece
of iron an inch or two from the end, so that though blue at
the heated part, the end did not seem in the slightest degree
affected, and yet that end was in the peculiar state. Again,
whether the iron be oxidized in the flame much or only to the
very slight degree just described, or be brought into the pe
culiar state by voltaic association with other pieces or with
platina, &c, still if a part of its surface were removed even in
the smallest degree and then the new surface put into contact
with the nitric acid, that part was at the first moment as com
mon iron ; the state being abundantly evident by the electrical
current produced at the instant of immersion.
   Why the superficial film of oxide which I suppose to be
formed when the iron is brought into the peculiar state by
voltaic association, or occasionally by immersion alone into
nitric acid, is not dissolved by the acid, is I presume dependent
upon the peculiarities of this oxide and of nitric acid of the
strength required for these experiments ; but as a matter of
fact it is well known that the oxide produced upon the surface
of iron by heat, and showing itself by thin films of various
colours, is scarcely touched by nitric acid of the given strength
though left in contact with it for days together. That this
does not depend upon the film having any great thickness,
but upon its peculiar condition, is rendered probable from the
fact that iron oxidized by heat, only in that slight degree as
to offer no difference to the eye, has been left in nitric acid of
the given strength for weeks together without any change. And
that this mode of superficial oxidation, or this kind of oxide,
may occur in the voltaic cases, is rendered probable by the
results of the oxidation of iron in nitrate of silver. When
nitrate of silver is fused and common iron dipped into it, so
as to be thoroughly wetted, being either alone or in associa
tion with platina, the iron does not commence a violent action
on the nitrate and throw down silver, but it is gradually oxi
dized on the surface with exactly the same appearances of
colour, uniformity of surface, &c, as if it were slowly oxi
dized by heat in the air.
   Professor Schoenbein has stated the case ofiron when acting
as the positive electrode of a couronne des tosses. If that in
strument be in strong action, or if an ordinary battery be used
containing from two to ten or more plates, the positive iron in
stantly becomes covered in the nitric acid with a coat of oxide,

    Mr. Faraday on a peculiar Voltaic Condition of Iron.      63
which though it does not adhere closely still is not readily dis
solved by the acid when the connexion with the battery is
broken, but remains for many hours on the iron, which itself
is in the peculiar inactive state. If the power of the voltaic
apparatus be very weak, the coat of oxide on the iron in the
nitric acid often assumes a blue tint like that of the oxide
formed by heat. A part of the iron is however always dis
solved in these cases.
   Jf it be allowed that the surface particles of the iron are
associated with oxygen, are in fact oxidized, then all the other
actions of it in combination with common iron and other
metals will be consistent; and the cause of its platina-like
action, of its forming a strong voltaic current with common
iron in the first instance, and then being thrown into action
by it, will be explained by considering it as having the power
of determining and disposing of a certain portion of hydrogen
from the electrolyte at the first moment and being at the same
time brought into a free metallic condition on the surface so
as to act afterwards as ordinary iron.
   I need scarcely refer here to the probable existence of a
very close connexion between the phenomena which Professor
Schoenbein has thus pointed out with regard to iron, and those
which have been observed by others, as Hitter and Marianini,
with regard to secondary piles, and A. De la Rive with respect
to peculiar affections of platina surfaces.
   In my Experimental Researches (par. 476.) I have recorded
a case of voltaic excitement, which very much surprised me
at the time, but which I can now explain. I refer to the fact
stated, that when platina and iron wire were connected vol-
taically in association with fused nitrate or chloride of silver,
there was an electric current produced, but in the reverse di
rection to that expected. On repeating the experiment I
found that when iron was associated with platina or silver in
fused nitrate or chloride of silver, there was occasionally no
current, and when a current did occur it was almost con
stantly as if the iron was as platina, the silver or platina
used being as zinc. In all such cases, however, it was a
thermo-electric current which existed. The volta-electric
current could not be obtained, or lasted only for a moment.
   When iron in the peculiar inactive state was associated with
silver in nitric acid sp. gr. 1'35, there was an electric cur
rent, the iron acting as platina ; the silver gradually became
tarnished and the current continued for some time. When
ordinary iron and silver were used in the nitric acid there was
immediate action and a current, the iron being as zinc, to the
silver as platina. In a few moments the current was reversed,

64    Mr. Faraday on a peculiar Voltaic Condition of Iron.
and the relation of the metals was also reversed, the iron being
as platina, to the silver as zinc ; then another inversion took
place, and then another, and thus the changes went on some
times eight or nine times together, ending at last generally in
a current constant in its direction, the iron being as zinc, to
the silver as platina : occasionally the reverse was the case, the
predominant current being as if the silver acted as zinc.
    This relation of iron to silver, which was before referred to
page 58, produces some curious results as to the precipitation
of one metal by another. If a piece of clean iron is put into
an aqueous solution of nitrate of silver, there is no immediate
apparent change of any kind. After several days the iron will
become slightly discoloured, and small irregular crystals of sil
ver will appear; but the action is so slow as to require time and
care for its observation. When a solution of nitrate of silver
to which a little nitric acid had been added was used, there
was still no sensible immediate action on the iron. When the
solution was rendered very acid, then there was direct imme
diate action on the iron; it became covered with a coat of pre
cipitated silver: the action then suddenly ceased, the silver was
immediately redissolved, and the iron left perfectly clear, in
the peculiar condition, and unable to cause any further preci
pitation of the silver from the solution. It is a remarkable
thing in this experiment to see the silver rapidly dissolve away
in a solution which cannot touch the iron, and to see the iron
in a clean metallic state unable to precipitate the silver.
   Iron and platina in an aqueous solution of nitrate of silver
produce no electric current; both act as platina. When the
solution is rendered a little acid by nitric acid, there is a very
feeble current for a moment, the iron being as zinc. When
still more acid is added so as to cause the iron to precipitate
silver, there is a strong current whilst that action lasts, but
when it ceases the current ceases, and then it is that the
silver is redissolved. The association of the platina with the
iron evidently helps much to stop the action.
   When iron is associated with mercury, copper, lead, tin,
zinc, and some other metals, in an aqueous solution of nitrate
of silver, it produces a constant electric current, but always
acts the part ofplatinum. This is perhaps most striking with
mercury and copper, because of the marked contrast it affords
to the effects produced in dilute sulphuric acid and most or
dinary solutions. The constancy of the current even causes
crystals of silver to form on the iron as the negative electrode.
It might at first seem surprising that the power which tends
to reduce silver on the iron negative electrode did not also
bring back the iron from its peculiar state, whether that be a

       M. Berthier on the Magnetic Action of Manganese.                65
state of oxidation or not. But it must be remembered that
the moment a particle of silver is reduced on the iron, it not
only tends to keep the iron in the peculiar state according to
the facts before described, but also acts as the negative elec
trode, and there is no doubt that the current of electricity
which continues to circulate through the solution passes es
sentially between it and the silver, and not between it and the
iron, the latter metal being merely the conductor interposed
between the silver and the copper extremities of the metallic
arrangement.
    I am afraid you will think I have pursued this matter to a
greater length than it deserves; but I have been exceedingly
interested by M. Schoenbein's researches, and cannot help
thinking that the peculiar condition of iron which he has
pointed out will (whatever it may depend upon) enable us
hereafter more closely to examine the surface-action of the
metals and electrolytes when they are associated in voltaic
combinations, and so give us a just knowledge of the nature
of the two modes of action by which particles under the in
fluence of the same power can produce either local effects of
 combination or current affinity*.
                       I am, my dear Phillips, very truly yours,
 Royal Institution, June 16, 1836.                         M. FARADAY.
 XIII. Notice of the Magnetic Action of Manganese at Low
     Temperatures, asstated by M. Berthier. In a letter from
     Mr. Faraday.
    To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
       Gentlemen,
 r I ""HE following fact, stated by M. Berthier, has great interest
       to me, in consequence of the views I have taken of the
 general magnetic relations and characters of the metals. As
 you have done me the favour to publish these views in your
 Magazine f, perhaps you will think the present note also
 worth a place in the next Number.
     Berthier in his Traite des Essais par la Voie Seche, tome i.
 p. 532, has the following passage in his account of the physical
 properties of the metals. " Magnetism.—There are only
 three metals which are habitually endowed with magnetic
 force : these are iron, cobalt, and nickel ; but manganese also
 possesses it beneath a certain degree of temperature much below
 zero." There is no reference to any account of this experi-
    • Experimental Researches, Eighth Series, parr. 947- 996. [or Lond. and
 Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. vi. pp. 174, 337.—Edit.]
    t See Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. viii. p. 177.—Edit.
  Third Series. Vol.9. No. 51. July 1836.                         I

                            Zoological Society,
mental result, and it is therefore probable that M. Berthier
himself has observed the fact, in which case it cannot be
doubted ; but the result is so important that any one possess
ing pure manganese who can verify the result and give an ac
count of the degree of temperature at which the change takes
place, will be doing a service to science. The great point will
be to secure the perfect absence of iron or nickel from the man
ganese. With respect to cobalt, I have already stated that
when pure, I cannot find it to possess magnetic properties at
common or low temperatures.
                                   I am, Gentlemen, yours, Sec,
Royal Institution, June 17, 1836.                             M. FARADAY.
              XIV.      Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                          ZOOLOGICAL
                    [Continued             viii. page 348.]
                                 from vol.SOCIETY.
Dec. 8, CPECIMENS were exhibited of various Birds chiefly from
 1835. ^ the Society's collection, which Mr. Gould regarded as
hitherto undescribed. At the request of the Chairman he pointed
out the distinguishing peculiarities of the undermentioned species :
viz. Phoenicura plumbea, Pyrgita cinnamomea, Merula castanca,\Sauro-
phagus Swainsonii, Brachypus gularis, Merula Nestor, lanthocincla
pectoralis, and Ianth. albogularis ; and also the following new genus.
                              Stbnorhynchus.
   Rostrum capite longius, gracile, compressum, subfornicatum ;
      mandibul& superiore leviter emarginata, culmine in frontem de-
      pressissimum producto.
   Nares ovales, apertse.
   Alee breviusculse, subrotundatae ; remige lma brevissima, 4ta lon-
      giore ; 5ta et 6ta 4tam subxquantibus.
   Cauda mediocris, rotundata ; rectricibus decern ?
   Pedes robusti: acrotarsis subscutellatis ; halluce ungueqae pos-
      mediofortibus,
      tico            tarsum longitudine subsequantibus, digito inter-
             brevioribus.
   Plumte molles.
   Stenorhynchus ruficauda. Sten. suprtl sordide saturate brun-
      neus, rufo caudtim versus tinctus; caudd, secundariis, scapulari-
      busque saturate rufo-brunneis ; subtue brunnescenti-cinereus, in
      rufo-brvnneum ad latera vergens.
   Hab.
   Long. tot.nigrum
   Rostrum            ; pedes
               94- poll.;      brunnei.
                           rostri, 14; aUe, 44; caudee, 3-)-; tarsi, 1.
   As only one specimen of this bird has yet been seen, it is doubt
ful whether it may not possess twelve tail-feathers; but, after a care
      paper was read,
fulAexamination,         Gould can
                   Mr. entitled    " Memoire
                                     discover no      uue than
                                                 surmore        ten. Espece
                                                            Nouvelle

                           Zoological Society.                      67
de PoisBon du Genre Histiophore, de la Mer Rouge : par M. E. Riip-
pell, M.D., M«mb. Ext. Z. S." It was accompanied by a drawing
©f the fish described in it.
   MM. Cuvier and Valenciennes have described, in their ' Histoire
Naturelle des Poissons,' three species of Sword-fishes of the genus
Histiophorus ; from all of which Dr. Riippell regards his fish as di
stinct, although it apparently approaches most nearly to Hist. Ante-
rictmus : it should seem that its occurrence at Djetta, on the coast
of Arabia, was only accidental, as the Arab fishermen knew no name
for it. The most striking peculiarity of the new speeies is the uni
formity of the colour of its dorsal fin : in all those which were pre
viously known the first dorsal fin is varied with spots ; in the one
obtained by Dr. Riippell, the first dorsal fin is black throughout and
destitute of spots, on which account its discoverer proposes for it
the name of
   Histiophorus immaeulatus, under which its characters are given in
the Society's " Proceedings."
   Dr. Riippell describes the fish in considerable detail. He has not,
however, examined it anatomically, on account of his possessing
only one specimen, which he had deposited in the Frankfort Mu
seum.
   The following notes by Sir Robert Heron, Bart., were read.
   " In many books that I have seen some errors are made in the
history of the Kangaroos, which my long possession of those animals
enables me to correct.
   " The great Kangaroo does not make use of his tail in leaping.
He uses it in walking, and still more in standing. When excited,
he stands (the male only) on tip-toe and on his tail ; and is then of
prodigious height. In fighting he does not stand on the tail and one
kg, but balances himself for a moment on the tail only, and strikes
forward with both hind legs.
   " The bttsh Kangaroo, or Kanguru enfume of Cuvier, never uses
his legs in fighting. He generally contents himself with threatening
with his teeth and a low growl ; but I have seen him, when attacked
by an Emu, jump up at the bird's head. Neither of them, however,
has persevered in annoyance.
   " When sitting in a state of repose the great Kangaroo throws the
tail behind him: the lesser one before him, between his legs."
   The following note by Sir Robert Heron, Bart., was also read, as
giving an account of an extraordinary instance of want of sagacity
in a Dog.
   " A large old white female terrier followed me this autumn from
Grantham. She remained perfectly satisfied for three weeks, when,
on my again going to attend the petty sessions, she again followed me,
I then found that she belonged to one of my colleagues, the Rev. Mr.
Ottley ; and that she had long been a great favourite in the family,
¦who were greatly distressed at her loss. It happened that Mr. Ottley
and I each rode a chestnut pony with a long tail. This had com
pletely deceived the dog, whose unsentimental friendship did not
prompt her to ask any further questions."

68                         Zoological Society.
    Dec. 22.—Specimens were exhibited of several Rodent animals
collected during his survey of the Straits of Magalhaens, by Capt.
P. P. King, R.N., Corr. Memb. Z. S., and presented by him to
the Society. They were accompanied by some notes by Capt. King,
which were read.
     In bringing the animals severally under the notice of the Meeting,
Mr. Bennett first directed particular attention to one of them, which
constituted, in his estimation, a new species in the genus Ctenomys,
Blainv. To elucidate its relations with the nearly allied genera of
Herbivorous Rodentia, Octodon, Benn., and Poepliagomys, F. Cuv.,
a specimen of Octodon Cumingii was exhibited and compared with
it; and Mr. Bennett stated his intention of entering with some
 detail into the subject in a paper which he proposed to prepare
upon it.
     In the structure of its molar teeth, Octodon may be regarded as
 occupying an intermediate station between Poephagomys and Cteno
 mys. In Octodon the molars of the upper jaw differ remarkably in
 form from those of the lower. The upper molars have on their inner
 side a slight fold of enamel, indicating a groove tending in some
 measure to separate on this aspect the mass of the tooth into two
 cylinders : on their outer side a similar fold penetrates more deeply,
 and behind it the crown of the tooth does not project outwardly to so
 great an extent as it does in front. If each molar tooth of the upper
 jaw be regarded as composed of two partially united cylinders,
 slightly compressed from before backwards, and somewhat oblique
 in their direction, the anterior of these cylinders might be described
 as entire, and the posterior as being truncated by the removal of its
 outer half. Of such teeth there are, in the upper jaw of Octodon,
 on each side, four ; the hindermost being the smallest, and that in
 which the peculiar form is least strongly marked. In Ctenomys, all
 the molar teeth, both of the upper and the lower jaw, correspond
 with the structure that exists in the upper jaw of Octodon, excepting
  that their crowns are slenderer and more obliquely placed, whence
 the external cmargination becomes less sharply defined ; and also
  excepting that the hinder molar in each jaw is so small as to be
 almost evanescent : as is generally the case, however, the relative
 position of the teeth is counterchanged, and the deficiency in the
  outline of the crown of the tooth, which in the upper jaw is external,
  is, in the lower jaw, internal. In the lower jaw of Octodon the crowns
  of the molars assume a figure very different from those of the upper,
  dependent chiefly on the prolongation of the hinder portion of the
  tooth to the same lateral extent as its anterior part : each of them
  consists of two cylinders, not disjoined in the middle where the bony
  portion of the crown is continuous, but partially separated by a fold
  of enamel on either side producing a corresponding notch ; placed
  obliquely with respect to the jaw they resemble, in some measure, a
  figure of 8 with its elements flattened obliquely, pressed towards
  each other, and not connected by the transverse middle bars. With
  the lower molars of Octodon those of Poephagomys, as figured by M. F.
   Cuvier, correspond in structure in both jaws. Octodon thus exhibits,

                          Zoological Society.                         69
in its dissimilar molars, the types of two genera : the molars of its
npper jaw represent those of both jaws of Ctenomys ; those of its
lower jaw correspond with the molars of both jaws of Poephagomys.
   The characters distinguishing the new species of Ctenomys are
chiefly those of colour. The Cten. Brasiliensis is described by M. de
Blainville as being shining rufous above, and reddish white below.
The new species may be characterized as the Ctenomys Magellanicus.
Captain King states that this " little animal is very timid ; feeds
upon grass ; and is eaten by the Patagonian Indians. It inhabits
holes, which it burrows, in the ground : and, from the number of the
holes, it would appear to be very abundant."
   A second animal exhibited appears, like the preceding, to represent
in the more southern latitudes of South America a genus whose type
was originally observed in Brasil. Mr. Bennett regarded it as a
second species of Kerodon, F. Cuv., chiefly distinguishable from the
one discovered by Prince Maximilian of Wied by its more uniform
colour. Excepting a slight dash of white behind the ear, and a
longer line of the same colour marking the edge of each branch of
the lower jaw, the animal is entirely grey ; the upper surface being
distinguished from the under by a greater depth of tint, and by the in
termixture of a free grizzling of yellow and black. The crowns of
the molar teeth, as in the typical species, consist of bone surrounded
by two triangles of enamel, the bases of which are connected together
by a short line of enamel passing from the one to the other : all the
lines being slender and sharply defined.
   For this species Mr. Bennett proposed the name of Kerodon
Kingii.
   The third animal exhibited was remarked on as constituting a new
species of Cavy, distinct from all those that were previously known,
including the two which have recently been described by M. Brandt
in the ' Nouveaux Memoires de l'Acadeniie Imperiale de St. Peters-
bourg.' Mr. Bennett characterized it as the Cavia Cutleri, King
MSS.
   The general form of the animal is probably similar to that of the
restless Cavy, Cavia Cobaya, Gmel., popularly known as the Guinea-
pig. It is covered universally by long, smooth, glossy, black hairs,
which are slightly tinged with brown. Its ears are rather large,
broadly expanded, and hairy ; and between them the hairs are longer
than those on the adjoining parts, occasioning a slight appearance of
a crest. On the middle of each cheek the hairs radiate as from a
centre, almost in a similar manner to that in which they spread from
around the crown of the bonneted Monkeys, and the skin is conse
quently left in the middle point almost bare. The dentition is alto
gether that of the restless Cavy, and the incisors, as in it, are white.
The skull is rather more expanded laterally, which gives to it an
appearance of comparative flatness.
   " This animal was known, on the survey, by the name of the Pe
ruvian Cavy. The specimen in the Society's collection was presented
to one of the officers of the Beagle by an American sailing-master,

70                          Zoological Society.
of Stonington, U.S., a very intelligent person, to 'whom we were
much indebted. The trivial name which I have proposed for it is in
recollection of the benefit we derived from his experience and know
ledge of the intricate navigation of the south-western coast of Pata
gonia, which was freely imparted to us on several occasions."—
P. P. K.
     The collection also contained specimens of a Mouse, for which
Mr. Bennett proposed the name of Mus Magellanicus.
     Specimens were exhibited of several Marsupialia, on which Mr.
Ogilby made the following remarks.
     "A small collection of Marsupial Quadrupeds, which Mr. Gould
lately received from his brother-in-law, Mr. Coxen, contains two or
three interesting species, which the usual kindness of Mr. Gould
 enables me to notice. They were all procured, as I am informed, in
 the country beyond the Hunter River, about eighty miles north of
 Sydney in New South Wales. The most remarkable is an unde-
 scribed species of Phalanger, which I propose to call
     Phalangista Carina. It is similar in size and general proportions
 to Phal. Vulpina, and the two allied species described in the ' Pro
 ceedings ' for 1830-31, page 135, (Phil. Mag. and Annals, N.S., vol.
 jri. p. 133.) but is easily distinguished from them all by the small
 size and round form of the ears, as well as by the distribution of
 the colours. All the upper parts of the body, the head, cheeks, back,
 sides, and outer face of the arms and thighs are of a uniform grizzled
 brown ; the throat, breast, belly, and interior of the members dirty
 ashy grey with a slight shade of yellow. The ears are only an inch
 in length and about the same in breadth, being thus little more than
 half as long as in Phal. Vulpina. They are naked within, but co
 vered with deep coffee-coloured fur on the outside ; the nose, and
 the paws, both before and behind, are dark brown ; and the tail is
 bushjr and entirely black to within about 2 inches of its root, which
 is of the same colour as the back. All these circumstances distin
 guish the present species from Phal. Vulpina, with which alone it
 can possibly be confounded, and in which the backs of the ears, and
 the cheeks and paws are yellowish white, whilst the black colour oc
 cupies only the latter half of the tail. Both these animals have long
 black vibrissa:, and a tuft of similar stiff hair on the cheek, about an
 inch below and behind the eye. The whole length from the nose
to the root of the tail is 2 feet ; the length of the tail 13£ inches.
     Phal. Cookii. I notice this species merely to observe that the
present specimen is the only certain evidence we possess of this
animal being an inhabitant of Continental Australia. Cook observed
it in Van Diemen's Land, and I had never been able to ascertain the
precise locality from which the various other individuals I had for
merly examined, were obtained.
    Macropus Eugenii. This specimen agrees with M. Desmarest's de
scription, and is interesting as coming from a very distant part of
the country.
    Perameles obesula. An adult specimen of the same size as the

                  Cambridge Philosophical Society.                     71
foil-grown Per. nasuta. I notice it to mention that the teeth
are, in all respects, similar to those of Per. nasuta, both in form and
number.
   The collection contains besides, two very fine specimens of Pe-
taurvs Taguanoides ; one of Pet. Sckireus; one of Hydromys chryso-
gaster ; and a young Koala."—W. O.
PROCEEDINGS AT THE FRIDAY EVENING MEETINGS OF THE
              MEMBERS OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.
   March 25.—Mr. Goadby on Insect Anatomy.
   April 15.—Sir James South on Astronomical Observations as car
ried on in the fixed Observatory.
   April 22.—Sir James South. The same (concluded).
   April 29. —Mr. Faraday on Plumbago and Pencils.
   May 6.—Mr. Daniell on a new and constant Voltaic Battery.
   May 13.— Dr. Lardner on Steam communication with India (con
cluded).
   May 20.—Professor Mayo on some of the uses of Sensation.
   May 27.—Mr. Pettigrew unrolled an Egyptian Mummy.
   June 3.—Mr. Beamish on the present state and prospects of the
 Thames Tunnel.
   Jnne 1 0.—Mr. Faraday. Considerations respecting the nature of
Chemical Elements.
               CAMBRIDGE PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY.
                     [Continued from vol. viii. p. 431.]
   A meeting of the Philosophical Society was held on Monday
evening, April 18th, Dr. Clark, the President, in the chair. The
Astronomer Royal (lately Prof. Airy) read a communication on the
intensity of light in the neighbourhood of a caustic. One object
of this investigation was to determine what must be the circum
stances of the rainbow on the undulatory theory of light. After
wards Mr. Hopkins gave an account of the agreement between the
results of his theory of elevatory geological forces, and the phe
nomena of faults, as observed by him in the strata of Derbyshire.
   A meeting of this Society was held on Monday evening, May 2nd,
Dr. Thackeray, Vice-President, in the chair. A memoir was read
by S. Earnshaw, Esq., St. John's, " On the Integration of the Equa
tion ofContinuity of Fluids in Motion also a memoir by Professor
Miller on the Measurements of the Axes of Optical Elasticity of
certain Crystals. This memoir contained various determinations,
from which it appears that the law concerning the connexion of the
crystalline and the optical properties of crystals suggested by Pro
fessor Neumann, namely, that the optical axes are the axes of cry
stalline simplicity, is false ; but that it is true, in many of the cases
hitherto examined, that one of the optical axes coincides with the
axis of a principal crystalline zone. Afterwards Mr.Webster, of Tri
nity College, made some observations on the periodical and occa

72            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
sional changes of the height of the barometer, and on their con
nexion with the changes of temperature arising from the seasons
and from the condensation of aqueous vapour.
   A meeting of this Society was 'also held on Monday evening,
May 16th, Dr. Thackeray.JV.P., in the chair. A letter from A. De
Morgan, Esq., to the Rev. George Peacock, was read, containing
a sketch of a method of introducing discontinuous constants into
the arithmetical expressions for infinite series. Also a memoir by
F. Kelland, Esq., of Queen's College, on the mathematical results
of a mixture of elastic fluids (as air and vapour in the atmosphere),
and on the theory of heat. With regard to the latter subject, the
object was to show that there is a translation backwards or forwards
of the calorific particles, consequent on and varying in intensity
with the transverse vibration. Mr. Hopkins made some statements
respecting experiments recently made on the temperature of mines
and the doctrine of central heat. Mr. Airy gave an account of ob
servations of temperature made during the great solar eclipse of
May 15th.
    ,      XV. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
ON THE FEEBLE ATTRACTION OF THE ELECTRO-MAGNET FOR
        SMALL PARTICLES OF IRON AT SHORT DISTANCES.
   To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
       Gentlemen,
THE enormous sustaining power of the electro-magnet has for
      some time been exhibited as a matter of great curiosity, but
its very feeble attraction for small particles of iron at short distances
is not, I believe, very generally known. This fact was first mentioned
to me by Mr. Clarke, magnetical instrument-maker, which since
then I have frequently noticed myself. I am not aware that any
 explanation of this seeming anomaly has as yet been given j I have
therefore ventured to offer one, which, if considered satisfactory,
and of interest sufficient to deserve a place in your valuable Journal,
I shall be obliged by its insertion.
   It will be necessary first to observe the phenomena which take
place when a piece of soft iron is under the influence of the
ordinary horseshoe magnet. When the arma
ture s'n' is brought near to the magnet NS,
magnetism is induced in s'n'; and according to
the law of magnetic induction each extremity
 of s'n' has its state of polarity opposite to that
 of the adjacent pole of the magnet N S, and a
 tendency to approach each other immediately
takes place, and if the force of attraction be
sufficient to overcome the inertia of s'n', con
 tact will instantly follow.
   If the armature be sufficiently massive to receive all the mag

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.             73
netism N S is capable of inducing, the magnet will not be able to
sustain any more, and consequently a limit to its inducing power
must exist. The reaction of the armature upon the magnet will
also strengthen the adhesion between them : probably the effect of
this reaction will be influenced by the facility with which magnetism
permeates the steel of which the magnet is made, and be greater
in the softer kinds of steel.
    If this view be correct, the sustaining power of a common mag
net cannot be considered as an exact measure of its magnetic in
tensity.
    When a piece of soft iron is placed at a short distance from the
poles of an electro-magnet, under the influence of a galvanic cur
rent, a comparatively trivial effect is produced, showing that the
magnet thus induced is but of feeble magnetic intensity. This is
owing, probably, to the facility with which soft iron is permeated
by magnetism, and consequently any considerable accumulation
prevented. But when the iron is in contact with the poles of the
electro-magnet, the magnetism, instead of escaping, will induce in
the armature polarity, and the armature reacting powerfully on the
soft iron of the electro-magnet, and receiving continuous additions
of magnetism from the galvanic current, will be attracted by the
magnet with increasing force until the attraction between them be
comes immense. If the galvanic action be discontinued, the keeper
will remain applied to the electro-magnet, though less firmly ; and
after it has been removed nearly all the magnetism escapes.
    If this explanation be correct, it will be obvious that the electro
 magnet will not be well adapted for the construction of magneto-
 electrical machines, in which the armature is made to rotate rapidly
 in front of the poles of the magnet without actual contact.
                                     I am, &c.
    No. 1, Maze Pond, Borough, May 7, 1836.        George Rainey.
 OBSERVATIONS ON THE SOLAR ECLIPSE OF MAY 15, 1836; AND
               ON THE AURORA BOREALIS OF APRIL 22.
  To the Editors ofthe Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science.
       Gentlemen,
    I am well aware that you must have received various accounts
 of observations made during the late eclipse : nevertheless, I beg to
  trouble you with one or two made by myself at that time upon the
 possibility of seeing the lunar mountains on the round or unbroken
 side of the moon, although it may be presumed that an account of
 the singular appearance at the time of the annular phase has been
 transmitted to you. I saw the roughness of the moon's edge from
 the beginning of the eclipse ; but at the time of the ring becoming
  nearly equal on the eastern and western sides its narrowest part was
  divided directly across in two places, the light of the sun passing
  between the mountains. This affords an excellent method of cal
  culating the heights of the lunar mountains ; for it may be readily

  74           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 known of what breadth the narrowest part of the ring appeared
 at this place (about 54° S3' 53" N. and about 1° 24' W.). The
 mountains fully covered it, and I believe were higher than it a
 little. This observation was made with a 42-inch reflector, (New
 tonian) with 5-75 inches aperture. As I did not expect so rare
 a sight, and there was not time to get the wire or divided eye
 piece micrometer after it was seen, I regret to say no measures
  were taken of the heights.
    I may mention another circumstance which was not overlooked,
 namely, the appearance of the solar spots during the eclipse, which
 afforded the most favourable opportunity of examining them to ad
 vantage. My observations were made with the view of ascertaining
 whether any difference in shade could be seen similar to the lunar
 cavities, or whether anything which indicates a rise above the solar
 surface ; but not the least could be observed, or even imagined to
 be visible. Though I have examined the solar spots regularly for
 ten or twelve years, I never saw them to greater advantage than on
 that occasion.
    I will close this letter with an observation upon the aurora bo-
 realis which was visible at this place on the 22nd of April 1836, at
 lO' 45" p.m. It appeared directly overhead in the form of a star
 of great magnitude of not less than 90 degrees diameter, with nu
 merous rays shooting every way, those to the north appearing of
 a deep red colour. With attentive examination I could not dis
 cover the least darting or motion of the rays at one time, which if
 so, is not easily accounted for by the principles of electricity. A
 very similar appearance is represented by a plate in the Journal of
 the Royal Institution.           Your humble Servant,
   High Barns, near Sunderland, May 20, 1836.         W. EttRICK.
BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE.
    The next Meeting will be held at Bristol dnring the week com
mencing on Monday, August 22nd; the Members of the General
 Committee will assemble on the preceding Saturday.
               METEORS OBSERVED IN INDIA IN 1832.
    The following notices are derived from " Extracts from a Journal
of a Residence, and during several Journeys, in the Province of
Behar, ,in the years 1831 to 1834. By Mr. J. Stephenson," which
appear in the Number for December, of the Journal of the Asiatic
Society ofBengal, vol. iv. p. 713.
 Beautiful Meteor observed near Singhea, Tirhut, April Xltk, 1832.
    At 4 hours 45 minutes a.m. and at daybreak, observed a meteor
in the form of a globular ball of fire, which passed through the air,
from west to east, in a horizontal direction, and with a motion mo
derately rapid. Its size appeared to be about a foot in diameter,
having a fiery train of the most splendid brilliancy apparently many
yards long. It illuminated the country as far as the eye could
reach, and remained visible for five seconds, after which it exploded

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.                75
like b rocket throwing off numerous confiscations of intense light;
but without any report or noise of any kind. Its apparent eleva
tion inconsiderable.
Another beautiful Meteor observed at the same Village on the 20th of
                                May, 1832.
   At 6 hours 4>0 minutes p.m. a large pear-shaped meteor was ob
served shooting very rapidly in a horizontal position, and in a direc.
don from north to south. Nothing could exceed the brilliant mix
ture of green, tinged with blue colours, exhibited during its rapid
progress. It left a luminous train of great length behind, and re
mained visible about three seconds, then disappeared in the southern
horizon, without exhibiting any signs of exploding.
        ANALYSIS OF PLOMBGOMME. BY M. DUFRESNOY.
   The compound of oxide of lead and alumina, called by mineralo
gists plombgomme, on account of its resemblance to drops of gum
which exude from trees, has hitherto been found only in Huelgoat
mine in Brittany. It has, however, lately occurred in a lead mine
near Beaujeu : it is found in small mammillated masses, with slightly
varying textures ; some are of a yellowish white colour, externally
very shining, and the fracture is both splintery and testaceous, with
out any trace of crystallization ; others are slightly greenish, com
posed of concentric layers, and possess a radiated structure, like
wavellite. When observed with a microscope, the fibres appear to be
crystalline, with a rhombic fracture, like some arragonites.
   The hardness of plombgomme is intermediate as to that of carbo
nate and phosphate of lime. Its specific gravity is 4-88 : before the
blowpipe it decrepitates ; on charcoal it swells and yields a scoria,
ceous white enamel.
   By analysis it yielded
                   Silica                          2-11
                   Alumina                        34-23
                   Deutoxide of lead              43 42
                   Phosphoric acid                 1 '89
                   Water                          1614
                   Loss                            2.21
                                                          100-00
   The specimen subjected to analysis contained phosphate of lead:
it is very probable that the phosphoric acid found indicates a certain
quantity of phosphate of lead mixed with the plombgomme. On this
           n, the analysis should be thus stated :
                  Silica                           211
                  Alumina                         34-23
                  Deutoxide of lead               37 5 1
                  Phosphate of lead                7 80
                  Water                           16-14
                  Loss                             2-21
                                                         0.0 10
                          Ann. de Chim. et de Phys., tome lix. p. 440.

 76             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
   ON THE ACTION OF IODINE ON ORGANIC SALIFIABLE BASES.
    M. Pelletier in a paper on the action of iodine upon strychnia,
 brucia, cinchonia, quina, and morphia, remarks that being unac
 quainted with the action that the halogenous bodies, and chiefly iodine,
 bromine, and chlorine, exert upon the salifiable organic bases, we
 do not know whether these bodies can combine with the vegetable
 alkalies without decomposing them or not.
    In endeavouring to elucidate this point he has arrived at the fol
 lowing conclusions. That iodine combines with most of the organic
 bases in atomic proportion : thus, strychnia affords a crystalline and
 coloured iodide composed of 2 eqs. of iodine and 1 eq. of strychnia j
 brucia forms two iodides, one composed of 2 eqs. of iodine and 1 eq.
 of brucia, the other of 4 of iodine, to 1 of base ; whilst cinchonia and
 quina each combine with iodine in the proportion of 1 eq. of iodine
 to one of base.
    That iodic acid combines with the organic bases, forming neutral
 and acid salts, in which the acid and base exist in the same proportion
 as their respective iodides.
    That hydriodic acid unites with the organic bases, forming salts
 which have a tendency to an excess of base ; thus, the hydriodates
 of brucia and strychnia are (sesquibasic) subsesquisalts without
 water of crystallization. The organic hydriodates are decomposed by
 iodic acid, iodine being liberated, whilst the hydriodate is converted
into an iodide.
    The action of iodine upon morphia forms a very singular exception
 to the above, for one part of the iodine combines with hydrogen from
 the morphia to form hydriodic acid, whilst the other portion of iodine
unites with the substance resulting from the morphia. When morphia
is acted on by iodic acid, the acid loses its oxygen, which unites with
one portion of the morphia, forming a red substance like that resulting
from the action of nitric acid on morphia, whilst the iodine evolved
acts on the other portion of morphia as it does by direct contact ; but
the resulting combination is decomposed by a fresh portion of iodic
acid, and entirely converted into iodine and the red substance.—L'ln-
stitut, 2nd March.
     ON A NEW MODE OF ANALYSIS OF CLOSELY AGGREGATED
                               MINERALS.
   Dr. Abich states that when carbonate of barytes is heated to white
ness, it fuses and is deprived of the whole of its carbonic acid j and
this property he has very advantageously employed in the analysis of
minerals, its caustic power being so great that it quickly and com
pletely decomposes the aluminates and corundum, bodies which are
with the greatest difficulty acted on by pure potash ; and cyanite, stau-
rolite, andalusite, cymophane, zircon, and the felspars are also acted
upon in the most complete manner. To conduct the analysis success
fully, the following precautions are necessary. A furnace by which
an extremely high and well-regulated temperature can be obtained
in a short time. The mineral reduced to powder, which need not be

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.                 11
extremely fine, levigation being useless, must be mixed with from 4
to 6 times its weight of pure carbonate of barytes, and placed in a
platinum crucible ; this is then inclosed in a Hessian crucible covered
and luted, which placed on any convenient support in the furnace
must be heated to whiteness, and kept at that temperature for from 15
to 20 minutes : a perfectly fused mass is obtained, which dissolves with
facility in diluted muriatic acid.—Annates de Chimie, December 1835.
      ON SOME NEW COMBINATIONS OF CARBOHYDROGEN OR
                               METHYLENE.
     MM. Dumas and Peligot have succeeded in obtaining some new
combinations of carbohydrogen. The first, hydrofluate of carbohy-
drogen, may be obtained by gently heating a mixture of fluoride of
potassium and sulphate of carbohydrogen ; sulphate of potash is formed,
 and a gas evolved which collected over water is deprived of all foreign
 substances, and is then pure hydrofluate of carbohydrogen. It is
 colourless, of an agreeable sethereal odour, and burns with a flame
 similar to that of alcohol, but rather more blue. By its combustion
 hydrofluoric acid is formed, the vapours of which are diffused in the
 air. It is slightly soluble in water, 100 parts of water at 60° Fahr.,
 dissolving 1 66 of this gas. The analysis of this gas indicates its com
 position to be
              One volume of carbohydrogen                0*4904
             One volume of hydrofluoric acid             0-6788—1 1692
     According to this, hydrofluate of carbohydrogen, like the hydrochlo-
  rate of that base, contains as well as hydrochloric aether, 1 vol. of acid
  and 1 of carburetted hydrogen condensed into one volume.
      When a mixture of pyroxylic spirit, nitric acid, and nitrate of silver
  is boiled in the proportions used in making fulminating silver, or in
  any other proportion, no action takes place before the evaporation
  of iVths of the liquor, unless the nitric acid is very strong and the
   operation is conducted ina retort, when amongst the volatile products
  abundance of nitrate of carbohydrogen is found. Towards the end of
   the operation, when the solution is so concentrated that the nitrate
   of silver would become solid by cooling, by continuing the ebullition
  lively action takes place, much hyponitrous acid is liberated, and there
   is deposited a white powder. This detonates with difficulty by a blow,
   and deflagrates feebly when placed in contact with hot coals, from
   which MM. Dumas and Peligot at first considered that it contained
   fulminating silver ; but a more attentive examination showed it to be
   oxalate of silver.
      By adding pyroxylic spirit to the acid nitrate of mercury, a consi
    derable quantity of a yellowish white and resinous-looking substance
   is immediately deposited, which by boiling for a long time with con
   centrated nitric acid, produces a white powder which is perfectly pure
   oxalate of mercury.
       On an analysis the substance formed by the immediate action of
    pyroxylic spirit on nitrate of mercury gave from 1*025, water 0*024
    and carbonic acid 0"180. 0*600 gave by protochloride of tin, and

 78
 of damp azoteacid,
 hydrochloric        0-452
                 at 54°       mercury.
                        andof075.     These
                                          0*700    afforded
                                              results        18 cubic centim.
                                                       are equivalent  to
              Carbon                4-80    or    4 eqs.    4-53
               Hydrogen             0-45   —      2 eqs.    0-37
              Mercury             75 30    —      2 eqs.  74-80
              Azote                2-70    —      1 eq.    2 60
               Oxygen             16-76    —      6 eqs.  17-70
                                 100-00                  10000
   This leads to so complicated a formula, that they merely give it
without insisting on its correctness :
                 2 (C4 H* O', H g O) + A z* 0\ H g* O,
 which would indicate the existence of a compound of 2 eqs. of formi-
ate of mercury and 1 eq. of nitrate of mercury.
    By passing anhydrous sulphuric acid into pyroxylic spirit, diluting
the liquor, and supersaturating by barytes, there are obtained sulphate
of barytes, which precipitates, and sulphocarbohydrate of barytes,
which remains in solution. The solution freed from excess of barytes
by carbonic acid, and being concentrated at a low temperature and
then suffered to crystallize spontaneously, furnishes truncated prisms
very thin and long, which appear to have a rhomboidal base.
   In the same circumstances the common sulphocarbohydrate of ba
rytes affords very different crystals ; but the composition of the salt
produced from the anhydrous acid does not differ from the salt afforded
by the common acid. This salt is composed of
                                                Expt.        Calcul.
           Carbon.                      . .. 6-95             6-89
           Hydrogen                              1-75          1*66
           Sulphate of barytes          .... 6470            65'15
The calculation was founded on the formula
                 B a O, S O* + C*H4, S O, Hs t>.
It appears then that a series of isomeric sulphocarbohydrates exist,
resulting from the action of sulphuric acid on pyroxylic spirit.
   Tartrocarbohydrate of barytes may be obtained by mixing a solution
of tartaric acid in pyroxylic spirit, and a solution of barytes in the
same spirit together, and washing the precipitate with anhydrous py
roxylic spirit. It is composed of
                               Exp.        Calcul.
           Carbon              23 9          25'S or 20 eqs.
           Hydrogen .... 30                   3-3 — 16 eqs.
           Barytes             30 8         31-8 — I eq.
           Oxygen              41-3         39-6 — 12 eqs.
This salt is in a gelatinous state when formed in the pyroxylic spirit)
but when washed with water it becomes granular and is converted into
tartrate of barytes.
   The oxalic, acetic, and benzoic acids dissolved in pyroxylic spirit,
and added to barytes likewise dissolved in spirit, produce merely their
respective salts, the two latter anhydrous.

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.                     79
                     ON THE PERIODIDE OF IRON.
       To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
         Gentlemen,
    Having noticed in our recent chemical works an account of a per-
iodide of iron, and the method adopted for its preparation being to
expose the protiodide in solution to the free action of air, I have pre
sumed to offer an opinion, and I do apprehend that the change in this
case which takes place is a peroxidation of a part of the iron which
falls, and its equivalent of iodine is leftfree in the solution of the yet
unchanged protiodide of iron, and a portion remains thus unchanged
after a thin stratum has been exposed several weeks, which a solution
of potash will indicate by precipitating a protoxide of iron ; but there
is no periodide of iron in this solution, nor could I form a periodide
by a persalt of iron and iodide of potassium, and I believe no such
compound to exist.
    Whilst upon this subject, it may be perhaps not uninteresting to
the medical part of your readers to give a short account of the prot
iodide. It was first employed in medicine by Dr. A.T.Thomson, and
has since kept its character as a valuable tonic: the great inconvenience
arising from its tendency to decompose when dissolved in water, is
completely obviated by a coil of iron wire traversing the whole column
of the solution, which was suggested by me when it came into exten
sive use as a therapeutic agent, and nearly three years' experience
proves it to answer most satisfactorily the object intended r it will
preserve it perfectly neutral even if the solution be fully exposed to
air and light ; it is true, in that case more peroxide is formed, but,
filter the solution when you will, it is perfectly colourless, and trans
parent as distilled water : this is a very important point, and one which
the medical profession should be made fully acquainted with, being a
safe test for its neutrality and purity. Any colour, however slight the
tinge, shows the presence of some iodine in a free state, or some im
purities derived probably from one of the materials employed to make
it; this no doubt has given rise to the difference of opinion as to its
action on the animal ceconomy. The colourless neutral compound
when diluted has an agreeable flavour, similar to that of a chalybeate
spring, whereas any free iodine gives a mawkish taste and is liable to
nauseate the stomach.
                                           I am, yours, 4c.,.
                                                                 P. Squire.
    227, Oxford Street, May 12, 1836.
         METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS FOR MAY 1836.
    Chmvkk—May 1, 2. Slightly clouded : stormy.             3. Cold and windy.
 4. Cold rain. 5. Rain: cloudy and fine. 6. Light haze: fine. 7— 10. Fine.
 11—18. Very fine.       19i Cold haze: fine.      20. Very fine: rain at night.
 Si, 22. Fine. 23. Rain : stormy.        24. Clear and cold. 25—28. Cold
 and dry. 29—31. Fine.
    Boston.—May 1. Fine. 2. Stormy.            3. Stormy : rain p.m. 4. Rain.
 5. Stormy: rain early iuM.: rain p.m.        6, 7. Fine.       8— 10. Cloudy.
 11—18. Fine.         19. Cloudy.      20. Fine •. rain p.m.       21,22. Fnm
 23. Stormy. 24, 25. Cloudy.          26—SO. Fine.        31. Cloudy.

  SHthe
  at
Garden
the
of
 Mr.
 Tby Oseoftlie
    ASociety
     Royal
        M;cAithe  OetabstrNenatvmraetyinot,*
               psSat
             Prmade                                                       Dew-point. Soc.Roy.Lond.: oTFdaehgr.e s
                                                                                                      inA9.M.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               45-2
                                                                                                                                39 40 40 44 43 41 42 42 44 41 43 45 47 53 50 51 52 53 49 47 52 43 45 43 45 44 42 44 45 46 46
                                                                                                        Boston.                                               03 03                                                                                                                                                                            0'47
                                                                                                                                                         •26                                                                                                      :i*5
                                                                           Rain.                        Chisw.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  101
                                                                                                                                •06 •01 •08 •24 ¦40                                                                                                            ¦M ¦06 ¦01                                                              •01
                                                                                               Lo:ndon Soc.Boy.A9.M.                                          133                                                                                                              :044                                                             Sum
                                          Veall
                                         BMr.
                                          at
                                          and
                                          by
                                           London;
                                           oCshSociety
                                               Htinearorstnwi.cucltku,ral
                                               at                                                                                                                                                                                                                     •133                                                                          •808
                                                                                                                                       •052 •091 •355
                                                                                                        Bost                    calm NE. NE. NE. E.' calm calm calm calm calm calm calm NE. calm calm calm calm calm w. E. X. E. 1. NE. B. X. calm E. NE. calm
                                                                                                                                                                         1.
                                                                                                      Chisw. 1P.M.
                                                                            Wind.                                                 1. NE. NE. NF. SB. E. NE. NE. N. NE. SW. SW. w. NW. S. E. E. E. E. SE. E. SE. NE. NE. NE. E. E. NE. NE. NI. NE.
                                                                                               Lo:ndon Boy.Soc.                          vNE.ar. vhe.ar.                                                                                                                                 vne.ar.                      vne,ar.
                                                                                                                    A9.M.         NW.                                                  NE.    NX.    wsw. sw. N. r. N. SE. E. E. E. NE. E. s.var. N K. E. E. NE. N E. N.
                                                                                                                                                          H. N. K. N. N.                                          w.
                                                                                                     Boston. A.M.84                                                             49-5                                                  61-5                       57-5                            51-5                                           548
                                                                                                                                  48 50 47 47 48 56 53 48 51 57 60 60 61 63 62 67 53 57 53 53 51 54 56 57 56 58 55
                                                                                                     Chiswick. Min. 40 40 43 41 41 39 42 41 40 31 38 36 42 39 41 41 43 47 40 45 39 40 45 39 41 38 33 45 36 45 47 31
                                                                              Thermo et r.                               Max. 53 56 56 57 54 61 61 61 58 62 70 73 73 72 74 73 74 70 61 72 65 59 59 60 60 63 64 66 66 68 70 74
                                                                                              Soc.Boy.
                                                                                                Lo:ndon                   Max. 490 52-3 533 654- 50-6 587 56-              6 58-3 257- 58-     68     64- 68-
                                                                                                                                                                                                            6 67-4 67-    4 667 69-    5 68-  5 65-  3 58- 2 66-  5 61  7 55- 3 57-3 59-   3 58-  2 56- 2 58-9 62-7 638 650 67-           6 60-6
                                                                                                                          Min. 35-3 393 40-4 437 42-5 42-             3 408 43-  0 243- 42-3 5         40- 46-5 46-8 51-5 49-    9 50- 96     49- 5  50- 480 44-  3 49-6 42-6 440 46-      3 44-2 457 8        41- 42-  0 47- 3 43- 4 47-4 447
                                                                                                                    Fahr. A.M.9 436 49-5 46-3 49-           2 457 50- 5 53-3 477 497 2          50- 53-6 57- 458-   5 60-2 57-7600 593 57-2 51-             4 53-5 567 6      52- 52-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3 51-8 51-2 532 546 53-              2 54- 7 547 553 531
                                                                                                          Boston. A.M.8J           2938 2959 29-63 29-25 29-27 29-60 29-83 29-84 29-80 29-74 29-62 29-55 29-72 29-94 29-91 29-86 29-93 2975 2971 29-60 29-55 29-58 2955 29-7529-85 29-93 29-94 2990 29-82 29-66 29-71
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                30-
                                                                                                                                    29-82729-882 29846 688                  19330-256 30-209 30-209 30151 30-217 30-346 30-464 30-497 30-510 30-412 30-292 30183 29942 29-99629878 480
                                                                                                                                                            29- 29715 30082 30-                                                                                                    29- 098                                           30- 29-952 29-480
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              30- 30-264 30-33230-383 30-351 30-325 186
                                                                                  Barometer.                               Min.
                                                                                                          Chiswick.
                                                                                                                                    29-89630069 29-954 29-715 914
                                                                                                                                                                29- 21730- 30-313 30-299 30-262 30-231 30-21730-287 30-392 30480 30-537 30-53530-548 30-377 30-281 104   30 29-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    30- 043                   30- 30-349 30-411 30-395 30-371 30-303 301
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               999 29986 23730-278                                         12 30-548
                                                                                                                           Max.
                                                                                                      Lo:ndon Roy.Soc. 2979429-855 2994029-679 699
                                                                                                                        A9.M.                                         073 30-295 30-275 30-259 30-212 30-204 30-216 30-356 30-56230-608 30-548 30-56430-388 30-311 30089 30016 30
                                                                                                                                                                29- 30-                                                                                                            29- 30-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               010 846        109 30-265 30-338 30-425 30-39630-380 30-301 30-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           109 30197
                                                                                         Days Month.
                                                                                         of                                          10.                                          80.
                                                                                                                1836. May.                                       5- s.
                                                                                                                                                                Th.                                           Th.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              12.                                            19.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Th.                                           Th.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          26. 27.S.
                                                                                                                                                M.
                                                                                                                                                2. T.   3. W.4. F.    6. 7.  <t M.        9. T.  10. W. 11. F.       13. S. 14.•  15. M.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O     16. T.  17. 18.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W. F.        20. S. 21. O22. JM23.. T.       25. F.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               24. w.                   28. O 29.O  M30.. T.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31.

                                  THE
               LONDON and EDINBURGH
 PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                  AND
         JOURNAL                   OF      SCIENCE.
                               —•*—
                         [THIRD SERIES.]
                        AUGUST 1836.
XVI. On the Cauie of the remarkable Difference between the
   Attractions of a Permanent and of an Electro-Magnet on Soft
   Iron at a Distance. By the Rev. Willi am Ritchie,Z,Z/. D.,
   F.R.S-, Professor ofNatural Philosophy in the Royal Institu
   tion and in the University of London.*
 A S soon as the electro-magnet was constructed and em-
      ployedtfttosoft
municated             iron, it must
                   illustrate  the immense
                                    have beenmagnetic
                                                observedpower  c6m-
                                                         that its at
traction for iron filings or pieces of soft iron at a distance was
much less than that of a permanent magnet of equal lifting
power. This peculiar properly rendered the eiectro-magnet
not well suited for magnetic induction at a distance; and hence,
after a few unsuccessful trials to substitute it for the perma
nent magnet in my apparatus for continued rotation, it was
long since abandoned. In a short paper by Mr. Rainey inf the
last Number of this Journal, p. 72, the fact is stated, and an
explanation attempted to be given of this peculiarity; but I am
afraid the explanation will not be found in accordance with
the present state of the science. This subject having en
gaged my attention some years ago, I had several times com
menced a paper intended for the Philosophical Magazine, but
other more pressing subjects prevented me from finishing it.
As the fact is a necessary consequence of the properties of
                     • Communicated l>y the Author.
   Third Series. Vol.9. No. 52. Aug. 183G.              K

 82       The Rev. Prof. Ritchie on certain Differences
 electro-magnets which I formerly made public in yourJournal*,
 I take the liberty of sending you the present investigation, which
 may be regarded as the completion of my former paper.
     Experiment 1. Suspend a piece of soft iron, CD, at the
 extremity of a slender delicate balance of light wood ; place
 a permanent horse-shoe magnet below it, and ascertain its at
 tractive force, by weights put into the scale G, when it is in
 contact, and also when it is removed to different distances from
 the soft iron. Remove the permanent magnet, and substitute a
 very short electro-magnet of equal lifting power. Remove it
 to the same distances as before, and the attractive power will
 diminish very rapidly compared with that of the permanent
 steel magnet.
     Exp. 2. Instead of the short electro- magnet, substitute a
 very long one (one of two or three feet long, for example,) and
 of equal carrying power; remove it to the same distances and
 ascertain its attractive power, and it will be found that its at
 traction for the lifter at these distances will not diminish so
rapidly as that of the short one. The longer the electro-mag
net becomes, the more does it approach to the character of the
permanent magnet in all its properties.'
     Exp. 3. Instead of making the electro-magnet of soft iron,
 make it of hard iron or untempered steel ; repeat the preceding
experiments, and its attractive power at a distance compared
 with its lifting power will be much greater than in the case of
the electro-magnet of soft iron.
     These facts, which, as far as I know, have not before been
published, will enable us to account for this property on prin
ciples previously recognised. The perfect equality of action
and reaction must be found to exist in this case as well as in
every other in which force ofany kind is concerned. The elec
tricity which lins been decomposed and arranged in the soft
    • [Prof. Ritchie's papers " On the Power ofan Electro- Magnet to retain
ill Magnetism after the Battery has been removed," and " On certain curious
Properties of Common and Electro-Magnets" will be found in Loud, and
Edii.b. Phil. Ma;;., vol. Hi. pp. 122, 124.-Edit.]

         between the Permanent and the Electro-Magnet.          83
iron in the peculiar manner which constitutes magnetism, can
not decompose and arrange the electricity belonging to the
lifter without suffering a corresponding diminution, and the
more difficult the arrangement in I he lifter so much greater
will be the diminution of power in the electro-magnet. Again,
if the electricity in the electro-magnet be easily arranged by
the induction of the voltaic helix, it will be easily forced back
to its natural state by the reaction of that belonging to the
lifter. Hence it follows that when the inducing power of the
electro-magnet is very great (which it is when the lifter is in
contact with its ends) it will possess sufficient power to van
quish the coercitive force of the lifter, arrange by induction a
large portion of the electricity of the lifter, and thus exhibit
powerful attraction. When the lifter is removed to a certain
distance, one tenth of an inch for example, the power of the
electro-magnet being much diminished in consequence of the
distance, whilst the difficulty of overcoming the coercitive
force of the lifter is increased, the effect will be very small
compared with the former. For if the inducing power be
only equal to the coercitive force of the lifter, no attraction
whatever will take place ; and hence the impossibility of mag
netizing a large bar of steel tempered as hard as possible, by
means of a small permanent magnet with a soft temper.
   Now, if the coercitive force of the electro-magnet be in
creased, which is done either by employing a long magnet, or
using hard iron or untempered steel, such a magnet will
suffer a less diminution by the reaction of the lifter in the case
of increased difficulty of arrangement in the lifter, than in
the case of the short electro-magnet of perfectly soft iron.
   In the case of the permanent magnet of tempered steel, the
electricity belonging to it was arranged with difficulty, and
after repeated touches of another magnet, and consequently it
will easily vanquish the coercitive power of a piece of soft
iron, and induce a magnetic state upon it, whilst the peculiar
arrangement of its own electricity will remain nearly un
changed. Hence its attractive powers will diminish nearly as
the squares of the distances of the soft iron from its poles, or
imaginary centres of accumulation, a law which cannot exist
in the case of the electro-magnet the electricity of which is so
easily put in motion round the elementary molecules of the
iron by the reaction of the lifter.
   In the explanation given by Mr. Rainey the lifter is sup
posed to react powerfully on the electro-magnet so as to in
crease its power, a supposition which cannot possibly be ad
mitted. For the electro-magnet must, in the first place, give
the lifter all its magnetic power, consequently the power of

 84       On the Rev. J. H. Pratt's Demonstration of
the lifter never can exceed that of the electro-magnet, and
 consequently never can induce a higher magnetic state in it
than what has already been done by the voltaic helix.
 XVII. Remarks on the Rev. J. H. Pratt's Demonstration of a
    Proposition in the Mecanique Celeste. By A Coiuiespon-
    DENT.
    To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
        Gentlemen,
   A T page 474 of your Journal for last month (June, vol. viii.)
       an old controversy is revived. Whatever may have been
 intended by bringing forward this subject at the present time,
 it is certain that no new light is thrown upon it.
    In order to separate what is clear and undeniably proved
from the point in which lies the difficulty, it will be necessary
 to set out from M. Poisson's statement of the problem, viz.
           V -      1 f*f39 ( 1 -**)/{*> V) sin y d V d V
                   4 It JqJ 0                n     . 9\l       '
                                       (1—1*p-\-a?Y
            p = cos 0 cos If + sin 0 sin 0' cos (tj>— 40 ;
 the arcs fland 4> are the initial values of the variable arcs ¥
and \J/, which increase from 0 and to 0 + t and \J/ + 2t; and
a is a constant which is here supposed less than 1, but may
 approach lo it indefinitely. These things premised, if any
 value be assigned to a, the symbol X stands for the definite
integral taken between the extreme limits of the variable
arcs.
    1st. Let the expression under the sign of integration be
expanded in a series proceeding by the powers of a, then
            {1 + 3a P^Sa'P, ... (2»+l)P,... }.
    For the sake of simplifying put
             Y, = *±±lj^J** T p.ftf, V) sin ffdd'du1;
then
              X = Y0 + «Y, + a* Y2             a'Y
All the coefficients, P, , satisfy a certain equation in partial

                a Proposition in the Mecanique Celeste.                  85
differentials relatively to the arcs 9 and ij/, which equation, as
it is well known, need not be here transcribed. This property
is owing to the combinations of i and <J> which enter into the
 composition of these coefficients ; and as the same combina
 tions remain unchanged in the integrals, Y<, these integrals
 necessarily satisfy the same equation of partial differentials.
 Thus the peculiar nature of the integrals Y, does not depend
 upon the function f (9', ty), but is derived from the coeffi
cients P(.
     It is obvious that the coefficients P, are every one suscep
 tible of one form only: and hence the several integrals, Y,,
taken between the extreme limits of the variable arcs, are sus
ceptible of one value only.
     When a is less than 1, the foregoing value of X is ex
pressed by a converging series, single in its form. If we put
 X' for what X becomes when u = 1, and further suppose that
the integrals, Y, , form a converging series, we shall have
                X' = Y0 + Y, + Y9             Y,
The value of X' is therefore a series, single in its form, and
such as M. Poisson has determined. But, in what has been
said, there is not a word to prove that X' = f (9,                  or that
 X' will be found by substituting in f (9',              the initial arcs
 8, t^j for the variable arcs 9', \J/. The proof of this is the se
 cond part of M. Poisson's investigation ; and it is here that
 the difficulty lies. Those who hold that his investigation is
 rigorous, must admit the truth of the resulting theorem; those
 who are content with results, cannot repose confidence on
 better authority ; those who seek unexceptionable evidence in
 the mathematics, may find reason to demur at some parts of
 the proof. As Mr. Pratt has not touched on this point, it is
 not necessary to notice it further.                                   ,
     2ndly. Let gs now make a particular supposition respecting
J (9', ty\ namely, that it is a rational function in finite terms
 of the three quantities, cos 9', sin 9', cos *J/, sin ff, sin \J/' ; which
 will be verified both when f (9', \J/') is actually a finite func
 tion of the three quantities, and when it is a converging series
 of such functions. According to what is usually taught
y(9', ty) and f(t, 4>) may, each, be expanded at least into
 pne determinate series, viz.
               f[VtV) = Z0' + Z,' + 74 ... z/ ... ,
               /(9.40 = z0 + z, + z9 ... z,
 all the terms of the developments satisfying the fundamental
 equation in partial differentials. If we now substitute the

 86        On a Proposition in the Mecanique Celeste.
 series for J (fl', \|/) in tlie terms of X', we shall obtain simply,
       Y i =fjf* ' P./               V) sin I'dtder1
                             J* P, Z/ sin 6' d fl' d w> = Z, ,
 because all the parts off (fl', \[/), except only Z, , produce no
thing in the integral. It is, therefore, proved, in this parti
cular supposition respecting^ (fl', vj/), that the developments of
 X' and       \J>) are identical in all their terms: and as the first
series has been shown to be susceptible of one form only, the
same thing must be true of the other series. In order to
arrive at this conclusion it was not even necessary to intro
duce the expansion ofJ"(9',            : for, in the case in hand the
equation
                               X' =/(«,*)
is easily deduced by direct integration, as was done many
years ago.
    All that we properly know of this theory, because it is all
that is strictly proved, is contained in what has been said.
The process which M. Poisson has invented for demonstrating
the equation
                               X'=/(«, *)
without restriction, is merely an analytical artifice founded on
assumptions : it has not been verified by any rigorous investi
gation ; on the contrary, it is opposed to every such investi
gation.
    Mr. Pratt's observations fall to the ground; since, contrary
to what he assumes, every proposed function is susceptible of
one development only.             The term Y< in the expansion of
X', or Z, in the expansion of f(b, 4>) in the particular case
menlioned, is equal to the integral
                 Jl'fo ' P'f                Si"   d fl' d
which has one value only ; because the arcs 6' and \J/ vary
between determinate limits; and, for any assigned values of
these arcs, each of the functions P, and jiff, V) is single in
its form.
   It seems to be implied in the language used by Mr. Pratt,
that Professor Airy was the first who raised objections to this
analytical theory propounded by Laplace, and who placed it
in the point of view here given of it : but whether this be cor
rect or not will best appear by citing the Professor's own
words: — "I conclude with Mr. Ivory, that the theory (of the

  Mr. J. D. Smith on the Hydrates of Barytes and Strontia. 87
third book of the Mecanique Celeste) applies only to spheroids
in which the elevation of the spheroid above the sphere
{f (0, \J/)) is expressed by a rational function of cos fi, sin 9
cos ty, sin 8 sin
    June 27, 1836.                                          DlSJOTA.
        XVIII. On the Hydrates of Barytes and Strontia.
                        By Mr. J. D. Smith.
              To Richard Phillips, Esq., F.R.S., $c.
        My dear Sir,
 TTAVING accidentally obtained from their respective solu-
-¦•     tions some fine crystals of barytes and strontia, I resolved
to submit to experiment the various hydrates of these sub
stances described by Dr. Dalton in his Chemical Philosophy,
in order to ascertain whether mistakes, similar to those you
pointed out some months since in the composition of the cry
stallized hydrates, had not occurred with respect to the re
mainder: in the course of which I endeavoured to verify the
results at which you arrived in your paper in the Phil. Mag.
of January 1835; but I found that the composition assigned
by you to these hydrates did not agree with my experiments,
as will presently be seen.
     The crystals of barytes were obtained perfectly dry, by
placing them in a funnel, suffering them to drain, and then
wrapping them in several folds of filtering paper, thus ex
cluding them from the air, by exposure to which they speedily
effloresce, and are converted into carbonate of barytes.
     Three analyses were made by dissolving the crystals in hot
water, precipitating the barytes by dilute sulphuric acid, and
collecting and igniting the precipitate. In the first experi
ment 30 grs. of the crystals gave 22*45 grs. of sulphate
 = 14*7 grs. of barytes ; in the second, from 38 grs. of the cry
stals 27-89 of sulphate = 18-3 grs. of barytes were obtained;
and the third afforded 27'77 grs. of sulphate = 18-2 gr.
of barytes from              Water.
                Bar. 38*2 grs.  of the crystallized hydrate. Now,
 1st exp. 14-7-30- = 15'3"|
 2ndexp. 18-3— 38- = 19*7 \ = 512 of barytes combined
 3rd exp. 18-2 — 38'2 = 20-oJ            with 55-0 of water, or 76
                                     of barytes, or 1 eq. and 8 1 -6 or
                                     almost exactly 9 eqs. of water.
     The quantity of sulphate of barytes obtained in your ex-
    * Transactions of the Cambridge Philosophical Society for 1826 (vol. ii.
 p. 589.).

  88 Mr. J. D. Smith on ihe Hydrates ofBarytes and Stroniia.
  periments would indicate 8'W parts or nearly 9y eqs. of
  water combined with 76 parts or 1 eq. of barytes ; this error
 is doubtless owing to your not having obtained the crystals
  quite dry, and not making allowance for the interposed water,
  which, in that case, they would have contained.
     When crystals of barytes are heated to 212°, they fuse in
  their water of crystallization, and by continuing the heat until
 no more vapour is expelled, a porous and friable mass re
  mains. 20 grs. of this residue being heated with hot water
 left 3*03 grs. of insoluble (carb. of barytes), and the solution
 precipitated by dilute sulphuric acid, gave after ignition 20*64
 grs. of sulphate = 13*52 grs. of barytes. This experiment
 repeated on the same quantity gave 1*28 grs. of insoluble
 carbonate and 22*97 grs. of sulphate =15 grs. of barytes-.
 In the first experiment 20 — 3*03 = 16*97 — 13*52 of
 barytes leaves 3*45 for water; and in the second, 20—1*28
  = 18*72 — 15* barytes leaves for water 3*72, the mean of
 which, ! 4*26 of barytes and 3*58 of water, is equivalent to*
 76 parts, or 1 eq. of barytes combined with 19 parts or a
 little more than 2 eqs. of water. This is the compound cor
 responding to the fifth hydrate of Dalton.
    By exposing the crystallized hydrate to a red heat in a
 covered platinum crucible, applying the heat cautiously and
gradually, it at first enters into the watery fusion, during
which care must be taken to prevent it from boiling over, after
which it fuses quietly down, leaving -a light brown-coloured-
 mass possessing a crystalline structure.
    20 grs. of the crystallized hydrate heated to redness in a
platinum crucible left 10*87 grs. —20 = 9*13 grs. of water
expelled. 20 : 91*3 : : 157 the eq. of cryst. barytes : : 71*6, or
almost exactly 8 eqs. of water, leaving 1 eq. of water in
combination with 1 eq. of barytes. 28*52 grs. of the crystals
left after ignition 15*47 = 13*05 grs. of water driven off, or
71*83 =¦= s eqs. of water from 157, or 1 eq. of the crystallized
hydrate. Thus the residual mass obtained by heating the cry
stallized barytes to redness is evidently a compound of 1 eq.
of barytes + 1 eq. of watery and there exist three distinct
hydrates of barytes, viz.
    The 3rd, deposited from solution in water ; the 2nd, obtained
by heating the crystals in a water bath; and the 1st, by heat
ing either of the preceding hydrates to redness, without access
of air.
          1 barytes + 9 water = 157
          1 do.      + 2 do.      = 94     equivalent numbers:
          1 do.      + 1 do.      4b 85

  Mr. J. D. Smith on the Hydrates of Barytes and Slrontia. 89
   The crystals of strontia having been rendered perfectly dry
in the same manner as the barytes, 30 grs. were dissolved in
hot water and precipitated by bicarbonate ofpotash ; the weight
of the carbonate of strontia obtained was 17 grs. = 12 of
strontia: a second experiment conducted in a similar manner
afforded from 31 5 grs. 17*57 of carbonate = 12-34 of
strontia.
                  Strontia.   Water.
   Jst exp.        12 — 30 = 18
   2nd exp. 12-34 — 31-5 = 1916
              24*34         :   37-16 :: 52 : 80, or almost ex
actly 9 eqs. water to 1 eq. of strontia. As the quantity of
carbonate of strontia obtained by you would indicate rather
more than 10 eqs. of water to 1 of strontia, I should imagine
that your adoption of 10 eqs. of water to 1 eq. of strontia
as the composition of the crystalline hydrate, may be traced
to the same cause as in the case of the crystallized barytes,
viz. dampness of the crystals employed.
   If crystallized strontia is exposed to the heat of boiling
water, it readily parts with a portion of its water of crystalli
zation, without undergoing the watery fusion, and falls to pow
der. 21-6 grs. of this powder dissolved in water and precipi
tated by bicarbonate of potash gave 26*06 of carbonate of
strontia ; the experiment being repeated upon 20 grs., 24-34
grs. of carbonate were obtained : these respectively afford 18*3
and 17*1 grs. of strontia, combined, the first with 3-3 grs. of
water = 21-6 grs., and the second with 2-9 of water = 20.
The mean of these experiments affords from 20*8 grs. of the
powder 17*7 of strontia, and 3-1 of water = 52 or 1 eq. of
6trontia, and 9*1 or 1 eq. of water.
   When the crystallized hydrate of strontia is heated to red
ness it first falls to powder, then fuses, and finally leaves a
white friable mass, which when moistened with water evolves
heat similar to lime when slaked.
   41*22 grs. of the crystals heated to redness in a covered
platinum crucible left 16-58 grs., and this repeated on 64-2
grs. of the crystals left 24*72 grs. ; the mean of these two ex
periments gave 32-1 grs. of water expelled from 52-7 grs.
of the crystals ; or from 133, the eq.of the crystallized hydrate,
81 or 9 eqs. of water driven off by a red heat. The residue
on analysis proved to be anhydrous; for from 23-76 grs. of it,
 1*16 grs. of insoluble matter, and 32*3 grs. of carbonate were
obtained, which are equal to 22-7 of strontia +1*16 of inso
luble a to the weight originally taken.
   These experiments show that by a red heat all the water
 Third Series. Vol.9. No. 52. Aug", 1836.            L

90 Mr.Chililren's Notice respecting Dr.Ehrenberg's Collections
may be expelled from the hydrates of strontia, of which there
are two, viz.
   The 9th hydrate, crystallized, composed of 1 eq. strontia
 + 9 eqs. water = 133; and the 1st hydrate, pulverulent,
composed of 1 eq. strontia + 1 eq. water = 61.
   On considering the compounds that these two metallic ox
ides, barytes and strontia, form with water, some singular facts
present themselves to our notice : for instance, the extremely
large proportion of water they unite with to form the crystal
lized hydrates, when compared to the hydrated oxides of all
the other metals, to which they seem to form exceptions ; for
the law of combination, except with these two oxides, ap
pears to be, an equivalent of water to each equivalent ofoxy
gen ; thus, the hydrates of potash, lime, nickel, zinc, &c. &c.
are composed of 1 eq. of water and 1 eq. of oxygen to 1 ol
base; the hydrate of the sesquioxide of iron of 3 eqs. of
water, 3 of oxygen, and 2 of metal, and the hydrates of the
binoxides of tin, vanadium, &c. of 2 eqs. of water, 2 of oxy
gen, and 1 of base. Again, the second hydrate of barytes is
the only known instance in which the protoxide of a metal
unites with 2 equivalents of water to form a compound of
2 eqs. water, 1 oxygen, and 1 base. This earth also resembles
the alkalies potash and soda, in retaining water at a red heat ;
unlike the hydrates of the other earths, lime, strontia, magnesia,
&c. which lose the whole of their combined water, and be
come anhydrous, by exposure to an elevated temperature.
                    I am, my dear Sir, your obliged Pupil,
  St. Thomas's Hospital,                          J. Denham Smith.
       June 17, 1830.
XIX. Notice respecting Dr. Ehrenberg's Collections ofdried
             Infusoria, and other microscopic Objects.
                 To Richard Taylor, Esq., Sfc. §c.
      Dear Sir,                        British Museum, 21st June 1836.
T^R.rate    work on the Infusoria*,
         EHRENBERG            of Berlin, well
                                           has recently
                                                 known for     his elabo-
                                                            presented     to
the British Museum a series of dried microscopic objects,
consisting chiefly of infusory animalcules, globules of blood,
&c, accompanied by a short notice (too short indeed) of his
method of preparing them, and a list of the subjects. Dr.
Ehrenberg preserves these most minute and perishable of
known organic forms by means of rapid desiccation on little
plates of mica, in which manner he informs us that he has suc-
  * OrRanuniion syslcmatili, $c. dcr Infusiotuihkrchcn, 3 vols. fol. Berlin,
1830—1834.

            ofdried Infusoria, and other microscopic Objects.            91
ceeded in making a very satisfactory dried collection, not only
of nearly 300 species of Infusoria, but also of other kinds of
microscopic objects. He mounts them between double plates of
mica, fixed in the cells of slides, in the usual manner of prepar
ing the scales of butterflies and Podur<c, and other transparent
microscopic objects; and thus, he says, " I have not only pre
served the form and colour of the shielded (cuirasses) Rota
toria: and Bacillarice, but also the softest and most delicate of the
polygastric Infusoria, even those of the genus Monas; as well
ns the tissue of plants; the Spermatozoa and Cercarice; the
different sorts of globules of blood, with their nuclei; globules
of lymph, chyle, and milk ; and the nervous tubes, &c, of a
great number of animals, and of man."
      A power of about 300 (linear) is sufficient for viewing these
objects, " but a lower power does not show them satisfactorily,
 however well they may be illuminated."
      I subjoin a list of the subjects presented to the Museum,
and remain,                     Dear Sir, faithfully yours,
                                                 John Geo. Children.
 1. Monas viridis.
                Slide, No. 1.           3. Nassula aurea.
                                        4. Idem — crushed, to show the
 2. Polysoma uvella, and Monas                teeth.
        tcrmo.                          .5. Chilcdon uncinatus,
 3. Spirillum undula, and Vibrio ba     6. Chlamydomonas pulvisculus.
        cillus.
 4. Euglenia acus ; Eu. viridis; Eu.                      No. 5.
        pyrum.                           1. Hydatina senta.
 .5. Coleps hirsutus.                   2. Idem — crushed, to show the
 6. Volvox globator.                           teeth.
                                        3. Polyarthra trigla.
                    No. 2.               4. Brachionus pala—with its eggs.
  1. Paramecium caudatum.                5. Brachionus rubens—ditto.
 2. Glaucoma scintillans.                6. Anura?a aculeata.
  3. Trichoda carnium.
  4. Carchesium polypinum.                                No. 6.
  a. Epistylii nutans.                    1. Globules of blood of the Sheep
  (J. Euplotes Charon.                         f Ovis aries).
                                         8. Ditto of the Frog (Rana tem-
                    No. 3.                     poraria).
   1. Stentor niger.                     3. Grains of the Retina of the Eye
  2. Paramecium aurelia.                       of the same.
  3. Glaucoma scintillans.                4. Spermatozoa vespertilionis mu-
  5.
   4. Stentor cceruleus.
                 polymorphus.                   rini.
                                          5. Arhnruithes longipes.
   6. Idem—compressed,
         testiculi.         to show the 6. Meridton vernale; Fragilaria
                                                rhabdosoma; Navicula acus;
                                                Na. cmphisbaena.
                    No. 4.
    1. Nassula ornata.
    2. Nassula elegans.
                                        L *

                           [   92   ]
XX. Some concluding Remarks on the Theory of Vanishing
   Fractions. By J. R. Young, Esq., Professor of Mathe
   matics, Belfast College*
TUt R. WOOLHOUSE's letter in the preceding Number of
       this Magazine (p. 18) renders it befitting that I should
offer a few additional observations ; although 1 had hoped that
the many examples 1 had given of the entire fallacy of the
principles in dispute, would have rendered any further recur
rence to the subject on my part quite unnecessary. As far
indeed as that letter can be regarded as a " reply" to my ar
guments, I see nothing, I must confess, tojustiiyme in pro
longing the discussion. It clearly, however, establishes the
fact that Mr. Woolhouse has all along laboured under a mis
take as to what the processes of mathematicians in the doc
trine of vanishing fractions really are, for he asserts these
processes to involve the absurdity of " multiplying and divid
ing by zero", and fancies that, by defending " the usual me
thods," I attempt to justify such operations.
    Mr. Woolhouse says that his " especial object in writing
the Essay was to show the impropriety of multiplying and
dividing by zero," and he urges my attention to the logical
inaccuracy of such processes. Now it appears to me that
 Mr. Woolhouse would have been as profitably employed in
 writing to show the impropriety of making two and two equal
to five; for the fallacy which he denounces is never com
 mitted ; and if, as indeed his letter shows, he has imagined
this fallacy in the reasonings of Lacroix and Bourdon, to
 which I have already referred him, he has been the subject of
 a rather singular delusion. With this erroneous impression
 on his mind, however, it is not difficult to conceive how he
 has been led to make so many remarkable statements in re
 ference to analytical processes and analytical results : he has
 been combating a doctrine which exists only in his own ima
 gination ; and all the " palpable inconsistencies" which he has
 discovered belong, not to the true theory which mathemati
 cians have laid down, but to the fanciful system which Mr.
 Woolhouse has set up, unwittingly, in its stead.
    Mr. Woolhouse has evidently adopted the old and exploded
 notion—indulged, I believe, by no other person living — that
 the elimination ofthe vanishing factor, — as, for instance, a;— a,
                          a9
 in such a case as           , is a mere artificial contrivance, to
                      x—a
 bring out, in the hypothesis of x = a, one only of the innumer-
                    • Communicated by the Author.

          Remarks on the Theory of Vanishing Fractions.            9S
able values which the expression is competent to give, seeing
that it then assumes the indeterminate form a*— a9 . He has
                                                    a— a
altogether overlooked the fact that the questions, What is the
            x» a*
value of             when x = a? and, What is the value of
              x—a
a9— a"
 a — a ? (questions
           v'          which have certainly' been confounded be-
                                                x'—a*
fore,) are perfectly distinct. The value of ——— when x = a
         or— a9
is not           as Mr. Woolhouse supposes; this is merely the
                           x9— a*
symbolicalform which ——— assumes in that case. The value
     x'—a* .
of           is x+a ; and this value when x = a is 2 a. The ex-
      x —a
            xq—a> .
pression             implies an operation to be performed, viz.
 division, and the value is the result of that operation. When
            a*— a9
 the form ——— is isolated, or detached from its interpreta
 tion, it is of course indeterminate; for the operation indicated
 requires that we determine such a quantity P, that when it is
 submitted to the reverse operation, (a—a) P, the result may
 be a2 — fl9; and it is easily seen that an infinite variety of suit
 able values for P exist; lor it may be generally expressed by
                          P = {a + a) ± p.
  But the result of the operation —         is definite, and distinctly
  points out which of the above infinite variety is comprehended
  among the values of x^—a* _fl • 'n the ultimate state of the hy
  pothesis, to the exclusion of all others.
      Mr. Woolhouse fancies that when a vanishing factor, a1— a,
  is introduced into an algebraic process an indeterminateness
  is introduced at the same time. This is contrary to fact, and
  to the doctrine of all writers on the subject. The introduction
  of a foreign factor, whether by elimination or otherwise, can
  neve?' affect the analytical limitations which existed before its
  entrance ; and it is the well-known and universal practice of
  analysis to reject these foreign factors at the close of the pro
   cess, although they are not always discoverable without an

                Prof. Young's concluding Remarks
" appeal to the original analytical conditions." In the case,
however, of what has been called a vanishing factor, the ex
pulsion is always easily effected by the usual method of vanish
ing fractions, and Mr. Woolhouse will find upon examining
any modern author that nothing more is effected.
   Mr. Woolhouse appears to fall into great inaccuracy of
reasoning at page 22, when he infers that the introduction of
the factor x—a into the equation
                   0 = {x— a)"-/J0.r—y<f> x,                 (q.)
must introduce new values for y; or when he supposes that
the result of this introduction, viz.
             0 = [x-a) {(x-af^Lv-y^x},                      (p.)
is equivalent to the two independent equations
                     0 = x—a                                 (r.)
                     0 = (.r-a)a_p 0x— y $x                  (s.)
    If Mr. Woolhouse regard this as sound logic, the logic of
Lacroix must seem to him " palpably inconsistent" indeed.
I beg to suggest to Mr. Woolhouse that his equation (r.)
does not exist independently of, but only simultaneously with,
the equation (s.); and he will not be able to point out any
writer who argues otherwise. He is also wrong in affirming
that the equation (jr.), due regard being paid to the circum
stance of a foreign factor entering it, becomes indeterminate
for x = a. That equation, as to number of admissible values,
is identical with (s.). If this be satisfied for x = a, then
x = a will be an admissible solution of {p.), but not else,
seeing that (p.) resolves itself, when x = a, into the two si
multaneous equations (r.) and (s.) ; and it is distinctly in re
ference to this circumstance that the solutions of (p.) are to
be viewed.
    Such is, in substance, the doctrine of all modern analysts,
but it is very different from that which Mr. Woolhouse has
gratuitously condemned. I regret that he did not examine,
 with more attention, the process of Lacroix, in solving the
problem of Clairaut, to which I referred him in my former
 letter. I think if he had done this, instead of passing over in
 silence so decided an argument against his own " principles "
as that process furnishes, he surely would have spared the
truisms with which his " Reply " abounds.
    It is no doubt possible that Mr. Woolhouse may have met
with some obscure work in which his zero processes may oc
cur. I certainly have never seen any such work ; and if one

               on the Theory of Vanishing Fractions.            95
 exist it must be perfectly unique; and I trust that Mr. Wool-
 house will make it known to the public, in order that con
 noisseurs may possess themselves of so singular a specimen of
 scientific absurdity.
    From what I have now said it will be seen that I deny,
 in toto, the justness of Mr. Woolhouse's charge of bad logic
 in the common processes of the doctrine of vanishing frac
 tions; and I have moreover very briefly shown how those
 processes ought to be interpreted. It is only upon this as
 sumed bad logic that Mr.Woolhouse rests the stability of his
 remarkable " principles " ; if then the logic is shown to be
 sound, but that Mr. Woolhouse has, unconsciously, misinter
 preted the steps, what becomes of these said " principles " ?
    1 shall now take my leave of this subject ; I have carefully
examined my former letters, and do not find a single remark
 which I wish to recall, nor a single mathematical statement
at variance with received and well-established principles. The
only alteration I would wish to make is, that the word " may"
be substituted for "will" immediately after equation (2.) at
page 517 of last volume; the "will occurring for " may"
justifies Mr. Woolhouse's foot-note at page 24.
    Ample as are the materials which Mr. Woolhouse's last
 letter supplies for comment and objection, I shall in conclu
sion merely notice two points, more immediately concerning
 myself. At page 21, Mr. Woolhouse says that I "deny the
competency of the results of the ellipse question to furnish the
requisite values, and at the same time agree to receive them
 from the original analytical conditions." Mr. Woolhouse is
again at fault; let him read what I really do deny, instead of
attributing to me his own imaginings. I have said at page
 298 . (last volume) that " the fact of the problem admitting
multiple solutions is information which the analytical result is
incompetent to supply ;" this is very different from asserting
 that these multiple solutions, if they exist, could not be fur
nished by the result; the question is—do they exist or not?
and on this question the result supplies no information.
Again, Mr. Woolhouse appears to have views different from
other people on the subject of singular solutions, or else he
uses technical terms in reference to this topic, in an unautho
rized sense. It is sufficient for me here, without inquiring into
his peculiar notions, to show that my remark, in reference to
this subject, is in strict accordance with the received language
of analysis. I have said that " singular solutions, though not
comprised in the resulting integrals which furnish the general
solutions to certain differential equations, have nevertheless the
property of satisfying the proposed conditions." Lagrange

96 Mr. J. Nixon's Heights of Whernside, Great fVhernside,
expresses himself as follows : " La theorie ties equations de-
rivees, porte naturellement a conclure que toute valeur qui
peut satisfaire a une equation derivee donnee doit etre ren-
fermee dans son equation primitive, pourvu que celle-ci ait
toute la generalit6 dont elle est susceptible, par les con-
stantes arbitraires qui doivent y entrer. II y a ncanmoins
des equations derivees auxquelles satisfonl des valeurs que
j'appelle singtdieres, parce qu'elles ne sont pas comprises dans
leurs equations primitives *." Again : " On doit conclure de
la que, pour que x soit une valeur singuliere non comprise
dans la valeur generate, il faut," &c.f
     I here terminate these observations ; nor shall 1 again
trespass on the pages of the Philosophical Magazine, by any
further remarks upon a subject which has now been so fully
set before its readers.
    July 6, 1836.
XXI. Heights of fVhernside, Great fVhernside, Rumbles Moor,
     Pendle Hill, and Boulsworth. By John Nixon, Esq.%
 r I "'HE following trigonometrical differences of level, mea-
        sured at numerous stations for the determination of the
 above altitudes, having been calculated, under a range of di
 stances of from four to thirty miles, with the constant refrac
 tion of the formula given in my last (vol. viii. p. 480), are sub
 mitted as a severe test of its claims to general accuracy. The
 details of some of the measurements have been already given,
 and those of the remainder will appear in my surveys of
 Wharfdale, Ribblesdale, &c.
     For every station each clay's observation of the difference
 of level between the standard hill and the other (calculated in
 the manner described in pages 437-8 of vol. vi.) is arranged
 in a separate line.
                  Trigonometrical Differences of Level.
     Whernside above Ingleborough.                                     Feet.
                                 Feet. At Ingleborough         ..       41 -'2
 At Great Whernside .. .. 45 0                                          38-8
     Settronside$                405 (a)                                400
                                 41-2        Penygent                   423
     Raisegill Hag      .. .. 41-8                                      40!)
     Cosh                        406                                    39-8
    • Calcul dei Fonciions, p. 178.                  t       P- 234.
    J Communicated by the Author.
    | The mark («) donotea that as there was no accompanying observation
 of the standard hill, its average difference of level was used in the calcula
 tion.

            Mumbles Moor, Pendle Hill, and Boulsworth.                                   97
             it. • ¦                  Yect.                                        Feet.
 At Whan Fell .. .. .. 413 At Settronside                            .. .. 1022
    Dod Fell                        • 43-3                          .. .. 1042(a)
    Whernside Hill .. .. 40-8
    Knoutberry                        42-4        Raisegill Hag %           ..     979
                                                  Ingleborough               .. 1060(a)
    Great Wliitber .. .. 419                                        .. .. 1064(a)
                            .. .. 41-5                              .. .. 1056(a)
    Mouchton Fell .. .. 41*7                      Penvgent                  .. 103-7
    ShunnorFell             .. .. 39-9                >             .. .. 106-3
    Hunt's Cross            .. .. 42-6                              .. .. 104-7
                 Mean .. .. +41-4                 Dod Fell          .. .. 105 0
    Height oflngleborough
                   Whernside 2426-02384-5*        Knoutberry Hill           . . _108^2
                                                          Mean         .. — 105'3
                                                 Height of Whernside 2426M
Ingleborough above Great Whernside.                       Gt.Whernside 2320T
At Great Whernside . . . . 68-9                  Do. by Ingleborough 2320-8
                           .. .. 69-7                   Mean     .. .. 2320-8
                           .. .. 61-4
                           .. .. 65-6         Ingleborough above Rumbles Altmr.
                           .. .. 660 At Great Whernside .. 1056-7
                     — .. .. 65-8                                        .. 10525(a)
    ArnclhTMoort                •• 583                                   .. 1049-7
    Settronside                      61 '7(a)                           .. 1057-0
                                     63 0        ArncliffMoorf                  1048-3
    —-——                             64-7        Settronside ..                 1056-0
     Raisegill Hag .. .. 56-1 |                 Rumbles Moor            .. 10610
     Ryeloaf                         642                                .. 10497
    Rumbles Moor                     64- Km                             .. 1059-5
                          .. .. 62-4                                    .. 1049 0
                          .. .. 57-.r>          SymonSeat               .. 1056-3
                          .. .. 65-3            Pendle ... .. .. 10479
                          .. .. 66-0(a)         Ingleborough . . . . 1055-8
                          .. .. 62-6                                        — 1053-8
    SymonSeat             .. .. 64 2                        Ingleborough 2384-5
                                                Height ofRuuiblcsMoorf3307
    Pendle Hill          .. .. 53 6
    Pcnygent                        61-4
          '                         65-4 Great Whernside abevf Rumbles Moot:
                                    64-9
    Dod Fell                        61-6 At Great Whernside . . 98/ 8
    Knoutberry Hill            . . 67 4                                   . . 986-3
    Grisedale E4ge .. .. 66-1                                             . . 988-3
    I nek-borough        ..         660                                   .. 991-2
               '¦—       .. .. C6-4             Arncliff Moor                    990-0
                         . . . . 65-6          Settronside        .. .. 993-8 (a)
              Mean ..             —637                            .. .. 989-4
    Height ofGt.Whernside
                  Ingleborough 2384-5
                                  23%y8         HowbcrHill .. .. 991-2
                                                                  .. .. 986 3
                                                                 .. .. 991-4 fa)
 IVhertuide above Great Whernside.                                .. .. 989-6 (a)
                                                                  .. .. 988 1
At Great Whernside .. 1064                                        .. .. 987 6
   * See Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. vi. p. 440.
   t At this station Ingleborough has evidently been measured in defect.
   t The height of Great Whernside has been observe.! considerably in de
fect from Raisegill Hag.
    Third Series. Vol.9. No. 52. Atig. 1836.                                   M

.08 Mr. J. Nixon on the Heights of Whernside, Great Whernside,
                                Feet.                                  Feet.
    Rumbles Moor           .   990-7        Arneliff Moor              474-2
                           .   998-6                                   483-7
                           ,   992-2        Settronside                488-1 (a)
                           .   994-2        Ryeloaf                    4760
                           .   988-8        Howber Hill . .            474-0
                           .   992-2                                   486-7 (a)
    Gt. Almias Cliff       .  1001-7                                   4770
    Symon Seat                 993-2        Rumbles Moor               481 4 Co)
                           . 992-4                                     48/3
                               992-1                                   491-7 (a)
    Pendle      .. ..      . 994-3                                     4920
    Draughton Moor         . 988-7                                     491-8
                           . 989-0                                     494-8
                           . 988-5          Symon Seat                 487-1
    Flashy Fell     ..   .     986-8                                   480 0
    Halton Height . .          985-4        Pendle                     4869
                           . 985-6          Draughton Moor             4800
     Ingleborough              989-8                                   486-8
            Mean             -990-5                                    485-8
    Ht. ofGt. Whernside       2320-8        Flasby Fell                480-4
          Rumbles Moor        1330-3        Kilnsey Moor . .           478-3
    Do. by Ingleborough       13307                                    476-0
                                            Halton Height . .          4809
            Mean . .          1330 5                                   4836
   Ingleborough above Pendle Hill.          In"!eboroii2h              470-7 (<»)
                                                                       470-2
 At Great Whernside            538-8        Penygent                   483-9
                               549-3        Knoutberry Hill            4729
                               542-8 (a)            Mean               481-6
                               5480                   Pendle Hill . . 1839-2
                                            Height ofGt.Whernside2320-8
    Arneliff Moor . .          542-0
    Settronside                5511
    Ryeloaf                    5402
    Rumbles Moor               543-4 (ai Pendle Hill above Rumbles Moor.
                               551-4 (a) At Great Whernside            5180
                               554- 1                                  508-8 (a)
                               554-0 (a)                               509-7
                               549-3                                   5090
                               5601         Arneliff Moor              506-3
    Symon Seat                 544-2        Settronside                505-7
    Pendle Hill                5405         Howber Hill                512-3
    Ingleborough               536-7                                   504-7
                               536-2                                   510-7
    Penygent . .               545-3        Rumbles Moor .             511-4
    Knoutberry Hill            540-3                                   503-4
    Smearsitt                  544 1                                   506-9
            Mean       .. -545-6                                       500-9
    Height of Ingleborough
               Pendle Hill 2384-5
                              1839 0"                                  500 4
                                                                       499-4
                                            Symon Seat                 505-3
  Great Whernside above Pendle Hill.                                   5121
                                            Pendle Hill     !!         507-4
 At Great Whernside . . 469-9               Draughton Moor             508-8
                          .. 479-6                                     502-2
                     ¦ .. 476-6                                        502-7
                          .. 482-2          Lippersley Pike . .        5110

           Mumbles Moor, Pendle Hill, and Boulsworth.                       99
                                 Feet.                                Feet.
AtFlasbyFell                    506-4       Arncliff Moor            381-4
   Halton Height                504-5       Howber Hill              379-2
                               5020                                  3761
   Ingleborough                 519-3       Rumbles Moor             369-6
           Mean ..          +507-3
                             , - .. -                                3673
   IleightofRumbles Moor 1330-5                                      3792
             Pendle Hill .. 1837-8         The Chevin                3770
   Pendle Hill by Inglebro' 1839 0         Symon Seat                3764
             Gt.Whernside 1839-2           Pendle                    3830
             Rumbles Moor 1837 8           Draughton Moor            374-5
           Mean               18387'                                 374-2
                                           Lippersley Pike           3808
    Ingleborough above Boulsworth.         Halton Height .           374-2
                                                                     3773
At GreatVVhernside        .. 6747                  Mean .. .. +376 8
   Arncliff Moor               667 0                  Rumbles Moorl1707-3
                                           Heightof Boulsworth       330-5
   Rumbles Moor                685-2 (a)
                               682-4
                               680 3
   Symon Seat                  6800            Pendle above Boulsworth.
   Pendle                      665;5     At GreatWhernside           1267
                            —676-5         Arncliff Moor             1250
   Height of Boulsworth       17080
              Ingleborough 2384-5          Howber Hill               129-6 (0)
                                                                     134-6
                                           Rumbles Moor              133-8
 Great Whernside above Boulsworth.                                   1331
                                                                     120-2
At Great Whernside             608-9       Symon Seat                135-7
  Arncliff Moor                608-6       Pendle                    124-5
   Howber Hill . .             610-4 (all Draughton Moor             134-3
                               611-5                                 1280
   Rumbles Moor                621-1        Lippersley Pike          130-2
                               6250         Halton Height            130-3
                               615-0                                 124-7
   Symon Seat                  615-7               Mean
   Pendle       .. ..          611-4                  Pendle
                                           Height of Boulsworth    18387
   Draughton Moor              614-2
                               614-8                                1709-4
   Halton Height . .           611-2
                               608 3       Boulsworth by Inglebro' 1 708-0
           Mean .. .. 613-6                         GreatWhemsidel 707-2
   Height of Boulsworth
              Gt.Whernside 2320
                              1707-28               Rumbles Moor 1 707-3
                                                    Pendle . . . . 1 709-4
                                                   Mean             1708-0
  Boulsworth above Rumbles Moor.
At Great Whernside
    It will be seen from the following statement, that Colonel
Mudge's measurements of the above altitudes (above mean
low water, springtides,) are invariably less than mine.
 • This, height is exclusive of the Beacon hillock (about 7 or 8 feet high).
                                       M 2

100:        Mr. Lubbock on a Property of the Parabola.
                                          Mudge.    Nixon.       Diff.
   Ingleborough                            2361     2384*5      + 23-5
   Great Whernside                         2263     2320-8      + 57-8
   Whernside (in Ingleton Fells) 238+               2426-0      + 42-0
   Pendle Hill                             1824*    1838-7      + 14-7
   Boulsworth Hill                         1689     1708-0      + 19-0
   Rumbles Moor                            1308     1330-5      + 22-5
  Ilkley, May 24, 1836.                                   John Nixon.
XXII.       On a Property of the Parabola. By J. W. Lubbock>
                              Esq., F.II.SJ
TN the 8th volume of Gergonne's Annates de Mathema-
*¦ tiqucs, p. 9, M. Poncelet has given the following theorem :
   " Un triangle etant circonscrit a une parabole, si on lui
circonscrit a son tour une circonference de cercle, elle passera
neccssairement par le foyer meme de la courbe."
   See also a paper by M. Steiner in the 19th volume of the
same work.
   The proofs which have been given of this elegant property
of the parabola are indirect, and however ingenious they
may be, it seems desirable to show how the theorem in ques
tion may be deduced immediately from the equation to the
curve. The general methods of analytical geometry may be
deemed incomplete and imperfect while they do not embrace
questions of this nature, and their great advantage is liable to
be overlooked.
   Let A B C be a triangle, and let .r,, yx , xity2, x3, y9 , be
the coordinates of the points A, B, C. I propose to prove
that if the lines A B, B C, A C touch a parabola the focus of
the parabola is in the circumference of the circumscribing
circle ABC.
   The equation to any straight line passing through given
points (xifyt), (xt,ys) is
                    y-y* =                  to—**)¦
   The equation to the tangent passing through the point
(*,, yt) and touching a curve in the point (x, y) is
                       y-y^ = -37 (*-*!>•
   This equation is generally given for rectangular coordinates
         • This height is probably inclurive of the Beacon hillock,
         t Communicated by the Author.

           Mr. Lubbock on a Property of the Parabota.              101:
 only, but the reasoning by which it is established is equally
 applicable to coordinates inclined to each other at any angle. .
     Let / = 2p* be the equation to a parabola referred to
 any coordinuate axes Of, Oy oblique or rectangular.
y< ¦=. Vq, x = P V, p = 2 S P. (See Bridge's Conic Sec
 tions, p. 15.)                                                     :
                     _ JP_ _ j/i -y*
                 dx       y      xx-x£
 if the tangent passes through (xl,yl), (xi,y3).
    Similarly,
                            p (x3— x,)9
                        = ¥ (x^-x^)                               (2,)
    By making the diameter of the parabola Ox pass through
the point A, I may hereafter make^, = 0, without limiting
the generality of the question. Subtracting (2.) from (1.);
    x\ d/s-yi) (ys+yJ+yi foyt-'a* -*i ys+*ayi)
     = f- (2 *i ~*a -*-*a) (*a
       ^(x3+x8) (x3-xs) (xg^-Xjya-x.ya-jr,^)
       = 2^, (xa y3-*3jfo) (*,         xj.y.-x^a + x,^,)          (4.)
    Hence if .y, = 0
                 x3 + xs = 0 or x3— x9 = 0
             or *9yi-xiya+x\ya— xiy* = o.
 In the second case y^ —ys = 0 ; and since x3 = x9 y3 = yt
the points (x2,          (x3, ya), coincide and are identical ; in
the third case the points (x, , yx), (x, , _ys), (x3 , y3) are in the
same straight line ; it is useless therefore to consider these cases,
and it is sufficient to take the first case only, namely, when
y, = 0, and x3 + x9 = 0.
    Let X, Y be the coordinates of the centre and R the ra
dius of the circumscribing circle passing through the points
{x\ 5 yi)> (^aj yt) (*3>y})i tnen by die equation to the circle,
    (x,-X)*+(yl-Y)*+2(xl-X) (y,-Y) cosxy = R3
    (xa- Xy + (y,- Y)s + 2 (x%—X) (yt- Y) cos xy = R*.

102          Mr. Lubbock on a Property ofthe Parabola.
   Subtracting the latter equation from the former, I find an
equation which may be written as follows :
          (x, + x9 — 2 X) (j-i —ar2 + — «/2) cos xy)
       + Cfi +3^9— 2 Y) (Jfi—Jfr+(*i— *J cosxy) = 0.
   Substituting in this equation {or y,—yi its value
                        2th^k)>          (Seep-101)-
and dividing by x, — x4,
    (x, +xs—21) (x1ya—xiyl+            (x,-xa) cos xy)
+ (^1+^8-2 y)(^(*i-«i)+(*i*i'-«»*i)ccwxy) = 0,
which equation may be written in the form
{x,+xa+x3+ \-*X
          + (yi +^9+^3-2 Y) COSXJ/} (X^-Xjjf,)
 + -| |{(4f,+x9)cos*y—SY-2 Xcosxiy}(x,+x4) + x1,j/1 -x^s j
           ("3 + y3cosxy) {x,ya-x9y,) = 0.                (5.)
and also by symmetry, since the three points (x,,^,), (xity _),
(x3 , _y3) are similarly related,
 {xs + x3+x,+ -|- — 2X
 + 2 {Ux«+^cosx^-2 ir-2Xcosx<y}(x8-x3)+xStys-*3<y3|
       —           cosxj/) (x^-Xa^,) = 0                  (6.)
 ^(x8 + x, + x9+ |--2X
       + (^3 + ^1 +^9-2 y) cos xyj (xsVi -*i J's)
 + |>|{{x3+x1)cosxy-2Y-2Xcosxy}(x3-x1 +(x3y8-xty1 |
       -(^s+i'scosx.y) (x3iy,—x,,y3) = 0.
 Adding together the three last equations, many terms de
 stroy each other, and

        Mr. Lubbock on a Property of the Parabola.             103
    [xl + xi+x3+£--2X+ (y. + jfo+jfe-S Y) cos x y)
         {x^i—x^+x^-x^ + x^—xayi} = 0.                         (7.)
   Unless the three points (xlt yj, (i3)^j), (^i^) are in
the same straight line
*i+*«+*8+ f ~2X                 +^4+^3-2 y) cosx^ = 0. (8.)
   This equation is general, but simplifications result \fyl = 0 ;
(which supposition does not limit the generality of the solu
tion of the problem proposed;) and in this case by p. 101, line
18, x4 + a-3 =0, x9 = — x3, equation (8.) becomes
and by    + -f -2X
      *i equation  (7.)» + (y3 + y3-2Y)cosxy = 0.              (9.)
                    (y* + y3) + p{Y+X cos xy) = 0.           (10.)
   If     Ax* + Bxy + Cy* + Dx + Ey + F = 0,
is the equation to any curve of the second order, the free re
sult generally from the intersection of the lines whose equa
tions are,
(B*-±AC) {x*-y>) + (2BE-4>DOx-(2BD-4 EA) y
                 + E*-4>CF-D*+4 AF = 0.
  (B*-lAQ (xt-yt) + (BD-<2.AC)x+(BD-'2 DC) y
   + 2BF- ED- {(Bt-iAQy* + (2BD-iAE)y
    + -D*— * A E} cos xy = 0. (See Phil. Mag. Aug. 1831.)
   If the equation to the curve is y2 = 2px, in which case
A =s 0, B aa 0, C = 1, D = — Sjs E = 0, F = 0, it is
easy to deduce from the equations given above, or to prove
otherwise, that the focus results from the intersection of the
straight lines whose equations are x =       and y = —p cos xy.
   Let x4,yA denote the coordinates of the intersection of the
circumscribing circle passing through (xt , y,), (xs, yt), {x3,y3)
with the line              p            p
                    * = y>         x4 = "2 •
   In order to prove that the circle passes through the focus
of the parabola it is sufficient to show that y4 = — p cos xy.
By the equation to the circle
 (f- X)*+(yt-Yf+2(£ -X) (y4-Y)coSxy = JP.
            (xl-X)*+ Y»- 2                1'costfy         =if

JO*                    Mr. Rudge on the Position
Since       = 0.    Subtracting the latter equation from the former
      ( x, + -| - 2 X) [xx - -J- - j/4 cos
      + (y4-2 Y)            + (*,- -|) cos *y) - °'
which equation may be written as follows :
(*i "           (*i + | -2 X - 2 Ycos                       .. ;
        — p cos a-^ ( Y + A cos xy)
        — Cy4+pcosxy)(y4—2Y-2Xcosxy) = 0.
    By equation (9.)
         x,+ — — 2 + X (j/i+j/s —2 Y) cos xy = 0; hence
     {(*«*" f")              + /> ( y + x cos j ^ } cos *y
             — (y4 + pcos xy) (y4 — 2 Y — 2 X cos xj/) = 0.
   Also by equation (10.)
    (*, — ^) (3's+^) + 7'(Y'+-Xcos-r3/) = °? nence
           (,y4 + p cos     (^4-2 Y—2 Xcos xy) = 0
          _y4 = — p cos a: or y4 = 2 Y + 2 X cos a- y,           , t •
and it is evident that the circumscribing circle passes through
the focus of the parabola.
XXIII. On the Position of the South Magnetic Pole. By
       Edward Rudge, Esq., F.H.S., S.A., L.S. $ H.S*
T I "'HE experiments detailed by Captain James Clark Ross,
       R.N., &c, which led to the important discovery of the
nortli magnetic pole, and which are published in the Philo
sophical Transactions for the year 1834, suggested to me as
an object of interesting inquiry, whether any similar affection
of the horizontal magnetic needle had ever been noticed by
any former navigator of the southern hemisphere, from which
an approach to the magnetic south pole could be surmised. .
No such appearances seem to have been observed by Anson,
or any one after him ; but prior to his circumnavigation of the
globe, Captain Abel Tasman, who was appointed for the dis
covery of southern countries by direction of the Dutch East
India Company, sailed from Batavia with two vessels on the
   • Read before the Royal Society, Feb. 19, 1835; and now communi
cated by tlie Author.                                , I.
     i ¦

                    of the South Magnetic Pole.              105
 14th of August 1642, in his account of the voyage, gives the
 following particulars of an observation made on the 22nd of
 November of the same year, when by a prior and subsequent
 observation of November the 15th and 24th, he was in about
 latitude 43° S., and longitude from Paris 160°.
    " The needle was in continual motion without resting upon
 any of the eight points of the compass," which he says, led
 him to conjecture that there were some mines of loadstone on
 that spot."
    Tasman's Journal, written in Low Dutch, is now an ex
 tremely rare book: a translation of it is given in Dr. Hooke's
 Philosophical Tracts, p. 179, for the yenr 1682; in Nar-
 borough s and in CorreaPs Collections of Voyages; and also
 by Harris, who gives a new translation of it in the second
edition of his Collection of Voyages, where, although he no
tices Dr. Halley's theory of the magnetic poles, which was
published in 1683, he does not seem to suspect that Tasman's
observation of this very remarkable affection of the magnetic
needle was made in the immediate vicinity of the south mag
netic pole, at that period in that particular situation, ascer
tained by the horizontal needle only; the dipping-needle, in
vented by Norman in 1681, being then unknown. Dr. Halley
was of opinion that the north magnetic pole was not far from
Baffin's Bay, and that the south magnetic pole was in the
Indian Ocean, south-west from New Zealand; whether he had
availed himselfof the observation made by Tasman in forming
this opinion, does not appear. Euler places the north mag
netic pole for the year 1 757 in latitude 76° north, and longi
tude 96° west from Teneriffe ; and the south magnetic pole in
latitude 58° south, and longitude 158° west from Teneriffe.
   It has been ascertained by observation, that the magnetic
poles were on the meridian of the poles of the earth at London
in the year 1657, being fifteen years after Tasman's observa
tions, and that it reached its utmost degree of variation west
in the year 1818, when it became stationary at 24° 26' west,
and has since in respect of London been retrograding towards
the east, completing one quarter of the circle round the poles
of the earth in 161 years at the rate of 11 or 12 minutes of a
degree in a year ; so that, presuming Tasman was on the south
magnetic pole on the 22nd of November 1642, it would now
be found in or about the forty-third parallel of south latitude
to the south-east of the island of Madagascar, a convenient
situation, when compared with that of the north magnetic pole
for ascertaining the exact position of the south magnetic pole,
and where experiments with the horizontal- and dipping-
needles to lead to its discovery and determine the comparative
intensity of the south magnetic power might with facility be
                                                     N

106        On the Position of the South Magnetic Pole.
made. In pursuance of this desirable object the progress of
the south magnetic pole might be accurately ascertained
by annual observations ; whether its distance from the south
pole of the earth is uniform in its progress and if in an exact
opposite direction to the north magnetic pole; to trace the
point at which the axis of the magnetic poles crosses that of
the earth; and thus by a continued series of observations and
experiments a wide field might be opened to enlarge our
hitherto imperfect knowledge of this mysterious power, which
might be considered of so much importance in guiding and
directing the motion of the earth on its axis and in its orbit.
 Table of the Observations on the Magnetic Needle made by
   Captain John Abel Tasman from the beginning to the ter
   mination ofhis Voyage ; extractedfrom his Journal.
      Time.                  Longitude Variation of the
                  Latitude. from  Parif.      Needle.
      1642.
  Oct. 8 to 22. 40°40' S.                23°24°&25°W.
            22. 49 47           89° 44' 26° 45 W.
  Nov.        6. 49 4         114 56 26
            15. 44 3          140 32 18 30 W.
            21.               158          4       W.
            22.               •                           The needle in conti
                                                           nual agitation.
            24. 42 25         163 50                       now
                                                           men's
                                                           towards
                                                           and
                                                          The   first
                                                               needle discovered
                                                                       the
                                                               called
                                                                   Land.Van  Die-
                                                                         pointed
                                                                            land,
  Dec.        1.  43 10       167 55       3       E.      Van Diemen's
                                                          Frederick   HenryLand,
                                                                              bay.
              9. 42 37        176 29       5       E.     New Zealand.
      1643. 18. 40 50         191 41       9       E.
  January 8.      30 25       192 20 9             E.
            12.   30 5        195 27 9 30 E.
            16.   26 29        199 32 8            E.
            19.   22 35       204 15 7 30 E.
            21.   21 20       205 29 7 25 E.
            25.   20 15       206 19 6 20 E.
   March 2.         9 11      192 46 10            E.
            14.    10 12      186 14 8 45 E.
            *0.     5 15       181 16 9            E.
            25.     4 35       175 10 9 30 E.
   April       1.   4 30       171 2 8 45 E.
             12.    3 45       167        10       E.
            14.     5 27       166 57 9 15 E.
            20.     5 4        164 27 8 30 E.
   May      12.     0 54       153 17 6 30 E.
             18.    0 26       147 55 5 30 E.
            27.     6 12 S. 127 18 Returned to Batavia after 10 months
                    absence, seeing
                    without  having anysailed
                                           partround
                                                of it but
                                                      the Australian
                                                          the e\tremity    ot Van
                                                                        continent
                   Dienicn's Land.

                             [  107    ]
  XXIV. On Fluorine. By G. J. Knox, Esq., and the Rev.
                         Thomas Knox.*
  A S far as the existence of a substance which bad not hitherto
      been procured in an independent state could be deter
 mined, the experiments and reasoning of Davy and Berzelius
 are sufficiently conclusive. The only desideratum seems to
 have been the obtaining a vessel upon which this energetic
 principle would exert no action. Since fluorine shows no affi
 nity for the negative elements oxygen, chlorine, iodine, and
 bromine, nor for carbon or nitrogen, it would appear that
 the vessel to contain it should consist of some solid compound
 of those substances ; but as such vessels would be unable to
 bear exposure to a high temperature, we considered that
 though they might be convenient for retaining the gas when
 once obtained, they would not answer for its production. It
 was therefore necessary to employ some substance already
saturated with the element ; and for this purpose fluor spar,
from bearing exposure to a high temperature and being easily
formed into vessels, appeared best adapted. The most con
venient method of obtaining the gas seemed to be by acting
upon fluoride of mercury with dry chlorine, by which means,
if the absence of moisture could be insured and the forma
tion of a chloride of mercury obtained, fluorine must have
 been disengaged, and if present would be recognised by ap
propriate tests.
   Placing dry fluoride of mercury in the fluor-spar vessel, we
heated it till a glass plate cooled by the evaporation of sul-
phuret of carbon showed no trace of moisture in the vessel ;
the chlorine was then passed through a desiccating tube filled
with fused chloride of calcium, the tube being bent at an
angle, and its extremity drawn capillary, so as to enter the
vessel, which, when filled with the gas, had its orifice closed
with a plate of fluor spar which was fastened firmly down.
   After exposing it to the heat of a spirit-lamp for some time,
on removing the fluor spar cover, and replacing it rapidly
with one of silica, it showed immediate and powerful action.
The inside of the vessel was found on examination to be co
vered with crystals of bichloride of mercury; both of which
results prove the presence of either fluorine or hydrofluoric
acid; to determine which, we repeated the experiment,
cooling the cover of the vessel so as to condense any hydro
fluoric acid which might be present, but none appeared, from
                    * Communicated by the Authors.
                               N2

 108      Mr. J. G. and the Rev. T. Knox on Fluorine.
 which we inferred that fluorine and not hydrofluoric acid had
 been present in the vessel, which was also further confirmed
 by the absence of fumes when the vessel and its contents had
 been previously dried.
    Placing inverted over the orifice of the vessel a clear cry
 stal of fluor spar, with a small perforation in the centre into
 which a stopper of fluor spar fitted accurately, on the stopper
 falling into the vessel the tube was filled with a yellowish
green gas, the colour of which deepened with heat, and dis
 appeared when cold. On reheating the vessel below, the gas
 rose again into the crystal above. On removing the crystal
while not to a wet glass plate, it flew to pieces, which pre
 vented us from determining whether the coloured gas was bi
 chloride of mercury under heat and pressure, hydrofluoric
 acid, or fluorine.
    Having procured larger vessels with receivers into which
 ground stoppers were made to fit accurately, we resumed in
 the present month the experiments we had tried in the be
 ginning of April.
    1st Exp. We heated fluoride of lead with oxygen, and
 afterwards with dry chlorine without action upon the fluoride.
 When the receiver (its stopper having fallen into the vessel
 below) was placed over gold-leaf, a chloride of gold was
 formed.
    2nd Exp. Treating hydrofluate of ammonia similarly with
chlorine, there was strong action on glass and formation of
chloride of gold as before.
    3rd Exp. Treating fluoride of mercury with chlorine (as
we had done in our former experiments), we obtained crystals
of bichloride of mercury in the vessel. Leaving the receiver
over gold-leaf, there was after a considerable time action on it,
producing a yellowish brown appearance. This we placed on a
slip of glass, and on adding a few drops of sulphuric acid and
evaporating to dryness there was very strong action on the glass
where the gold had been, proving that it was a fluoride of
gold, and that since gold is not acted on by hydrofluoric acid
there must have been fluorine in the receiver. As an addi
tional corroboration there was no hydrogen in the tube, which
there would have been had hydrofluoric acid been decom
posed by the gold. From these experiments we conclude that
fluorine was present in the receiver, but whether a slight trace
of hydrofluoric acid (to which the action on glass was due)
may not have been present with it, we have not yet determined.
We hope on a future occasion to be able to give particulars
with regard to the properties of the gas ; but we consider that

    Mr. G. Bird on certain new Combinations of Albumen. 109
the present results are sufficiently important to justify us in
submitting them to the public through the medium of your
Magazine.           We remain, Gentlemen, yours, &c.
  Toomavara, Tipperarv,                            T. Knox,
         July 1836.                                Geo. J. Knox.
                      Explanation of Figures.
   Fig. 1. The vessel with the receiver in the stand which
holds down the receiver by means of spiral springs A.
   Fig. 2. Vessel with cover off, showing the orifice and the
smalldepressions in which the gold-leaf, &c. were placed.
   Fig. 3. Receiver without stopper.
   Fig. 4-. The stopper.                                        ,
                        Q                     Fig. 2.
                                           Fig. 3.      Fig. 4.
XXV. On certain new Combinations of Albumen, "with an
   Account ofsome curious Properties peculiar to that Substance.
   By Goldino Bird, F.L.S., F.G.S., Senior Fellow of the
  Physical Society of Guy's Hospital, fyc*
1. TN the course of the following observations I shall avoid
       any unnecessary reiteration of facts already well known
to chemists, and confine myself to referring to them only
when they are required to explain any circumstances con
nected with those new modifications or combinations of albu
men which have fallen under my notice. Our knowledge of
the properties of albumen, although more extended than that
                    * Communicated by the Author.

 110 Mr. G. Bird on certain new Combinations of Albumen,
of most other animal matters, is nevertheless very limited,
which limitation arises, in all probability, from its compara
tively weak affinity for other bodies, which prevents our be
coming acquainted with anything like very prominent or in
teresting features ; I am however convinced that the study of
the chemical nature of albumen will reward the investigator
with a richer harvest of facts than that of any of the other
proximate constituents of the animal frame, as well from its
prevalence under some modification or other in every secre
tion in the body, as from its being the chief constituent of the
circulating fluid, and constituting, if I may be allowed the ex
pression, the type of the albuminous principles (properly so
called) of the blood, and the pabulum from which the different
secretions are formed and the waste of the body repaired.
Indeed, by a synthetic method, founded to a certain extent
upon some of the novel properties of albumen I am about to
mention, I trust to be able in a future paper to prove that
many, if not all the secretions contain albumen, although its
presence has not been suspected, or if suspected not detected,
and that they are indebted to the presence of a peculiar com
bination of this principle for many of their most prominent
characters. In the course of my investigations I had fre
ferent sources
quently            to observediffered
         occasionfrequently     that albumen
                                      slightly in
                                               procured  from,dif-
                                                  its behaviour to
reagents, and an ignorance of this fact led at first to consider
able discrepancy in the results of my experiments ; thus I may
observe that the white of egg and the albuminous secretions of
serous surfaces very closely resembled each other, but dif
fered in degree of solubility and many other minor properties
from the albumen of serum of blood, which I have generally
made the subject of my experiments, after freeing it from fat
by agitation with sulphuric aether; and to this form of albu
men I shall constantly refer in the course of the following ob
servations.
   2. Some serum freed from fat ( 1 .) was mixed with a sufficient
quantity of a solution of pure soda to cause it strongly to af
fect turmeric paper; the heat of a water-bath was applied, the
mixture being constantly stirred : in a short time it appeared
to solidify, forming a pale yellowish transparent jelly which
scarcely at all affected turmeric paper. Distilled water being
then added, and heat again applied, a nearly limpid, but some
what mucilaginous solution of albuminate of soda resulted,
which became quite transparent by filtration ; it was not at all
affected by boiling or the addition of alcohol, but was precipi
tated by the acids, solutions of chlorine, alum, acetate of lead,
bichlorides of iron and mercury, sulphate of copper, ferro

with an Account ofsome curious Properties ofthat Substance. Ill
cyanate of potash (after the addition of acetic acid), and tinc
ture of galls; reactions quite characteristic of solutions of al
kaline albuminates.
    3. A solution of albuminate of soda (2.) was diluted con
siderably with cold distilled water and placed in a tall cylindri
cal glass vessel ; through this fluid a current of carbonic acid
gas was passed, the tube from which the gas issued being suffi
ciently long to reach the bottom of the vessel: in a few minutes
tifully
the      white,
      fluid,     impalpable
             before transparent,
                             powder
                                  became
                                      ; the opake,  and
                                             acid gas    rapidly
                                                      being      de-
                                                             allowed
posited                          of albumen in the stale of a beau
to pass for some time longer, the precipitate gradually disap
peared until the whole was as limpid as before the experiment.
The solution thus obtained was acid, and consequently red
dened litmus-paper, whereas before the experiment it red
dened turmeric ; it afforded a copious deposit with those re
agents which precipitate solutions of albumen in mere water,
or when dissolved by acids, but not with those which affect
solutions of albumen in the alkalies only: thus, ebullition
caused a considerable deposit, as also did nitric acid, tincture
of galls, bichloride of mercury, and alum; whereas the dilute
acids and perchloride of iron did not disturb the limpidity of the
fluid, although, as before stated, prior to the passage of the
acid gas they produced copious precipitates. Heat, I have
already stated, caused a considerable deposit of albumen in the
same manner as from a mere aqueous solution of albumen
which had not undergone coagulation, but differed in requir
ing a higher temperature, a full boiling-heat being necessary
to produce a considerable precipitate. Ammonia when very
dilute caused a precipitate also, which readily dissolved in an
excess of the precipitant ; the action of heat was of course ac
companied with a copious evolution of carbonic acid gas.
 From these facts I was induced to conclude that the albumen
previously existing in combination with the soda, had left that
alkali to combine with the carbonic acid, thus playing the part
of a base or electro-positive element, leaving the soda in the
 state of bicarbonate, that salt being of course formed by the
 action of the carbonic acid added : the solution might thus be
 supposed to contain a mixture of the carbonates of soda and
 albumen with an excess of carbonic acid. To this explanation
 it might be objected, that as alkaline bicarbonates are known
 to dissolve albumen, the acid gas had only converted the
 alkali into a bicarbonate, which thus held the albumen in solu
 tion : if this were true, how can the precipitation of albumen
 on the first passage of the gas be explained, unless it be sup
 posed that the neutral alkaline carbonate which is first formed,

 112 Mr. G. Bird on certain new Combinations of Albumen,
 is incapable of holding in solution so large a quantity of al
 bumen as the free alkali, or its bicarbonate ; an assumption
 directly opposed to fact, as I shall have occasion to show in
 another place: besides which, the action of reagents ought to
 differ, and instead of those only which precipitate acid solu
 tions of albumen producing a turbidity, a troubling should be
 produced by those also which affect its alkaline solution, for
 surely the solution of an animal matter in a carbonated alkali
 approaches less to the nature of an acid than to that of an al
 kaline solution.
    4. I next attempted to form a solution of albumen in car
 bonic acid, excluding the agency of alkali, which if successful
 would, I considered, at once demonstrate the real nature of
 the combination ; but in this I experienced considerable diffi
 culty, for when a current of carbonic acid gas was passed
 through an aqueous solution of albumen (1.), no distinct com
bination was obtained ; and on attempting in a similar manner
 to dissolve albumen previously coagulated by the action of
heat or acids, I failed to obtain satisfactory results, from the
close state of aggregation in which the albumen was obtained
appearing to present a considerable resistance to the solvent
action of the acid. I at length succeeded by precipitating al
bumen from serum of blood by means of alcohol, well wash
ing the precipitate until all traces of alcohol were removed,
(the vessel in which the precipitation was performed being
immersed in ice-cold water to prevent the action of the evolved
heat on the albumen,) carefully avoiding any unnecessary ex
posure to the air, which, by drying it, might serve to lessen
its solubility in the acid. A portion of this finely divided al
bumen was diffused through cold water, and submitted to the
action of a current of carbonic acid gas ; after a short time it
entirely dissolved ; but the solution was not perfectly limpid, nor
did it become so by filtration. In preparing this solution care
must be taken to add a sufficient quantity of water, otherwise
a considerable quantity of albumen will be carried mechani
cally out of the fluid by each bubble of gas, and being depo
sited on the sides of the vessel, will dry rapidly, and on being
returned to the fluid will be found to have lost much of its
solubility in the acid ; and it is very remarkable how large a
quantity of albumen can (by this kind of inverted filtration)
be carried beyond the influence of the gas. The finely divided
albumen obtained by passing a limited quantity of carbonic
acid into albuminate of soda (2.), after well washing, may be
substituted for that precipitated by alcohol, although it must
be observed that it is not quite so readily soluble as that ob
tained by the latter process, owing to its having undergone

 •with an Account ofsome curious Properties ofthat Substance. 113
some modification, probably in its state of aggregation, diffi
cult to unravel. If the precipitated albumen is merely digested
in an aqueous solution of carbonic acid in a closed flask for
some hours, as much appears to be taken up as if a current of
the gas was used; and hence 1 have been led to conclude that
the solubility of the albumen is not so much owing to the for
mation of a definite soluble compound (carbonate?) as to its
being merely dissolved in the quantity of acid gas which water
is capable of holding in solution at ordinary atmospherical
pressure and temperature.
   5. The solution of albumen in carbonic acid behaves to re
agents like a mere aqueous solution, — as dilute serum ofblood,
with, as far as I know, a single exception, and this is the action
of very dilute ammonia, which produces a precipitate of albu
men soluble in an excess of the alkali. Heat produces a de
posit of albumen with a simultaneous evolution of carbonic
acid gas; nitric acid, tincture of galls, acidulated ferrocyanate
of potassa, and bichloride of mercury all produce copious pre
cipitates. By exposure to the air it does not very readily be
come/ turbid, the carbonic acid being very slowly evolved :
alter the lapse of a week, however, the albumen is deposited
irtjk White impalpable form. The presence of carbonic acid
iri these solutions of albumen appears to prevent its ready
precipitation by nitric acid, several drops being required to
produce a considerable troubling; and on this account I am
accustomed to use the nitrohydrochloric acid as a preferable
precipitant when I have the detection of albumen in an animal
fluid in view, as the action of this acid does not appeal' to be
so liable to be affected by carbonic acid.
    6. Wishing to ascertain with greater accuracy whether the
albumen precipitated from its solution in soda by carbonic
acid, depended for its resolution upon the formation of a com
pound with that acid, or upon the solvent action of the bicar
bonate necessarily formed, I availed myself of Dr. Stevens's
adaptation of Prof. Graham's law of the diffusion of gases, by
placing a glass vessel filled with the solution (3.) under a
large receiver full of hydrogen gas inverted over water. In
twelve hours the apparatus was examined, and the fluid sub
jected to experiment, previously quite limpid, was found to be
very turbid from the deposition of its albumen ; the carbonic
acid having been abstracted by the hydrogen gas. A modi
fication of this experiment was then made by placing over the
fluid subjected to the hydrogen gas, a capsule tilled with
lime-water : the carbonic acid being abstracted as before, was
absorbed by the lime-water, causing the precipitation of car-
    Third Series. Vol 9. No. 52. Aug. ia30\           O

114      Mr. G. Bird on certain new Combinations of Albumen,
bonate of lime, which occurring simultaneously with the pre
cipitation of albumen appeared to bear so near a relation to
cause and effect that there can, I think, no longer remain a
doubt as to the solvent nature of carbonic acid with regard to
albumen. These experiments prove moreover another inter
esting fact, viz. that however energetic a solvent for albumen
the uncombined alkalies may be, their carbonates must be re
garded as comparatively powerless, contrary to the generally
received opinion ; for the same quantity of soda must neces
sarily have existed in the fluid after, as before its being sub
jected to the action of the carbonic acid, and subsequently
of the hydrogen, the only difference being that it had become
converted into a carbonate, whereas before the experiment it
was pure and uncombined, quoad carbonic acid.
   7. I was next desirous to ascertain what was the degree of
solvent action capable of being exerted on coagulated albu
men by alkaline carbonates, and whether this solvent power
depended upon any partial decomposition of the salt em
ployed, the acid or base being set free ; I therefore precipi
tated albumen as before from fresh serum by means of alcohol,
well washed it with cold distilled water, and divided it into
four portions which 1 placed in as many flasks, the first of
which was filled up with a solution of bicarbonate of soda, the
second with a solution of the carbonate of soda, the third
with water impregnated with carbonic acid, and the fourth
with recently boiled distilled water ; they were allowed to di
gest for twelve hours, and then examined after filtration with
the following reagents :
     Solvent    Ebullition. Nitric Acid.  Acetic Acid. Sol. of Alum. Bichloride of
   employed.                                                          Mercury.
                                         Precipitate
 1. Bicarb,   Dense opa Copious sol. in ex Copious Copious
       soda.     city.      precipitate. cess of precipitate. precipitate.
                                            acid.
 2. Carb.      Opacity.        Do.          Do.           Do.           Do.
      soda.
 3. Sot. of
    carbonic Copious           Do.            —              ?          Do.
     acid in precipitate.
     water.
 4. Recently
      boiled        —            — '          —              —            —
      water.
   The water in the fourth flask was used for the purpose of

v>ith an Account ofsome curious Properties ofthat Substance. 115
ascertaining whether the precipitated albumen contained any
of the soluble form of that principle which might have been
mechanically carried down with it, but that this was not the
case was satisfactorily proved by the five reagents employed
not in the least disturbing the limpidity of the filtered fluid.
It will be observed that ebullition produced a copious troubling
in the solution of bicarbonate of soda that had been digested
on die albumen in the first flask, as if a portion of uncoagu-
lated albumen had been present, which I have just shown
was not the case. How then can it be accounted for? Might
it not be suggested that the salt employed had been decom
posed into a neutral carbonate and free acid, which latter dis
solved a portion of albumen, the carbonate being also partially
decomposed into free alkali, which by dissolving albumen
formed an albuminate of soda, whilst the portion of carbonic
acid deserted by its base united to another portion of albumen,
and thus the solution might be supposed to consist of mule-
composed carbonate of soda, albuminate of soda, and carbo
nate of albumen (if this expression may be provisionally ad
mitted). With regard to the contents of the second flask, in
which the neutral carbonate was used, this appears to have
undergone an analogous decomposition, for like the contents
of the first flask, we find them present the same phamomena
with reagents as would be produced by a mixture of solutions
of albumen in carbonic acid and albuminate of soda; but ex
periments are required to clear up the obscurity enveloping
this point.
    8. An interesting field for investigation thus appeared to
present itself in the examination of the action of albumen on
the alkaline carbonates, the investigation of which I com
menced with great care, and obtained some highly interesting
and unexpected
examination          results;
                of this  part of
                               butmynot
                                      subject
                                         having  consequence
                                              in quite        of die
                                                       concluded re
multitudinous repetition of experiments required to obviate
the various sources of fallacy peculiarly incident to investiga
 tions in organic chemistry, I am compelled to defer their
publicity for some weeks, when I trust to be able to commu
nicate some curious and important facts on this interesting
 subject.
   44 Seymour-street, Euston-square,
            July 6, 1836.
                                  U 2

                            [   116     ]
 XXVI. Remarks on the Formula for the Dispersion of Light.
    By the Rev. Baden Powell, M.A., F.R.S, Savilian Pro
   fessor of Geometry, Oxford.
                  [Continued from vol. viii. p. 309.]
 IN a former portion of these papers I have given some ac-
 * count of the methods by which the formula of dispersion,
 or relation between the length of a wave and the velocity of its
propagation, or the refractive index for a given ray and given
medium, is made applicable in calculation. I have also illus
trated the comparison made by the researches which Sir Wm.
 R. Hamilton has given me between that formula in its simpler,
but consequently only approximate, form, and the exact deve
lopment. In the present instance, in continuation of the same
object of facilitating the study of this highly interesting por
tion of the science of light, my design is, besides some general
remarks, to furnish certain constant elements which enter into
all calculations by the exact method ; together with one more
instance of the comparison of this method with the approxi
mate one from the same source.
    The exact method, in fact, consists in this: The relation is
expressed by the series of powers of the reciprocal of A re
sulting from the division of the development of the sine by the
arc, with certain indeterminate coefficients. In the approxi
mate method these are supposed all constant and equal, and
are expressed by a common factor. In the exact development
this cannot be allowed ; but an investigation is given by which
they are, in fact, eliminated ; and there results a method for
obtaining the theoretical index which is equivalent to the
enunciation of a law expressing the connexion of the index of
any one ray for a given medium, with three others supposed
assumed : thus successively each of the four remaining of the
seven standard rays have their indices found: or, in another
point of view, we may say, that (taking three terms of the
series) there are three constants to be found from observa
tions. These depend on the medium ; when we eliminate
them therefore it is in effect equivalent to assuming three of
the indices given by observation.
   The very name of an approximate method commonly con
veys the idea of a shorter and simpler process. In the pre
sent instance, however, the case is quite otherwise. On look
ing at the analysis contained in my former papers the exact
method might appear long and intricate, but in fact the pro
cess of calculation is much simpler than might at first sight be
imagined, and shorter than in the approximate method. The
whole consists in the determination of the two constants log.

      Remarks on the Formulafor the Dispersion of Light. 117
a and log. b for each ray, and the differences of the indices
of the assumed rays, which constitute the other factors in the
equation (26.), (Lond. # Edinb. Phil, Mag. for March 1836).
That equation in a general form for finding the index of any
ray ju.( whose constants are at and b, ; supposing the observed
indices for B F and H assumed, is as follows :
         f1/- Py = ai CaF ~ Pb) + */(f*H ~ 2^F + r*B)
   The following values of log. a, and log. b, have been given
in the foregoing paper,
                        log aD = 7-80441
                        log bD = 1-06281
I have also received the following from the same source,
                        log a0 = 1-74345
                        log6G = 1-63384
   It is easy to determine values of the same constants for the
other rays which remain to be found, viz. C and E. They
are deduced by the formulas (analogous to those in the former
paper, Eq. 15. 27. &c),
                       a, = - [1-2 /J
                       b, = — t, [1 — 2 /J.
   By substituting the values of t from Fraunhofer's observa
tions, we readily obtain,
                        log ac = 1-95433
                            aE =
                        log bc    1-49646
                                = 2-65253
                        log bK = T-03196
With these logarithms, and those of the other factors in the
above equation for p., which are derived from the three indices
f*B P-y       assumed from observation for the particular me
dium, we thus get immediately the values of \l{ for the other
rays resulting from the exact formula of theory.
   It would be easy to give examples of this method ; but for
the present I shall confine myself to stating the results ob
tained by it for the ray G in Fraunhofer's media ; compared,

118            Rev. Prof. Powell on the Formula
as before, with the approximate results of my former compu
tation, performed by methods which will now be wholly su
perseded.
          Medium.         Observed by    Calculated    Calculated
                          Fraunhofer.   by the exact by the approxi
                                          formula.    mate formula.
    Flint-glass     1 3.  1*6603         1-66066       1-6609
         Do.        23.   1-6588         1-65910       1-6582
         Do.        SO.   1-6554         1-65569       1-6551
         Do.          3.   1-6308        1-63101       1-6813
     Crown-glass M.       1-5735         1-57368       1-5738
         Do.        13.    1-5399        1-54001       1-5399
         Do.          9.   1-5416        1-54182       1-5416
     Oil of turpentine.    1-4882        1-48833       1-4886
     Solution ofpotash.    1-4126        1-41272       1-4126
     Water.                1-3413        1-34140       1-3413
   The preceding method enables us to calculate the indices
for C, D, E and G, supposing those for B, F, and H assumed.
It may, however, be desirable, for rendering the comparison
of any case with theory complete and satisfactory, to possess
the means of calculating likewise the indices for B, F, or H,
assuming three others, or generally any index. For this pur
pose we must have recourse to the more general form (21.).
 This will not, in fact, be found more complex or difficult in
practice, notwithstanding the simplification obtained by intro
 ducing the particular relation subsisting between tf t„ and th
on which the process above given depends. I shall therefore
 here add such a statement of the more general method as may
 be necessary for the object in view, and likewise furnish those
 constants which are independent of the particular medium,
 and necessary for the computation.
    The formula (21.) may be expressed, for brevity, thus:
        0 = (Vd-^b) k ~ (r*F—r*B) 1 + (Ph-^b) *»
and the coefficients Jc I m which are independent of the me
dium are readily found from Fraunhofer's values of rB td tf th.
 From these values we have directly
                Tj* = 15-489          r£ = 21-135
                Tf* = 31-075          Tja = 46.666,
and by means of these we obtain for the coefficients in (21.)
 the following values :

                    for the Dispersion of Light.             119
                          log k = 3-87943
                          log I = 3-65263
                          log m — 3-9*185.
In any particular medium then, taking the logarithms of the
differences of the three indices, we easily obtain the fourth by
the above formula.
   For the corresponding relation of the other rays we must
take a formula analogous to (21.), which will be as follows:
          r                ('g'-^2) (-is-V) toW)
   0 = j -0*K-f*B) (^'"V) (^'-Tg*) (T58-TcS)
          [+K-^b) (ji'-O {^-^) (-is-^2)
which for      (Pc-P-b)
         0 =brevity              0*e—/*b)
                      may be written       * + 0*0 -f*B)
                                      as before,
   The coefficients ft* I' m' may be found exactly as before
from Fraunhofer's values of t„ tc te tg which give
             = 17-045,       Tg2 = 26-437,   t£2 = 39-705.
    By means of these we obtain
                         log kJ = 3-54623
                         log /' = 2-93137
                         log m'= 2-28794.
    I will only add at present that I am now engaged in deter
 mining by observation the indices for various media, especially
 those of a highly dispersive nature : and in the few attempts
 as yet made to verify the theory in these cases, (in which it is
 manifestly put to a more severe test than in any of the cases
 hitherto given,) I have found the method just explained by
 far the most preferable. The approximate method in any
 form appears to me at once more troublesome and less satis
 factory. The values of the constants applicable to all media
 above given, may be useful to those who may engage in such
 calculations, or in verifying those already performed by other
 methods.
    Oxford, June 19th, 1836.

                            [   »20   ]
XXVII. On certain Improvements in the Construction ofMag
   neto-electrical Machines, and on the Use of Caoutchouc for
   Insulation in Voltaic Batteries. By Fred. W. Mullins,
   Esq., M.P., F.S.S.
   To the Editors ofthe Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
      Gentlemen,
¥ THINK it important to call the attention of the scientific
     readers of your valuable Journal, to some improvements
recently made by me in the construction of the magneto-elec
tric machine, which go far to demonstrate the still very im
perfect state of these instruments, and form a foundation for
alterations infinitely more important both in their mode of
construction and application.
    The machine whose power I had an opportunity of testing
was constructed on the most approved principle, and consists
of two sets of bar-magnets arranged vertically, each set con
sisting of a dozen bars, and the upper poles of one set being
unconnected with those of the other. I had previously seen
and examined horizontal horse-shoe machines, and so far as
1 was enabled to institute a comparison considered the other
mode of construction to be preferable. After trial, however,
it struck me that the power of all magneto-electric machines
was very imperfectly developed, and that it might be possible
to obtain considerably greater effects from the same number
of magnetic bars by establishing a magnetic connexion be
tween the poles of the latter, and this without much difficulty
or increased expense. With this view I procured two mag
netized arcs of the shape given in the an
nexed figure, and of the same width and
thickness as the bars of the machine. I
then applied them, one to the opposite s                       N
poles of the outside pair of bars, and one to those of the inside,
and on giving the shock to a gentleman who was present, and
who had tried the power of the instrument when the poles
were unconnected, the effect was so much increased that he
 refused to repeat it, and on trying it on myself I found the
power to be fully double what it had previously been. I was
aware that connecting pieces of soft iron were sometimes used,
 but that their utility was said to be very questionable, and
 having myself tried them, I can safely say that soft iron as a
 mode of connexion is useless; it is evident, therefore, that the
 increase of power docs not depend upon connexion, unless
 when the substance forming the connexion is in a peculiar
 state, and thereby capable of exerting a certain influence on the

Mr. Mullins on an improved Magneto-electrical Machine.        121
poles of each set of magnets, which influence, it can be shown*
does not depend upon the size of the connecting magnets, for
I have tried large horse-shoe magnetic bars, single and in
sets, without any increase of power beyond that obtained from
the small magnetic arcs represented in the figure.
    Induction is certainly a cause, but not the sole cause of the
increased power ; there are other causes, as yet unexplained,
which I trust may appear satisfactpry to those who may per
use a paper which I am now preparing on this highly inter
esting subject : suffice it here to say, that in the future con
struction of the instruments in question, magnetic arcs in con
nexion with vertical bar-magnets should decidedly be used in
preference to any other form or mode of construction at present
known ; and I would strongly advise any person who happens
to have a machine of the horse-shoe form to cut off the bend
as indicated in the annexed figure and reapply          *—
the same or other pieces of the same size mag- / f~\ \
netized, for by so doing it will be found that a vast (|
increase of power will be obtained. I have thrown
out these hints in the hope that they may lead to
still greater improvements in the mode of develop
ing the powers of combined magnets. In concluding this subject
it may be well to observe that with my improved magnetic ma
chine I have charged a Leyden jar, and obtained by the same
 means various other results similar to those obtained from the
action of the common electrical machine.
    In conclusion I would add, that in the various experiments
I have made in regard to the best modes of developing and
sustaining voltaic electricity, I have found that caoutchouc, or
 Indian-rubber, may be used with great advantage for insula
 tion. I have applied it in place of glass in my intensity-
sustaining battery ; and as it can be made to adhere to the
copper and may be laid on as thin as common letter-paper, a
combination of plates or cylinders may be brought so close
together as to occupy only a third of the space filled by a si
milar combination in the batteries at present used. In my
intensity-battery, from the advantages derived from bringing
the metallic cylinders as close as possible, this mode of insu
lation is most convenient and satisfactory.
                       am, 1,Gentlemen,
   House of Coramoni,I July    1836.        Fred.W.
                                        yours, &c.    MulLINS.
    Third Series. Vol. 9. No. 52. Aug. 1836.          P

                                  [    122     ]
  XXVIII. Letterfrom Mr. Fauaday to Mr. Brayley on some
    former Researches relative to the peculiar Voltaic Condition
      of Iron reobserved by Professor Schoenbein, supplementary
      to a Letter to Mr. Phillips, in the last Number.
         My DEAR Sir,                        Royal Institution, July 8, 1836.
  1 AM greatly your debtor for having pointed out to me Sir
        John F. W. Herschel's paper on the action of nitric acid
  on iron in the Annates de Chimie et de Physique; I read it at
  the time of its publication, but it had totally escaped my me
  mory, which is indeed a very bad one now. It renders one
  half of my letter (supplementary to Professor Schoenbein's) in
  the last Number of the Philosophical Magazine, p. 57, super
  fluous; and I regret only that it did not happen to be recalled
  to my attention in time tor me to rearrange my remarks, or at
  all events to add to them an account of Sir John Herschel's
  results. However, I hope the Editors of the Phil. Mag. will
  allow my present letter a place in the next Number ; and en
  tertaining that hope I shall include in it a few references to
  former results bearing upon the extraordinary character of
  iron to which M. Schoenbein has revived the attention of
  men of science.
      " Bergman relates that upon adding iron to a solution of
  silver in the nitrous acid no precipitation ensued*."
      Keir, who examined this action in the year 1790t, made
  many excellent experiments upon it. He observed that the
  iron acquired a peculiar or altered state in the solution of sil
  ver; that this state was only superficial; that when so altered
  it was inactive in nitric acid ; and that when ordinary iron was
  put into strong nitric acid there was no action, but the metal
  assumed the altered stats.
      Westlar, whose results I know only from the Annates des
  Mines for 1832 J, observed that iron or steel which had been
  plunged into a solution of nitrate of silver lost the power of
  precipitating copper from its solutions ; and he attributes the
  effect to the assumption of a negative electric state by the part
  immersed, the other part of the iron having assumed the po
  sitive state.
i iron   in strongin nitric
      Braconnot        1833^acidobserved,
                                     are notthat      all affected
                                                 at filings        at common
                                                             or even   plates of
  temperatures, and scarcely even at the boiling-point.
      Sir John Herschel's observations are in reality the first
  which refer these phaenomena to electric forces ; but Westlar's,
     • Phil. Trans. 1790, p. 374.                f Ibid., pp. 374, 379.
     1 Annates dcs Minet, 1832, vol. ii. p. 322 ; or Mag. de Pharnu J830.
     9 Annalei de Chimie et de Pht/tique, vol. lii. p. 288.

  Mr. Faraday on the peculiar Voltaic Condition of Iron. 123
which do the same, were published before them. The results
obtained by the former, extracted from a private journal dated
August 1825, were first published in 1833*. He describes
the action of nitric acid on iron ; the altered state which the
metal assumes ; the superficial character of the change ; the
effect of the contact of other metals in bringing the iron back
to its first state ; the power of platina in assisting to bring on
the altered or prepared state ; and the habits of steel in nitric
acid : he attributes the phsenomena to a certain permanent elec
tric state of the surface of the metal. I should recommend the
republication of this paper in the Philosophical Magazine.
   Professor Daniell, in his paper on Voltaic Combinations f
(Feb. 183G), found that on associating iron with platina in a
battery charged with nitro-sulphuric acid the iron would not
act as the generating metal, and that when it was afterwards
associated with zinc it acted more powerfully than platina it
self. He considers the effect as explicable upon the idea of a
force of heterogeneous attraction existing between bodies, and
is inclined to believe that association with the platina cleanses
the surface of the iron, or possibly causes a difference in the
mechanical structure developed in this particular position.
    In my letter, therefore, as published in the Philosophical
 Magazine for the present month (July), what relates to the
preserving power of platina on iron ought to be struck out, as
having been anticipated by Sir John Herschel, and also much
of what relates to the action of silver and iron, as having been
formerly recorded by Keir. The facts relating to gold and
carbon in association with iron ; the experimental results as
 to the electric currents produced ; the argument respecting
 the chemical source of electricity in the voltaic pile ; and my
opinion of the cause of the phenomena as due to a relation
t>f the superficial particles of the iron to oxygen, are what
remain in the character of contributions to our knowledge of
this very beautiful and important case of voltaic condition
presented to us by the metal iron.
                       I am, my dear Sir, yours very truly,
 E. IV. Braylcy, Esq.                                     M. Faraday.
    London InstUiUinn.
          • Annates de Ckimie ct de Physique, 1833, vol. liv. p. 87.
          t Phil. Trans. 1836, p. 114.'
                                      P 2

                                  C   124    ]
XXIX. On the Carboniferous Series of the United States of
    North America.            By Thomas Weaver, Esq., F.R.S.,
    F.G.S., M.n.I.A.,StcSfc*
pjAVING in the year 1834 passed through the United
         States of North America from the Gulf of Mexico to
New York, the geology of those vast regions could not fail to
arrest my attention. Up to the period of my visit, the geological
relations of those States had not received much of my notice
beyond what had been published at an earlier day by Mr.
 Maclure and some others. My mind was therefore the more
open to unbiassed impressions. But on my return to En
gland I took great interest in comparing those impressions in
 particular with the great body of valuable information that has
 been contributed by different writers concerning the coal-bear
 ing rocks of the United States, especially in Prof. Silliman's
 American Journal of Science, the Transactions of the Geolo
 gical Society of Pennsylvania, the separate publications of our
 countrymen Messrs. G.W. Featherstonhaugh and R. C.Taylor,
 and the works of Professor Eaton. The general result, as de
 rived from this comparison and combination, I have embodied
 in a condensed form in a note appended to my Memoir on the
  South of Ireland, there drawing a parallel between the rela
  tions of the carboniferous series in the British Isles and the
  United States ; but as some months may yet elapse before the
 publication of that Memoir in the Geological Transactions be
  effected, it has been suggested that it would be useful to make
  an earlier and somewhat more extended communication on the
  subject through the medium of a scientific journal of extensive
  circulation.f
     • Communicated by the Author.
     t In collateral evidence of the correctness of my views, the following pa
  pers on the carboniferous rocks of the United States are particularly deser-
¦ ving of the reader's attention :
                       In the American Journal of Science.
  Vol. 4. Mr. Z. Cist on the range of the anthracite formation in Pennsyl
             vania. (1822.)
        6. Mr. James Pierce on the carboniferous rocks of the Catskill moun
             tain chain. (1823.)
       12. The same author on the anthracite, bituminous coal, salt and iron
             of Pennsylvania. (1827.)
       18. Professor Sillinian on the anthracite region of Lackawanna, and
             Wyoming on the Susquehanna. (1830.)
           Mr. David Thomas, Geological Facts.
       19. Professor Silliman on the Mauch Chunk and other anthracite regions
             of Pennsylvania. (1831.)
           Professor Eaton on the coal formations of New York and Pennsyl
             vania.
       19. Mr. David Thomas, remarks on Professor Eaton's observations on
             the coal formation in the State of New York.

            On the Carboniferous Series of North America.                     125
   My route lay up the Mississippi and Ohio rivers to Pittsburg,
and thence overland to Lake Erie, to Buffalo, Niagara, and
partly by land and partly by water through the state of New
York to the city of that name. In this course, from the first
visible rocks
sociates    of shaleor and
                        carboniferous
                              sandstone limestone
                                            adjacent toand         occasionaland
                                                           theitsMississippi   a»-
Ohio rivers, to the continuous coal measures which come in
force near the influx of the great Kanawha into the latter
river, extending thence westward into the state of Ohio, and
northward through the Virginia, Pennsylvania and New York
States to Lake Erie, I was very forcibly struck by the nearly
Vol.23. Professor Eaton on the coal beds of Pennsylvania, as being equiva
            lent to the great secondary coal measures of Europe. (1833.) He
            deprecates the application of the term transition either to the car
            boniferous rocks of the Alleghany or Catskill mountains; and
            refers to his Geological Text-book, p. 91, second edition (1832);
            in which see hereon in particular pp. 66,67, 79, 90, 110, 121, 124,
            125, as affording further evidence on the question.
         N.B. The relations of the carboniferous series have been much ob
            scured by the peculiar terms employed by this author ; the signi
            fication of which, however, has been explained by Mr. G. W.
            Featherstonhaugh in a manner that quite accords with the con
            struction I had myself put on what came under my own observation
            during the course of my travels. See vol. i. p. 92 of Proceedings
            of the Geological Society of London (1828), and Phil. Mag. and
            Annals, vol. v. pp. 138, 139. (1829.) ; [also vol. vi. p. 75, 76, and
            Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag. vol. vii. p. 515, note.—Edit.]
    25. Dr.
    29.         days in Ohio
          Ten Hildreth             a naturalist.coal
                          on thebybituminous         deposits of the valley of the
                                                  (1834.)
            Ohio (1835.) This is a particularly valuable memoir for the de
            tails it affords.
Mr. G. W. Featherstonhaugh. Geological Report made to both Houses of Con-
     8rets. (1835.)
       .. C. Taylor, on the north-eastern extremity of the Alleghany moun
     tain range in Pennsylvania, in Loudon's Magazine of Natural History.
     (Oct. 1835.)
In the first volume of the Transactions of the Geological Society of Penn
     sylvania. (1835.)
          Mr. R. C. Taylor on the relative position of the transition and se
            condary coal formations in Pennsylvania.
          The same author on the coal basin of Blossburg on the Tioga river.
          Professor Proost, four papers on the organic remains of the carbo
             niferous limestone of Tenessee, &c.
          Mr. E. Miller, Geological description and section of a portion of the
             Alleghany mountain west of Hollydaysburg.
          Dr. Harlan on the fossil vegetable remains in the bituminous coal
             measures of the Alleghany mountains referred to in Mr. E. Miller's
             paper.
          Mr. T. A. Conrad on some fossil shells presented by Mr. E. Miller
             from the Alleghany mountains.
          Mr. R. C. Taylor, Memoir of a section passing through the bitu
             minous coal field near Richmond, in Virginia.

 1 26        Mr. Weaver on the Carboniferous Series
 perfect horizontally of the strata throughout, the prevailing
 deviation from that position being a slight inclination to the
 southward, subject however to gentle undulations upon a large
 scale.
    Valuable beds of bituminous coal occur low down in the car
 boniferous limestone as well as in the higher accumulation of
the common coal-bearing measures. Coal is thus obtained in
 the former adjacent to the Mississippi, near Memphis in Te-
 nessee, and bordering on the confluence of the Missouri with
that river, and in Illinois; also near the Ohio river in the vi
cinage of Owenborough in Kentucky, and in Indiana opposite
to Hawesville.
    In its western extent into Arkansas the carboniferous lime
 stone appears to come in contact partly with a greywacke
 tract and partly with the old red sandstone.
    From the vicinage of the Great Kanawha river the conti
nuous coal-bearing measures extend to the south-west through
 Western Virginia and the eastern parts of Kentucky and Te-
nessee into the northern parts of Alabama, and to the north
east, as above stated, through Pennsylvania into the State of
New York.
    In the conterminous regions of Ohio, Pennsylvania, and
 Virginia, the continuous coal-bearing measures include not
unfrequently intercalated beds of limestone, which often con
tain marine animal remains. Some of the coal measures are
said also to exhibit in places fossil freshwater shells; and in
this general series, beds of sandstone conglomerate are not of
uncommon occurrence.
    In the State of New York the carboniferous limestone, which
underlies these coal measures, reposes partly on old red sand
stone, partly on transition rocks. At the northern extremity
the old red sandstone which lines the south coast of Lake
Ontario from the west of the Niagara to the east of the Oswego
river, distinctly underlies the limestone shale and limestone
from Queenstown, by the gorge, upward to within two hundred
yards of the ferry below the Falls of Niagara, with a gentle
dip throughout to the southward. The same relative position
is observnble west of Lockport, in proceeding east from Lewis-
town by the line of rond that leads to Rochester, also in die
Genesee river north of the latter town, and in the course of
the Oswego river. To the east of the Oswego the old red
sandstone reposes on transition rocks, and being deflected to
the south-east, on approaching the Helderberg mountains it
appears to be overlapped and concealed by the carboniferous
limestone, the latter then coming in contact with the transition
rocks on the east, which range from Canada to the southward :

             of the United States of North America.             127
while still more south in Pennsylvania, the coal measures
appear to overlap the carboniferous limestone on the east, and
to come also in direct contact with the transition rocks. In
tracing the order of succession from the carboniferous limestone
to the superincumbent coal measures from north to south, the
same low angle of inclination to the south is observable from
Niagara in the direction of Buffalo, and thence along part of
the south coast of lake Erie. The same disposition is like
wise to be remarked in passing south by the lakes of Cayuga*
Seneca, &c, whose waters find a common vent on the north
by the river Oswego. South of those lakes the land rises ra
pidly by an accumulation of coal measures, forming the nor
thern aspect of the Alleghany mountains, and the southerly
dip being still observable. This series contains also red sand
stone and conglomerate and beds of limestone, and includes
in the higher regions the abundant deposits of coal thatoccur
in the northern confines of Pennsylvania, in the anthracitous
coal field of Carbondale and Lackawanna and Wyoming on
the Susquehanna, and the bituminous coal fields of Bradford,
Tioga, Lycoming, and Clearfield.
   In the association of beds of limestone with the coal-bear
ing measures, we perceive an analogy to like phenomena in
parts of the coal tracts ofthe North of England and of Scotland.
   In the immense extent of the carboniferous rocks of the
 United States, stretching on the one hand from the State of
 New York on the north-east to that of Alabama on the south
west, and again from that of New York on the east to that of
 Missouri on the west, the coal is generally bituminous ; but
great deposits of anthracitous coal occur in the north-eastern
and eastern parts of Pennsylvania, in the field of Carbondale,
 Lackawanna and Wyoming, as above stated, and more south
in portions of the regions traversed by the Lehigh and Schuyl
kill rivers. These anthracitous deposits have been referred
by some geologists to the transition epoch; but from all that I
have been able to learn oftheir general characters, position, fossil
plants and other organic remains, I conceive them to belong
to the great carboniferous order. Mr. Z. Cist of Wilkesbarre
has shown that there is a continuity in the anthracitous coal
formation, extending from a district lying north of Harrisburg
through the regions bordering on the Schuylkill and Lehigh
rivers to the valley of the Wyoming on the Susquehanna, and
thence up the valley of Lackawanna in the direction of Car
bondale. From hence to the bituminous coal fields in Bradford
and Tioga counties, situated more west, is a distance of only
a tew miles, and Professor Eaton conceives these formations
to be connected, and to pass into each other as portions of the

1 28        Mr. Weaver on the Carboniferous Series
same geological deposits ; a view in which he is supported bv
these anthracitous and bituminous coal tracts containing fossil
plants, similar to those occurring in the bituminous coal field
near Zanesville in Ohio, and similar to such as are found also
in the great coal fields of Europe, at Newcastle-on-Tyne, at
Saarbruck, &c. : and the opinions expressed on this subject
by Professor Silliman and Dr. Harlan appear to lean the same
way. In further corroboration of this view it may be added, that
both the anthracitous and bituminous coal regions in Pennsyl
vania are productive of large quantities of clay iron stone, the
usual concomitant of the coal fields of the great carboniferous
order.
   On the other hand, Mr. R. C. Taylor has taken a different
view, and refers the anthracitous coal of Pennsylvania to the
transition oera ; but I confess the evidence which he has ad
duced does not appear to me to disprove the connexion in
the north-eastern part of Pennsylvania between the bitu
minous coal fields of Lycoming, Tioga, and Bradford, with the
anthracitous coal fields of Carbondale, Lackawanna and Wy
oming. More south, from the two sections which the author
has given as roughly traced for the purpose of illustration, the
one being drawn from Lycoming county and the other from
Clearfield county, but both from the Alleghany mountain range
on the north-west to the valley of the Susquehanna on the
south-east, it would appear that a wide interval occurs between
the nearly horizontal bituminous coal range of the Alleghany
mountain on the west and the anthracitous coal range of
Schuylkill, &c. on the east ; an interval occupied by a series
of rocks which, within the transverse distances of 76 and 66
miles respectively, exhibit two anticlinal lines, exposed, it would
appear, by abruption, and which are referred by the author
to the transition system.
   In the Lycoming section (No. 2 of the author) the beds
and distances are given in the following order :               Miles
(a.) From the Alleghany mountain, composed of the coal
      formation supported by old red sandstone dipping
      west, and underlaid by shales, limestone, sandstone,
      to limestone in the Muncey valley (there in anticli-
      nnl order) ••• ••¦ ••• ••• ••• •¦• ••• ••• ••» 9
         Succeeded by
(J.) Greywacke slate, limestone, greywacke shales, with
      two beds of limestone, greywacke, shales, to sand
      stone in the valley of Penn's Creek, (there in syn
      clinal order)                                             J8
                                                                38

               of the United States of North America.           129
                                                              Miles.
          Succeeded by                      Brought forward... 38
(£.) Shales, limestone, shales, limestone, to sandstone
      with conglomerate and a thin bed of bituminous
      caking coal (the accompanying shale of which con
      tains splendid fossil plants) in St. Patrick's hill,
       (there in anticlinal order, adjoining the Susquehanna
      v&llcy )     •••        •••       •••       ••• ••¦ ••• 13
          Succeeded by
(d.) Red shale across the Susquehanna valley to Blue
      mountain                                                  20
                                                                76
          In the Clearfield section (No. 3 of the author) :
(a.) From the Alleghany mountain, composed as in the
       Lycoming section and dipping west, underlaid by
       greywacke shales, limestone, sandstone, to limestone
       in the Nuttany valley (there in anticlinal order) ...    10
           Succeeded by
(b.) Sandstone with conglomerate, limestone, sandstone
       and shales, limestone, conglomerate and sandstone,
       shales, limestone, to conglomerate and sandstone
       in Juniata valley (there in synclinal order)             25
           Succeeded by
 (c.) Limestone and shales, grit, limestone to sandstone
       with conglomerate and a thin bed of bituminous
       caking coal, adjoining Susquehanna valley, (and
        there in anticlinal order)                              15
           Succeeded by
 (d.) Red shales, sandstone, and conglomerate across the
        Susquehanna valley to Blue mountain                      16
     In a third section (No. 1 of the author), still more south,
 namely, in the county of Bedford, and also drawn originally
 from the Alleghany bituminous range on the north-west in a
 south-east direction, but in the portion represented, commen
  cing at Tussey mountain, passing thence over a country with
  an undulated surface to Allegripus mountain, the Raystown
  branch of the Juniata, Hopewell ridge, and still further east
  the dip is throughout, from Tussey mountain to the south-east,
  at angles varying from 30° to 80°. From Tussey mountain,
  composed of red sandstone and conglomerate, dipping east, to
     Third Series. Vol. 9. No. 52. Aug. 1836.              Q

130         Mr. Weaver on the Carboniferous Series
Hopewell ridge, occurs the following series of beds : limestone
and limestone shale, variously coloured shales and argillaceous
sandstones ; sandstone and conglomerate in Allegripus ridge,
including a bed of bituminous shale with impressions of ferns ;
red rock and shale in the Raystown branch of the Juniata ;
conglomerate, various sandstones, shales, and argillaceous beds
containing coal beds in the Hopewell ridge and continued still
further east. The coal beds thus first appearing in Hopewell
ridge, (of which the most western is 20 miles east of the Alle
ghany mountain,) appear to be of a highly bituminous quality,
caking in the fire and forming excellent coke, but of high spe
cific gravity, 1*700, and denominated by the author transition
bituminous anthracite. It is to be observed also, that the shale
 which alternates with the coal measures here is rich in clay
ironstone. On this section I shall merely take the liberty to
remark, that were we to conceive disruption and denudation
 to have taken place between the Alleghany bituminous moun
 tain range on the west and the Hopewell ridge on the east,
 with an original curvature of the beds from west to east; or
 even to suppose these eastern and western coal tracts to have
 been originally separate deposits, there appears no very conclu
 sive reason, judging by the evidence given, why the coal of the
 Hopewell ridge might not be referred to the carboniferous se
 ries, as indeed it had been previously in the judgement of the
 committee of the Senate of Pennsylvania.
    In these sections the author represents the eastern base of
 the Alleghany mountain range as consisting of old red sand
 stone, with subordinate beds of limestone supporting the coal
 measures ; and the same language is employed when speaking
 of the north-eastern extremity of the Alleghany mountain
 range in Pennsylvania ; and again when describing the coal
 basin of Blossburg on the Tioga river ; on which it is remarked,
 " a large portion of these red sandstones and the lower red
 argillaceous sandstones and shales are crowded with Productae
 and crinoidal remains ; and occasionally Fucoides and Caryo-
 phylliae, Pectens and Spiriferae are interspersed." The applica
 tion of the term old red sandstone does not seem quite correct
 in these cases, in as much as these beds appear to be an alter
 nating series lying above the great body of the carboniferous
 limestone that becomes apparent in the northern parts of the
  State of New York, and which itself reposes there conformably
 on the extensive formation of old red sandstone subjacent to
 it, while it supports in a similar manner the alternating beds
 in question, and these support the more productive coal-
 bearing measures.
    In this distribution of the coal in Pennsylvania, anthracitous

              of the United States of North America.           181
on the east and bituminous on the west, we may observe an
analog}' to the coal deposits in South Wales, where the eastern
portions are bituminous and the western anthracitous ; and
again with those in Ireland, where the northern deposits are
bituminous and the southern anthracitous. But both the
Welsh and the Irish coal fields belong to the great carboni
ferous order, and I anticipate that such also will be admitted
to be the case with respect to the Pennsylvanian, which point
indeed, in reference to the north-eastern parts of that state, ap
pears to me fully established by Professor Eaton. The mere
quality of coal, as being anthracitous, cannot alone be consi
dered a decisive criterion of its antiquity, though so conceived
by some geologists.
   In the extensive tracts of Pennsylvania alone, it must neces
sarily take time fully to develop all its mineral relations, par
ticularly in districts that may prove of an intricate nature.
From the labours of Mr. R. C. Taylor, specially devoted to
these researches, we may expect very valuable information,
not only in respect of the rocks of the great carboniferous
order, but of those of the transition system : and it will be a
subject of high interest to have it shown to what extent the
rocks of the latter epoch in the United States may correspond
with the Silurian or Cambrian divisions of the series so ably
developed by the assiduous labours of Mr. Murchison and
Professor Sedgwick in England and Wales, or with the trans
ition rocks of Somerset and Devon under the investigation of
Mr. De la Beche, or with those of Ireland, which I nave en
deavoured to describe. In such a comparison it is probable
that more than one parallel may be drawn, after a careful ex
amination of the transition tracts of the United States.
   As it does not enter into my present view to consider the
slight layers of anthracite that are met with in transition clay
slate on the river Hudson, or the thicker beds ascribed to that
aera that occur in New England, I would refer for detailed
information on this subject in particular to the very valuable
work of Professor Hitchcock on the Geology of the State of
Massachusetts.
   I shall conclude with the general remark that if the land of
the United States be rich in the vegetable productions of the
warm and temperate zones of the earth, it is no less so in the
abundance and variety of its mineral stores, of which the prin
cipal are its inexhaustible deposits of coal and iron, which may
be considered as the mainsprings of arts and manufactures.
In the possession of such treasures, combined with the active
spirit engendered by free institutions, and the natural and

132 Mr. Sturgeon on Electro-pulsations and Electro-momentum
gradually improving facilities of internal and external commu
nication, our American brethren may look forward to the at
tainment of a state of greatness and prosperity that may not
readily lie within the compass of human calculation.
XXX. On Electro-pulsations and Electro-momentum. By
   William Sturgeon, Lecturer on Experimental Philosophy
   at the Honourable East India Company's Military Academy,
   Addiscombe, fyc*
¥T is very well known to the readers of the Philosophical
*¦ Magazine, that I have long considered electric currents}
when transmitted through inferior conductors between the
poles of a voltaic battery, as the effect of a series of distinct
discharges, in such rapid succession as not to be individually
distinguished by the senses. Such currents I have called
electro-pulsatory. See my theory of magnetic electricity in
the London and Edinburgh Philosophical Magazine, vol. ii.
p. 202.
   By following up these views of electro-pulsations, I was
about two years ago enabled to dispense with all acid or sa
line liquids, in the employment of galvanic batteries, for the
purpose of galvanizing, as it is called, either to satisfy the cu
riosity or as a medical process ; and my plan, which answers
very well, I have found to be productive of. a considerable
saving in the expense necessarily attendant on the use of
voltaic batteries when excited by acid solutions.
    It is well known that a Cruickshank battery of about a hun
 dred pairs will, by employing water alone in the cells, charge
 to a certain degree of intensity almost any extent of coated
 surface of glass that we please ; and that the same degree of
 charge is given to it by a single contact of the conductors,
 however short its duration. This being understood, and un
 derstanding also that the shock produced by any discharge
 from a given intensity would be proportional to the quantity
 of fluid transmitted in a given time, it was easy to foresee that
 a series of shocks in rapid succession might be produced by
 some mechanical contrivance, and that the degree of force
 might be regulated by varying the extent of coated surface.
     My first experiments were made with a hundred and fifty
 pairs of three-inch plates, and about seven feet on each side
 of coated glass; and my apparatus for producing a rapid suc
 cession of shocks was one of Mr. Barlow's stellated electro-
                   • Communicated by the Author.

 Mr. Sturgeon on Electro-pulsations and Electro-momentum. 133
magnetic wheels * which was soldered to an iron spindle and
put into rotatory motion by a wheel and band ; the points of
the wheel touching in succession a copper spring in connexion
with the positive surface, and thus producing a discharge at
every contact of the wheel and copper spring.
   When the two surfaces are connected by wires with two
basins of salt water, and the hands immersed one in each
basin, the effect experienced is precisely that of the discharge
of a voltaic battery. The discharges can be made in such
rapid succession as to prevent the sensation of distinct shocks ;
and if the process were to be concealed it would require some
experience to distinguish between the effects on the animal
ceconomy from this apparatus and those from a voltaic bat
tery charged with acid and water.
   My views being so far verified, the next attempt was to
simplify the apparatus and make it more portable ; and as it
was readily seen that if one hundred pairs would charge glass
of considerable thickness, thinner glass might be charged by
fewer pairs; this was done; and eventually the glass entirely
dismissed, and its place supplied with well-varnished Bristol-
board. These boards answer exceedingly well as a reservoir
for low intensities ; they may be coated to within an inch of
the edge all round, and placed upon their edges either on a
piece of glass or on a board properly prepared, and arranged
to any required extent like the plates of a voltaic battery, but
•when considerable intensity is wanted, it is better to use thin
glass.
   From these facts we learn that metallic surfaces of many
acres of extent may possibly be charged to a low intensity in
the interior of the earth, by having a thin intervening stratum
of inferior conducting matter sufficient to insulate from each
other their dissimilar electric surfaces.
   It may now be understood that the slightest accident which
would suddenly break through the insulation, such as the
sinking of a mass of metalline matter from one stratum to the
other, would cause a sudden rush of an immense ocean of the
electric fluid, which might be productive of subterranean light-
enings and tremendous explosions sufficient to shake an exten
sive range of country on every side.
   Connected with the preceding facts there are others which
may be conveniently mentioned in this place, and which would
lead us to similar explanations of the causes of subterraneous
convulsions. Electric currents of considerable magnitude when
suddenly checked, or diverted to a new channel, produce a
          * [See Phil. Mag., First Series, vol. lix. p. 241.—Edit.]

134 Mr. Sturgeon on Electro-pulsations and Electro-momentum.
momentum not very generally understood ; but which I will
endeavour to explain. A coil of copper wire excited by mag
netic action will become a channel for an electric current ;
and whilst the whole circuit is metallic, the velocity of that
current would be considerably greater than if any, even a
small part of the circuit were of worse conducting materials :
and if the current were suddenly transferred from a channel
of the former character to one of the latter, by any contrivance
whatever, it would meet a resistance on entering the new
channel, which the momentum it had previously required
would have to overcome; and a sudden disturbance of the elec-
trie fluid,
rush        * previously
       of the             at rest,
              a current would       would
                                as' suddenly    a
                                             follow. »
    It is in this manner that shocks and sparks are produced
by magnetic electric machines, where the current, previously
in rapid motion, is suddenly transferred to a new channel of
inferior conducting character ; and all the fluid in the revolv
ing coil rushes through a person properly situated for the new
route, and who experiences the electric shock, or else through
 a thin stratum of -air at an interruption in the metallic circuit
 where the spark is produced.
    These, then, are some of the effects of electric currents, or of
 the momentum of the electric fluid in a state of motion, after
 the exciting cause is entirely cut off. The shock thus pro
 duced may very conveniently be compared to the blow given
 by Montgolfier's hydraulic ram. Electro-momenta may be
 produced by any mode of excitation whatever, and the effects
 will be proportional to the velocity and quantity of the electric
 fluid first put into motion ; and the length of the original
 channel is also to be taken into account. If then electro-
 momenta, capable of producing violent shocks and vivid
 sparks, can be produced by a few hundreds of feet of thin
 copper wire, what is it that might not be expected from the
  electro-momenta of nature, arising from currents of many
  miles in extent, kept in motion either by heat, saline solutions,
  or by other causes, amongst the metalline strata below the
  surface of the earth? A sudden disruption in the circuit
  would insure the blow, and an earthquake might be the re
 sult.
    Artillery Place, Woolwich, July 4, 1836.

                               C     135    ]
       XXXI. Reviews, and Notices respecting New Books.
 A Practical Treatise on Locomotive Engines upon Railways; with
    Practical Tables, giving at once the Results of the Formula,
   founded upon a great many new experiments, 8{c. By the Chev.
    F. M. G. De Pambour.
 IT is only within the last few years that the attention of engineers has
     been particularly directed to the mechanical capabilities of loco
 motive engines j and their inquiries have, for the most part, been
 limited to the vague practical information that is commonly inferred
from actual experiments. The vast and splendid projects that now
occupy such an important position in the public mind, and that pro
mise such extensive and permanent advantages to society, have
created a stronger and more lively interest in the science of railways.
An engineer is expected to be, at least, practically acquainted with
the theory of locomotive engines ; he is supposed to possess that in
timacy with the laws of their physical and mechanical action, as to
be prepared to estimate pretty nearly, on scientific principles, the
speed with which any proposed engine will draw a given load. How
far this has really been the case is a question on which it will not here
be necessary to offer an opinion ; but we may state, that in the first
stages of this, as well as of almost every useful branch of science,
the practitioner is obliged at first to glean his information from expe
rience alone. The construction of each successive engine suggests new
and valuable information as to defects that may in future be avoided
and improvements that may be adopted. The working of each
engine also furnishes the means of roughly estimating what may
be done by any other of a similar construction. Afterwards, how
ever, when the subject becomes to be scientifically discussed, me
thods are presented by which the capabilities of any intended engine
may be previously submitted to an accurate calculation, whatever
may be the plan of its construction. We do not think that this
object has yet been fully accomplished. The author of the present
work, however, treats the subject in a manner that shows him to
be well acquainted with the mechanical theory. He first gives a
very intelligible description of the locomotive engines employed
on the Liverpool and Manchester railway, as well as an account
of their dimensions and proportions. He founds the calculations
throughout the volume, on a great number of experiments that
he has made himself with these engines. In the second chapter
he gives rather a tedious discussion relating to the calculations of the
true pressure of the steam from the indications of the lever and valve
of the boiler : this might be abridged with advantage. The fourth
and fifth chapters, which treat on the resistance along the railway and
the proportions and effects, form the principal feature of the volume,
and they contain a remarkably clear and comprehensive discussion
of these most important points. The author very properly considers
the friction of the engine separately from that of the load, and shows
that in consequence of the additional strain on the machinery, it in

                            Zoological Society.
 creases as the load increases. He also shows, that the rate of tra
  velling with a given load does not depend solely on the tractive
 power of the engine, but that another important element enters into
 the calculation, viz. the evaporating power of the boiler. An ap
 pendix contains a detailed account of expenses, profits, and other
 valuable particulars of a mercantile and speculative nature, drawn
 from the documents of the Liverpool and Darlington railways. Alto
 gether, the work is written in a clear and unaffected style; the sub
jects throughout are treated very philosophically, and with great
 ability; the typographical execution is also exceedingly creditable,
 and, judging from the gratification we have experienced on its per.
 usal,we can have no hesitation in pronouncing it an elegant and truly
 valuable publication, that should be possessed by all persons inte
 rested in such pursuits.
            XXXII.        Proceedings ofLearned Societies.
                          ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
 Dec. 22,_OPECIMENS were exhibited of numerous Shells of the
   1836.      ^ genus Mitra, Lam., and of one species of Conalix,
 Swains., forming part of the collection of Mr. Cuming; and an ac
 count of them by Mr. Broderip was read, commencing as follows :
    " The species of the genus Mitra, Lam., which I am about to de
 scribe had been sent by Mr. Cuming, in whose cabinet they are, to
 Mr. Swainson, whose intimate acquaintance with this family renders
 him so particularly competent to the task of describing them. They
 were named by him, and he also made notes respecting them before
 returning them. In the following account of them I have retained
 Mr. Swainson's name in every instance but one : and whenever he
has made any written observations I have quoted them.
    Characters, habitats, &c. of the following species were then given,
and are printed in the " Proceedings."
    Genus Mitra (Lam. and Swains.). Mitra nebulosa (representing
 nubila, Type 5, 1, Sw.), Swainsonii (Type 1, 1.), Ancillides (5, (2 ?)),
maura (representing Tiara foraminata.Type 1, 4.),/ulvescens (5, 1.),
testacea (5, 1. representing fulva), fulva var. (1, 2. representing
 Tiara),'chrysostoma (5, 1. representingferruginea), tristis (2, 4.), and
effusa (1, 5.).
    Genus Tiara, Swains. (Mitra, Lam.) Tiara foraminata (repre
senting Mitra maura, Type 2, 4.), muricata, mucronata, catenata
(1, 3.), multicostata, rosea (1, 2.), millecostata (the close-set longi
tudinal ribs and cancellated base give this shell, which may not have
attained its full growth, the aspect of a Cancellaria), lineata (5, 1),
nivea (5, 3.), aurantia, terebralis, crenata (5, 3. or 3, 3.), rubra (1, 2.),
temiplicata, and attenuata (5, 1).
    Mr. Swainson had written on the paper containing Tiara tere
bralis, " Type 4, 4. This is one of the most extraordinary shells in
the collection, as it so closely resembles the Mitra Terebralis that.

                           Zoological Society.                       137
but for its possessing the generic characters of Tiara, it might pass
for the same species."
    It is one of the most slender of its genus, and has very much of
the general character and form of a Terebra ; and its resemblance to
Terebra is increased by the circumstance of its having one spiral
groove, more deeply impressed than the others, placed at about one
third of the length of each volution before the suture. The points
of contact of the decussating with the longitudinal grooves are deeply
impressed.
    There is a fine specimen in Mr. Broderip's collection.
     Mr. Sowerby has furnished me with the account of this species.
    Genus Conoelix (Swains.). Conoeluc Virgo (representing Conus
 Virgo).
     The following observations by Mr. Swainson elucidate his notes
 in relation to the Mitres, appended to most of the characters of the
 shells above named :—
     " To render my explanation of the notes and references attached to
 the different species of the Mitrante more intelligible to conchologists,
 it will be necessary for me to state, in as few words as possible, the
 result of my investigation of this subfamily, and the principles
 which have regulated these numerical indications.
     " I have already, in another work, characterized the family Volu-
 tida, which appears to be that primary division of the Carnivorous
 Gasteropoda (Zoophaga, Lam.), which represents the Rasorial type
 among Birds, the Ungulata among Quadrupeds, and the Thysanura
 among perfect Insects (Ptilota) : these analogies being of course
 remote, although founded on the structure of the animal, no less
  than on its testaceous covering. It thus follows that the Lamarck-
  ian Mitree, instead of a genus, constitute a subfamily, which
  appears to be the subtypical group of the circle. The five genera
  composing this circle I have long ago characterized ; and here, for
  some years, my analysis of the group terminated. The inspection,
  however, of the numerous species brought home by Mr. Cuming,
  and the gradually augmented number in my own cabinet, seemed to
  invite a still further and more minute investigation, for the purpose
  of ascertaining if any, and what, subgenera were contained in the
  more crowded groups of Mitra and Tiara. This investigation was
   carried on, at intervals, for nearly twelve months; and the result sur
  passed my most sanguine expectations. It has convinced me that not
   only does each of the genera of the Mitrana; represent analogically
  the corresponding groups of the Volutins, but that the same rela
   tions can be demonstrated between the minor divisions of the genera
   Tiara and those of Mitra : in other words, that these latter represent
   all the subfamilies and genera of the other Volutida, while they pre
   serve their own peculiar or generic character. What I have just
   said on the parallel relations of analogy between the Mitranee and
   the Volutidte, is strictly applicable, in fact, to the genera Mitra and
   Tiara, the primary divisions of each of which can thus be deemon
   strated subgenera. Nor is this all : the materials I have been for so
   many years collecting have enabled me to ascertain, in very many

   138
  instances, that the variation of the species, in each of these sub
  genera, is regulated on precisely the same principle. Hence it fol
  lows that the two circles of Mitra and Tiara, like the two divisions
  of Mr. MacLeay's Petalocera, contain species representing each
  other, so that if their generic character is not attended to, it is
  almost impossible to discriminate them even as species. Many in
  stances of this extraordinary analogy might be mentioned, indepen
  dent of that here alluded to, between Mitra Tercbralis and Tiara
  Terebralis.
      " Selecting this shell to illustrate the numbers "Type 4,4," I
  may observe, that ' Type 4' signifies that it belongs to the fourth
  subgenus of Tiara, in which group it is the fourth subtype, uniting
  to Mitra maura, which is the fourth subtype of the first or typical
 subgenus. Mitra maura, again, as representing this latter shell,
 consequently becomes the fourth subtype of the first or typical sub
 genus, and is therefore marked " Type 1, 4." The first figure always
 denotes the subgenus, and the last the station which the species ap
 pears to hold in its own subgenus.
     "I am unacquainted with any group in the animal kingdom
 which demonstrates more fully than this does the law of represen
 tation. It may be mentioned, also, that nearly all the divisions I
 had long ago characterized, from the formation of the shells alone,
 have more recently been confirmed by a knowledge of their respec
 tive animals : a knowledge for which we are entirely indebted to
 the able naturalists who accompanied the French expedition on
 board the Astrolabe."—W. S.
    Specimens were exhibited of several hitherto undescribed Cowries,
 most of which have been brought to England within the last few
 years. They were accompanied by characters and descriptions by
 J. S. Gaskoin, Esq., which are given in the " Proceedings" under
the following names, viz.
     Cypreea formosa (Capeof Good Hope), rubinicolor, producla, candi
 dala (Mexico, Cyp. approximate, Beck, Cyp. olorina Duclos, but first
 described by Mr. Gaskoin), acutidentata (Isle of Muerte, Bay of
 Guayaquil), Pediculus, var. labiosa, vesiculates (Cape of Good Hope),
and Beckii.
    There was read an " Extrait du Quatrieme Rapport Annuel sur
les Travaux de la Societo d'Histoire Naturelle de l'lle Maurice : par
M. Julien Desjardins."
    The communications relative to the Mammalia read before the Na
tural History Society of the Mauritius in the fourth year of its ex
istence have comprised an account by the secretary, M. Julien
Desjardins, of a Whale which he regards as the Physeter macroce-
phalus, Linn., that was cast ashore on an adjoining reef : and some
observations by the same author on several of the Mammalia of the
island, and particularly on the hybernation of the Tenrec, Centenes
spinosus, 111. ; the lethargy of which animal takes place when the
    In ornithology
thermometer           lower
               is notM. Desjardins
                            than 20°has
                                     Cent.,
                                        alsoand even
                                             been     onlyitcontributor.
                                                  thewhen    marks 26°.
He has described, as new, two Birds belonging to the island, and has

                           Zoological Society.                       139
proposed for them the names of Charadrius Nesogallicus and Scolo-
pax eltgans.
    M. Lienard, the elder, has, in the course of the year, described
many Fishes, including a new species of Plectropoma, allied to the
Plectr. melanoleuca, Cuv. & Val., which is of a uniform brown co
lour, with all its fins of a still deeper brown, except the pectoral
which are orange ; on this latter character bis specific name is
founded : a Holacanthus, La Cep., from Batavia, remarkable on ac
count of the numerous sinuous silvery lines which occupy principally
the middle of the body ; and having also on its face two yellow and
two black bands, one of which is ocular : a Cheilinus, Cuv. : an
Echeneis, Linn., furnished, on its suctorial disc, with twenty-five
pairs of plates : and a Murtena, Thunb., the body of which is of an
ebony black, and the dorsal fin yellow ; the trivial name being in
dicative of the latter peculiarity. He has also given some account of
a collection of Fishes obtained from the western coast of Madagas
car, and comprising thirteen species, several of which he regards as
new. M. Desjardins has described as the blue-faced Tetrodon, a species
remarkable for two large blue spots on each side of its face, and
having the fin-rays as follows; D. 15. A. 12. P. 14. C. 14.; it in
habits the seas adjacent to the Isle of France.
    In entomology the only communication made to the Mauritius
 Society was by M. Goudot, and related to the Insect described by
 Mr. Bennett at the Meeting of the Zoological Society on January 22,
 1833, (Proceedings, Part i.,p. 12; Lond. andEdinb. Phil. Mag., vol. ii.
 p. 478,) under the name of Aphrophora Goudoti. The commu
 nication made to the Zoological Society, of which a full abstract
 is given at the page quoted, was apparently identical with that read
 before the Mauritius Society.
    The remaining zoological communication related to the Intestinal
 Worms, and was made by the Secretary. It gave some account of
 the Distoma hepaticum, Cuv., as found in the stomach of a cow; and
 of the Cysticercus Cellulosee, Brems., existing in innumerable quan
 tities over almost the whole of the head, trunk, and extremities of
 a sow.
    An " Extrait du Cinquieme Rapport Annuel " of the same Society,
 by M. Julien Desjardins, Corr. Memb. Z. S., was also read.
     In the year of which the present Report gives an account, M.
 Desjardins has communicated to the Natural History Society of the
 Mauritius, a list of several species of Birds that are occasional visi
 tors of that island ; and has also referred particularly to the Coturnix
 Sinensis, Cuv., and the Nectarinia Borbonica, 111., as stationary in
 the Mauritius.
    M. E. Lienard has brought from the Seychelles a species of Gecko
 of considerable size ; which he has described in a communication
 made to the Society : and M. E. Lienard has placed on record the
  existence in the adjacent seas of the Sphargis coriaceus, Men.
     M. Lie'nard, the elder, has again made numerous contributions to
  ichthyology. He has given a detailed description of the Squalus
  Vulpes, Linn. : has described as new a Trichiurus, Linn., which he

 140                        Zoological Society.
had formerly regarded as the Trick, lepturus, Ej., but which has the
eye much larger, more numerous stria on the suhopercuium, and a few
more rays in the dorsal fin : and has also described two species
of Crenilabrus, Cuv., which he regards as new ; one of them has
three longitudinal rose-coloured bands on the white ground of the
body, others on the dorsal fin, a large blood-red spot on the ventral
fins, and D. 12 + 10. A. 3 + 11 ; the other is banded like the pre
ceding, but is deeply rose-coloured on the back and pale yellow be
low, has a black circle surrounding the base of the pectoral fin, a
large red spot above the anus, the dorsal and caudal fins red, the anal
and ventrals yellow, the pectorals rose-coloured, and D. 12+9.
A. 3 + 11. He has also given a description of a Mureena, Thunb.,
of a very pale olive yellow towards the front and brown towards the
tail, and marked on the back by white ocellated spots bordered with
brown.
    In the same department M. E. Lienard has contributed descrip
tions, from recent specimens, of several Serrani described by Cuvier
and M.Valenciennes in their ' Histoire Naturelle des Poissons' ; and
has also given a description of a Blennius, Linn., destitute of appen
dages on the head. These fishes were observed in a voyage to the
Seychelle Islands, whence M. E. Lienard brought back with him to
the Mauritius a Chtetodon of very varied colours, which M. A. Lienard
subsequently described under the name of Cheetodon diversicolor.
M. Desjardins has stated, in a note, that the Mango fish, Polynemus
 lonyifilis, Cuv. & Val., is not found, as had been announced, in the
 Isle of France. And he adds that he has prepared an alphabetical
index to the nine volumes of the ' Histoire Naturelle des Poissons '
 that had then reached the Mauritius. M. Magon has presented to
 the Museum of the Society a fragment of a ship's coppered keel
pierced by the point of the upper jaw of a Histiophorus, Cuv., which
8till remains infixed in it.
    M. Desjardins has contributed the only notices relative to the Mol-
lusca, which have consisted of short descriptions of three species be
longing to the island : an Octopus, Oct. arenarius, Desj., found in
 the shell of a Dolium ; a Pupa, of a red and yellow colour ; and a
 small species of Helicina. He has also ascertained the existence at
 the Mauritius of the Tornatella flammea, Auct.
    To the same active member the Mauritius Natural History Society
 is indebted for the only entomological communication made to it in
 the fifth year of its existence : it is a detailed description of a large
 species of lulus brought from the Seychelles, and characterized as
 the lulus Seychellarum, Desj.
    Specimens were exhibited of various Fishes, forming part of a col
 lection from Mauritius, presented to the Society by M. Julien Des
 jardins, and forwarded by him at the same time with the " Rapports
 de la Soci^te" d'Histoire Naturelle de l'lle Maurice." These were
 severally brought under the notice of the Meeting by Mr. Bennett,
 who called particular attention to the following, which he regarded
 as hitherto undescribed, and of which the characters are given in
 the " Proceedings," viz.

                          \ Zoological Society.                    HI
   Apooon taniopterus ; Acanthurtts Desjardinii, Ruppelii, and Bio-
chii ; Labrus spilonotus ; and Anampses lineolatus.
    Jan. 12, 1836.—A note addressed to the Secretary by Sir Robert
Heron, Bart. M.P., was read. It referred to the writer's success in the
breeding of Curassows in the last summer at Stubton.
   From two individuals in his possession, the male of which is en
tirely black, and the female of the mottled reddish brown colour
which is regarded as characteristic of the Crax rubra. Linn., Sir R.
Heron has hatched in the last year six young ones in three broods of
two eggs each : the eggs were placed under turkeys and common
hens. Respecting one of them no notes were made ; but the other
five were all of the red colour of the female parent. Two of these,
which were at two or three weeks old very strong, being still in the
flower-garden, were killed in the night by a rat that had eaten its
way into the coop in which they were. Two others were sent to
the Earl of Derby, who wanted hens. The remaining one is now
nearly, if not quite, full grown ; and Sir R. Heron proposes to place
it with the old pair.
    " There is one great peculiarity," Sir R. Heron remarks, " attend
ing the old pair. Their principal food is Indian corn and greens,
both which they eat in common : but whenever any biscuit is given
to them, as an occasional treat when visitors are here, the male breaks
it and takes it in his mouth ; waiting, however long, until the hen
takes it out of his bill ; which she does without the slightest mark
of civility, although on excellent terms with him. This proceeding
is invariable."
    Mr. Yarrell, on behalf of T. C. Heysham, Esq., of Carlisle, ex
hibited the egg, the young bird of a week old, one of a month old,
 and the adult female of the Dottrell, Charadrius Morinellus, Linn.,
obtained on Skiddaw in the summer of 1835. Several pairs were
breeding in the same locality.
    He also stated that a specimen of the grey Snipe, Macroramphus
griseus, Leach, a young bird of the year, has been obtained near
 Carlisle in the past year. This is the third recorded instance of
 the occurrence of the species in England.
    Some notes by Mr. Martin of a dissection of a Vulpine Opossum,
  Phalangista Vulpina, Cuv., were read, and are given in the " Pro
ceedings."
    A notice by Dr. Riippell, For. Memb. Z. S., of the existence of
 canine teeth in an Abyssinian Antelope, Antilope montana, Riipp.,
 was read. It was accompanied by drawings of the structure de
 scribed in it, which were exhibited.
     The following is a translation of Dr. Riippell's communication.
     In several Mammalia of the order Ruminantia the adult males, and
 even some females, possess canine teeth, which are more or less de
 veloped ; to these teeth no other use has been attributed than that
 of a weapon of defence. The Camels (Camelus), the Musk Deer
  (Moschus), and the Muntjak of India (Cervus Muntjak), possess these
  canine teeth in both sexes. In the red Deer (Cervus Elaphus) and
  in the rein Deer {Cerv. Tarandus), the adult males alone are provided
  with them.

  142
    I have just ascertained that there is a species of Antelope which
 possesses these canine teeth ; but in which, by a singular anomaly,
 it is only the young males that are furnished with them. In these
 too they can only be considered in the light of half-developed germs ;
 for the cartilaginous part which covers the palate and the upper jaw
 entirely conceals them.
    It is the Ant. montana, which I discovered in 1824 in the neigh
 bourhood of Sennaar, and of which I published in my ' Zoological
 Atlas ' the figure of an adult male, that is provided, in its youth, with
 these anomalous canine teeth : the adults of both sexes, and the
 young females, are destitute of them. I observed, in my last journey
 in Abyssinia, many individuals of this species in the valleys in the
 neighbourhood of Gondar : it is far from rare in that locality,' but
the jungles mingled with thorns, which are its favourite retreat, ren
 der the chase of it extremely difficult.
    At the time of the publication of my description of this new spe
 cies, in 1826, I was possessed of only a single adult male, and there
 were consequently many deficiencies in my account of it. I am now
 enabled to add to this notice that the females of this species are
always destitute of horns ; that both sexes have, in the [groins] two
rather deep pits covered by a stiff bundle of white hairs ; and finally
that the species lives in pairs in the valleys of the western part of
Abyssinia, where it takes the place of Ant. Saltiana, an animal which
it exceeds in size by nearly one half. These two species are called by
the natives Madogua, by which name the Abyssinians also designate
the Ant. Grimmia, which equally constitutes a part of the game of
that country, so rich in different forms of the Ruminant order.—E. R.
    A note by Mr. Martin was subsequently read, in which it was
stated that it had once occurred to him to observe a rudimentary
canine tooth in the female of a species of Deer from South America,
the body of which had been sent to the Society's house by Sir P.
Grey Egerton, for examination. Having noticed an enlargement of
the gum of the upper jaw, in the situation in which a canine tooth
might possibly be supposed to exist, he cut into it, and found the
germ of a canine tooth, about 3 lines in length, imbedded in the gum,
and destitute of fang.
   Jan. 26.—Specimens were exhibited of numerous Birds, chiefly
from the Society's collection ; and Mr. Gould, at the request of the
Chairman, directed the attention of the Meeting to those among them
which he regarded as principally interesting either on account of
their novelty or for the peculiarity of their form.
   They included the following species of the genus Edolius, Cuv.,
which were compared with numerous others placed upon the table
for that purpose.
   Edolius grandis, Rangoonensis, Crishna, and viridescens.
   Of Edolius Crishna a very curious character is furnished by the
long, hair-like, black filaments which spring from the head and mea
sure nearly 4 inches in length.
   The remaining previously undescribed Birds that were exhibited
were characterized by Mr. Gould as Orpheus modulator, Ixos leu

                            Zoological Society.                    US
cetit, Colmjmciwcxafusca, Trichophorusfaveolus, and Geocichxa
 Rubecula.
   Mr. Gould subsequently directed the attention of the Meeting to
a specimen of the Turdus macrounts of Dr. Latham, with the view
of explaining the characters which induced him to regard that bird
as constituting the type of a new
                           Genus Kittacincla.
      tiusculum,
   Rostrum          longitudine aquans, ad apicem emarginatum, rec-
              caputcompressiusculum.
   Nares basales, plumis brevibus utplurimum tectae.
    Alee mediocres, rotundata : remige lma brevissima, 4ta 5taque
       subrequalibus, longioribus.
    Cauda elongata, gradata.
    Tarsi digitique longiusculi, tenues.
    Obs. Maribus color supra utplurimum niger; subtus brunneuB
vel albus.
       paper by B. ofH.Nipal,
theAScolopacidee               was Esq.,
                        Hodgson,   read ; Corr.
                                           the copy
                                                Memb.  Z.S., on some
                                                    transmitted      of .
                                                                by that
gentleman to the Society containing various corrections of his me
moir which was published at Calcutta in the 'Gleanings of Science'
for August, 1831.
    Mr. Hodgson's object in the present paper is to bring under the
notice of zoologists the various species of the family referred to
which occur in Nipal, on the natural history of which country he
has, during a residence of several years, been engaged in making
most extensive researches. The result of these it is his intention
immediately to publish, accompanied by finished representations of
 the animals, taken from drawings made in almost every instance
 from numerous living individuals of the several races.
    Mr. Hodgson first describes in detail the common Woodcock, Sco-
 lopax Rusticola, Linn., as it occurs in Nipftl ; where it is, in every
 respect of form and colour, evidently identical with the European
 bird. In Nipal also it seems to be, as it is in Western Europe, of
 migratory habits : and the periods of its arrival in, and departure
 from, Nipal, correspond altogether with the seasons of its appearance
 and disappearance in England.
    He then proceeds to describe in detail the several kinds of Snipe
 which occur in Nipal.
    Two of these are so nearly related to the common Snipe of Europe,
 GaUinago media, Ray, that Mr. Hodgson is induced to regard them
 as being probably specifically identical with that bird : and he ac
 cordingly refers them to it as varieties, which are constantly distin
 guished from each other by the structure of the tail. In one of them
 the tail-feathers are fourteen or sixteen in number, and are all of
 the same form : in the other the tail-feathers vary in number from
  twenty-two to twenty-eight ; and the outer ones on either side, to
  the number of six, eight, or ten, differ remarkably from those of the
 middle, being narrow, hard, and acuminated. The latter bird may,
 however, be regarded as the representative of a species to which the
  name of Gall, heterura may be given.

144                         Zoological Society.
    The other two Snipes of Nipal are unquestionably distinct from
those of Europe. They are described as the solitary Snipe, Gall, so-
litaria, Hodgs., and the wood Snipe, Gall, nemoricola, Ej.
    In the solitary Snipe the wings are remarkably long ; the upper
surface, especially on the wings, is minutely dotted, barred, and
domen is white,
streaked,         barred
           with white  intermingled
                          along the flanks
                                     with buff  brown.
                                           withand  brown ; and the ab-
    The wood Snipe has the general colouring of the plumage dark
and sombre ; the wings short ; the abdomen and the whole of the
under surface thickly barred with transverse lines of dark brown on
 a dusky white ground ; and a tail of sixteen or eighteen, or very
rarely twenty, feathers.
    Mr. Hodgson describes, with the greatest minuteness, each of
 these birds, and adverts with the fullest detail to their several habits
 and distinguishing peculiarities, as well of manners and of seasons
 as of form and plumage.
    Feb. 9.—A letter was read, addressed to the Secretary by M.
 Thibaut, and dated Malta, January 8, 183G. It communicated various
 particulars relative to the Giraffes belonging to the Society, which
 have recently been obtained by the writer and which are now in his
 custody, and may be translated as follows :—
    " Having learnt, on my arrival at Malta, that you were desirous
 of information on the subject of the four Giraffes which the Society
 has entrusted to my care, I regard it as a duty to transmit to you a
 short statement, by which you will become aware of the difficulties
 that I encountered in obtaining and preserving for the Society
 these interesting animals, which are now, I hope, altogether out of
 danger.
     " Instructed by Colonel Campbell, His Majesty's Consul General
 in the Levant, and desirous of rendering available for the purposes
 of the Zoological Society the knowledge which I had acquired by
 twelve years' experience in travelling in the interior of Africa, I
  quitted Cairo on the 15th of April, 1834. After sailing up the
  Nile as far as Wadi Haifa (the second cataract), I took camels, and
  proceeded to Debbat, a province of Dongolah; whence, on the 14th
  of July, I started for the desert of Kordofan.
     " Being perfectly acquainted with the locality, and on friendly
 terms with the Arabs of the country, I attached them to me still
  more by the desire of profit. All were desirous of accompanying
  me in my pursuit of the Giraffes, which, up to that time, they had
 hunted solely for the sake of the flesh, which they eat, and of the
  skin, from which they make bucklers and sandals. I availed myself
  of the emulation which prevailed among the Arabs, and as the sea
 son was far advanced and favourable, I proceeded immediately to
  the south-west of Kordofan.
     " It was on the 15th of August that I saw the first two Giraffes.
  A rapid chase, on horses accustomed to the fatigues of the desert,
  put us in possession, at the end of three hours, of the largest of the
  two : the mother of one of those now in my charge. Unable to
  take her alive, the Arabs killed her with blows of the sabre, and,

                            Zoological Society.                       145
 cutting her to pieces, carried the meat to the head- quarters which
 we had established in a wooded situation ; an arrangement neces
  sary for our own comforts and to secure pasturage for the camels of
  both sexes which we had brought with us in aid of the object of our
  chase. We deferred until the morrow the pursuit of the young
  Giraffe, which my companions assured me they would have no diffi
  culty in again discovering. The Arabs are very fond of the flesh of
  this animal. I partook of their repast. The live embers were
 quickly covered with slices of the meat, which I found to be excel
 lent eating.
     " On the following day, the 16th of August, the Arabs started at
 daybreak in search of the young one, of which we had lost sight
 not far from our camp. The sandy nature of the soil of the desert
 is well adapted to afford indications to a hunter, and in a very short
 time we were on the track of the animal which was the object of
 our pursuit. We followed the traces with rapidity and in silence,
 cautious to avoid alarming the creature while it was yet at a di
 stance from us. Unwearied myself, and anxious to act in the same
 manner as the Arabs, I followed them impatiently, and at 9 o'clock
 in the morning I had the happiness to find myself in possession
 of the Giraffe. A premium was given to the hunter whose horse
 had first come up with the animal, and this reward is the more me
 rited as the laborious chase is pursued in the midst of brambles and
 of thorny trees.
    " Possessed of this Giraffe, it was necessary to rest for three or
 four days, in order to render it sufficiently tame. During this
 period an Arab constantly holds it at the end of a long cord. By
 degrees it becomes accustomed to the presence of man, and takes a
 little nourishment. To furnish milk for it I had brought with me fe
 male camels. It became gradually reconciled to its condition, and was
soon willing to follow, in short stages, the route of our caravan.
    "This first Giraffe, captured at four days' journey to the south-west
of Kordofan, will enable us to form some judgement as to its probable
age at present ; as I have observed its growth and its mode of life.
When it first came into my hands, it was necessary to insert a finger
into its mouth in order to deceive it into a belief that the nipple of
its dam was there : then it sucked freely. According to the opinion
 of the Arabs, and to the length of time that I have had it, this first
 Giraffe cannot, at the utmost, be more than nineteen months old.
 Since I have had it, its size has fully doubled.
    " The first run of the Giraffe is exceedingly rapid. The swiftest
horse, if unaccustomed to the desert, could not come up with it un
less with extreme difficulty. The Arabs accustom their coursers to
hunger and to fatigue ; milk generally serves them for food, and
gives them power to continue their exertions during a very long run.
If the Giraffe reaches a mountain, it passes the heights with rapidity:
its feet, which are like those of a Goat, endow it with the dexterity
of that animal ; it bounds over ravines with incredible power ; horses
cannot, in such situations, compete with it.
    " The Giraffe is fond of a wooded country. The leaves of trees
Third Series. Vol. 9. No. 52. August 1836.                   R

   146                       Zoological Society.
   are its principal food. Its conformation allows of its reaching their
   tops. The one of 'which I have previously spoken as having been
   killed by the Arabs measured 21 French feet in height from the
   ears to the hoofs. Green herbs are also very agreeable to this ani
   mal ; but its structure does not admit of its feeding on them in the
   same manner as our domestic animals, such as the Ox and the
  Horse. It is obliged to straddle widely ; its two fore-feet are gra
   dually stretched widely apart from each other, and its neck being
  then bent into a semicircular form, the animal is thus enabled to
  collect the grass. But on the instant that any noise interrupts its
  repast, the animal raises itself with rapidity, and has recourse to im
  mediate flight.
      " The Giraffe eats with great delicacy, and takes its food leaf by
  leaf, collecting them from the trees by means of its long tongue. It
  rejects the thorns, and in this respect differs from the Camel. As
  the grass on which it is now fed is cut for it, it takes the upper part
  only, and chews it until it perceives that the stem is too coarse for
  it. Great care is required for its preservation, and especially great
  cleanliness.
      " It is extremely fond of society and is very sensible. I have
  observed one of them shed tears when it no longer saw its com
 panions or the persons who were in the habit of attending to it.
      " I was so fortunate as to collect five individuals at Kordofan ;
 but the cold weather of December, 1834, killed four of them in the
 desert on the route to Dongolah, my point of departure for Bebbah.
  Only one was preserved; this was the first specimen that I ob
 tained, and the one of which I have already spoken. After twenty-
 two days in the desert, I reached Dongolah on the 6th of January,
  1835.
     " Unwilling to return to Cairo without being really useful to the
 Society, and being actually at Dongolah, I determined on resuming
 the pursuit of Giraffes. I remained for three months in the desert,
 crossing it in all directions. Arabs in whom I could confide accom
 panied me, and our course was through districts destitute of every
 thing. We had to dread the Arabs of Darfour, of which country I
 saw the first mountain. We were successful in our researches. I
 obtained three Giraffes, smaller than the one I already possessed.
 Experience suggested to me the means of preserving them.
     " Another trial was reserved for me : that of transporting the
animals, by bark, from Wadi Haifa to Cairo, Alexandria, and Malta.
Providence has enabled me to surmount all difficulties. The most
that they suffered was at sea, during their passage, which lasted
twenty-four days, with the weather very tempestuous.
    " I arrived at Malta on the 21st of November. We were there
detained in quarantine for twenty-five days, after which, through the
kind care of Mr. Bourchier, these valuable animals were placed in a
good situation, where nothing is wanting for their comfort. With
the view of preparing them for the temperature of the country to
which they will eventually be removed, I have not thought it ad
visable that they should be clothed. During the last week the

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.                147
cold has been much greater than they have hitherto experienced ;
but they have, thanks to the kindness of Mr. Bourchier, everything
that can be desired.
   " These four Giraffes, three males and one female, are so interest
ing and so beautiful, that 1 shall exert myself to the utmost to be of
use to them. It is possible that they may breed; already I observe in
them some tendency towards mutual attachment. They are capable of
walking for six hours a day without the slightest fatigue.—G. T."
   Mr. Gould, at the request of the Chairman, exhibited a specimen
of the Trogon resplendens, Gould, and one of the Trog. pavonimts,
Spix ; and stated that he was indebted to the kindness of M. Nat-
terer, who was present at the Meeting, for the opportunity of de
monstrating, by the juxtaposition of the Birds, the correctness of
the determination which he had made in regarding them as distinct
species. Mr. Gould directed particular attention to the several
characters and distinguishing marks which he had pointed out to
the Society on March 10, 1835, and which had subsequently been
published in the ' Proceedings,' part iii. p. 29 (Lond. and Edinb.
Phil. Mag., vol. vii. p. 226.), and again dwelt especially on the fact
that in Trog. resplendens the hinder feathers of the back, which are
fully 3 feet in length, hang gracefully far away beyond the tail ; while
in Trog . pavonimts the lengthened feathers of the back are rarely equal
in length to the tail : in only one instance has M. Natterer known
them, in the latter bird, to exceed the tail by so much as a quarter
of an inch.
        XXXIII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
       EFFECTS OF COMPRESSED AIR ON THE HUMAN BODY.
DR. JUNOD has communicated to the Academy of Sciences the
       results of his experiments with compressed air.
    In order to operate on the whole person, a large spherical copper
 receiver is employed, which is entered by an opening in the upper
part, and which has a cover with three openings ; the first for a ther
 mometer, the second for a barometer or manometer, and a third for a
 tube of communication between the receiver and the pump. The air
 in the receiver is perpetually renewed by a cock.
    When the pressure of the atmosphere is increased one half, the
 membrane of the tympanum suffers inconvenient pressure, which
 ceases as gradually as the equilibrium is restored. Respiration is
 carried on with increased facility ; the capacity of the lungs seems to
 increase; the inspirations are deeper and less frequent. In about 15
 minutes an agreeable warmth is felt in the interior of the thorax. The
 whole ceconomy seems to acquire increased strength and vitality.
    The increased density of the air appears also to modify the circu
 lation in a remarkable manner : the pulse is more frequent, it is full
 and is reduced with difficulty ; the dimensions of the superficial venous
 vessels diminish, and they are sometimes completely effaced, so
 that the blood in its return towards the heart follows the direction of
 the deep veins. The quantity of venous blood contained in the lungs

  148           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 ought then to diminish, and this explains the increased breathing of
 air. The blood there is then determined in larger quantity to the ar
 terial system, and especially to the brain. The imagination becomes
 active, the thoughts are accompanied with a peculiar charm, and
 some persons are affected with symptoms of intoxication. The
 power of the muscular system is increased. The weight of the body
 appears to diminish.
    When a person is placed in the receiver and the pressure of the
 air is diminished one fourth, the membrane of the tympanum is mo
 mentarily distended ; the respiration is inconvenienced, the inspira
 tions are short and frequent, and in about 15 or 20 minutes there is
 a true dyspnoea. The pulse is full, compressable and frequent ; the
 superficial vessels are turgid. The eyelids and lips are distended with
 superabundant fluids, and hemorrhage and tendency to syncope are
 sometimes induced ; the skin is inconveniently hot, and its functions
 increased in activity ; the salivary and renal glands secrete their fluids
 less abundantly.—Journ. de Chim. Mid., June, p. 13.
                             GASTRIC JUICE.
    Mons. H. Braconnot considers the gastric juice obtained from dogs
 to be composed of
    1st. Free hydrochloric acid in considerable quantity.
    2nd. Hydrochlorate of ammonia.
    3rd. Chloride of sodium in large quantity.
    4th. Chloride of calcium.
    5th. Chloride of iron.
    6th. Chloride of potassium, a trace.
    7th. Chloride of magnesium.
    8th. A colourless and pungent oil.
    9 th. Animal matter soluble both in water and alcohol, in consider
able quantity.
    1 0th. Animal matter soluble in dilute alkalies.
    llth. Animal matter soluble in water, but insoluble in alcohol;
 (the salivary matter of Gmelin).
    l'ith. Mucus.
    13th. Phosphate of lime.
    M. Blondelot has endeavoured to produce artificial digestions, at
the temperature of the human body, by filling glass tubes, some with
a mixture of bits of meat and gastric juice, and others with meat and
water slightly acidulated with hydrochloric acid : in both cases the
flesh preserved its primitive form and fibrous texture whilst quiescent,
but by the slightest movement it was converted into a homogeneous
mass precisely similar to chyme produced in the stomach.—Journal
de Pharm., Feb. 1836.
                      BIBKOMIDE OF MERCURY.
   M. Lassaigne informs us that bibromide of mercury is less soluble
in water than the bichloride, 1 05 parts of the former salt requiring
10,000 parts of water at 48° Fahr. to dissolve it, or rather more than
1 of salt to 100 of water; also that albumen forms with the bibromide

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.                149
 a compound which remains in solution when diluted with 30 times its
 weight of water, whilst a solution of the bichloride of the same strength
 soon becomes troubled and precipitates. This non-precipitation of al
 bumen will not only serve to distinguish the bibromide from the bi
 chloride, but if bichloride of mercury is mixed with from J th to Tvth of
 its weight of the bromide, it will detect the adulteration.—Jour, de
 Chim. Med., April.
                                 FLUORINE.
    M. Baudrimont states that he succeeded in isolating fluorine two
years since ; but he did not announce this discovery because he
 could not obtain it without a large admixture of oxygen gas. The
process by which he first obtained fluorine was by passing fluoride
 of boron over minium heated to redness, and receiving the gas in a
 dry vessel. His present method is to treat a mixture of fluoride of
calcium and binoxide of manganese with sulphuric acid in a glass
tube ; but the gas thus obtained is mixed with the vapouf of hy
drofluoric acid and fiuosilicic acid gas ; this mixture however does
not interfere with the observation of the principal properties of fluo
rine, which is a gas of a yellowish brown colour, and possesses an
odour
it;      resembling
     it does  not act chlorine
                       upon glass,
                               and but
                                    burntcombines  directly
                                          sugar: indigo        bleached
                                                           is with gold by
L'Institut, 27th April, 1836. (See Messrs. Knox's paper in the
present Number.)
                 ANTIMONIAL COPPER (ECLATAN't).
    Henry Rose analysed this mineral after separating the quartz
                      mixed, and found its composition
with which it wasSulphur                          26-34 to be
                    Antimony                      46 81
                    Iron                           1-39
                    Copper                        24 46
                    Lead                           0*56
which gives the formula Cu + S 6, analogous to the composition
of zinkenite and miargyrite.—L'Institut, May 18, 1836.
           ON THE ACTION OF BROMINE UPON .V.THEK.
    M. Lovrig added bromine to aether in successive small portions
until it would not take up any more, and set the mixture aside
for about a fortnight, when the aether was completely decomposed,
giving rise to the following products, viz. :
            1st, Formic acid.
            2nd, Hydrobromic acid.
            3rd, Hydrobromic sether.
            4th, Dense bromic aether (schwerbromaether).
            5th, Bromal
To separate these substances the decomposed liquor is to be di
stilled. The four first come over ; and if the operation is not pushed
too far, the bromal remains in the retort mixed with a little dense
bromic actherand hydrobromic sether. By treating this residue with

150            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
water, and setting it aside for 24 hours, beautiful crystals of hy
drate of bromal are obtained.
   Bromal—Anhydrous bromal is composed of
              Carbon....           ...... 8-64 = 4 eqs.
              Hydrogen                       0*34 = 1 eq.
              Oxygen                         6-33 = 2 eqs.
              Bromine                      84-65 = 3 eqs.
                                          10000
   The hydrate of bromal is formed of
                       1 eq. of bromal C4 H' 0°- Br'
                      4 eqs. of water        H1 O1
      1 eq. of hydrate of bromal-. C4 H5 O6 Br^
    When the hydrate of bromal is boiled with an alkaline solution,
 eqs. O H'° 0'a Br"5 form
                2 eqs. of formic acid = C< H2 O8
                2 eqs. of bromoforme = C* H2               Br1
                6 eqs. of water           =        HB O6
                                               CR H'° O12 Br"
Bromoforme decomposes into bromine and formic acid.
   Dense Bromic jfEther (schwerbromaether). This is formed in
great abundance in the decomposition of sether by bromine. It
is very volatile, possesses a very penetrating and agreeable odour,
and a sweet taste which remains for a length of time. It is much
heavier than water, and even sinks in sulphuric acid. When it
is boiled in this acid bromine is liberated, and a colourless fluid
distils. Dense bromic aether can be obtained anhydrous by di
gesting it with caustic potash, and distilling it repeatedly from
quick-lime. It is perfectly clear, as limpid as water, and refracts
light very powerfully. When passed over red-hot lime it is de
composed, liberating a gas which burns with a clear flame, and
forming bromide of calcium. When it is boiled with a solution of
potash, bromoforme is evolved, which is decomposed into formic
acid and bromine, forming formiate of potash 'and bromide of po
tassium.
lyses,  is The composition of this ether deduced from three ana-
                                  1st.          2nd.      3rd.
                                 7-80          8'88      9-20
             Hydrogen . . 1-43                 1-30      1-36
             Oxygen              9-83          8-88      8-50
                                            80-94       8094
                              10000        10O00       10000
           8 eqs. indicate
   These results   of Carbonthe. following atomic constitution :
                                         . 4904            8-52
                                                800         1-39
           6 eqs. of Oxygen .                 48-00        8-37
           6 eqs. of Bromine                470-34        81-72
                                            575-38       10000

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.                   151
    Bromic aether being the heaviest of the fluids resulting from the
 decomposition of -Ether by bromine, it is very easy to separate it
 from the other products. It is still to be decided whether this is a
 separate compound, or a mixture of various substances.—Ann. de
 Chimie, March, 1836.
   ON THE COMPOSITION OF THE CRYSTALLIZED HYDRATE
                                OF POTASH.
    M. Walter obtains hydrate of potash in fine crystals by pouring
 on three or four pounds of fused potash a little water, and when
 the mixture is cool, adding sufficient hot water to dissolve the re
 mainder of the potash: at the expiration of 12 hours, by decanting
the solution, the crystals will be found at the bottom of" the vessel.
The method of analysis adopted for determining the relative pro
portions of water and potash, was to neutralize a known weight
of the crystals with hydrochloric acid, to evaporate the solution to
dryness, and heat the resulting chloride of potassium to redness.
4-065 gram, of crystallized potash afforded 3*207 gram, of chloride
 = 1-684 gram, of potassium; and as 1-684 gram, of potassium =
2 028 of potash (protoxide of potassium), the crystallized hydrate
will be composed of
                               2-028 potash,
                               2-037 water,
                               4-065
which nearly agrees with the formula of 10 eqs. of water to 1 of
 potash.
    The slight difference between the experimental and the calculated
results is evidently owing to a little interposed water, and some
slight degree of humidity which the surfaces of the crystals acquired
during weighing.
    There is also a third hydrate of potash, for 2-462 gram, of the
crystals placed under the air-pump lost 0-527 gram., which indi
cates a compound of 21 -4 water and 78-6 potash in 100 parts, or
                     eqs.ofwater
                  3] eq.     potash      48 = 22-29
                                         27          77-71
                                         75 = 100-00
    Thus crystallized potash appears to lose 7 eqs. of water in va
cuo.—Journ. de Pharm., June, 1836.
   Note. —How this crystallized hydrate can be regarded as a com
pound of 1 eq. of potash and 1 0 of water I am at a loss to know, as the ana
lysis approximates to 1 eq. of potash and 5 of water ; but in any case the
analysis does not indicate any atomic combination, for by it 48 of potash
will combine with 48'3 of water, the equivalent of potash and water being
respectively 48 and 49.—J. S. D.
   ON THE COMBINATIONS OF CHROMIUM WITH FLUORINE
                              AND CHLORINE.
    Henry Rose has submitted the gaseous perfluoride of chromium

152          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
of Unverdorben to a rigid examination. He obtained the gas by
acting on a mixture of fluoride of calcium and bichromate of pot
ash by sulphuric acid ; the gas when passed into water contained in
a platinum vessel afforded a solution ofthe chromic and hydrofluoric
acids, from which he obtained 2*16 of fluoride of calcium = 1-031
of fluorine, and 0-339 of chromium. A second analysis afforded
3'02 of fluoride of calcium, and -729 of oxide of chromium: the
mean of these analyses is, chromium 25-57, and fluorine 74*43, in
100 parts. Although the mode of analysis adopted does not admit
of absolute certainty, yet it affords an approximation to the true
composition utterly at variance with the existence of a perfluoride of
chromium, the composition of which, to be analogous to chromic
acid, would be
                       Chromium              33-4
                       Fluorine              66-6      100 0
whilst, according to M. Rose's analysis, the constitution of this
substance approaches to a compound of 5, and not of 3 double eqs.
of fluorine to 1 eq. of chromium, in which case it would be com
posed of
                     Chromium                23-13
                      Fluorine                  -87      100-0
   Tfthis gaseous body is indeed a fluoride of chromium composed of
5 double eqs. of fluorine to 1 eq. of chrottiium, the existence of an
analogous oxide of chromium containing 5 eqs. of oxygen and 1 eq.
 of chromium is not improbable.
   The chlorochlomic acid of Thomson, prepared by heating a mix.
ture of common salt, bichromate of potash, and sulphuric acid to
gether, on analysis afforded from 1-241 gramme, 2-291 of chloride
of silver, and 0629 of oxide of chromium, which indicate 45-6 of
chlorine, 35-53 of chromium, and a loss of 18-87 in 100 parts. By
a second analysis of this chloride prepared at another period, 3-33
of chloride of silver, and 0 975 of oxide of chromium were obtained
from 1-802 parts, which results are equal to 45-59 of chlorine, and
37-95 of chromium per cent. ; and considering the deficiency as oxy
gen, this chloride according to the first analysis will be a compound
of 2 eqs. of chromic acid and 1 eq. of chloride of chromium, which
by calculation is equal to
                     Chromium                35-38
                     Chlorine                44-51
                     Oxygen                  20-11       1000
   This substance is the only known instance of a volatile combina
tion containing chromic acid, and that, a volatile compound formed
of an oxide and a chloride. M. Rose dissents from Thomson's
opinion in regard to the composition of this bod}', considering it to
be a compound of chromic acid and chloride of chromium, and not a
combination of chromic acid and chlorine ; for if we consider
with Thomson that all the chromium exists as chromic acid, there
will be, if we adopt M. Rose's analysis, an excess o 10 per cent.,
which he attributes to impurity of the carbonate of soda employed
by Thomson in his analysis.
   In endeavouring to prepare a compound of selenium analogous to

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.             153
 the compound of chromium by treating mixtures of the seleniates
 and chloride of sodium with sulphuric acid, chlorine and chloride
 of selenium analogous to selenious acid were obtained ; and towards
 the end of the experiment green vapours rose, which condensed
 into an oily liquid composed of the selenious and sulphuric acids.
   Bromide and iodide of potassium mixed with bichromate of pot
ash, and acted on by sulphuric acid, liberate respectively bromine
and iodine in a state of purity without the slightest admixture of
chromium.—Ann. de Ckimie, January, 1836.
         ON THE ACTION OF SULPHURIC ACID ON OILS.
    M. Fremy in examining the kind of saponification which sulphu
ric acid exerts upon oil, has arrived at several facts in addition to
those already ascertained by MM. Chevreul, Braconnot, and Ca-
ventou. The oils employed were olive and almond, and the results
from both were perfectly similar. When olive oil is treated with
half its weight of concentrated sulphuric acid, surrounding the
vessel with a freezing mixture to prevent any elevation of tem
perature and consequent evolution of sulphurous acid, the acid
being added very cautiously, after a few minutes the mixture be
comes viscid, when the action is finished. Then the mass being
treated with water, rather, less than six times the bulk of the oil
employed, the mixture separates into two strata; the superior is of
syrupy consistence, whilst the lower is chiefly composed of water
and sulphuric acid; this latter is a sulphoglycerate of lime(?),
whilst the superior layer is a mixture of three acids, which he calls
 sulphostearic, sulphomargaric, and sulpholeic acids.
   The aqueous solution of these acids decomposes in a few days,
sulphuric acid being formed, and the three fatty acids precipitated.
   The sulphostearic and sulphomargaric acids possess little sta
bility, as they always decompose in from 24 to 48 hours at most,
which property M. Fremy has availed himself of to separate these
two solid acids from the third, which is liquid, and is derived from
the decomposition of sulpholeic acid. The two solid acids can be
separated by means of alcohol ; these he has named hydrostearic
and metamargaric acids.
   Hydrostearic acid is solid, white, insoluble in water, soluble in
both alcohol and aether, from which it crystallizes in mammillated
groups ; it fuses at about 129° Fahr. Its composition is C3'' H' J 0 > :
it loses i an equivalent of water when in combination with bases.
It may be volatilized without alteration. All its salts are insoluble
in water, except the hydrostearates of soda and ammonia.
   Metamargaric acid is white like the preceding; soluble in alcohol;
fuses at 120° Fahr. Its composition is given in the formula C3S
H70 0'4« It loses | an equivalent (lg?) of water in combining
with bases, and becomes C" H6' O', that is, exactly the same com
position as common margaric acid.
   Hydroleic acid is a slightly coloured liquid at 32° Fahr.; is com
posed ofC '5 H65 05i; loses £ an equivalent of water by combination,
and becomes C'5 H65 0\ When distilled it is almost totally de
composed into carbonic acid, water, and an oil composed almost

   154          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
   wholly of two new hydrocarburets. These are liquid at ordinary
   temperatures; their composition is the same, but the density of
   their vapours differ, one boiling at 131° Fahr., the other at 226°
   Fahr. The first he has named oleene, the second elaene. Oleene
  is a white limpid fluid, burns with a vivid flame, and is composed
  of carbon 85*95, hydrogen 14-05, or CH3. Thus this hydrocar-
  buret appears to be isomeric with carbohydrogen, &c. &c.
     Elaene is white, less fluid than oleene, boils at 226° Fahr.: its
  odour is more penetrating than that of oleene, but its elementary
  composition is the same. It is insoluble in water, but dissolves in
  alcohol and aether. It combines with chlorine in the proportion of
  4 vols, of chlorine to 4 of elaene.
     Hydroleic acid treated with concentrated sulphuric acid forms sul-
  pholeic acid, which is soluble both in water and alcohol, and of a
  slightly acid, and very bitter taste. The sulpholeates of the alkalies
 are soluble, but have not been crystallized. Sulpholeate of lime is
  composed of 2 eqs. of hydroleic acid, 1 eq. of sulphuric acid, I eq. of
 lime, and 1 eq. of water. From these experiments it appears that sul
 phuric acid exerts a kind of saponifying influence on oil ; forming
 glycerine, which combines in its nascent state with sulphuric acid;
 and fatty acids, which form similar combinations. From the know
 ledge that fat substances under such different actions always give
 rise to glycerine and fatty acids, M. Fremy argues that they are
 educts and not products preexisting in fatty bodies.—L'Institut,
 May 11th.
                               ON ETHAL.
     MM. Dumas and Pcligot have analysed ethal with results similar
 to those of M. Chevreul ; they find its composition to be
                   Carbon              79-2 = C32
                   Hydrogen            14-2 = H'4
                   Oxygen               66=         O
 which when compared to alcohol by doubling the equivalents gives
 the formula
                           C» H« + H4 (K
    When ethal is distilled with anhydrous phosphoric acid it affords
 a product composed of
                    Carbon             86-2 = CM
                    Hydrogen           14-2 = H64
which is isomeric with olefiant gas, but exists in a different state of
combination ; this substance they have named Cetene.
    They were not successful in obtaining a compound of cetene
corresponding to aether, but have procured a substance analogous
to sulphovinic acid. By heating ethal with sulphuric acid and fre
quently stirring the mixture they combine, forming sulphocetic
acid. Sulphocetate of potash is a perfectly white salt, and occurs
in pearly spangles , it contains
              Sulphate of potash .. . 240 =          1 eq.
              Sulphuric acid            11*7 =       1 eq.
              Carbon                    53 5 = 64 eqs.
              Hydrogen                   91 = 66 eqs.
              Oxygen                     2'1 = 1 eq.

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.             155
 which accords with the formula S O', K O -f- S O3, O H«< -f-
 H- O.
    They have also obtained a compound of chlorine and cetene by
 distilling together ethal and perchloride of phosphorus; the hydro-
 chlorate of cetene is composed of
                     Carbon            73-67 = C64
                     Hydrogen .. 12-32 = H6«
                     Chlorine          13-70 = Ch*
    These chemists consider spermaceti as a compound of margarate
 and oleate of cetene, in the proportions of
                         2 eqs. margaric acid,
                          1 eq. oleic acid,
                                    cetene,
                         3S eqs. of water,
and give the following extraordinary formula, founded on an ana
lysis of Chevreul : 472 eqs. of carbon, 445 eqs. of hydrogen, and
 14 eqs. of oxygen.—L'Institut, May 4th.
      VOLATILE OIL OF THE BARK OF THE PRUNUS PADUS.
    This oil is a hydruret of benzule analogous to oil ofbitter almonds :
it affords by analysis
                     Carbon.... 7934 = 14 eqs.
                     Hydrogen. .     5-68 =      6 eqs.
                     Oxygen . . 14*98 =           2 eqs.
                                   100-00
    M. Lowig observes that when this oil is placed in contact with
potassium on mercury, the potassium darts rapidly about and
soon disappears, the oil becomes deeper-coloured and at last viscid
without any visible disengagement of gas.—Ann.de Chimie, March,
 1836.
   ON THE ACTION OF OXALIC ACID ON THE SULPHATES OF
                           IRON AND COPPER.
   When a concentrated solution of oxalic acid is poured into one
of protosulphate of iron, the liquid assumes a yellow colour, and pre
cipitates after standing for some time. This precipitation does not
occur in a solution of the persulphate by the addition of oxalic acid j
and in general ferruginous salts are not precipitated either by ox
alic acid or by oxalate of ammonia.
   These phenomena have already been noticed by M. A. Rose ;
but M. Vogel of Munich wishing to know whether the decom
position was complete or only partial, instituted a series of expe
riments, from which he concludes that oxalic acid entirely decom
poses the sulphates of iron and copper, setting at liberty the whole
of the sulphuric acid, its affinity for these oxides being greater
than that of even sulphuric acid. The oxalate of iron obtained is a
yellow powder almost insoluble in water, which when heated to
redness in a closed vessel leaves a residue of protoxide and car

 156          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
buret of iron. The oxalate of copper is a blue powder insoluble in
water, which heated to redness affords metallic and protoxide of
copper.—Jour, de Pharm., April, 1836.
                 LOCALITY OF NATIVE MERCURY.
   M. de Bonnard has communicated to the Philomathique Society
of Paris, a notice by M. Alluaud, sen. of Limoges, respecting the
mercury of Peyrat-le-Chateau, department de la Haute-Vienne.
   This metal is found in the native state in a disintegrated granite,
which forms the esplanade of the ancient castle of Peyrat, on the
side of the royal road from Figeac to Montargis. M. Alluaud
describes the nature of the soil of the country, which is entirely
formed of various kinds of granite passing into each other, as
kaolen and gneiss, &c. On the esplanade of the castle of Peyrat,
M. Ranque, in clearing the soil and digging the foundation of a
house, found twelve pounds of native mercury, and other persons
also found some. M. Alluaud having made several excavations and
also examined the places, found the mercury disseminated in a fine
grained granite, which was very quartzose, and the felspar was de
composed. The metal does not exist throughout the rock, but
only in parts of it ; no bed, vein, or fissure can be perceived. The
metal has been found at several distinct places, far from each other
and without any communication ; this circumstance is unfavourable
to the idea of an accidental infiltration from above, for in this case
the metal would have occupied a circumscribed situation in some
fissure of the rock.
   Notwithstanding the singularity of this locality of native mer
cury in a primary rock which contains no indications of cinnabar,
and difficult as it is to draw a conclusion from an isolated obser
vation confined to the narrow space of a few feet, M. Alluaud does
not hesitate to pronounce either that the mercury is disseminated
in the rock in small masses, irregular both as to form and extent,
and in this case that the deposit has been contemporaneous
with the formation of the rock ; or that it occupies fissures in the
rock, which are now imperceptible, into which it was subsequently
conveyed by sublimation from the interior of the earth.—L'Institut,
No. 160.
    DONIUM, A NEW METAL CONTAINED IN DAVIDSONITE.
   This mineral was discovered by Dr. Davidson of Aberdeen, in a
granite quarry in the neighbourhood of that city ; it has been ex
amined by Mr. Thomas Richardson, and he concludes that he has
obtained from it a metal which differs from any previously known.
   " From the alkaline and earthy bases, and from several of the
metallic ones, it is eminently distinguished by the green precipitate
which it gives with sulpho-hydrate of ammonia ; while its solubility
in the caustic alkalies, and in carbonate of ammonia, the light
brown precipitate thrown down by sulphuretted hydrogen, and the
green given by sulpho-hydrate of ammonia, are amply sufficient to
distinguish it from all the others.

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.             157
    " If this substance be considered as sufficiently distinct, which,
from its characters, I think I am warranted to conclude, I shall
propose to give it the name of Doniutn, being a convenient contrac
tion of Aberdonia, the Latin name of Aberdeen, near which place
Davidsonite occurs; for the suggestion of which name I am in
debted to Dr. Thomson.
     " The change of colour which the precipitates of this substance
undergo, during the process of washing, appears to be owing to
different degrees of oxidation ; and with a view to determine, if
possible, the characters of the metal itself, as well as its degrees of
oxidation, the following experiments were made :
    " A. Over a portion of the white oxide strongly heated to red
ness, in a green glass tube, a current of dry hydrogen gas was
passed, for nearly an hour. The whole was converted into a slate-
blue mass, while aqueous vapour was evolved at the end of the
tube : 100 parts of the white powder, by this means, lost 16-S4 of
their weight.
    " B. A portion of the buff oxide was treated in the same way,
and the same slate-blue powder was obtained, with the evolution of
    ueous vapour: 100 parts of this oxide lost, by this process, 5'11
    their weight.
    " The substance possessing the slate-blue colour exhibited the fol
lowing characters :
  . " 1. When pounded in dry agate mortar, it appeared to assume
a lustre, resembling the metallic.
    "2. When heated to redness, it glowed like tinder, and became
white.
    " 3. In dilute muriatic acid, it effervesced, and was converted
into white powder.
    "4. When placed in a charcoal crucible, properly inclosed, and
heated strongly in a forge for half an hour, it was not altered.
    " It seems probable, that the slate-blue substance consisted of
metallic donium, but in a state of intimate division; while from the
experiments made upon the oxides, upon which, however, for many
reasons, great confidence cannot be placed, it would appear that
the oxides are composed of
        1. The Buff . . 94-89 Donium -f 5-11 oxygen.
        2. The White . 83 66 Donium -j- I6-34 oxygen.
 Or, that the white oxide contains thrice as much oxygen as the
buff.
    " Although circumstances do not permit of ray continuing this
investigation, I have reason to believe that it will not be laid aside,
but that a more full account of this substance will shortly be given
by an individual much more capable of performing the task."—
Records of Science, June, 1836.
                     GEOLOGY OF MANCHESTER.
    Professor Phillips, in a recent examination of this neighbourhood
with reference to the question of the geological age of the lime
stones and shelly marls, which has lately attracted much attention,

] 58          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
has ascertained that the limestone of Ard wick, usually classed with
the magnesian limestone, is in truth (as Dr. C. Phillips of Man
chester had previously stated to him) apart ofthe coalformation of
Lancashire. He has discovered in it the bones of a reptile, per
haps the most ancient yet known in Great Britain. A vast number
of parts of fishes (including Megalichthys Hibberti), shells, several
and many plants of the ordinary coal shales have also been collected
by himself, Dr. Phillips, Mr. Looney, Mr. Wm. Williamson, and
others. Some of the results of these inquiries, which lead to im
portant inferences as to the possible extension of coal works in the
midland counties, will be offered to the British Association at
Bristol, August 22, 18S6.
      ehrenberg's new discovery in paleontology:
     tripoli composed wholly of infusorial exuvi.k.
   At the sitting of the Royal Academy of Sciences of Paris,
July 11th, the following letter was communicated, dated Berlin the
3rd of July, from M. Alexander Brongniart : —" I have today be
come acquainted with a discovery entirely new, for which we are
indebted to M. Ehrenberg, and which he has demonstrated to me
in the clearest manner ; it is that the rocks of homogeneous appear
ance which are not very hard, friable, even fissile, entirely formed
of silex, and which are known by the names of tripoli, more or less
solid (Polierschiefer of Werner,)are entirely composed of the exuviae
or rather of the perfectly ascertained skeletons of infusorial animals
ofthe family of the Bacitlariee and of the genera Cocconema, Gompko-
nema, Sunedra, Gaillonella, &c. These remains having perfectly pre
served the forms of the siliceous carcases of these infusoria, may be
seen with the greatest clearness through the microscope, and may
easily be compared with living species, observed and accurately
drawn by M. Ehrenberg. In many cases there are no appreciable
distinctions.
   The species are distinguished by the form, and still more surely
 by the number of septa or transverse lines which divide their small
body ; and M. Ehrenberg, who has been able to count them by
the microscope, has observed the same number of these divisions in
living and in fossil species.
   They are the tripolis of Bilin in Bohemia, of Santa-Flora in Tus
cany, and of other places which I do not remember with certainty,
(of the Isle of France and of Francisbad near Eger, if I am not mis
taken,) which have given occasion to these curious observations.
The slimy iron ore of marshes is almost wholly composed of Gaillo
nellaJerruginea.
   The greater part of these species are lacustrine, but there are also
some marine, particularly in the tripoli of the Isle of France.—
L'Institut, No. 166.
  BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE.
   The next Meeting will be held at Bristol during the week com
mencing on Monday, August 22nd ; the Members of the General
Committee will assemble on the preceding Saturday.

                       Meteorological Observations.
                 SCIENTIFIC MEMOIRS, Part L
     We have to announce the publication of the First Part of a new
periodical work, conducted by Mr. Richard Taylor, assisted by Mr.
E. W. Brayley, junr., entitled SCIENTIFIC MEMOIRS, selected
from the Transactions of Foreign Academies op Science and
Learned Societies, and from Foreign Journals. This work may
be considered as supplementary to the Philosophical Magazine
and other scientific journals ; and will give in an ceconomical form
translations of papers of great interest, but which may exceed the
limits of those publications.
     The following are the contents of the First Part :
     Memoir on the Free Transmission of Radiant Heat through dif
ferent Solid and Liquid Bodies. By M. Melloni. —New Researches
relative to the Immediate Transmission of Radiant Heat through dif
ferent Solid and Liquid Bodies. By M. Melloni.—Experiments on
the Circular Polarization of Light. By H. W. Dove.—Description
of an Apparatus for exhibiting the Phaenomena of the Rectilinear,
Elliptic, and Circular Polarization of Light. By H. W. Dove.—
Memoir on Colours in general, and particularly on a new Chromatic
Scale, deduced from Metallochromy for Scientific and Practical Pur
poses. By M. LeopoldNobili.—On the Mathematical Theory of Heat.
By M. S. D. Poisson.—Researches on the Elasticity of Bodies which
crystallize regularly. By M. Felix Savart.—Experiments on the
Oil of the Spiraa Ulmaria (Meadow- Sweet). By Professor Lowig.
—Researches relative to the Insects, known to the Ancients and
Moderns, by which the Vine is infested, and the means of preventing
their Ravages. By the Baron Walckenaer.
         METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS FOR JUNE 1836.
     Chiswick—June I. Overcast.                 2. Cloudy and fine: rain at night.
3. Cloudy.        4. Fioe.      5. Fine : showery.         6. Very fine.       7. Over
cast.        8. Very fine.         9. Fine : slight rain.          10. Overcast: rain.
 1 1 —14. Very fine. 15. Hot and dry : lightning at night.               16. Very fine.
17. Fine: thunder showers at noon in heavy drops.                         18. Very fine.
19. Fine. : thunder showers.            20. Fine.         21. Cloudy.         22. Rain:
overcast and fine.         23. Fine.      24. Fine : thunder storm in afternoon :
clear at night. 25. Showery. 26, 27. Very fine. 28—SO. Hot and dry.
     Boston.—June 1. Cloudy. 2. Cloudy: rain p.m.                 3. Cloudy: thunder
and lightning with rain p.m. 4, 5. Cloudy: rain p.m.                 6. Fine: rain p.m.
7— 9. Cloudy.          10. Cloudy and stormy.            11. Cloudy: rain early a.m.
12. Fine: rain tj*.          13, 14. Cloudy.          15. Fine.         16. Fine: rain
early a.m. 17. Fine: rain p.m. 18. Cloudy : rain early a.m. 19.Fine:
rain p.m. 20. Cloudy.            21. Stormy: rain p.m.         22. Cloudy: rain a.m.
23.Fine.          24. Cloudy : rain tm.           25. Stormy.          26, 27. Cloudy.
28—30. Fine.

 c
-poi
                             Tf O — CO *0 t-» 00 © © O © —' OS
      •:< I ©«-»0'flkOio»OkOininio>ou5icoo*o                                     OS 00 OS l-- © OCD<n IOQ0
                                                                             iniominio^O'O                       os — co ©
                                                                                                                 a\
                                                                                                          moolo in
                                                                                                          i©
g 2 J
                        ;C> O O 9 9 ;. .; ;.on
                        .^nomtf                        O .; © O .• .; ttO .;          .. —• ;. o © © .; © ©
                                               -r S :....—.©
                                             .;00           ; ; ;0 ;Qp .os         ; © .err;0O ;. C*r- <nO
     Baa S c*r-» . io    o>© mod                      in                         in « -*©                 Ol©
                o • o on —- on •, •. •. ¦, — ,.                                • o .• —© .• OS  o ~© •. -*— f"
                                                                                                             <                 02 00
                * "5 "5 * * * "3 "3 it* * * s* * « « I "3 * i £ t £ i * £ Z ~* E * W
      si         ii * ii *                              *        * £ * *ia * i i i i i - is « *
     IS £ « » * fc' I u »' » » Sj » i * a i - i i i i S. 5 2 H " I £
                <StOO--©sCS*T~
                U0 iO v© © lOU'SiCVO"©'©©©©    C*tJ«,*TC0C*©©C* t-» t— t-*> ©OS ©~ ©>tOS®lOiCOdOCCO       6 —' »0 © ©   O© 'O
     n
          5- ' Ti,voioTTrLCLommLCT^,LO»nio»c,^,t
                <oco ©    os ©
                      c* <o                   go ©
                             o ©f *©o> © (Nr^.©           M <o oo io
                                                  o> rsr- 1^-       oo t
                                                                       t'- inn^  r- r*- ©osor^-© —r-*©oo ©   ^ m i© t*»oo
                                                                                                          os r-t^-oo       *o
        -r xI — r>>b r^<N<b c*cb<b r>cb ihw 6 t^(^c< ^ © ob oihijcbSoociwww                           cn co r-» © © ©
        ss ^o^oioo^ooooooo                                    i^r^r-r-r-r-r-© t^©©©©t©r»-aor-*-t^.                             *
        3r
                o 9» o r~ as © co osOsror*-»po "yt co ^o o ¦«-? *o »n o cj >© os 'n co»no»
                lO i>ciLO O oso     i/5oboi—<                 ^t^ost^'^r-rtO'— o nnoi c< ¦i*4t--t"-> ©"^t ©r-
                             >-0 *© US'OlOlO<00^0*OlO^OlOlO*OOiO'0<0'COlO,a*0
                o ro
                ip    — ©m©c;tor-»ao
                             ©'7""^'cp©'7"'7"7"               ©<Ncor-~©co©ir;0)
                                               ioao ^rcoTrt,-©co-^c*'-'              — ^? —*o —c* © oo ©toos^-t^©© T1©
                osososososcsosc^csasosos os'os osososososc^osc^osososos^ososos                                                 OS
                co»p»n»nr»osr^*or*opt--.<— c^^GpGor^©^c^osqor^r^oo< — cc**i-«                                                  ^
              . ^o^osooicsososoiososo o o 6sc>6^c\cscViC^oscVcy6 6 6 6 6 6
              |^e^csc*e^c^c*c*c^c*^coc^roc^c4c^c^c^c^c^                                                                        c*cs
                os-^t'^ff^os^'Osr^-'i'ao
                n-to         nnnn*fM                  n o* osu^oo       ©— ©oo       osoo icosos—* oso— icr^t^oo
                 osr^.'or^osp          as© cp aptitj©©os»n ro oiioro ososop      i>op © —© o*©op© oOs in
                                                                             osos©c*                                    ©os
                                                                                                          «n r-s cp rN© coc*
                  csosososos© csososcsos© © © Osdsosososo o © Osos©©© © o ©
                  r^^^OSOOO©'©©!!^.©©
                  S^5,-.*^33^^10               ¦o^^^r-noinno  t^-OS00 -Tt^— COtCCO©             «o lO-^r^-rfCN©^           "^f
                osr^©*©          T"*P Os S-1 '"^* '-P *r*T" s^?1 cr> ©\ oscct r»©    -r <~o ro     'M © t^-co
                                                                                             o osooco      ©c« o tn —• -i1
                                                                                                                        ro n
                                                                                                                           ro  OS
                n\OM3M»o\0             n\n\rtvrtM^n              ^  f>/>,T>^         A.  j   ^  OS OS  OS CO CO CO O CO ©c*s
                    ^*O»C*0<<MC0O*0<0»C<OIC0COCOC*O«O>C*C*(
                       os as os os © ososososos© © © ososososos©tOC0C*C<C*                   ©i            O ©   ©  ©   ©
                  ^ ci <o -*f »r> © co" os©"—'cir^-^Lo©
                                                  —                            1 os©*
                                                                             r^od        ci —ci ciro-j-inio'r^ao'os©"
                                                                                                ci ci c) o ci cj in n

                               THE
              LONDON and EDINBURGH
 PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                               AND
         JOURNAL               OF      SCIENCE.
                      [THIRD SERIES.]
                  SEPTEMBER 1836.
 XXXIV. On stick Functions as can be expressed by Serieses
   ofperiodic Terms. By James Ivory, Esq., M.A., F.R.S.*
 "IV" EVER was any speculation ushered into the mathematical
       world with more unmeasured praise than the analytical
theory of Laplace for the attraction of spheroids approaching
nearly to spheres. The very general nature of the processes,
and the arriving at results by differentiations merely, without
tedious and difficult integrations, called forth the admiration
of every geometer. It is not the present intention to inquire
whether the expectations raised by so novel a method of in
vestigation, have been fulfilled : but it cannot be denied that
the grounds of it are obscure, and have never been demon
strated so as to remove every doubt. The subject having been
again brought forward, it is very desirable that it should not
now be dismissed without a full elucidation.
    The method of Laplace was first published in the Memoirs
of the Academy of Sciences in 1782, and afterwards in the
third book of the Mecanique Celeste. Objections having been
made impugning the generality of the investigation, the author
returned to the subject in the eleventh book of the same work,
which appeared in 1823. He now greatly restricts the de
monstration before given in the third book : insomuch that
according to the new proofs the method is less general than
                   * Communicated by the Author.
    Third Series. Vol. 9. No. 53. Sept. 1836.        S

VG2           Mr. Ivory on such Functions as can be
that subordinate part of the first theory which is well demon
strated, and about which there is no dispute. Thus we
have the direct testimony of Laplace that his method was ori
ginally extended beyond its just bounds. On the contrary
M. Poisson has always contended for the exactness of the
theory in its fullest extent. He undertook to clear it from all
objections by giving an unexceptionable demonstration of it,
first in the nineteenth cahier of the Journal de I'F.cole Poly-
technique, published in 1823, next in the additions to the
Conn. desTems for 1829, and very lately in his Theory of Heat.
Prof. Airy also turned his attention to this subject in the
Cambridge Transactions for 1826. He thinks that the ge
neral theory of Laplace is strictly proved ; but he maintains
that it can be applied only to such expressions as are suscep
tible of no more than one development. By means of this
modification he arrives at the same conclusions which are
stated by Disjota in this Journal for last month (p. 84). But no
thing can be more clearly proved than that no function can pos
sibly have more than one development ; which sets aside the sug
gestion of the Professor ; who must, therefore, be ranked with
those that admit the unrestricted theory of Laplace. Mr.
 Bowditch, in his excellent Translation, limits the general equa
tion of Laplace, which applies to an attraction proportional to
the nth power of the distance, by excluding all negative values
of n from —2 to — oo ; and, by so doing, he has brought this
curious but slippery speculation one step nearer the grasp of
the human mind. Confining his attention to the law of at
traction that prevails in nature, he attempts to prove the ac
curacy of Laplace's method in all its generality, drawing his
arguments chiefly from geometrical considerations. It will be
sufficient to remark here, that the nature of the function ex
pressing the height of the molecule does not depend upon
any integral taken between very small limits; but, as Laplace
has clearly stated*, upon this, that the differentials shall in
variably continue to be infinitely small as the molecule ap
proaches the contact of the two surfaces. It will not be ne
cessary to examine all the demonstrations enumerated ; for
they all turn upon the sense, more or less extensive, in which
one equation is to be understood. It will be sufficient to dis
cuss the investigation of M. Poisson, which is adopted by
 M. de Pontecoufant in his Traite du Systeme du Monde.
    The question is fairly stated by Disjota in the last Number
 of this Journal. The value of X', which is the limit of the
integral X when a = 1, is shown to be a series, determinate
in its form, all the terms of which satisfy an equation in partial
                   • Mcc. Cel., torn. v. pp. 25 & 26.

             expressed by Serieses ofperiodic Terms.'          163
differentials; and it is further proved that the characteristic
property of the terms of the series is independent of the ex
pression /"(9,       being derived entirely from the functions
Pt produced by the expansion of the radical. The plain in
ference seems to be, that it will be impossible to deduce ge
nerally the value of /(9, \J/) from a series the distinguishing
character of which is independent of that function: yet this is
what M. Poisson undertakes to accomplish by an artifice of
 calculation.
    The formulas of M. Poisson are these*, viz.
     x        1              (!-**)/ (V, ty) sinfl'rf Qdv'
             Ivjojo                             +          ' > (1.)
                p = cos 9 cos — sin 0 sin 0' cos (vj/—
 a being less than 1, but approaching to it indefinitely: and
 from this it is proposed to deduce, in the most general manner,
 the equation
                           X' -/(I,                             (2.)
 X' representing the value of the double integral X when
  a = 1.
     If we suppose thatf(&, vj/) is constant in the small extent
 for which the increments of X are sensible, the first of the
 equations (1.) may be thus written:
  which will coincide with the equation (2.), because the value
  of the integral is 1 when u = 1, as it is easy to prove in many
  ways. Now it is presumed that f ($', \J/') may be supposed
  constant, because the numerator of the differential is always
  small on account of the small multiplier (I — a*), while the de
  nominator increases rapidly, and quickly becomes so consi
  derable as to make the increments of the integral insensible.
      Such is the demonstration of M. Poisson as it appeared in
  1823 in the Journal de VEcole Polytechnique. In the Conn, des
   Terns for 1 829, and in the Theory of Heat the author, in order
  to make the matter plainer, supposes that the arcs 3' and 4»'
  vary from the initial values 0 and \J/ to $+y and ty+z, y and z
  being small increments : in consequence
    ./(MO -f (i+y, * + z) =/(fl,*) + C: and by substitu
  ting this value in the first of the equations (I.), we obtain
                 X' =/(«,*) + X",
                               :(l-asKsin VdtdV
                 X'
                                    (l-Zap + a2)*
                         Thcoric de la Chaleur, p. 2)3.
                                       S2

 164          Mr. Ivory on suck Functions as can be
 supposing that all the quantities under the double sign of in
 tegration are expressed in terms of the two variables y and z,
 and that a is made equal to 1, after the integrations. This
 transformation is correct; and the introducing of the new
 integral is important, as it leads to detecting the fault of the
 investigation. M. Poisson assumes that the differentials of
 the new integral X" are all infinitely small, so long as £ is in
 finitely small : in which case, X" being itself infinitely small,
 it may be rejected, and the same conclusion will be obtained
 as in the first investigation. Now were the denominators in
 the successive differentials of X" always finite quantities, the
 assumption of M. Poisson would be allowable; but as both
 the numerators and denominators begin to vary from zero, it is
 not impossible that, while the first increase to a finite magnitude,
 and the others to some small quantity B, the quotients may
 pass through every gradation of quantity; their values may
 be infinitely small, or finite, or infinitely great. This point
 must therefore be examined before any just conclusion can be
 drawn.
    Let u = /(fl, ^), t/ =/{&, V); then £ = u'—u: put also
 g = 1— «; then
            l-2a^ + «4 = 2(l-p)-2g(l-p)+g9.
    These values being substituted, the resulting expression of
 X" will be,      v
assigned to y and z; and g is a small quantity quite inde
pendent of any other; we may therefore suppose that g is
equal to 1— p, or less than it, and even infinitely less than it.
Now, c being any positive number less than |, if we reject
quantities of the second order in the last formula, the result
may be thus written*:
      Jo Jo {<2(i-p))c           (2(1-/0)*
which is obviously the limit to which the expression of X"
continually tends as values decreasing indefinitely are assigned
toy, z, g. Since g may be considered infinitely less than
1 —p, the ultimate value of the factor                   — is always
                                              (2(1 -p)>'

               expressed by Serieses ofperiodic Terms.            165
zero : but distinctions must be made with regard to the other
factor. When the value of
                                   ti— u
                              (2(l-p))*~C
is either always finite or infinitely small, all the differentials
of X" will be infinitely small as assumed by M. Poisson, and
the equation (2.) will be proved. But the same equation will
not be proved if the limit of the same factor be either infi
nitely great, or if it be a quantity that cannot be generally
determined, and of which it cannot be said that it is either
finite, or infinitely grent.
    If c = 1, the factor in question will be,
                                ri—u
                            >/2{\-py
which has a finite value when u, orf (9, 40 is a finite function
of cos 9, sin 9 cos \J/, sin 9 sin \|>. This readily follows from the
usual transformation of such expressions. The same factor
will be infinitely small when u'—u is divisible by (1—p)n, n
being any positive integer. In all these cases the equation (2.)
is demonstrated. If n = 1, or if ti—u be divisible by 1 —p,
we fall upon the instance particularized by Laplace in the
eleventh book of the Mecan. Celeste.
    But if m, or f (9, \J/), be not a finite function of cos 9, sin 9
cos 4>, sin 9 sin \J>, no determinate value can be assigned to the
factor
                                 xi—u
by any transformation; and in all such cases the equation (2.)
is not demonstrated.
    Lagrange has considered this subject in the 15th cahier of
the Journal de VEcole Polytechnique. His investigation pos
sesses all the exactness and clearness and elegance which di
stinguish the writings of this geometer. But the success of
his analysis demands thatf(6', <|/) shall be a finite function of
cos 9', sin 61 sin \J/, sin 9' cos vp*. For such functions his pro
cess leads to a strict demonstration of the equation (2.): for
functions of a different description, the algebraic operations
fail, and no other conclusion can be drawn except that the
equation (2.) is not demonstrated. It is very remarkable that
the illustrious author has not noticed a distinction so obvious
and      26, 1836.
   Julynecessary.                                   JaMES IvORV-
                    • Thcuriedela Cluilcur, p. 213.

                                t 166 ]
XXXV. On the probable Cause of certain Optical Properties
   observed by Sir David Brewster in Crystals of Chabasie. By
   James F.W.Johnston, A.M., F.R.S.E., F.G.S., $c, Pro
  fessor ofChemistry and Mineralogy in the University of Dur
   ham.*
 \ T the Meeting of the British Association in Edinburgh, Sir
      David Brewster brought under the consideration of the
Chemical section, some very interesting observations on the
variations which the doubly refracting power is seen to un
dergo in different portions of the same crystal of certain va
rieties of chabasie. An abstract of this paper has since ap
peared in the Fourth Report of the Association, p. 575 ; but the
leading fact is more precisely stated in the account of the Meet
ing published in the Literary Gazette (for 1 834.,) No. 952, p. 690.
The double refraction in these crystals, which is positive in the
rhomboidnl nucleus or centre of the crystal, was seen " to di
minish in succeeding layers from a positive state till it disap
peared altogether ; beyond this neutral line it became nega
tive, and again gradually increased f." This observation was
brought forward partly with the view of illustrating, as it does
very beautifully, the importance of the optical character of mi
 nerals in throwing light upon the structure, composition, and
 mode of formation of such of them as occur in a crystalline
 state ; but partly also to show that chemical analysis is liable
 to lead to error by treating as simple minerals what are in
 reality only aggregates of different substances deposited in suc
 cessive layers around a common nucleus.
    That the layers which exhibit the difference of optical pro
 perties mentioned by Sir David, have a different composition,
 is highly probable. A series of optical changes is produced
 on some substances, as on glauberile and topaz, by the eleva
 tion of temperature ; or, as on unannealed glass, by sudden
 cooling : it is possible, therefore, that the deposition of succes
 sive layers of the same chemical constitution under a pressure
  or temperature constantly varying, might produce also pha?-
  nomena analogous to those observed in the present case.
  There is not much apparent probability, however, that any
  such variations actually took place in the circumstances under
  which the crystals of chabasie were formed. That change of
  atomic arrangement which gives rise to the interesting phe
  nomenon of dimorphism must necessarily, we may suppose,
  give to the two forms very different optical properties : but
    • Communicated by the Author.
    f These phenomena are also detailed, and an explanation attempted, in
  a paper by Sir David Brewster on another subject, inserted in the Philoso
  phical Transactions for 1830, part i. pp. 93, 94.

          Prof. Johnston on the Constitution of Chabasie.      167
 here the form of all the layers is the same; so that this mode
 of accounting for the appearances must also be rejected. Sir
 David Brewster indeed, speaking of the form of the crystal
 at the neutral line or line of no double refraction, says : " At
 this period the form of the crystal would be a cube :" but he
 speaks here only in reference to the absence of the doubly re
 fracting structure which in a single atom or group of atoms
 of a simple substance would indicate a cube; but which, in a
 mass, such as the smallest of these layers, is quite compatible
 with a congeries of rhomboids.
    This transition from a positive to a negative state of double
 refraction may be explained on the principle that the mole
 cules of two substances possessed of opposite optical pro
 perties may neutralize each other if the relative positions of
 the optical axes and the number of molecules of each be
 rightly adjusted. Let the proper material of a crystal be
 possessed of a positive double refraction, such as the nucleus
 in the present case indicates ; and let a second substance hav
 ing a negative index deposit itself during crystallization, either
 in the form of distinct layers or mixed with the molecules of
 the first as fluids mix, forming only part of the mass of such
 layers ; let also the quantity so mixed increase, or the distance
 of the layers decrease, as we depart from the central nucleus,
 and let the optical axes of the two substances be parallel ; we
 shall have a crystal possessed of properties analogous to those
 observed in chabasie. The positive energy of the nucleus will
gradually decrease till it disappear in a neutral line, and from
 this neutral line the refraction will again increase with a nega
 tive sign.
    But the second substance must not only be negatively
double-refractive, but also isomorphous with the first or ca
pable of replacing it during crystallization without affecting
 the form of the crystal. Now among the substances contained
 by chabasie in large quantity, is silica ; and this substance
is not only negatively double-refractive, but appears also to be
isomorphous with chabasie. The form of this mineral as de
termined by Mr. William Phillips from cleavage planes, is an
obtuse rhomboid of 94° 46'; while that of quartz is a similar
rhomboid of 94° 1.5'. These two forms are as nearly identical
as isomorphous bodies generally present themselves in nature:
we may therefore consider them as capable of replacing each
other.
    Suppose then that during the crystallization of the chabasie
a slight excess of silica is present in the solution and deposits
itself in occasional layers or otherwise as above described, and
that the quantity so deposited increases with the size of the

  ] 68               Prof. Johnston on the Cause of
 crystal ; the form of the crystal, its transparency, apparent
 homogeneity, &c. will be unaffected ; its optical properties
 alone will present a change, and one exactly such as we are
 considering*.
     But if silica be isomorphous with pure chabasie, and be the
 cause of the phenomena in question, the quantity found in the
 mineral should be in some degree variable. Granting the
positive nucleus of pure chabasie to have a fixed composition
 associated with a constant form, analysis ought to show that
 the quantity of silica present in some crystals is greater than
 in others. Now chemists have recognised two varieties of
 chabasie; one from Aussig in Bohemia, and from Fassa,
 analysed by Hoffman, and from Faroe analysed by Arfvred-
 son ; represented by the formula,
                      NlS» + 3 AS* + 6 Aq,
                      Kj
and another from Nova Scotia, analysed by Hoffman, from
Gustafsberg, by Berzeiius, and from Kilmacolm, by Mr. Con-
nell, represented by the formula,
                      NlS3+3AS2 + 6 Aq.
                      kJ
     The only difference between these two formulae is that the
latter contains one half more silica in the first member than
the former does. This circumstance is entirely in accordance
with the view presented in this paper. If the first of the
two formulas be the correct one, the presence of the additional
silica in the second should produce a perceptible change in
the optical properties. It is impossible to say, however, that
even in that formula the quantity of silica indicated may not
be greater than the pure mineral may contain. The fact that
silica is isomorphous with chabasie renders any formula for
this substance exceedingly doubtful. Crystals from the same
locality may not always contain the same quantity of silica ; it
is probably the paucity of analyses only that prevents us from
knowing of crystals from one and the same locality to which
each formula would apply. Sir David Brewster has not stated
from what locality his crystals were obtained f ; but the analysis
of the actual specimen, and not the locality, would be required
to enable us to say which formula would apply to it. Were they
    • In the paper already referred to, Phil. Trans. 1830, p. 94, Sir David
Brewster supposes the change to be due to the presence of a foreign body.
    t One of the specimens I have since learned is from the Giant's Cause
way.

              certain Optical Properties of Chabasie.                  169
even proved to belong to one or other of them, an analysis of
the successive layers would still be wanting to demonstrate the
absolute reality of the cause above explained.
    Whether or not the explanation of the properties in ques
tion I have here given, be esteemed correct, there are inquiries
of no little interest which spring out of the considerations
above suggested. It would be important to know how far the
presence of one substance in a compound body in greater or
less quantity, the others remaining constant, would affect the
optical properties; how far those of the compound may be
affected by those of each of its constituents. In regard to
form we might in the case of chabasie reason backwards, and
inquire how far the whole of the silica might be rejected with
out change of form; whether K+AL + 6H should be iso
morphous with silica.
    I have purposely abstained in the former part of this paper
from adverting to the form of alumina, or to the possibility of
its having a share in the production of the phenomena to be
explained; but if it be isomorphous with silica, then ought
K + 6 H to be isomorphous with both and with chabasie.
I am not aware of the existence of any hydrated oxide in a
crystalline form* with six atoms of water; so that we are unable
as yet to say how far such an analysis of the forms of crystal
lized substances containing one or more constituents isomor
 phous with themselves, may with advantage be pursued.
     Note. —The above paper was communicated to the British
 Association at the Meeting in Dublin in August 1835*. I am
 now enabled to adduce two other observations which render
 still more probable the explanation above suggested. For the
 first I am indebted to Sir David Brewster, who informs me
 that a specimen ofchabasie he has examined from Faroe, has'a
 uniform doubly refracting structure throughout its whole mass.
 Now the Faroe chabasie, ifthat analysed by Arfvredson is to be
 considered a type ofthe whole, belongs to that kind which con
 tains less silica, and throughout which there being supposed no
 excess of this latter substance above what belongs to the consti
 tution of the mineral, no difference ofdoubly refracting struc
 ture of the kind above adverted to ought to be observable.
     2. Among the interesting observations of Biot on the power
 of certain liquids to cause the plane of polarization to turn to
 the right or left -h, is the remarkable one, that the oils of lemons
    [• See Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mae., vol. vii. p. 399.—Edit.]
    [t Translations of the Memoirs by M. Biot in which these observations
 are detailed, will appear in Part II. and succeeding parts of the Scientific
 Memoirt.—Edit.]
      Third Series. Vol.9. No. 53. Sept. 1836.                    T

1 70        Sir D. Brewster's Observations on Chabasie.
and turpentine produce effects represented by opposite sign*,
the rotation produced by oil of lemons being + , that of oil of
turpentine — and for a given thickness of oil only half that
of oil of lemons. The effect produced by one thickness of oil
of lemons is almost exactly neutralized by two thicknesses or
twice the weight of oil of turpentine : and this whether the two
liquids be in separate tubes, or be previously mixed andpresented
to the ray of light in one and the same tube. This is precisely
analogous to what, in the above paper, we suppose to take
place between the molecules of quartz and those of chabasie.
   Portobello, July 22, 1836.
XXXVI. Observations             relative
                          Sir David      to the preceding Paper.
                                      Brewster.                         By
 I N examining the optical properties of the different chabasies,
 *- I found that the variety from the Giant's Causeway differed
 so essentially from the ordinary kinds as to entitle it to the
 distinction of a new mineral. Its double refraction was consi
 derably greater, and its ordinary refraction considerably less
 than that of the common kind. I have since had occasion to
 examine a most interesting variety of chabasie brought from
 Faroe, and presented to me by W. C. Trevelyan, Esq. It
 consists of minute and perfect rhombs sticking loosely to
 gether, as it were in stalactites, and these minute crystals are
 perfectly transparent and much better crystallized than any
 other specimens which I have seen. Each rhomb, however,
 was a composite crystal, and the faces of composition co
 incided with the diagonals of its rhomboidal faces.
    The remarkable property which Mr. Johnston has referred
 to in the preceding ingenious paper, does not exist in these
 minute crystals from Faroe, and I did not observe it in the
 specimens from the Giant's Causeway. If it exists, therefore,
 only in the common chabasie, it will not be difficult to put
 Mr. Johnston's hypothesis to the test of direct experiment,
 because this chabasie must, if the hypothesis be true, contain
 a greater quantity of silex than the other varieties ; in order,
 however, to establish the hypothesis it must also be proved
 that the outer layers of the rhomb contain more silex than the
 inner rhomb or nucleus; and if the additional quantity of
 silex is very small, it may exist as an extraneous ingredient,
 diminishing its double refraction, not by an opposite double
 refraction of its own, but merely by separating the particles of
 chabasie, and diminishing the force ofaggregation on which A*
    Edinburgh,
 double         July 23,of1836.
           refraction      the mineral has been supposed to depend*.
    * See Phil. Trans. 1830, p. 93. [An abstract of the paper hero referred
  towill be found in Phil. Mag. and Annals, N S. vol. vii. p. 356.—Edit-]

                            C   171   ]
XXX VI I. Reply to Dr. Boase's "Remarks on Mr. Hopkins's
   ' Researches in Physical Geologi/," in the Numberfor July.
   By W. Hopkins, Esq., M.A., F.G.S., of St. Peter's College,
   Cambridge.
  To the Editors ofthe Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
      Gentlemen,
T BEG to reply through the medium of your Journal to
    some remarks by Dr. Boase, contained in your last Num
ber [for July], p. 4, on my memoir on Physical Geology, and
to add some additional facts which I have recently had an
opportunity of observing.
   Dr. Boase appears in the first place to object to the hypo
thesis on which the whole of my investigations are founded,
that of the simultaneous action of an elevatory force on the
exterior crust of the globe throughout regions of considerable
extent, because he conceives that extensive dislocations pro
duced by such a force would probably be attended with enor
mous convulsions proportioned to the extent of the rupture.
This objection rests entirely on an assumption as to the in
tensity of the elevatory force. Dr. Boase has not given any
reason for supposing that explosion must probably accompany
dislocation, and without some such reason it is certain that
we have no right to make the assumption. It is obvious, in
fact, that we can have no means whatever of judging of the
intensity of the elevatory force except by the effect produced
by it. For anything we can know of its nature independently
of inference from observed phsenomena, it might be insuffi
cient to produce an earthquake or adequate to produce an
almost universal volcano. It may be observed, however, that
the extent of simultaneous dislocation would do more than
anything else to counteract the explosive tendency of an ex
pansive fluid, because the more extensive the dislocations the
more rapidly would the force of expansion be diminished, and
the more equable would be the effect on the whole mass. If,
on the contrary, a small portion only of the mass should give
way, the expansive force would be but little diminished, anil
its continued action on the yielding part would unquestionably
produce much more violent effects on that part than if the
mass had yielded generally.
   Dr. Boase has rested his objection partly also on the notion,
that according to my views the fissures must necessarily begin
at the under or lowest side of the elevated mass. He will
find it carefully stated, however, in my memoir, that they " will
                                 T2

172       Mr. Hopkins's Reply to Dr. Boase's Remarks
not commence at the surface but at some lower part of the
mass. If the extensibility of the lower part of it be sufficiently
increased by its higher temperature, the fissures will com
mence at some point between the upper and lower surfaces,
and will be propagated both upwards and downwards, and
may or may not, according to the degree of extension of the
mass, reach either the upper or lower surface. This is a point
of little consequence as far as regards Dr. Boase's objection
above stated, but it may serve to account for the fact that
eruptions of fluid matter in some cases have, and in others
have not, accompanied dislocations and elevatory movements.
   In my investigations I have spoken of elevatory forces, the
idea of the higher portions of the earth's crust having been
elevated being in general, perhaps, more familiar to us than
that of the lower having been depressed. I would here ob
serve, however, that so far as relates to the first production of
fissures it is immaterial whether we suppose the mass to be
bent upwards by a force beneath, or downwards by its own
weight, provided the regions thus subsiding simultaneously
be of the same extent as those which I have always spoken of
as being simultaneously elevated. The secondary phaenomena,
however, resulting from the fissures produced by the up
ward, and by the downward movements respectively, would
probably present certain characteristic differences; but I shall
 not now enter into any further investigation of them.
   In the abstract (Art. V.) of my memoir which appeared in
your Journal (vol. viii. p. 359), I have taken considerable pains
to indicate the possible influence of a jointed structure existing
in the elevated mass previously to its elevation, and how it
might be ascertained by observation, whether or not this influ
ence had been considerable. Dr. Boase, however, is disposed
to arrive at the determination of this point by the shorter, but,
in such matters, most unsatisfactory road of a priori reasoning.
 He observes: "If then solid rocks have necessarily a jointed
structure, one of the data on which Mr. Hopkins's calculations
are founded is invalidated, in as much as the elevating force
can never have acted on a solid mass without the interference
of this modifying circumstance." Now, in the first place I
would observe that the process of solidification of all rocks
must necessarily have been extremely slow, and that probably,
therefore, all the modifications which they have undergone
 during that process must have been the gradual work of
 lengthened periods of time. It is impossible, then, to say
 what period might be necessary for any portion of the earth's
 crust to arrive at that state of its jointed structure which
should produce any decided effect on the directions of its dis

              on " Researches in Physical Geology."              1 73
locations. In my investigations it is unnecessary to suppose
any but the lowest degree of solidification in the elevated
mass ; and therefore it is manifestly quite inadmissible to
assume that it could not be dislocated by an elevatory force
before its jointed structure had become sufficiently developed
to determine the directions of dislocation. Yet the only force
which can possibly attach to the objection above quoted de
pends entirely on this assumption, which, in fact, involves the
very point at issue, viz. whether the jointed structure of dis
turbed masses has been in great measure superinduced pre
viously or subsequently to their elevation. It is not, however,
by this kind of d priori reasoning, founded on what we are
altogether ignorant of, that the merits of geological theories
can be determined ; and to attempt to do so is to depart from
those principles of inductive philosophy which alone have
enabled man to comprehend with clearness and precision so
much that is beautiful and wonderful in the laws of nature.
I have elsewhere stated that I have not entered into these dis
cussions in the spirit of advocacy of preconceived opinions; and
with respect to the two theories, of which one would assign
the directions of dislocation principally to the manner in which
 the elevating force has acted, and the other to the previously
jointed state of the mass, I have endeavoured to act with
 perfect impartiality. I have indicated how their relative
 claims may probably be decided by obsei-vation, by which alone,
 I assert, these claims can be determined, and not by the kind
 of reasoning on which both the objections above noticed are
 founded.
    With a view to this determination I have lately made some
 careful observations in the limestone and gritstone district of
 Derbyshire. In a particular and thick mass of limestone
 which pervades the greater part of that mining district, the
joints are remarkably well developed. They form two systems
 at right angles (or very nearly so) to each other, which pre
 serve their directions with remarkable accuracy in every part
 of the district. The other beds also have their principal joints
 in the same directions wherever they can be distinctly re
 cognised ; and such also is the case with the immense mass
 of gritstone superincumbent on the shale and limestone. One
 of these directions is a little west of the magnetic north ; the
 other being consequently a little north of magnetic east, while
 the directions of all the characteristic dislocations of the district
  are nearly east and west and north and south, thus deviating
  from those of the joints by an angle of from 20° to 30°, pre
  cisely of that magnitude which is too large to be possibly at
  tributed to any error of observation, and too small to admit

  1 74     Mr. Hopkins's Reply to Dr. Boase's Remarks
 of the format'on of the existing dislocations subsequently to
 the existence of the joints in the perfection in which they are
 developed at present.
     I have also observed another fact in several places both in
 this limestone district and the neighbouring coal district, of
 great importance with respect to these theories, viz. that de
 viation, in several instances, from the regular parallel direc
 tions of the longitudinal and transverse fissures which, as I
 have shown in my memoir, might be expected to accompany
 certain partial elevations, such as I have observed them to be
 associated with in the districts above mentioned. These facts
 are strikingly in accordance with the theory I have investi
 gated, and as directly opposed to that which would assign
 these dislocations to the previous structure of the mass.
     These observations agree also with those of Professor Phil
 lips as recently given in his Geology of Yorkshire. The prin
 cipal joints in that district have the same direction as in Der
 byshire, while the absence in general of any perfect coinci
 dence of lines of dislocation and of joints, affords conclusive
 proof that the former cannot have been principally deter
 mined by the previous structure of the mass*.
     Among the dislocations of Derbyshire 1 include the great
 characteristic mineral veins of the district. They may, in fact,
 as I have elsewhere stated, be regarded as small faults, and uni
formly in the vicinity of larger ones. There are also mineral
veins, some of which are as manifestly formed in open joints.
 These differ from the former in no respect except in being of
much smaller dimensions. The vein-stuff' is perfectly similar,
and we are led, I think, almost necessarily, on inspection, to the
conclusion that it must have been deposited in the same man
ner in both classes of veins. Now where veins are formed along
lines of faults, itsurely seems almost impossible not to conclude
that it must have been by some subsequent deposition or segre
gation along the line of dislocation, and consequently, from
what I have above advanced, I consider it highly probable
that the veins in open joints were formed there in a similar
manner after the formation of (he joints had commenced, and
probably during their gradual enlargement by the contraction
of the mass or other causes. The probability that open fissures
once existed in the places where these veins are now formed
    • The author of the work above referred to has attributed, in his theo
retical speculations, more influence to the jointed structure in determining
lines of dislocation, than I conceive the facts alleged by him will justify.
At the time that part of his work was written, I am not aware that any
other physical cause of the laws of these phenomena had been carefully
considered.

                 on " Researches in Physical Geology."                     173
seems much increased by the fact that partial cavities are fre
quently found in them, more particularly where the vein is
Very wide. Large pipe-veins* are usually filled with sparry
substances amongst which the ore is disseminated ; but it fre
quently happens, I believe, that considerable spaces are still
left empty, strongly indicating that such was once the case
with the whole space occupied by the vein; and it seems
highly probable that the usual vertical veins of the district
have been rilled in the same manner as the pipe-veins, (what
ever that process may have been,) because veins of the former
kind alwBys communicate with these latter (of which the miner
considers them thefeeders) ; and I am not aware that any cha
racteristic difference has been observed between the substances
which occupy these two descriptions of veins.
    Of the formation of the ore of a mineral vein I pretend to
offer no conjecture. It seems to present an equal chemical
difficulty whatever theory we adopt; but that some process
of infiltration might be sufficient for the supply of the vein-
stuff is indicated, I think, by the great masses of stalactitic
formations met with in some cases, and their comparatively
 rapid formation in others. The toadstone of Derbyshire
 also contains in many places numerous veins and insulated
 small globular portions of calcareous matter to the depth of
perhaps 200 feet, the formation of which it seems almost im
 possible to conceive except by infiltration. To a similar pro
 cess loo may be ascribed, I conceive, the existence in the in
 terior hollows of fossil shells of crystalline substances dif
 fering as much from the mass in which the shells are im
 bedded, as vein-stuff frequently differs from the containing
 rock. These and similar facts have appeared to me to prove
 at least the adequacy of the cause assigned to produce the
 effects which I am at present disposed to attribute to it. I
 pretend not to offer an opinion as to whether at some ante
 cedent geological period any solvent more powerful than water
 may have assisted in the process of infiltration. It may, per
 haps, not be deemed very impossiblef.
                               [To be continued-]
    • Pipe-veins are spaces (frequently of considerable extent) usually existing
 between the beds of limestone, and filled as mentioned above. The ore
 in these, as in the vertical or raLe vein, often bears an extremely small pro
 portion to the other substances occupying the vein.
    r I am glad to find, from the note in Dr. Boase's communication fp.9)
  that Mr. Fox has suggested this same notion about the formation of veins,
 because he lias probably derived it from observation of the Cornish veins,
 and his opinion is likely to have (and most deservedly) far greater weight
 with Cornish geologists, than any views emanating from myself.

                                 [   176    ]
XXXVIII. On the Conducting Power ofcertain Flames and of
   Heated Airfor Electricity. Zfy Thomas Andrews, M.D.*
TN some recent memoirs on electricity it has been assumed
     that the discharge of electricity through flame depends
simply upon the temperature to which the air in the flnme is
elevated. Thus Dr. Ritchie observes that " the flame of a
blowpipe is a hollow cone containing highly rarefied air. The
electric fluid will therefore glide along such a cone exactly
as it does along the interior of a hollow cone of glass partially
exhausted of air. We are therefore not to regard flame as
a conductor of electricity in the ordinary sense of the term,
when the only part it performs in the conduction is that of
forming a partial vacuum f." These remarks refer to common
electricity ; but Mr. Faraday likewise assumes that the rela
tions of flame and heated air to electricity of low tension are
the same, in his excellent paper on the " Identity of Electrici
ties derived from different Sources." In order to prove that
the latter variety of electricity may be discharged by heated
air in the same manner as the former, he performed the fol
lowing experiment. Having attached fine platina wires to the
poles of a galvanic battery of 20 pairs of plates, and brought
their extremities very close to each other, but without touch
ing, he found that where they were heated to bright redness
by the application of the side of a spirit-lamp flame, the cur
rent was freely transmitted. On putting the ends of the wires
 very close by the side of and parallel to each other, but not
 touching, the effects were, perhaps, more readily obtained than
 before. " These effects," he continues, " not hitherto known
 or expected under this form, are only cases of the discharge
 which takes place through air between the charcoal termina
 tions of the poles of a powerful (galvanic) battery when they are
  radually separated after contact. Here the passage is through
   eated air, exactly as with common electricity %."
    On the other hand the celebrated experiments of Erman,
 which were repeated and extended by Biot, are opposed to
 this simple view of the subject, and tend to prove that in the
 power of conducting electricity of feeble tension flames pre
 sent some remarkable properties which are different in flames
 of different kinds, and cannot therefore be identical with those
 of heated air. The experiments of Erman, however, refer
 only to flames ; and as the whole subject was involved in much
 obscurity, although connected with one of the most remark-
   • Communicated by the Author.
   t Philosophical Transactions for 1828, p. 376. [An abstract of Dr.
Ritchie's paper was given in Phil. Mag. & Annals, N.S. vol. v. p. 223.—Edit/]
  X Ibid. 1832, pp. 26, 27. [ or Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. iii. p. 165 j

            Dr. Andrews on the Conducting Power, Jjrc.              177
able electrical properties that have yet been discovered, it ap
peared to be deserving of new investigation.
   To detect the passage of an electrical current, the test which
I employed in the following experiments was the solution of
the iodide of potassium, the extreme delicacy of which was
first, I believe, pointed out by Faraday*. A slip of bibulous
paper moistened with this solution was placed on a platina
plate, supported upon an insulating stand of glass. The ne
gative pole of the battery was brought into contact with the
platina plate, while a wire of platina attached to the positive
pole rested on the moistened paper. The existence of the
current was inferred from the deposition of iodine beneath the
positive pole; and when no iodine was deposited I have de
scribed the current as being interrupted. By this expression
it is only to be understood that if a current did pass it was
too feeble to produce any sensible decomposition of the solu
tion of iodide of potassium. The extreme delicacy of this test,
and the precautions which must be employed in using it, will
be evident from this simple experiment. If the positive pole
of a battery composed of a single pair of zinc and platina
plates be placed upon the paper of the decomposing appa
ratus, and the platina plate touched by the moistened finger,
no effect will occur, provided the negative pole be insulated ;
but if that pole be brought into contact with the ground, a
deposition of iodine will immediately take place beneath the
positive pole. Here the feeble current produced by a single
pair of plates after traversing a long extent of imperfect con
ductors, is still capable of being easily detected by the decom
position of the solution of iodide of potassium.
    A battery of 20 pairs of plates charged with common pump,
 water was carefully insulated, the poles were terminated by
[>latina wires which were introduced into the flame of a spirit
  amp, and a decomposing apparatus was interposed in the
course of the circuit The passage of the current was proved
 by the deposition of iodine at the positive pole.
    This experiment was varied by placing the wires in different
 positions in the flame, but the result was the same, even when
 they were at the distance of an inch and a half from each other.
 When very fine wires were employed and brought only into
contact with the flame, the effect was diminished, although it
was still distinct; but by substituting slips of platina foil for
the wires, and augmenting the surfaces of contact, the effect
 was greatly increased.
    A battery consisting of a single pair of plates of platina and
 amalgamated zinc charged with dilute sulphuric acid was now
         [• See Lond. & Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. iii. p. 255.—Edit.]
    Third Series. Vol. 9. No. 53. Sept. 1836.                    U

1 78 Dr. Andrews on the Conducting Power of certain Flames
employed, and even the current produced by this simple vol
taic arrangement was found to be capable of passing through
the flame of alcohol, and of decomposing the solution of the
iodide of potassium.
    It is evident from these results that, although the experiment
of Faraday which has been described is perfectly accurate, yet
it involves some conditions which are not essential, and others
which are unfavourable to its success. The conclusions that are
 derived from it will on this account require to be modified.
    To ascertain whether other flames are capable of transmit
ting in a similar manner the electrical current, the same ar
 rangement was adopted, and the larger battery charged with
 water again employed. The flames of coal gas, ether, hy
 drogen, and charcoal were tried, and the passage of the cur
 rent through each of them was proved by the occurrence of
 decomposition. From the quantity of iodine deposited, the
 current appeared to pass with more facility through the flame
 of charcoal, and with less facility through the flame of coal
 gas than it passed through the flame of alcohol. As the flames
 were in very different states, this circumstance may not afford
 an exact method of determining the relative conducting powers
 of these flames ; but even with a single pair of plates, so large
 a quantity of iodine was separated when the current passed
 through the flame of charcoal as to leave no doubt that its
 conducting power is greatly superior to that of the other
 flames which were examined.
    The conducting power of the flame of charcoal was further
 illustrated by obtaining the other effects of electricity from a
 current passing through it. The poles of the battery of 20
 pairs of plates, weakly charged with a mixture of dilute nitric
 and sulphuric acids, were introduced into the flame of a char
 coal fire contained in a small furnace and urged by bellows.
 The diameter of the flame was about five inches, and the poles
 were two inches apart from each other, and one inch and a
 half from the sides of the furnace. The current that passed
 between the poles thus situated deflected strongly the needle
 of a galvanometer, rapidly decomposed water, and communi
 cated a slight shock to the tongue. All these effects ceased
 when the name was not in contact with the poles.
    As the flame of charcoal evidently holds a high rank in the
 list of imperfect conductors, it became an object of interest to
 determine whether it might be substituted for the liquid in the
 cell of a voltaic arrangement; whether, in fact, it possesses
 the properties of an electrolyte. This did not appear to be
 the case; for on placing slips of platina and copper vertically
 opposite to each other in a charcoal flame, and connecting

                and of Heated Airfor Electricity.             1 79
them either with a decomposing apparatus or a galvanometer,
no evidence could be obtained of the existence of an electrical
current, although the copper was rapidly oxidized.
   It is well known that a wire of platina suspended above the
flame of an Argand lamp will become heated to bright redness,
showing that the air around it has reached at least as high a
temperature. It was the conducting power of air heated to
redness in this manner that I examined, from the facility of
performing experiments upon it. Two platina wires were
suspended from insulating supports above the flame of an
Argand gas lamp, and connected with the poles of a battery
of 20 pairs of plates on Wollaston's construction in vigorous
action, but no iodine appeared in the decomposing apparatus.
The same negative result was obtained, whether fine platina
points approximated as closely as possible to each other, or
broad slips of platina foil were employed as poles.
   From this experiment it appears to follow that air simply
heated to redness does not conduct the current of a battery of
20 pairs of plates, but the singular facts which are now to be
described will not admit of so easy an explanation.
   The negative pole of a battery of 25 pairs of plates charged
with pump water was connected by metallic contact with the
brass tube of an Argand gas lamp, at a distance from the ori
fices through which the gas issued, and a coil of platina wire
suspended above but not touching the flame, was attached to
the positive pole. When the flame was sufficiently powerful
to heat the coil to redness, the current passed freely, although
the coil was at least one inch distant from the flame. But
when the direction of the current was reversed, the negative
pole being connected with the heated coil, and the positive
pole with the base of the lamp, the passage of the current
could no longer be detected. In the former case the solution
of iodide of potassium was decomposed in a few seconds ; in
the latter case no decomposition occurred, however long the
contact was maintained, yet the direction of the current had
alone been changed, the other conditions of the experiment
remaining the same. Similar effects were obtained, when a
piece of well-burned charcoal was substituted for the platina
coil in the heated air. Nor were they different when a bat
tery of 83 pairs of plates with double coppers, charged with a
solution of common salt, was used. These experiments were
frequently repeated, and every source of error carefully
avoided.
   This property of conducting and interrupting the same vol
taic current when flowing in opposite directions is not peculiar
to heated air. It also belongs to flames ; but in consequence
                               U 2

J8Q Dr. Andrews on the Conducting Power of certain Flames
of their higher conducting power, feeble voltaic combinations
must be employed to discover it.
    One pole of a battery of a single pair of plates, immersed
in dilute sulphuric acid, was connected with the brass tube of
an Argand gas lamp, and the'other pole was attached to a coil
of platina wire which rested upon the top of the flame. When
 the latter pole was positive, the current passed ; when nega
 tive, it was interrupted. The same battery being employed,
 one pole was brought into contact with the ignited charcoal
 of a charcoal fire, and the other with the flame; the current
 passed, whether the pole in the flame was positive or negative,
 but much more readily when it was positive.
    In the action of the magneto-electrical machine, as it is now
 constructed, the direction of the current is reversed at every
 semi-revolution of the soft iron armature ; and from this cir
cumstance the elements of compound bodies that are decom
posed by it cannot be obtained in a separate state. By sub
 stituting this machine for the galvanic battery, any difference
in the transmission of two currents perfectly similar, but tend
ing to move in opposite directions, could be observed without
 altering the arrangement of the apparatus ; and thus I expected
 not only to verify in a striking manner the preceding results,
 but also to obtain from the magnet the effects of a continuous
 electrical current flowing in one direction.
    The electricity of the machine I employed had sufficient
 tension to decompose water, to burn metallic leaves, and to
 cause considerable shocks ; but it did not pass sensibly through
heated air even when the most favourable arrangement was
adopted. By substituting the flame of charcoal for heated air
the peculiar property of flame in conducting voltaic electricity
was found also to exist in the case of electricity obtained from
the magnet.
    The points by which the sparks are usually procured from
the machine were replaced by a circular disk, and a copper
wire was introduced into each of the cups of mercury in which
the disks revolved. One of these was connected with a platina
wire placed over a charcoal fire at such a distance, that when
the fire was urged by bellows it became surrounded by the
flame; the other wire had a platina termination, and rested
on a slip of paper moistened with the solution of iodide of po
tassium. The circuit was completed by inserting one extremity
of a wire of platina into the side of the furnace so as to bring
it into contact with the charcoal, while the other extremity was
placed upon the slip of moistened paper. By this arrange
ment the currents developed by the rotation of the machine
would be obliged to pass downwards through the flame to the

                and of Healed Airfor Electricity.            181
charcoal and in the reverse direction ; and, if equally trans
mitted, iodine would appear beneath each of the wires placed
on the bibulous paper, as actually happens when the circuit is
completed by a metallic communication.
   On urging the fire till the flame reached the upper pole,
and turning at the same time the machine with moderate ra
pidity, iodine was deposited at one of the wires which rested
on the moistened paper, while there was not the slightest dis
colouration beneath the other wire. From the wire at which
the iodine was deposited, it followed that the current was
transmitted when the pole in the flame was positive, and in
terrupted when the same pole was negative. The direction
in which the machine was turned did not produce any differ
ence in the result ; but by reversing the poles in contact with
the flame and with the charcoal, iodine was deposited at the
opposite wire. Here, then, was the most distinct proof of a
free path being afforded to an electrical current passing in one
direction, while a current, differing only in the direction in
 which it tended to move, was interrupted.
    When the machine was turned very rapidly, a slight depo
sition of iodine took place at the wire, where there was none
when the machine was turned more slowly ; and at the same
time a great quantity of iodine was visible around the other
 wire. JBoth poles were now introduced into the charcoal
flame, and the machine worked rapidly ; iodine was deposited
 at both wires. When the poles were surrounded to the same
extent by the flame, the deposition was apparently similar at
 each wire; but when one pole was made just* to touch the
 flame, while the other was brought extensively into contact
 with it, although iodine still appeared at both wires, it was no
 longer in the same quantity, showing that the current passed
 more freel)' in one direction than in the other. When the
 pole which only touched the flame was positive, the current
 passed with more facility than when the same pole was nega
 tive.
    That the current, whose effects disappeared or were dimi
 nished, was actually interrupted and not neutralized by an
 opposite current developed during the combustion, it was easy
 to prove by connecting wires of platina with the flame and
 ignited charcoal and completing the circuit through the solu
 tion of the iodide of potassium; but no decomposition occurred.
 The free electricity which Pouillet ascertained to be developed
 during the process of combustion exists in too small quantity
 to produce any chemical effects, and cannot therefore influence
 the results of these experiments.
    It is difficult to discover a satisfactory explanation of this

 182 Dr. Andrews on the Conducting Power of certain Flames
property of flame and heated air. That the same current,
when moving in opposite directions, will overcome with a dif
ferent degree of facility any obstacle in its path appears, so far
as our present knowledge of this subject extends, to be a ge
neral law of electricity. For illustrations of this principle, I
may refer to the phaenomena presented by the discharge of
electricity of high tension across air ; to the interesting expe
riments of Davy, in which different effects were obtained in
the discharge ot a powerful battery by reversing the termina
tions of its poles; to those of Peltier on the alterations of the
temperature of metallic junctions from the passage of feeble
voltaic currents ; and, finally, to the observations of Becquerel
on the facility with which the positive electricity overcomes an
obstacle when the two electricities are separated by the agency
of heat in a closed metallic circuit.
    But even assuming the accuracy of this principle, we have
still to inquire whether its cause can be discovered in particular
Cases. The unipolar property of the flame of alcohol, which
was discovered by Erman, and which Biot has explained with
so much precision and accuracy, furnishes an explanation of
some of the preceding results, and may, perhaps, be applied
to them all. If heated air and the flames of charcoal and al
cohol conduct with more facility the positive than the negative
electricity, and if the surface of contact of each pole with the
heated air or flame be different, it is evident that the current
will And the greatest difficulty in passing when it is the nega
tive pole whose contact is least. This conclusion agrees per
fectly with one of the experiments which have been described
on the flame of charcoal. But it is more difficult to apply the
same explanation to the other experiments, unless we assume
that the contacts of the flame of coal gas with the metallic
aperture from which the gas issues, of the flame of charcoal
with the ignited charcoal itself, and of the heated air above
an Argand lamp with the flame, are more intimate and perfect
than can be obtained between the flame or heated air and a
platina wire introduced directly into them. It does not appear
to be improbable that this is actually the case.
   Although the general conclusions that follow from these
experiments agree with those of Erman, yet when they are
minutely compared, an apparent discordance will be observed
to exist between them. According to Erman, when the poles
of a pile charged with a solution of common salt are introduced
into the flame of alcohol, the divergence of the leaves of elec
troscopes connected with each pole did not sensibly diminish,
the flame in this case apparently insulating the current. That
the insulation, however, was not perfect the experiments which

                and of Heated Airfor Electricity.             1 83
have been before described clearly prove ; but I was anxious
to establish the same fact from an examination of the state of
tension of the poles. To ascertain the tension of the poles I
employed the gold-leaf electroscope of Bohnenberger, which
presents peculiar advantages in experiments upon voltaic elec
tricity. The pile usually employed consisted of 100 pairs of
plates mounted with pump-water; they were arranged in two
columns and carefully insulated.
   Erman observed that if one pole of a voltaic pile be intro
duced into an alcohol flame, the other being insulated, and
if the flame be touched by a wire in connexion with the ground,
the tension of the pole which terminates in the flame will
cease, while that of the insulated pole will increase. Here
the flame conducts the electricity of the pole with which it is
in contact. But when the insulation of the other pole was
removed, I found that then the deviation of the leaf of the
electroscope attached to the pole which had been introduced
into the flame did not apparently diminish when the flame
was connected with the ground. This does not arise from
the flame insulating under these circumstances the electricity
of the pole inserted into it, but from its conducting power
being so feeble that it is incapable of removing the tension of
that pole as rapidly as it is acquired. If the wire by which
the flame is connected with the ground be insulated, and its
free extremity placed on the cap of an electroscope, the de
viation of the gold-leaf of the instrument will indicate the pre
sence of the same kind of free electricity as that of the pole in
the flame. On the same principle a feeble current may ac
tually be conducted by the flame when the opposite poles of a
battery are inserted into it without any sensible diminution of
the tension of its poles. By obstructing the passage of the
positive electricity, so as to reverse the second part of Erman's
experiment, the accuracy of this explanation was established.
    The surface of contact of the positive pole with the flame
was rendered as small as possible by employing a very fine
wire of platina, while on the negative side a coil of platina,
exposing a far greater extent of surface, was suspended in the
flame; but on introducing a wire in communication with the
ground into the flame, the tension of the positive pole ceased,
while that of the negative pole increased. Fluid conductors
were then interposed on the positive side, but the result was
the same. The following arrangement was next successfully
adopted.
    A platina wire was hermetically sealed into one end of a
glass tube about Syth of an inch in diameter and 8 inches long,

184       Dr. Andrews on (he Conducting Power, fyc.
which was filled with common alcohol, and another similar
wire was inserted into its open extremity. The positive end
of the pile being connected with the first wire, the second wire
became the positive pole, so that the column of alcohol formed
part of the circuit. When the positive pole was placed in the
flame of a spirit-lamp, and the flame touched by a wire in con
nexion with the ground, the deviation of the leaf of the elec
          connectedto with
troscope attached            the negative
                       that pole           pole increased.
                                  ceased, while               elec»
                                                 that of the This
showed that the positive electricity was freely transmitted
through both the flame and the column of alcohol. When
both poles were inserted into the flame, their tensions, as in
dicated by the electroscopes, did not sensibly diminish ; but
when the flame was touched by a wire connected with the
ground, the deviation of the leaf of the electroscope on the
negative side diminished, while that of the electroscope on the
positive side increased. The tendency appeared now no longer
in favour of the positive but of the negative electricity, which
proves that the flame always allowed a small quantity of the
latter kind of electricity to pass, and did not perfectly insulate
the poles of the voltaic pile.
   Although not connected with the subject of this paper, I
take the opportunity of observing that by employing a similar
contrivance on the negative side the tendency of alkaline soap
to conduct negative electricity may be apparently reversed ;
but for this purpose a column of alcohol 2'yth of an inch in
diameter and j-th of an inch long is sufficient, while in the case
of the flame of alcohol a similar column two or three inches
long is required.
   From the experiments which I have detailed, it is evident
that the conducting power of flames for electricity cannot be
explained by the diminished elasticity of the gaseous matter
which they contain ; nor does the conduction of a feeble cur
rent of electricity by the flame of alcohol appear to be a par
ticular case of the discharge of a powerful battery between
charcoal poles when separated after contact. The flame of
alcohol conducts the electricity of a single pair of plates even
when the poles are separated by a considerable distance, while
with a battery of far greater power no sensible separation of
the poles
ing        in air can
     the passage  of the
                      be obtained
                           current. without
                                      Electricity of feeble
                                             altogether     tension
                                                         interrupt-
passes through flame, because flame is an imperfect conductor;
but electricity of high tension forces a passage across heated
air, because the particles of the air are unable to resist its
powerful repulsive action. In the one case the presence of

   On a new Method of taking Deep Soundings in the Ocean. 1 85
 the flame is essential to the result, in the other case the air
 presents only an obstacle to be removed, and the experiment
 will succeed better in a vacuum.
    It has only been on the authority of numerous and often-
 repeated experiments that I have thus ventured to dissent from
 the conclusion of the eminent philosopher by whose profound
 and varied researches the science of electricity has of late years
 been so much extended. Nor is the important question of the
 identity of common and voltaic electricity affected by the re
 sults which I have obtained. The similarity of the arch formed
 by the discharge of an electrical and galvanic battery between
 charcoal surfaces shows clearly that there is a perfect analogy
 in the passage of the voltaic and common electric currents
across air.
   Belfast, June 22, 1836.
 XXXIX. On a new Method of taking Deep Soundings in the
                  Ocean, By A Correspondent.*
' I ""HE tediousness which attends the taking soundings in the
      ocean by the common method with the deep-sea lead, and
the impossibility of thus ascertaining depths beyond a certain
very limited extent, has led to the invention of different in
struments which can assist in the operation. These machines
descend alone through the water, and on reaching the ground
are freed from the weight that dragged them to the bottom ;
when, rising to the surface, they bring with them an exact
account of the depth to which they have gone. It is not diffi
cult to suspend the balance weight so that it shall be detached
by the shock against the ground from the rest of the apparatus,,
and allow it, if itself buoyant, to regain the surface: nor is it
less easy to adapt a rotator, whose vanes shall be moved by the
current during the descent, and thus cause the revolution of
the index which registers on a dial-plate the fathoms of depth.
But the great difficulty is to give the machine that buoyancy
requisite to bring it back however deep it may have sunk.
Mr. Massey, who has practically applied this invention, used
a hollow copper globe filled with air : this could not be made
very strong, consistently with the necessary lightness : and he
found that the instrument, which answered well in a depth of
two hundred fathoms, when let go in water of unknown deep
ness never appeared again. On repeating the experiment with a
new machine inclosed in a net and attached to a line, by which
it was drawn back from four hundred fathoms, it was evident
   • Communicated by the Author. See on this subject Lond. and Edinh.
Phil. Mag., vol. iii. pp. 82, 3i>2.
    Third Series. Vol. 9. No. S3. Sept. 1836.             X

18G On a new Method oftaking Deep Soundings in the Ocean.
that the globe had been unable to support a pressure eighty
times that of the atmosphere, unbalanced by any resistance
within ; it had burst as if by an explosion. Another machine
composed entirely of wood also disappeared ; and it has been
found that most of the solid substances of low specific gravity,
such as every species of wood and' even cork, however lightly
they may float on the surface, will have the water forced into
their pores, as well as the mass itself compressed, when ex
posed to such enormous pressure of the fluid, from which they
return no longer capable of floating.
    The only resource will therefore be to use some fluid equally
incompressible with water, and of less specific gravity; among
these oil is the most eligible, as the liquids possess no affinity
for each other, and may be allowed to come in contact without
any danger of admixture. This should be substituted for the
air in the copper receiver, and an aperture made in the lower
 part to admit the water should a vacuum occur in the inside,
 but too small to allow the oil to escape if the apparatus be
 accidentally reverted. In case of any compression of the oil,
 the water will merely rise in the interior without any danger
 of fracturing the receiver, whose strength, and consequently
 weight, may be reduced merely to that necessary to the pre
 servation of its form. The globular form is the best, as it has
 the greatest capacity with the least surface. The oils vary in
 their specific gravity from '85 to more than 1*. If we take 9'
 as an average attainable degree of lightness, a buoy of one
 cubic foot capacity, or a sphere of one and a half foot in dia
 meter, will have a floating power of six pounds, which it will
 retain in every depth unless the compression of the oil pro
 ceeds at a much greater ratio than that of sea-water, which
 doubles its mass, under its own weight, at a depth of ninety
 miles; but this can only be ascertained by experiment. La
 place estimated the mean depth of the Pacific Ocean at four,
 and that of the Atlantic at three, miles; this was deduced from
 his calculations relative to the tides, and he supposed that there
 was no very extensive variation from this average. At such a
 depth the quantity of air contained in a buoy of one foot ca-
 Eacity would be compressed into two inches and a half, and a
   ollow globe, such as Mr. Massey used, would sustain a pres
 sure of more than four tons on each inch of surface.
    It may not be impossible to fix a detonating ball so that it
 shall explode on emerging into the air, and thus announce the
 return, and indicate the position, of the instrument, which will
 be exposed to various currents at different depths, and may be
 floated to a distance, and in a direction, entirely unexpected.
    It will be a long process to lay down the soundings of the

               Dr. Apjohn in reply to Dr. Hudson.                  187
wide ocean, if we ever possess the power; but when it is ac
complished we can hardly yet tell to what discoveries it may
lead. We may, probably, be enabled to calculate the gradual
approach of what will be hereafter new continents and islands,
and to trace the boundaries of those which have once existed ;
or we may discover in deep chasms and ranges of submarine
mountains the causes of those currents which, in spite of the
assistance of modern astronomy, are still occasionally so dan
gerous to the navigator. At all events it must be interesting
to unveil the secrets of the abyss, no longer unfathomable, and
to send our inanimate messengers to bring us the intelligence,
and possibly some of the productions, of those regions where
neither the eye of man nor the light of heaven has yet been
able to penetrate.                                             J. J.
XL. On certain Statements relative to Dr. Apjohn's Hygro-
   metrical Researches contained in Dr. Hudson's Papers in
   serted in Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. vii. and vol. viii.
   By James Apjohn, M.D., M.R.J.A., Professor of Che-
   mishy in the Royal College ofSurgeons, Ireland.
   To the Editors ofthe Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
      Gentlemen,
IN a paper by Dr. Hudson of this city, published in the
 *• Philosophical Magazine for October 183.5, there are some
statements relating to certain hygrometrical researches of
mine which, though it be contrary to my original intention,
I find myself, eventually, in some degree compelled to notice
and contradict, and with this view have to request that you
will give an early insertion in your Journal to the following
brief detail of facts.
    In November 1834, I had the honour of reading a memoir
to the Royal Irish Academy, an abstract of which was pub
lished in the Number of the Philosophical Magazine for the
following March. In this was investigated and explained the
following expression, which includes the#solution of the well-
known dew-point problem :
                     fii _ fi       fl v P *
                    J ~J            87     30 *
   Dr. Hudson, who was present at the reading of this paper,
   * d is the difference of the temperature shown by a wet and dry ther
mometer, /' the force of vapour at the temperature indicated by the
former, and /" its force at the dew-point.
                                    X2

188        Dr. Apjohn on certain Statements relative to
in a tew days addressed to me a letter, which was followed by
several others, with the professed object of having my opinion
upon another method of inferring the dew-point from the in
dications of a wet and dry thermometer. This method is
founded on the following proportion :
                          D: D-d ::/':/"»
in which f',f ", and d have the same significations already
assigned to them, while D represents the depression experi
enced by the wet thermometer in dry air of such a tempera
ture that, both for it and the moist air,y has the same value.
To render this proportion applicable in practice to the deter
mination of/", — the elastic force of vapour at the dew-point,—
D must obviously be known as well as d andy*; but Dr. Hud
son shows that if D be determined experimentally for any
one value ofJ\ it may be deduced for any other value ofj*
by calculation*.
    Upon this method of Dr. Hudson I wish here, in limine, to
 make two remarks. 1. It was proposed after a public exposi
 tion of my formula, and by one who was present when my
 paper was read. 2. It is unsusceptible of practical applica
 tion without the experimental determination of some one value
 of D, a thing which has not been attempted by Dr. Hud
 son.
    I shall now, however, go further, and demonstrate that the
method proposed by Dr. Hudson is but my method in
 disguise, or rather but a particular case of my general ex-
                                                                 d      v
 pression. Thus, since, as I have shown,,/" = f — — x Jj:,
                                                                 87 30
                          SO
 d = 87 {/'—/") x — . And, if the air be perfectly dry, in
 which case f" = 0, d = 87/' x —           30 • Hence, calling the de
 pression in the latter case D, we shall have
           D:tf::87/'x^:87 (/'-/") x ^,
 or, when p is constant,
          T>:d::f: f'-f", and dividendo,
           D : D — d: \f :f", the proportion of Dr. Hudson.
    This result I communicated to Dr. Hudson in my reply to
 one of his letters ; but perceiving that it was true only on the
 hypothesis off having the same value in the dry and moist
   * His praporlion for this purpose is only exact on the hypothesis of the
 pressure being constant. The same may be said of his fundamental pro
portion, D : D-rf: :/' :/"•

      his Hygromelrical Researches made by Dr. Hudson.               189
air, I subsequently informed liim that, as is obviously the case,
the ratio between the depression in dry and the difference be
tween it and the depression in moist air is expressed generally
by the following proportion :
                    D:D-rf: :/":/- -/»+/",
f and f representing the respective forces of vapour at the
temperatures shown in each instance by the wet thermometer.
I have now arrived at my first ground of complaint against
Dr. Hudson. In a postscript to his paper in the Philosophical
Magazine for October 1835, he represents me as communi
cating to him on the occasion just mentioned, the proportion
D : d : : f~ —f' + J ", that is, he omits D from the second
term, and then proceeds to comment upon an absurdity
created by himself*.
    As far then as relates to my first paper, I have merely to
recapitulate the following facts. My formula is in itself com
plete, and immediately applicable in practice; Dr. Hudson's
is useless without a knowledge of the value of D. My formula
was communicated to the Royal Irish Academy, and explained
in his presence a full year before the publication of his method.
Lastly, his fundamental proportion is but a particular and
very obvious case of my general expression, as has been al
ready demonstrated.
    If under such circumstances I were to maintain that Dr.
 Hudson borrowed his method from me, I think it will be
admitted I should be able to establish a very probable case
 against him. Such a charge, however, I have never advanced
 either by the method of direct assertion or oblique insinua
 tion, aud I am even now prepared to admit that Dr. Hudson
 may have arrived at his proportions previous to any knowledge
 of my hygrometric formula. Has Dr. Hudson treated me with
 the same degree of candour? This point the reader will be
 better able to decide after perusing the following statement.
    At a general meeting of the Royal Irish Academy, held in
 April 1835, I communicated a second paperf, the object of
   • If I had to do with any other person I should have no hesitation
 in concluding that, writing in the hurry of business, and what I never
 dreamt would meet the public eye, 1 had myself been the author of
 the omission in question. The charge, however, I have preferred against
 Dr. Hudson I cannot abandon without replacing it by one of nearly
 equal gravity. Dr. Hudson has persisted in attempting to fasten upon me
 the proportion D : d : : f~: f~ —/' +/", and without the slightest allu
 sion to the fact of my havinp complained of being misrepresented on this
 very point, and demonstrated step by step in his presence the manner of
 deducing the correct proportion from my own formula.
    f This paper is to be found in the Numbers of the Philosophical Maga
 zine for October, November, and December, 1835.

190       Dr. Apjohn on certain Statements relative to
which was to detail a series of experiments, the results of
which established, if I mistake not, the perfect accuracy of my
formula for the dew-point. Now, in reference to these experi
ments Dr. Hudson, in a note to the paper of his already re
ferred to, makes the following observations. " It may not be
improper to state here that I communicated the views con
tained in this paper to my friend Dr. Apjohn two or three
days after he communicated his method to the Royal Irish
Academy, and I have recently had the pleasure of learning
from him that he has employed both the methods of experi
menting on dry air, and on air of a known dew-point (heated
artificially), with the view of testing and establishing his own
formula." It is here undoubtedly insinuated by Dr. Hudson,
that I borrowed from him my methods of experiment ; but as
such was not directly affirmed, I did not at the time think
it necessary to publish a formal contradiction. Since that,,
however, all doubts as to his real meaning have been removed ;
for both at the Royal Irish Academy, and subsequently in a
pamphlet which he has recently circulated on thesubject, he has
preferred a distinct charge ofplagiarism against me, and he has
published in support of the charge, without even the formality
of asking my permission, some letters of mine written in reply
to those which I have already described myself as receiving
from him. From this charge, and some others upon which
I shall not comment here, as they have not appeared in the
pages of any scientific journal, I have, I think I may venture
to assert, fully vindicated myself in the judgement of the mem
bers of the Royal Irish Academy, and shall now proceed to
    myself right
setHaving         with the
              arrived  at the
                           readers
                               solution   of a physicalMagazine.
                                   of the Philosophical  question
deemed of sufficient importance by the British Association at
its meeting in York to be inserted in their list of Desiderata
in science, it will, I presume, be readily admitted that I felt
extremely anxious to test its truth by submitting it to the
touchstone of experiment. I was, however, at the time of
communicating my formula well aware, for reasons which I
have elsewhere stated, that this could not be satisfactorily
done by means of Daniell's instrument, and corresponding ob
servations with a wet and dry thermometer; and felt therefore
convinced, at a very early period, of the necessity of resorting
to the other method's. Now three such are immediately pointed
to by the formula itself.    Thus, 1st, sincef" — f— — x —>
iff = o, i, e. if the air be destitute ofvapour, d = 87fx

     his Hygromelrical Researches made by Dr. Hudson.         191
so that if a value of d in perfectly dry air be determined by
observation, theory and experiment can be compared.
   2. Though f" be supposed constant, f and d will vary if
the temperature varies. Hence if air having a constant hy-
grometrical state be raised to different temperatures, and a
series of corresponding values ofJ1 and d be determined by
observation, the formula, if correct, when applied to each pair,
should obviously give the same result, or value of/".
   3. If air be saturated with moisture at a known temperature,
such temperature is necessarily its dew-point. Let it now be
heated, and values of f and d then observed in it by means
of a wet and dry thermometer. The formula, if correct, when
applied to these, should give for the dew-point the temperature
at which the air was in the first instance saturated with mois
ture.
   Such are the methods which I employed. They flow imme
diately from my formula, and I beg to state in the most posi
tive manner that I had resolved to employ them all before
Dr. Hudson commenced his correspondence with me. Dr.
Hudson, however, states that the first and third are his ex
clusive property, and that I derived them from him. Now
what is the evidence he adduces in support of this assertion ?
Not a tittle, that I can perceive, save a passage in one of my
letters in which I recommend him before publishing his pro
portions relative to the dew-point, to investigate the value of
D by some of the experimental methods mentioned by him
in a previous letter. From this passage Dr. Hudson infers,
by some process of reasoning with which I am unacquainted,
but which certainly would not appear to be characterized by
much of the vis consequenti&, that I must have been ignorant
of these methods before they were mentioned by him ; that is,
that I must have overlooked the most simple consequences of
the expression I had investigated, and felt so anxious to verify
by experiment. But it is not necessary to argue the matter
further. The following letter from Professor Lloyd has, I
presume, satisfied Dr. Hudson himself that he is in error, and
that I contemplated my experiments on dry air before I had
ever any intercourse with him, direct or indirect, on this or any
other subject.
      " My dear Apjohn.
   " I very well recollect your mentioning on the evening on
which you read your first paper on the moist-bulb thermome
ter to the Academy, that your hygrometric formula suggested
an easy method of determining by experiment the specific
heats of the gases, viz. by observing the temperatures indicated
by the two thermometers in gases deprived of their moisture.
I think you stated at the same time that it was your intention

 1 92           Dr. Apjohn in reply to Dr. Hudson.
 to engage in this investigation at some early opportunity; but
 of this circumstance my remembrance is not so distinct as of
      other. College,
 the" Trinity   Believe    me13,always
                        June      1836. yours sincerely," H. Lloyd."
        " Dr. Apjohn."
     Having disposed of Dr. Hudson's-claims of priority in rela
 tion to the suggestion of the hygrometrical experiments per
 formed by me, I shall now briefly advert to another topic.
     Almost immediately after having fallen on my hygrometric
 formula I resolved, should I succeed in verifying it by experi
 ment, to apply it to the determination of the specific heats
of the gaseous bodies. That it may be employed in such re
search is obvious, as the specific heat of the gas is a factor in the
formula. In fact, my expression in its most extended form, so
as to include the various gases, is f" =f— ~ S^ x
s being the specific gravity and a the specific heat of the gas,
 and e the caloric of elasticity of aqueous vapour whose elastic
force is f. From this it is easy to deduce a = {/'— f)
        c       30
 X       - £ x — > an equation which, whenf" = 0, or the gas
                                      c      30
is dry," becomes a =¦ f x ——-,     48 s a x —p •    If then an observa-
lion with a wet and dry thermometer be made in a number of
gases, their specific heats, that is, the value of a for each, may
be calculated. Such is the principle of my method.
    Upon this plan I have performed a number of experiments,
and am, I may observe, still occupied with the subject. Having,
however, on the Saturday previous to the meeting of the
British Association in this city, arrived, with the aid of a more
perfect apparatus than I had previously employed, at some,
as far as 1 could judge, very satisfactory results, I set myself
down, and in a very hurried manner submitted them to cal
culation, and gave to the Chemical Section not so much a
formal paper on the subject as an account, chiefly verbal, of
my method, and of the results to which it conducted, resolving
of course to investigate the subject much more carefully, and
to calculate much more at my leisure before I submitted my
investigations, as I always contemplated doing, to the Royal
Irish Academy. The conclusion really deducible from my
experiments was, to a certain extent, a confirmation of the
opinion which has of late been so much advocated, that all
gases have under equal volumes the same capacity for caloric*.
   * This idea, first started by Dnlton, nnd since supported by the experi-


SIYA TMEMIUM
 f'/< a Seal* of cnwerentA

                  Z C£ rbiL Jdcug Vbl.JZFi-2-
GRGANTJEUM.
  tftilt Onwnal'.


                     On the Sivatherium giganteum.                      193
The conclusion, however, as stated by me was that they have
all the same specific heats under equal weights ; and this error
I fell into from omitting, in my hurry, (most of my calculations
were made on the day preceding the meeting of the Asso
ciation,) to divide by the specific gravities, or, in other words,
applying to all the formula for atmospheric air, in which the
specific gravity being unity does not appear. Dr. Hudson,
however,who would seem to have a passion for repeating my cal
culations, and a good deal of leisure, it is to be presumed, when
he devotes himself to so uninteresting an occupation, observed
this omission (a venial one I trust, and one which I hope I am
not vain in thinking I should, on returning to the subject,
have been able to remedy without Dr. Hudson's assistance,)
and informed me of it. For this communication I felt thank
ful, and on a subsequent occasion, I believe, so expressed my
self; but I was not I confess aware at the time that Dr. Hud
son, after supplying the omission in question, had forwarded
a paper to the Philosophical Magazine, entitled, " On an error
in Dr. Apjohn's formula for inferring the specific heats of dry
gases *." This course it was undoubtedly perfectly competent
to Dr. Hudson to take, and I would not wish to be understood
as complaining of it: however anxious to protect myself
against misrepresentation, I feel no disposition to contest with
him the credit which he may be conceived to have acquired
    28, Lower
 from           Eaggott-Street,
          the proceeding        Dublin,
                             under  consideration. James Apjohn.
               July 5, 1836.
 XLL On the Sivatherium giganteum, a new Fossil Ruminant
     Genus,from the Valley ofthe Markanda, in the Sivdlik branch
     of the Sub-Himalayan Mountains. By Hugh Falconer,
     M.D., Superintendent Botanical Garden, Seh&ranpur, and
     Captain P. T. Cautley, Superintendent Dodb Canal.\ .
                         [With an Engraving : Plate II.]
 THE fossil which we are about to describe forms a new accession to
         extinct Zoology. This circumstance alone would give much interest
  to H. But in addition, the large size, surpassing the rhinoceros, the family
  of Mammalia to which it belongs, and the forms of structure which it ex-
 ments of Dulong, Haycraft, Marcet and De la Rive, Dr. Hudson seems to
  speak of as originating with himself. . " Accordingly the experiments, ex
 cept with hydrogen, rather favour my view that the capacities of gases
 are equal in equal volumes." (See Phil. Mag. for January 1836, p. 22.)
     * [If we remember right, Dr. Hudson's paper as we received it had no
  title, that which it now bears, as above, having been prefixed to it by
  us.— Edit.]
     t From the Atiatk Rcsearchet : Transactions of the 1'hysical Class of the
  Asiatic Society of Bengal, Part iii.
      Third Series. Vol. 9. No. 53. Sept. 183G.                 Y

 194                 Dr. Falconer and Capt. Cautley
hibits, render the Sivatiierium one of the most remarkable of the past tenants
of the globe that have hitherto been detected in the more recent strata.
   Of the numerous fossil mammiferous genera discovered and established
 by Cuvier, all were confined to the Pachydermaia. The species belonging
 to other families have all their living representatives on the earth. Among
the Rumnantia, no remarkable deviation from existiug types has hitherto
been discovered, the fossil being closely allied to living species. The
isolated position, however, of the Giraffe and the Camelidat, made it pro
bable, that certain genera had become extinct, which formed the connect
ing links between those and the other genera of the family, and further
between the Ruminanlia and the Pachydermaia. In the Sivatiierium* we
have a ruminant of this description connecting the family with the Pachyder-
mata, and at the same time so marked by individual peculiarities as to be
 without an analogue in its order.
   The fossil remain of the Sivatherium, from which our description is
taken, is a remarkably perfect head. When discovered, it was fortunately
so completely enveloped by a mass of stone, that although it had long been
exposed to be acted upon as a boulder in a water-course, all the more
important parts of structure had been preserved. The block might have
been passed over, but for an edging of the teeth in relief from it, which
gave promise of something additional concealed. After much labour, the
hard crystalline covering of stone was so successfully removed, that the
huge head now stands out with a couple of horns between the orbits,
broken only near their tips, and the nasal bones projected in a free arch,
high above the chaffron. All the molars on both sides of thejaw are pre
sent and singularly perfect. The only mutilation is at the vertex of the
cranium, where the plane of the occipital meets that of the brow ; and
at the muzzle, which is truncated a little way in front of the first molar.
The only parts which are still concealed, are a portion of the occipital, the
 zygomatic fossae on both sides, and the base of the cranium over the sphe
 noid bone.
   The form of the head is so singular and grotesque, that the first glance
at it strikes one with surprise. The prominent features arc— 1st, the great
size, approaching that of the elephant: 2nd, the immense development
and width of the cranium behind the orbits : 3rd, the two divergent osseous
cores for horns starting out from the brow, between the orbits : 4th, the
form and direction of the nasal bones, rising with great prominence out of
the chafTroa, and overhanging the external nostrils in a pointed arch: 5th, the
great massiveness, width and shortness of the face forward from the orbits :
6th, the great angle at which the grinding plane of the molars deviates up
wards from that of the base of the skull.
   * Wc have named the fossil, Sivatherium, from Siva, the Hindu God, and
Sh(ut bellua. The Sivdlik or Sub-Himalayan range of hills, is considered in the
Hindu mythology, as the Liitiah or edge of the roof of Siva's dwelling in the
Himalaya, and hence they are called the Siva-ala or Sib-ala, which by an easy
transition of sound became the Sewdlik of the English. The fossil has been dis
covered in a tract which may be included in the Sewdlik range, and we have given
the name of Sivatherium to it, to commemorate this remarkable formation, so rich
in new animals. Another derivation of the name of the hills, as explained by the
Mahant or High Priest at Dehra, is as follows :
   Sewdlik, a corruption of Siva-wdla, a name given to the tract of mountains be
tween the Jumna and Ganges, from having been the residence of Iswara Siva
and his son Game's, who under the form of an elephant had charge of the Wes
terly portion from the village of Dudhli to the Jumna, which portion is also
called Gangaja, gaja being in Hindi an elephant. That portion eastward from
Dudhli, or between that village and Haridwdr, is called Deodhar, from its being
the especial residence of Deota or Iswara Siva : the whole tract however between
the Jumna and Ganges is called Siva-ala, or the habitation of Siva ; unde der.
Seicdlik.

                      on the Sivatlierium giganteum.                        195
    Viewed in lateral profile, the form and direction of the horns, and the
rise and sweep in the bones of the nose, give a character to the head
widely differing from that of any other animal. The nose looks something
like that of the rhinoceros ; but the resemblance is deceptive, and only
owing to the muzzle being truncated. Seen from in front, the head is
somewhat wedge-shaped, the greatest width being at the vertex and thence
gradually compressed towards the muzzle ; with contraction only at two
points behind the orbits and under the molars. The zygomatic arches are
almost concealed and nowise prominent : the brow is broad, and flat, and
swelling laterally into two convexities; the orbits are wide apart, and have
the appearance of being thrown far forward, from the great production of
the frontal upwards. There are no crest or ridges : the surface of the
cranium is smooth, the lines are in curvet>, with no angularity. From the
vertex to the root of the nose, the plane of the brow is in a straight line,
with a slight rise between the horns. The accompanying drawings will at
once give a better idea of the form than any description.
    Now in detail of individual parts ; and to commence with the most im
portant -and characteristic, the teeth* :
    There are six molars on either side of the upper jaw. The third of the
series, or last milk molar, has given place to the corresponding permanent
tooth, the detrition of which and of the last molar is well advanced, and
 indicates the animal to have been more than adult.
    The teeth are in every respect those of a ruminant, with some slight in
 dividual peculiarities.
    The three posterior or double molars are composed of two portions or
semicylinders, each of which incloses, when partially worn down, a double
crescent of enamel, the convexity of which is turned inwards. The last
 molar, as is normal in ruminants, has no additional complication, like that
in the corresponding tooth of the lower jaw. The plane of grinding, slopes
 from the outer margin inwards. The general form is exactly that of an
 ox or camel, on a large scale. The ridges of enamel are unequally in re
 lief, and the hollows between them unequally scooped. Each semicylinder
 has its outer surface, in horizontal section, formed of three salient knuckles,
 with two intermediate sinuses ; and its inner surface, of a simple arch or
 curve. But there are certain peculiarities by which the teeth differ from
 those of other ruminants.
     In correspondence with the shortness of jaw, the width of the teeth is
 much greater in proportion to the length than is usual in the family : the
 width of the third and fourth molars being to the length as 2-24 and 2*2
 to 1*55 and 1*68 inches, respectively: and the average width of the whole
 series being to the length as 2'13 to 1*76 inches. Their form is less pris
 matic : the base of the shaft swelling out into a bulge or collar, from which
 the inner surface slopes outward as it rises : so that the coronal becomes
 Bomewhat contracted : in the third molar, the width at the coronal is 1-93,
 at the bulge of the shaft 2-24. The ridges and hollows on the outer sur
 face descend less upon the shaft, and disappear upon the bulge. There
 are no accessory pillars on the furrow of junction at the inner side. The
  crescentic plates of enamel have a character which distinguishes them
 from all known ruminants : the inner crescent, instead of sweeping in a
 nearly simple curve, runs zig-zag-wise in large sinuous flexures, somewhat
 resembling the form in the Elasmotherium.
     The three double molars differ from each other only in their relative
 states of wearing. The antepenultimate, being most worn, has the cre
 scentic plates less curved, more approximate and less distinct : the penulti
  mate and last molars are less worn, and have the markings more distinct.
     * The figure of the palate and teeth in the Engraving is on rather a larger
  scale than the rest—Edit. Asiat. Res.
                                     Y2

 1 96               Dr. Falconer and Capt. Cautley
    The three anterior or simple molars have the usual form which holds
 in Ruminantia, a single semicylinder, with but one pair of crescents. The
 first one is much worn and partly mutilated : the second is more en
 tire, having been a shorter time in use, and finely exhibits the flexuous
 curves in the sweep of the enamel of the inner crescent ; the last one has
 the simple form of the permanent tooth, which replaces the last milk
 molar : it also shows the wavy form of the enamel.
    Regarding the position of the teeth in the jaw ; the last four molars, viz.
 the three permanent and the last ofreplacement, run in a straight line, and
 on the opposite sides are parallel and equi-distant : the two anterior ones
 are suddenly directed inwards, so as to be a good deal approximated. If
 the two first molars were not thus inflected, the opposite lines of teeth
 would form exactly two sides of a square: the length of the line of teeth,
 and the intervals between the outer surfaces of the four last molars, being
 almost equal, viz. 9'8 and 9-9 inches respectively.
    The plane of detrition of the whole series of molars from rear to front
 is not horizontal, but in a slight curve, and directed upwards at a consider
 able angle with the base of the skull : so that when the head is placed so
 as to rest upon the occipital condyles and the last molars, a plane through
 these points is cut by a chord along the curve of detrition of the whole
 series of molars at an angle of about 45°. This is one of the marked cha
 racters about the head :
                          Dimension* of the Teeth.
                                                         Length. Breadth.
                                                          Inches. Inches.
         Last molar right side                                       2"35
         Penultimate do                                    2-20      2-38
         Antepenultimate do                                1'68      2-20
         Last simple molar                                 l-55      2-24
         Second do. do                                     170       195
         First do. do                                      1-70      190
                                                             Outer Surfaces.
                                                           Surfaces.  Inner
         Interval between the surfaces of last molar          9-9     5-5
           Do.      do.     do.      third molar              9-8     55
           Do.      do.     do.      second do                8*4     4'5
            Do.     do.     do.      first do                 6-4     32
       Space occupied by the line of molars 9'8 inches.
    Bones of the Head and Face.—From the age of the animal to which the
head had belonged, the bones had become anchylosed at their commissures,
so that every trace of suture has disappeared, and their limits and con
 nexions are not distinguishable.
    The frontal is broad and flat, and slightly concave at its upper half. It
expands laterally into two considerable swellings at the vertex, and
sweeps down to join the temporals in an ample curve ; and with no angu
larity. It becomes narrower forwards, to behind the orbits; and then
expands again in sending off an apophysis to join with the malar bone,
and complete the posterior circuit of the orbit. The width of the bone
where narrowest, behind the orbit, is very great, being 16-2 inches. Partly
between and partly to the rear of the orbits, there arise by a broad base,
passing insensibly into the frontal, two short thick conical processes. They
taper rapidly to a point, a little way below which they are mutilated in
the fossil. They start so erect from the brow, that their axis is perpendi
cular to their basement : and they diverge at a considerable angle. From
their base upwards they are free from any rugosities, their surface being
smooth and even. They are evidently the osseous cores of two intra
orbital horns. From their position and size they form one of the most re
markable features in the head. The connexions ofthe frontal are nowhere
distinguishable, no mark of a suture remaining. At the upper end of the

                      on the Sivatherium giganteum.                         197
 bone the skull is fractured, and the structure of the bone is exposed. The
 internal and outer plates are seen to be widely separated, and the interval
 to be occupied by large shells, formed by an expansion of the diploe into
 plates, as in the elephant. The interval exceeds inches in the occipital.
 On the left side of the frontal, the swelling at the vertex has its upper
 lamina of bone removed, and the cast of the cells exhibits a - surface of
 almond-shaped or oblong eminences, with smooth hollows between.
     The temporal is greatly concealed by a quantity of the stony matrix,
 which has not been removed from the temporal fossa. No trace of the
 squamous suture remains to mark its limits and connexion with the frontal.
 The inferior processes of the bone about the auditory foramen have been
 destroyed, or are concealed by stone. The zygomatic process is long, and
 runs forward to join the corresponding apophysis of thejugal bone, with
 little prominence or convexity. A line produced along it would pass in front,
 through the tuberosities of the maxillaries, and to the rear along the upper
 margin of the occipital condyles. The process is stout and thick. The tem
 poral fossa is very long, and rather shallow. It does not rise up high on the
 side of the cranium : it is overarched by the cylinder-like sides of the frontal
 bone. The position and form of the articulating surface with the lower jaw
 are concealed by stone which has not been removed.
    There is nothing in the fossil to enable us to determine the form and
 limits of the parietal bones ; the cranium being chiefly mutilated in the
 region which they occupy. But they appear to have had the same form
 and character as in the ox ; to have been intimately united with the ocei-
 pitals, and to have joined with the frontal at the upper angle of the skull.
    The form and characters of the occipital are very marked. It occupies
 a large space, having width proportioned to that of the frontal, and consi*
 derable height. It is expanded laterally into two alaj, which commence at
 the upper margin of the foramen magnum, and proceed upwards and out
 wards. These ala; are smooth, and are hollowed out downwards and out
 wards from near the condyles towards the mastoid region of the temporal.
Their inner or axine margins proceed in a ridge arising from the border of
 the occipital foramen, diverging from each other nearly at right angles,
and inclose a large triangular fossa into which they descend abruptly.
This fossa is chiefly occupied by stone in the fossil, but it does not appear
 shallow, and seems a modification of the same structure as in the elephant.
There is no appearance of an occipital crest or protuberance. The bone
 is mutilated at the sides towards the junction with the temporals. Both
 here and at its upper fractured margin its structure is seen to be formed
 of large cells with the diploe expanded into plates, and the outer and inner
 laminae wide apart. This character is very marked at its upper margin,
 where its cells appear to join on with those of the frontal. The condyles
 are very large, and fortunately very perfect in the fossil ; the longest dia
 meter of each is 4-4 inches, and the distance measured across the foramen
magnum, from their outer angles, is 7°4 inches : dimensions exceeding
those of the elephant. Their form is exactly as in the liuminantia, viz.
their outer surface composed of two convexities meeting at a rounded
angle : one in the line of the long axis, stretching obliquely backwards
from the anterior border of the foramen magnum ; on the other forwards
and upwards from the posterior margin, their line of commissure being in
the direction of the transverse diameter of the foramen. The latter is also
of large size, its antero-posterioor diameter being 2 3 inches, and the trans
verse diameter 2-6 inches. The large dimensions of the foramen and con
dyles must entail a corresponding development in the vertebra;, and modify
the form of the neck and anterior extremities.
    The sphenoidal bone, and all the parts along the base of the skull from
the occipital foramen to the palate, are either removed, or so concealed by
stone, as to give no characters for description.

   198                 Dr. Falconer and CapL Caulley
     The part of the brow from which the nasal bones commence is not di
  stinguishable. The suture connecting them with the frontal is completely
  obliterated : and it is not seen whether they run up into a sinus in that
  bone, or how they join on with it. Between the horns there is a rise in
  the brow, which sinks again a little forward. A short way in advance of
  a line connecting the anterior angles of the orbits, there is another rise in
  the brow. From this point, which nay be considered their base, the nasal
  bones commence ascending from the plane of the brow, at a considerable
  angle. They are broad and well arched at their base, and proceed forward
  with a convex outline, getting rapidly narrower, to terminate in a point
  curved downwards, which overhangs the external nostrils. For a consi
  derable part of their length they are joined to the maxillaries : but for
  wards from the point where they commence narrowing, their lower edge
  is free and separated from the maxillaries by a wide sinus : so that viewed
  in lateral profile their form very much resembles the upper mandible of a
  hawk, detached from the lower. Unluckily, in the fossil, the anterior mar
  gins of the maxillaries are mutilated, so that the exact length of the nasal
  bone that was free from connexion with them cannot be determined. As
  the fossil stands, about four inches of the lower edge of the nasals, mea
  sured along the curve, are free. The same mutilation prevents its being
 seen how near the incisives approached the nasals, with which they do
 not appear to have been joined. This point is one of great importance,
 from the structure it implies in the soft parts about the nose. The height
 and form of the nasal bones are the most remarkable feature in the head :
 viewed from above they are seen to taper rapidly from a broad base to a
 sharp point j and the vertical height of their most convex part above the
 brow at their base, is 3$ inches.
     The form of the maxillaries is strongly marked in two respects: 1st,
 their shortness compared with their great width and depth : 2nd, in the
 upward direction of the line of alveoli from the last molar forwards,
 giving the appearance (with the licence of language intended to convey
 an idea of resemblance without implying more) as if the face had been
 pushed upwards to correspond with the rise in the nasals ; or fixed on at
 an angle with the base of the cranium. The tendency to shortness of the
jaw was observed in the dimensions of the teeth, the molars being com
pressed, and their width exceeding their length to an extent not usual in
the Rummantia. The width apart, between the maxillaries, was noticed
before; the interval, between the outer surfaces of the alveoli, equalling
the space in length occupied by the line of molars. The cheek tuberosities
 are very large and prominent, their diameter at the base being 2 inches,
and the width of the jaw over them being 12*2 inches, whereas at the
 alveoli it is but 9'8 inches. They are situated over the third and fourth
molars; and proceeding up from them towards the malar, there is an in
distinct ridge on the bone. The infra-orbitary foramen is of large size,
its vertical diameter being 1*2 inch : it is placed over the first molar, as in
the ox and deer tribe. The muzzle portion of the bone is broken off at
about 2'8 inches from the 1st molar, from the alveolar margin of which,
to the surface of the diastema, there is an abrupt sink of 1'7 inch. The
muzzle is here contracted to 5'8 inches, and forwards at the truncated
part to about 4*1. The palatine arch is convex from rear to front, and
concave across. No trace of the palatine foramina remains, nor of the
suture with the proper palatine bones. The spheno-palatine apophyses
and all back to the foramen magnum • are either removed or concealed in
stone. In front, the mutilation of the bone, at the muzzle, does not allow
it to be seen how the incisive bones were connected with the maxillaries :
but it appears that they did not reach so high on the maxillaries as the
    * Willi the exception of a portion of the basilary region, which resembles
that of the Ruminant*.

                         on the Sivatlierium giganteum.                        199
union of the latter with the nasals. The same cause has rendered ob
scure the connexions of the mamillaries with the nasals, and the depth and
size of the nasal echancrure or sinus.
    The jugal bone is deep, massive and rather prominent. Its lower border
falls off abruptly in a hollow descending on the mamillaries; the upper en
ters largely into the formation of the orbit. The posterior orbital process
unites with a corresponding apophysis of the frontal, to complete the cir
 cuit of the orbit behind. The zygomatic apophysis is stout and thick and
 rather flat. No part of the arch, either in the temporal or jugal portions,
 is prominent : the interval between the most salient points being greatly
 less than the hind part of the cranium, and slightly less than the width
between the bodies of the jugals.
     The extent and form of the lachrymals, cannot be made out, as there
 is no trace of a suture remaining. Upon the fossil, the surface of the la-
 chrymary region passes smoothly into that of the adjoining bones. There
 it no perforation of the lower and anterior margin of the orbit by lachry-
 mary foramina, nor any hollow below it indicating an infraorbital or la-
 chrymary sinus. It may be also added, what was omitted before, that
 there is no trace of a superciliary foramen upon the frontal.
     The orbits are placed far forwards, in consequence of the great produc
  tion of the cranium upwards, and the shortness of the bones of the face.
  Their position is also rather low, their centre being about 3'6 inches below
  the plane of the brow. From a little injury done in chiseling off the stone,
  the form or circle of the different orbits does not exactly correspond. In
  the one of the left side, which is the more perfect, the long axis makes a
  small angle with that of the plane of the brow : the antero-posterior diameter
  is 3'3 inches, and the vertical 2'7 inches. There is no prominence or in
  equality in the rim of the orbits, as in the Ruminantia. The plane of the
  rim is very oblique : the interval between the upper or frontal margins of
  the two orbits being 12'2 inches, and that of the lower or molar margin
  16-2 inches.
               Dimensions of the Skull of the Sivatherium giganteum*.
  From the anterior margin of the foramen magnum to the Eng. Inches. Metres.
      alveolusof first molar                                         18-85    '478
  From do. to the truncated extremity of the muzzle                  20-6     '5268
  From do. to the posterior margin of the last molar                 10-3     -262
  From the tip of the nasals to the upper fractured margin
      of the cranium                                                 18 0     -4568
  From do. do.           to do.     along the curve                  19*0     -4822
   From do. do.           along the curve, to where the nasal arch
      begins to rise from the brow                                     7*8     '198
   From the latter point to the fractured margin of the cra
      nium                                                           11-2      -284
   From the tip of the nasals to a chord across the tips of the
      horns                                                            85      -216
   From the anterior angle, right orbit, to the first molar ...        9-9     -251
   From the posterior do. do. to the fractured margin of the
      cranium                                                         12-1     "3075
   Width of cranium at the vertex (mutilation at left side
       restored), about                                               22 0     -559
   Do. between the orbits, upper borders                              12-2     -3095
   Do.          do.       do. lower borders                           16*2     '4108
   Do. behind the orbits at the contraction of the frontal...         14-6      '3705
   Do. between the middle of the zygomatic arches                     16*4      '4168
          To facilitate comparison with the large animals described in Cuvier's Osse-
         > FossUa, the dimensions are also given in French measure.

  200                 On the Sivatherium giganteum.
                                                             Enft. Tnchei. Mitres.
  Width between the bodies of the malar bones                    16-62 -422
  Do. base of the skull behind the mastoid processes (muti
    lated on both sides)                                        19"5        "496
 Do. between the cheek tuberosities of the maxillaries ... 12'2             -3095
  Do. of muzzle portion of the maxillaries in front of the
    first molar                                                   5-8       -149
 Do. of do. where truncated (partly restored)                     4-1       '104
 Do. between the outer surfaces of the horns at their base 12"5             "312
 Do. do.          do. fractured tips of ditto                   13"6o "347
 Perpendicular from a chord across tips of do. to the brow 4"2              *165
 Depth from the convexity of the occipital condyles to
    middle of frontal behind the horns                          11*9        '302
 Do. from the body of the sphenoidal to do. between the
    horns                                                       9 94        -252
 Do. from middle of the palate between the third and
    fourth molars do. at root of the nasals                     7"52        '192
 Do. from posterior surface last molar to extremity of
    the nasals                                                  13 0       -331
 Do. from grinding surface penultimate molar to root of
    the nasals                                                  10 3       -262
 Do. from the convexity near the tip of the nasals to the
    palatial surface in front of the first molar                  5'53 '14
 Do. from middle of the ala; of the occipital to the swell
    at vertex of frontal                                         8'98 '228
 Do. from inferior margin of the orbit to grinding surface
    fifth molar                                                  73        -18|
 Do. from the grinding surface first molar to edge of the
    palate in front of it                                        26        *066
 Space from the anterior angle of orbit to tip of the nasals 10-2          "2596
 Antero-posterior diameter left orbit                            3-3       "084
 Vertical         do.        do                                  27         0(iS5
 Antero-posterior diameter of the foramen magnum                 23        -OSS
 Transverse          do.        do                               2*6       -066
 Long diameter of each condyle                                   4*4       "112
Short or transverse do. of do                                    2-4       •0003
Interval between the external angles of do. measured
   across the foramen                                            7'4       "188
   Among a quantity of bones collected in the neighbourhood of the spot
in which the skull was found, there is fragment of the lower jaw of a very
large ruminant, which we have no doubt belonged to the Sivatherium : and
it is even not improbable that it came from the same individual with the
head described. It consists of the hind portion of the right jaw, broken
off at the anterior third of the last molar. The coronoid apophysis, the
condyle, with the corresponding part of the ramus, and a portion of the
angle are also removed. The two posterior thirds only, of the last molar
remain ; the grinding surface partly mutilated, hut sufficiently distinct to
show the crescentic plates of enamel, and prove that the tooth belonged to
a ruminant. The outline of the jaw in vertical section, is a compressed
ellipse, and the outer surface more convex than the inner. The bone
thins off on the inner side towards the angle of the jaw, into a large and
well-marked muscular hollow ; and running up from the latter, upon the
ramus towards the foramen of the artery, there is a well-defined furrow, as
in the Ruminantia. The surface of the tooth is covered with very small
rugosities and stria;, as in the upper molars of the head. It had been com
posed of three semicylinders, as is normal in the family, and the advanced
state of its wearing proves the animal from which it proceeded to have
been more than adult.
   The form and relative proportions of the jaw agree very closely with


1


         Researches into the Physiology ofthe Hnman Voice.                     201
 those of the corresponding parti of a buffalo. The dimemions compared
 with those of the buffalo and camel are thus :
                                                     Sivatherium. BuflWo. Camel.
 Depth of the jaw from the alveolus last molar 4-95 in. 2-65 in. 270 in.
 Greatest thickness of do                              2-.'l     l-05     V4
 Width of middle of last molar                          1-35     0-64     076
 Length of posterior jd of do                          2-15      0'95     1-15
    No known ruminant, fossil or existing, has a jaw of such large size; the
 average dimensions above given being more than double those of a buffalo,
 which measured in length of head 19-2 inches (-489 mitres); and exceed
 ing those of the corresponding parts of the rhinoceios. We have there
 fore no hesitation in referring the fragment to the Sivatherium gigantium.
   The above comprises nil that we know regarding the osteology of the
 head from an actual examination of the parts. We have not been so for
 tunate hitherto, as to meet with any other remain comprising the anterior
part of the muzzle either of the upper or lower jaw*. We shall now pro
ceed to deduce the form of the deficient parts, and the structure of the
head generally, to the extent that may be legitimately inferred from the
data of which we are in possession.
                                [To be continued.]
 XLII.         Experimental Researches into the Physiology of the
          Human Voice. By John Bishop, Esq., fyc. $c.\
T^HE human voice is a subject of universal interest, and at-
  * tracts the attention of numerous individuals in every class
 of society. The facility with which its organs are brought into
 play, and the perfect ease with which its various tones are
 produced, convey no idea of the complex and elaborate me
 chanism by which they are effected, nor of the extreme intri
cacy in which the phaenomena are involved.
    Few perhaps are aware that the subject of the voice has
been the cause of more laborious research and hypothetical
 reasoning, attended with more perplexing results, than almost
anyTheotherterm   voiceofisinquiry
               object         exclusively
                                      connected
                                            appropriated
                                                    with animal      physiology.
                                                                to those  sounds
which are produced by the vocal organs of animals. These
sounds are of two kinds, namely, first, the primary inarticulate
tones, with all their modifications of character, quality and in-
   * In a note received from Captain Cautley while this paper is in the press, that
gentleman mentions the discovery of a portion of the skeleton of a Sivatherium in
another part of the hills : See Journal As. Soc. vol. iv. " During my recent trip
to the Siawliks near the Finjor valley, the field of Messrs. Baker and Durand's
labours, I regretted much my inability to obtain the dimensions of one of the most
superb fossils I suppose that ever was found. It was unfortunately discovered
and excavated by a party of workpeople employed by a gentleman with whom I
was unacquainted ; and although I saw the fossil when in the rock, I was pre
vented from getting the measurements afterwards. This specimen appeared to
consist of the femur and tibia, with the tarsal, metatarsal, and phalanges of our
Sivatherium." It is much to be regretted that such an opportunity should have
been lost of adding to the information already acquired of this new and gigantic
ruminant.—Sec. Asiat. Soc.
   \ Communicated by the Author.
Third Series. Vol.9. No. 53. Sept. 1836.                          Z

202        Mr. Bishop's Experimental Researches into
tensity, including the key or pitch and the whole range of mo
dulation;
   And, secondly, the interrupted sounds, or voces limitatae,
which constitute articulate language.
   To the former division of these functions the following ob
servations are applied.
   The difficulties which for more than twenty centuries have
obstructed the elucidation of this interesting branch of natural
philosophy, may be ascribed to two principal causes.
   First, The organs of voice, when anatomically examined, are
found to be extremely complex, including portions of a system
which is adjusted to perform several of the most important
functions of the animal ceconomy.
   Secondly, Thestateof acoustic science is notyet sufficiently ad
vanced to estimate all the effects resulting from air in conjunction
with an elaborate series of elastic bodies in producing sounds.
   The former of these difficulties has been in a great measure
removed by Albinus, Bichat, Majendie, and others, and the
latter have been considerably reduced by the investigations of
M. Felix Savart.
   Many of the phenomena of the voice, however, yet remain
unexplained, and abound with subtile intricacies. Several of
these which are of fundamental importance, the details ofwhich
this memoir consists, will, I trust, tend to illustrate.
   The organs which are associated in the performance of the
functions of the voice are principally the lungs, the trachea, the
larynx, pharynx, nostrils, and the mouth with its appendages.
   In reference to the vocal organs, the lungs may be regarded
as a receptacle of air for their supply.
   The Trachea is nearly a cylindrical pipe forming the Porte-
vent and the connecting link between the lungs and the larynx.
Its anatomical structure is well known, but its office, with re
spect to the voice, has hitherto been very imperfectly under
stood. It varies in length and diameter with the sex and age
of the individual. In the adult male it is about four inches
and a half in length, and from six to eight tenths of an inch
in diameter : in the female, the length is about four inches,
and the diameter from nine to eleven twentieths of an inch.
It is open at both ends, for the free transmission of air ; its
lower extremity having a double embouchure called bronchia,
which diverge at an angle of about fifteen degrees from the axis
of the trachea.
   The areas ofthe bronchial tubes are collectively greater than
that of the trachea, owing to which the condensation of the air
in the latter is more rapidly effected, and the voice acquires,
according to M. Savart, a roundness and fulness which it
would not otherwise have possessed.

                the Physiology of the Human Voice               203
   The important properties of the trachea with respect to the
voice are its elasticity, its power ofsuffering elongation and con
traction, as well as ofincreasing ordiminishing its diameter, and
the adaptation of its surface to vibrate in unison with the glottis.
   The Larynx is situated on the top of the trachea, and forms
the superior termination of the vocal tube. Its mechanism
and functions are exceedingly complicated, and furnish fit
subjects both for anatomical and for philosophical discussion.
It is the most important organ of the voice, and its struc
ture requires to be well understood before its functions can be
satisfactorily explained. Some brief anatomical details will
therefore here be introduced. The larynx is a cartilaginous
tube situated in the anterior part of the neck, and separated
from the cervical vertebrae by the pharynx, within which it has
a motion resembling that of the slides of a telescope. Its fi
gure, although difficult to describe with precision, is symme
trical: broad and capacious in its superior chamber, it becomes
narrower at its lower termination, where it is joined to the
trachea, and presents externally an appearance very dissimilar
to its internal conformation.
   The frame of the larynx is composed of elastic cartilages,
articulated with each other by fibrous and muscular bands in
 such a manner as to allow a free passage for the transmission
 of the air in respiration, as well as that mobility which is ne
cessary to the production of the voice. They are five in num
ber : the Thyroid, the Cricoid, the two Arytenoid cartilages,
 and the Epiglottis.
    TheThyroid*, the largest of these cartilages, lies in the front
 of the larynx, where it seems both to shield the internal me
 chanism from injury, and to contribute to its peculiar function.
 It is composed of two lateral portions united at the mesial line,
 where they form an angle more or less acute. These lateral
 surfaces are nearly smooth, and terminate in four borders ; the
 superior connected by ligaments with the os hyoides, and the
 inferior with the cricoid cartilage ; whilst the two posterior bor
 ders give attachment to some fibres of the Stylo- and Palalo-
 Pharyngei muscles, and send off four angular processes, two of
 which are connected by ligaments with the extremities of the
 os hyoides above, and two with the cricoid cartilage below.
    The Cricoid Cartilage *, situated at the bottom of the la
 rynx, serves by its annular shape and dense structure to form
 the solid portion of the vocal tube. It is narrow anteriorly,
 where it is connected with the thyroid, from which point it
 becomes gradually larger, and presents posteriorly a broad
 portion, on the most elevated part of which are seen two oblique
     it',.-                                                     ¦ .>
                             • Plate HI., Fig. 1.
                                    Z 2

204        Mr. Bishop's Experimental Researches into
and convex articular surfaces on which the arytenoid cartilages
rest : ridges appear on the outside of the cricoid for the in
sertion of muscles, and its inferior margin is joined by a fibro
cartilaginous membrane to the first ring of the trachea.
   The Arytenoid Cartilages * are two exceedingly irregularly
shaped bodies, situated at the posterior, inner, and upper sur
face of the cricoid ; their figure approaches somewhat to the
pyramidal and triangular; their posterior surfaces, to which
are attached the oblique and transverse muscles, are concave;
 they have likewise a concave surface anteriorly, especially to
wards the lower part, where they are contiguous with a cor
 responding portion of the arytenoid gland. Their internal
surfaces are closely connected with the mucous membrane of
the larynx: the planes of these surfaces are perpendicular to
the axes of their motion, and adapted to approximate closely
with each other. They are terminated by three ridges, one
internally, the second externally, and the third anteriorly,
which last abounds with inequalities. The bases of the ary
tenoid cartilages have curved, grooved, oval, articular sur
faces, which are furnished with synovial membranes ; the
grooves are directed downwards, and outwards, corresponding
with the convex articulating surface of the cricoid. In front
of these cartilages are two conical or pyramidal prominences,
forming the posterior part of the chink of the glottis ; these
prominences project over the tube, about four twentieths of
an inch in the male and about three twentieths in the fe
male. At the point of these projections there are often small
distinct cartilages, which give attachment to the thyroaryte
noid ligaments. The perpendicular projections of these bo
dies have also on each of their summits a small, distinct, iso
lated cartilage united by perichondrium. The arytenoids are
endowed with extensive freedom' of motion, including a rota
tory motion, a sliding one transverse to their axes of rotation,
and an oblique tilting motion. They are destined for the at
tachment of several muscles, whose forces are directed to re
gulate the movements of the glottis, and the modulations of
the voice.
   The Epiglottis t is a fibro-cartilage occupying a position be
tween the summit of the larynx and the base of the tongue.
It is articulated to the superior margin of the angle formed by
the union of the lateral portions of the thyroid cartilage, and
in its passive state stands almost perpendicular, but assumes
a horizontal direction when the larynx is raised in the act of
deglutition. In form it has been aptly compared to the leaf
of an artichoke ; and on both surfaces, but more especially on
               • Fig. 1.                     t Fig. 4.

                    the Physiology of the Human Voice.                      205
 its laryngeal surface, are found numerous minute orifices in
 which glands lie imbedded. The epiglottis is repressed by
 two pair of small muscles called the Aryteno-Epiglottidei, and
 the Thyro-Epiglottidei. The effect arising from the depres
 sion of the epiglottis upon the fundamental key of the vocal
 tube is somewhat uncertain. Majendie and Mayo* have in
 ferred from the experiments of M. Grenie t dial the epiglottis
 prevents the tones of the voice from becoming more acute
 when they increase in intensity ; this hypothesis is however de
 cidedly erroneous J, in as much as neither the elevation nor de
 pression of the epiglottis can affect or regulate the vibrations of
 the glottis.
    The Thyro-Arytenoid ligamentsk, or chordae vocales, as they
 are commonly (though improperly) denominated, are com
 posed of fasciculi of parallel fibres arising from the bases of the
 arytenoid cartilages ; thence proceeding forwards and inwards,
 they meet, and are inserted together into the posterior surface
of the thyroid cartilage at the junction of its ala?.
    These ligaments are immediately after death almost trans
 parent, and nearly inelastic. These characters, however, very
soon disappear by exposure to the air, and they become opake,
and yielding. Their length on an average, in the adult male,
 is six lines, and in the female four and a half lines.
    The chink formed by the separation of these ligaments is the
Rimula Glottidis. The form of this chink in a state of relax
 ation is elliptical, but when the cartilages are widely separated
it assumes the form of an isosceles triangle. The breadth of
the chink when relaxed is about three lines. The movements
of the larynx are effected by two sets of muscles; the one at
 tached principally to the os hyoides, which is the centre of mo
tion of all these parts and serves to raise and depress the vocal
tube ; the other is destined to control the movements of the
   » Vide Mayo, Physiol., p. 334.
   t " M. Grenie a trouve qu'on pouvait corriger ce defaut en mettant au-
dessus des anches, dans le tuyau vocal, des petites lamelles de papier, fixes
seulement par leur base, et qui, s'elevant quand Ie courant s'accelere, s'abab-
6ant quand il se ralentit, peuvent, par ces positions diverses, modifier le? on-
dulations de maniere que le ton reste constant, avec une intensite' de son
diflercnte." — Precis Elimentaire de Physique Experimentale, par J. Biot,
page 399.
   J According to Liscovius (p. 34.), neither its depression, its elevation, nor
even its entire removal have any effect on the voice. Halier (loc. cit. El.
Physio, lib. ix. p. 572,) appears also to be of the same opinion : " Epiglottis
equidem nihil faciat ad vocem ; cum ca (vox) nata sit et pcrfecta quam
primum aer ex glottidis rima prodiit et absque epiglottide aves suaviasimc
canant."
   § Fig. 2.

206         Mr. Bishop's Experimental Researches into
cartilages and internal mechanism of the larynx. The mus
cles which elevate the larynx are theThyro-, Mylo-, Genio-, and
Stylo-Hyoidei, aided by the Digastrici. In this elevation the
Genio-glossi, the Lingnalis, the Stylo-, Thyro-*, Crico-* Pha-
ryngei, and the Hyo-glossi concur.
    The muscles which have an opposite effect, and lower the
larynx, are the Sterno- Thyroidei, the Sterno-Hyoidei, and the
Omo-Hyoidei.
    The second set of muscles exerts a very important influence
on the voice, the functions of which being imperfectly under
stood will require a few details.
    The crico-thyroideus t muscle approximates the cricoid to
the thyroid cartilage anteriorly, and closes the chink between
them ; in this action, the posterior and upper edge of the cri
coid is rotated backwards, by which the antero-poslerior di
ameter of the larynx is enlarged, and the tension of the vocal
ligaments increased.
    The crico-arytenoideus posticus % is situated on the posterior
broad surface ofthe cricoid cartilage, from whence it originates.
 Its fibres, ascending obliquely outwards, are attached to the
base of the cricoid cartilage, between the crico-aiylenoideus
lateralis and the arytcnoideus obliquus and transversa. This
muscle, by drawing the arytenoid cartilage backwards and
 rotating it outwards, opens the aperture of the glottis.
    The crico-arytenoideus lateralis assists in closing the glottis.
 The peculiarity of the action of this muscle is, that by draw
 ing the external angular base of the arytenoid cartilage for
 wards, its anterior pyramidal projection, to which the vocal
 cords are attached, is at the same time rotated inwards.
    The thyro-arytenoideus is the most complicated, most im
 portant, and the least understood of any of the whole set. It
 forms the whole superior and inferior lateral boundary of the
 glottis, and is closely connected with the vocal ligaments ; its
 direct force is to antagonize the crico-thyroideus, to rotate the
 cricoid on the thyroid, and to draw forwards and approximate
 the arytenoids anteriorly, as likewise to relax the vocal liga
 ments. The thickness of this muscle being increased and ro
 tated upon itself inwards when contracting, forces the edges
 of the glottis together at its central part. By the various mo
 tions of the thyro-atytenoidei muscles on the vocal ligaments
 their edges are turned into the vibrating position, and by their
 action, in conjunction with that of their antagonists the crico^
  thyroidei, the tension, and the vibrating length of the glottis are
    • Names given to some fibres of the Constrictor Pharyngeus inferior,
    t Pig- 7.                                     J Fig. 2.

                the Physiology of the Human Voice.                      207
regulated. The thyro-arytenoideus superior serves to assist the
thyro-arytenoideus in relaxing the vocal ligaments.
    The arytenoideus obliquus and aryt. transversus* are muscular
bands situated between the two arytenoid cartilages, to which
they are attached. Some of the fibres assume a horizontal,
others an oblique course, and their united action is to bring
these cartilages towards each other, by which the aperture of
the glottis is closed posteriorly. It is commonly stated in
anatomical works that these small muscles are capable of
closing the glottis, but' this is incorrect.
    The larynx is lined throughout by a mucous membrane,
which being continued from the mouth, over the epiglottis,
forms in its descent those folds over the superior margin of the
thyro-arytenoidei muscles to which anatomists have given the
name of pseudo-glottis; thence swelling out into a pouch of
considerable size, it forms on either side the ventricle, or
 sacculus laryngis f; and finally, after having been reflected
 over the chorda vocales, it passes through the cricoid cartilage
 and becomes the membrane of the trachea.
    A number of mucous glands are situated in the folds of the
 pseudo-glottis and in the triangular space at the base of the
 epiglottis, their excretory ducts opening on that fibro-cartilage.
 These glands doubtless assist in lubricating the vocal canal.
    The thyroid gland, a singular substance so named (but in
 which no excretory duct has been discovered), is placed on
 the larynx and superior part of the trachea; it is composed of
 two lateral pyramidal portions, united in most subjects by a
 distinct glandular medium. The size of this gland varies in
 different individuals ; it is said to be larger in the female than
 in the male. It has generally been supposd by anatomists that
 this gland has some influence on the voice, but its true func
 tions are unknown J.
     The exquisite sensibility of the larynx, its dependence on
  the will, as well as its muscular motions, are derived from the
 superior and recurrent laryngeal filaments of the pneumo-gastric
  nerves.
      The distribution of these nerves to the muscles which act
  on the glottis is a subject of anatomical controversy. Experi
  ments made on them by Martin ||, Professor Sue of Paris, Dr.
     • Fig. 3.
     t The sacculus lart/ngis insulates superiorly the vocal ligaments.
     t It appears to me by no means impossible that the thyroid gland secretes
  a fluid transmitted by an invisible process which lubricates the vocal tube.
  The constant passage of air must render it requisite to be kept permanently
  moistened.
     || Edinburgh Essays.

 208 Mr. Bishop's Experimental Researches on the Human Voice.
 Haighton*, Cruikshanks, Scarpa, Arneman, Magendie, and
 others have been attended with curious results. The description
 given of them by the latter however is opposed by Rudolphi,
 Andersch, Scemmerring, Meckel, Bellengeri and others.
    The truth is, that the superior and recurrent nerves anasto
 mose in giving filaments to some of those muscles which di
 late, as well as to those which close the glottis.
    The action of these muscles may be briefly recapitulated as
 follows :
    The crico-arytenoidci poslici open the glottis.
    All the other muscles close it.
    The arytcncideus ohliquus and aryt. transversus close the
 arytenoid cartilages posteriorly.
    The crico-arytenoidei lateralis and the thyro-arytenoidei
 close them anteriorly.
    The thyro-arytenoidei close the centre of the glottis, and
 with the crico-lhyroidei, regulate its tension, position, and vi
 brating length.
    The views here taken of the actions of these muscles differ
 from those entertained respecting them by anatomical authors
 in general.
    Not having found any two anatomists strictly agreeing on
 the subject, 1 have been induced to make numerous dissec
 tions to ascertain their functions in producing voice.
    The annexed figures were drawn by Mr. Henry Dayman,
 from these dissections.
    The actions assigned to the thyro-arytenoidei admit of
 most discussion.
    That these muscles relax the vocal ligaments, and at the
 same time close the glottis, may at first sight appear exceed
ingly doubtful ; but all my attempts to close the glottis by the
approximation of the arytenoid cartilages and the tension of
the thyroidei muscles were unsuccessful, nor could any sound
 be produced until the thyroidei were brought into action, ex
 cept by forcing such a volume of air through the glottis as it
is almost impossible can take place during life f.
    In confirmation of this view, it is observed by M. Magendie,
   • Mem. of the Med. Soc. London.
   t The quantity of air expelled to produce voice of ordinary intensity
is about twenty-five cubic inches in the adult male, with a voice pitched in
the tenor G. To produce its grave octave of the same intensity will re
quire 50 cubic inches. In ten seconds therefore the lungs will be almost ex
hausted in producing the upper G, and in five seconds for the grave octave ;
allowing 200 cubic inches to be expelled, which is the average quantity of
air the lungs are estimated to contain after a full inspiration.
   The quantity of air expelled from the lungs will consequently vary with
every note in the scale relatively with the key and the intensity of tone.

             Mr. Woolhouse's Reply to Prof. Young.                       209
that if the tkyro-arytenoidei are paralysed or their nerves di
vided, the vocal chords will no longer vibrate.
   Although there is a great diversity of opinion respecting the
actions of the other muscles, they may nevertheless be easily
demonstrated on mechanical principles, which has been partly
accomplished by Mr. Willis.
   In reference to their functions, the vocal organs may be re
garded as a wind instrument, of which the lungs are the bel
lows, the vocal tube the pipe, and the glottis, composed of
elastic vibrating membranes, is the reed.
   The type of these organs is found in all the higher classes
of vertebrated animals, in mammalia, in birds, andin reptiles.
In fishes it may be considered as rudimental.
   The production of the most simple tone of voice requires
the associated actions of a most extensive range of organs *,
of which the following is a brief exposition.
    When the tension of the thyro-arytenoid ligaments takes
place they turn upon their axes ; their planes (which in a state
of"relaxation are parallel t to the axis of the vocal tube) become
perpendicular^: to it, and as the edges of the glottis approxi
mate, its chiuk is closed up and acquires its true vibrating po
sition §.
                             [To be continued.]
XLIII. Reply to Professor Young's concluding Remarks on the
  Theory of Vanishing Fractions. By W. S. B. Woolhouse.||
 TN my last paper, on the theory ofvanishing fractions, (p. 18,)
     I have discussed the subject so fully and set forth so many
plain and straightforward mathematical arguments, completely
proving the truth of the general principles objected to by Pro
fessor Young, that I conceive it would be quite superfluous to
make any further addition to what has been already so clearly
and satisfactorily established.
    Professor Young's concluding remarks on the theory of
vanishing fractions are, however, of so unrestrained and
extravagant a nature that I cannot possibly allow them to
pass without some notice. His observation that the expres-
       x* —a9
sion — — implies an operation to be performed, and that
   • In the ordinary modulations of the voice more than one hundred mus
cles are brought into action at the same time,
   t Fig. 4.
   X This state of the thyro-arytenoid ligaments is the vocalizing position of
 Mr. Willis: they will not however vibrate unless their edges (through the
 medium of the mucous membrane) be approximated, and when thus ad
justed, they are in the state which I have denominated the true vibrating
 position of the glottis.
   6 Fig. 6.                 II Communicated by the Author.
 Third Series. Vol.9. No. 53. Sept. 1836.                    2A

210           Mr. Woolhouse's Reply to Prof. Young's
its value is x + a\ is in my opinion totally without meaning.
Any person possessing a slight acquaintance with the common
definitions of plain algebra needs not to be told that the ex
pression x + a implies an "operation to be performed" just as
equation,
every one
much        Xof~
         as the  expression
                them,
                  ° ="xsymbolical
                            4- a,
                               ^—^     forms."
                                       ; and
                                  simply  indicates
                                             that The
                                                  thea expressions
                                                        fact is that are,'
                                                        transformationthe
of one symbolical form into another, by the operation of divi
 sion ; and I have distinctly shown that this operation is not
justifiable when x is equal to a, as indeed Professor Young
                                                   a» a*
 tacitly
 or       admitsfrom
    detached      whenits he
                          interpretation.
                             speaks of the Iform      _ the
                                              hold that      questions,
                                                          - as  isolated
                            x* — a?
 What is the value of x — a when x = a ? and What is the
           a2 — d* o
value of —       — ? are not " perfectly distinct" unless the con
dition of continuity be expressly introduced. In the case x = a
 the operation of division by zero is actually performed in the
above equation, and yet Professor Young pertinaciously asserts,
 with an undignified attempt at sarcasm, that he has " never
 seen " any work in which the zero processes occur : the objec
 tionable process occurs in every example that he has adduced ;
and I am persuaded that he would not, in candour, have insisted
on the problem of Clairaut, or indeed on any other example,
as an obstacle to my principles, had he attentively considered
my general reasoning at the bottom of page 24 of this volume.
With respect to this problem I shall refer to Spiller's very
neat translation of Lacroix's Algebra, as the more likely to be
in the hands of the English student, and just observe that the
operations are strict as far as the quadratic root at the top
of page 167, but that the succeeding operation in which the
numerator and denominator of the second of the two fractions
contained in the surd are multiplied by 1 — m, is unwarrant
able in the case m = 1. If the surd be expanded as it is im
mediately and legitimately presented by the quadratic, and the
value m = 1 substituted, the operation will lead to the proper
results, viz.      oo .   This will sufficiently account for my
having passed over " in silence so decided an argument" as
wholly inapplicable to the case.
   Professor Young refers particularly to the examples in
Bourdon's Algebra, see page 118, fourth edition, where
Bourdon deduces the symbols of his results from the general

         Remarks on the Theory of Vanishing Fractions.         21 1
 formula on page 106. Now in all these examples the factors
V c" — d b", b c* — c b1, are each zero, and therefore in finding
the value of x from the equations (4), (5), page 105, where
multiplications are directly performed by these factors, the ob
jectionable zero process actually occurs. Let any one follow
the steps of the general elimination, page 105, with one of
the particular examples, and the fallacy will immediately
present itself. It is the direct incorporation of these foreign
zero factors that gives to the results the form         which they
would not otherwise assume; and they furnish Professor
Young with another example of the zero processes which he
has " never seen."
   The expulsion of foreign zero factors, which are usually in
troduced in an investigation by direct multiplication, is the
object of my fourth proposition. If they were allowed to enter,
as legitimate factors, in mathematical reasonings, the form
might very evidently represent any species of quantity whatever.
The remarks of Bourdon on this symbol do not refer to what
it strictly represents, but only to its general indication, consi
dering all cases without any regard to the legitimacy of the
process. What Professor Young states respecting the foreign
factors is altogether foreign to the subject in dispute, as the
general principles maintained in my essay expressly object to
the introduction of all such factors. The real statement of the
question is this : Is the value of a vanishing fraction indetermi
nate or not when the zero factors, as in the ellipse question,
are not directly introduced, but arise spontaneously in the
investigation? and I have thoroughly discussed it in my former
papers.
   Professor Young's remarks concerning multiple solutions,
or what ought to have been properly termed indeterminate
solutions, is a mere quibble about words. I must frankly
confess that his important distinction between the two state
ments is one in which I cannot perceive the slightest difference
in substance. It would be an idle waste of words to say any
thing more about it His observations on singular solutions,
however, call for some remark. No objection whatever has
been offered to the statement which he defends so cavalierly
in his present letter. It must be highly amusing to the readers
to perceive him calling on the aid of Lagrange in support of
a statement that no one, for aught I know, ever thought of
disputing. The true state'of the case is as follows. Speaking
of the result of a general investigation furnishing every solution
to a problem, in his last letter he alluded to the well-known
fact of singular solutions not being comprised in the general
                               2 A 2

212             Dr. Hare'ow the Difference between
integral, as a decided denial of my statement. In my reply
I observed that a direct process of integration always leads to
the singular solution at the same time with the general solu
tion, thereby showing that the general result of the investiga
tion does really furnish every possible solution in accordance
with what I had said. Is it not, then, evident that the subject
of singular solutions was utterly useless as an objection to my
remark, that Professor Young had not sufficiently examined
the matter, and that his expression, that I had done myself
a " wanton injustice," was not justifiable on the score either
of accuracy or of propriety?
    I hereby close my remarks on this subject for the present.
 It is obvious that Professor Young, instead of applying his own
 mind to the discussion of the points at issue, has all along
 rested his evidence and opinions on a misinterpretation of au
 thorities. 1 do not suppose I should have written these brief
 and concluding observations for the readers of the Journal, had
 I not felt myself imperatively called upon to notice the tone of
 assumption and dictation that prevails throughout his last let
 ter. He ought not to be unconscious of the fact, that personal
 sarcasms and presumptuous language are not the generally
 received indications of a strong supply of argument or of a
 sincere desire after the development ot truth.
    London, August 13, 1836.
 XLIV. An Examination of the Question, whether the Discor
     dancy between the Characteristics of Mechanical Electricity,
    and the Galvanic or Voltaic Fluid, can arisefrom Difference
     of Intensity and Quantity; with some Observations in Favour
     of the Existence of an Electro-motive Power independently
    of Chemical Reaction, but cooperating therewith : respect/idly
     submitted to the British Associationfor the Advancement of
     Science. By R. Hare, M.D., Professor of Chemistry in the
     University of Pennsylvania.*
 "I N one of the papers, giving an account of Faraday's recent
  *¦ valuable researches in electricity, for copies of which I
 have been indebted to the flattering attention of the author,
 I find the following language :
     " Hence arises still further confirmation, if any were re
 quired, of the identity of common and voltaic electricity ; and
 that the differences of intensity and quantity are quite sufficient
 to accountfor what were supposed to be their distinctive quali
 ties f." And elsewhere referring to Cavendish, as the author
 of this opinion, it is alleged that it " only requires to be u>i~
       • Reprinted from a pamphlet privately circulated by the Author,
       f [See Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. iii. p. 363.—Edit.]

               Mechanical and Galvanic Electricity.             21 S
derstood in order to be admitted." Notwithstanding that in
support of the opinion thus quoted, the much-respected au
thority of both Cavendish and Faraday is arrayed, it is one
which I cannot so understand as to admit.
    I am unable to form any other idea of intensity, than that
of the ratio of quantity to space. Thus the intensity of the
pressure of an elastic fluid, is as the quantity to the space in
which it is confined. The space being the same, the intensity
of the pressure will be directly as the quantity ; the quantity
being constant, the pressure will be inversely as the space.
    Agreeably to an analogous mode of reasoning, the intensity
of the light or the heat emanating from a radiant body, is al
ways estimated to be inversely as the surfaces on which it may
be diffused or concentrated ; and hence the inference that the
intensity is as the square of the distance inversely, or as the
area of the receiving surface of a lens or mirror, to that of
 the focus into which the rays are collected.
     It follows that if there be in any two cases, like quantities
 of electricity evolved by mechanical, and by galvanic appa
 ratus, the space occupied by the fluid generated by the latter,
 must be as much greater, as its intensity is less.
     In a memoir which I published upon this subject some
 years ago, I endeavoured to show that the spaces occupied by
 equivalent charges of galvanic and mechanical electricity were
 not such as to justify the idea that the former required for its
 existence a larger space than the latter. But on this subject,
 it is not now necessary to recur to the facts which I then ad
 duced, since I find it conceded in one of the recent Memoirs
 of Faraday, that the spaces occupied by the electricity evolved
 by galvanic apparatus, as compared with those occupied by
  mechanical electricity, are almost infinitely small. " A grain
  of water or of zinc, contains as much of the electric fluid as
  would supply eight hundred thousand charges of a battery con
  taining a coated surface of fifteen hundred square inches."
  " Four grains of zinc, with one of water, may yield as much
  electricity as is evolved during a thunder storm."
      It follows inevitably that the electric matter evolved by
  galvanic action is, previous to its evolution, in a state almost
  infinitely intense, as compared with that of the same matter,
  when evolved by a machine or meteorological changes. Yet
   to the currents induced in this matter, in the first-mentioned
   form, an opposite state is ascribed, as respects intensity, to
   that in which it has previously existed.
      It may be said with respect to currents, that the space being
   the same, the intensity will not only be directly as the quantity,
   but also inversely as the time in which it passes, or, in other

   21*           Dr. Hare on the Difference between
  words, directly as the velocity. But what is to create inequality
  of velocity when the channel, a wire for instance, is of the same
  size and nature in both cases ? When the same fluid is in
  question, the velocity will be as the forces by which it may be
  impelled. The only forces to which electricity has ever been
  alleged to be liable, as far as I am informed, are either the
  self-attractive or self-repulsive power of its own particles, or
  their attraction for other matter. It will be admitted that the
  intensity of these forces must, in the case of electricity, as in
  that of caloric or light, be as the quantity to the containing
  space ; and consequently, that it would be unreasonable to al
 lege that the reciprocal repulsion of the electric atoms, or their
  attraction for other matter, and consequently any velocity
 thence arising, should not be in proportion to the state of con
 densation from which they may be liberated.
     If the superior velocity displayed by electricity generated by
 friction be the cause, not the consequence of greater intensity,
 how are we to account for the superior velocity ?
 - According to the doctrine of Du Fay, electricity is retained
 upon the surface of a charged pane by the reciprocal attraction
 of the heterogeneous fluids. According to the Franklinian
 doctrine it is retained by its attraction for the negative surface,
 on which side this attraction is not counterbalanced by repul
 sion from other electricity. When the circuit is completed
 by a conductor, according to the one doctrine, a surcharge on
 the one side is translated to the other; while, according to the
 other doctrine, two heterogeneous fluids rush from the surfaces
 in which they are previously accumulated in excess, to enter
 into combination, and, at the same time, to restore the equili
 brium of the surfaces on which they have been respectively de
 ficient. But according to either hypothesis, wherefore should
 the forces be greater for electric matter when generated by one
 means, than when produced by another ? Why should a mass
 of electric matter evolved in a diffuse state by a machine, or
 from a cloud, rush like a bullet through conductors, which are
 almost impassable to the same fluid when evolved from a state
 of extreme density within a simple galvanic circuit?
    During the process of exciting an electric battery, the elec
tricity previously existing equally on both sides of the glass
is so transferred from one side to the other, that the one be
comes as much negative as the other becomes positive; and it
must be evident that the intensity will be limited by the extent
of the force by which this transfer is effected. It is difficult to
conceive that merely by a change of capacity arising from fric
tion, a force should be generated at all comparable to that
which the electric matter must exert, in escaping, according

               Mechanical and Galvanic Electricity.             215
 to the premises, from a state of extreme density, as when ex
tricated by galvanic action from water or zinc.
    I ascertained, some years ago, that the galvanic fluid evolved
by a large calorimotor of a single pair, will not ignite a wire
which may be easily deflagrated by a much smaller apparatus
of the same construction. Yet sheets of metal, about four inches
in breadth, might be raised by a discharge from the larger
instrument above the temperature of boiling water. In such
cases, agreeably to the doctrine of quantity and intensity, the
electric fluid exists, up to the period of its evolution, in a state
of extreme condensation and consequent intensity, and yet at
the moment when a perfect but restricted channel is afforded
to it, becomes too diff use to pass through it with a velocity suf
ficient to produce deflagration. How can the electricity which
is in the one case so dense, become in the other so rare?
Where, and in what manner does it exist intermediately be
tween the period of its condensation within the pores of the
generating materials, and its rarefaction in the wire which forms
the circuit between them?
    I am aware that to the want of adequate insulation, the in
ferior intensity of the charges communicated to coated surfaces
by voltaic apparatus, will be attributed ; as it cannot, without
a palpable contradiction, be ascribed to any defect of intensity,
in a source wherein the ratio of the quantity to the space is
 almost infinitely great.
    Let us, then, examine the subject agreeably to this view of
 the case. Since the electricity liberated by electro-chemical
 reaction by means of a single galvanic pair must have pre
existed in a state of extreme condensation and consequent in
tensity, it follows that it ought to be productive of a tension
limited only by the insulating power of the menstruum within
 which it is extricated. It should then, when evolved as above
 described, attain the highest degree of intensity consistent with
 the insulating power alluded to. That this is not the fact, is
 fully established by general experience, and by the observations
 of Faraday, according to which the intensity of a voltaic series
increases with the number of pairs employed.
    It results also from the premises, that the tension should be
 come as great in a large as in a small pair; and by employing
 one large pair, effects should be attainable, as potent in respect
 to intensity, and more potent as respects quantity, than those
 resulting from a series of pairs. Yet the experiments above
 mentioned prove, that as the surfaces, associated as a single
 galvanic pair, are enlarged, the intensity lessens ; so that a ca
 lorimotor of a single pair containing fifty square feet of zinc,
 will not, in a wire of any size, produce an ignition of as high

216              Dr. Hare on the Difference between
intensity as may be effected by the elementary battery of Wol-
laston, formed of a silver thimble, and piece of zinc propor-
tionably minute.
    It appears from the experiments of Professors W. B. and
H. D. Rogers *, that the power of a galvanic pair in deflecting
a magnetic needle, was increased by causing the surface of the
copper plate to exceed that of the zinc ; while by extending the
zinc surface beyond that of the copper, little or no increase of
power ensued. This result appears to be the opposite of that
which the theory of Wollaston, supported by some recent ob
servations of Faraday, would lead us to expect. As pursuant
to that theory, the galvano-electric fluid is due exclusively to
 chemical reaction ; if the charge were not promoted by an ex
cess of extension in the oxidizable metal, it ought not to have
 been improved by similar extension of that which is insuscep
 tible of oxidizement.
    According to the observations of the Professors above men
 tioned, the deflection resulting from a galvanic discharge, on
 the first immersion of the plates, after a repose of two hours,
 was six times as great as that which could be permanendy sus
tained. The greatest effect appeared always to ensue before
 there was any sensible extrication of hydrogen, and the com
mencement of the effervescence was invariably the signal for a
 decline of power.
    It was by analogous observations respecting the igniting in
fluence of galvanic apparatus that I was led to the construction
of my deflagratorsf, in which the deflagrating power appears,
 agreeably to my experience, to be exalted as much by the re
 pose of the surfaces as the ability to influence the magnetic
 needle was ascertained to be, in the experiments of my saga
 cious friends above mentioned.
    That the evolution of the galvanic fluid is not in proportion
 to the intensity of the chemical reaction, is corroborated by the
fact, that the intensity of the ignition, excited in a wire by a
galvanic discharge, diminishes, while the effervescence in
 creases; and it is well known that the power of galvanic ap
 paratus is not augmented by adding to the strength of the sol
vent, beyond a very moderate limit.
    But if it be granted that chemical affinity, when reacting
within a galvanic circuit, without any propulsive power from
die elements of the circuit, can receive a peculiar impulse, so
as to produce a current of the electric fluid, confining it at the
same time to a very narrow channel, by what process can this
species of chemical reaction be conceived to accelerate an elec-
   • See Silliman's Journal for October, 1834.
   + [See Phil. Mag., First Series, vol. Ivii, p. 281, lix. p. 113. & lxiii. p. 341.
—Edit.J

               Mechanical and Galvanic Electricity.             217
 trical current already produced ? The same propulsion must
be given to the electricity liberated between the plates of the
second pair as between those of the first ; and it is inconceivable
to me, that the accession of that derived from the first pair
 should add to the velocity of the portion evolved by the second.
The current of the former cannot be supposed to move with
greater velocity on account of its meeting with another, which
moves at its own rate. Currents are not accelerated by their
confluence, unless the head or pressure be increased, and the
channel restricted. But in the case in point it has been shown,
that by the reaction of the solvent with the first pair in the se
ries, the tension must attain the highest degree consistent with
the imperfect insulation ; and no cause has been assigned for
the restriction of the channel. It may be said that the current
from the first pair cannot pass through the liquid in the second
cell without causing the decomposition of that liquid ; and that
as its power is inadequate to effect this change, it has to pur
sue the same route as the electricity which is generated by the
oxidizement of the second plate of zinc. It is still difficult to
me to imagine that it can transfer its momentum to the cur
rent which thus precedes it; or that the chemical reaction by
which the latter is evolved, should act only in accelerating the
stream which it receives from the preceding pair. Granting
that imponderable matter, at the moment of its extrication
from confinement among ponderable atoms, were to receive an
impulse which, by extraneous cooperating causes, should force
it to move in a current, yet I cannot imagine that such atoms
can, by any reaction originating between themselves, give an
impulse to imponderable matter extricated from other atoms.
Whether or not the electricity be derived from chemical reac
tion, it seems to me that the power which puts it in motion,
and accelerates and condenses it into a channel, still smaller
and smaller as its intensity increases, must be ascribed to some
mysterious property arising from the arrangement of the ele
ments of the series, which is, in the present state of our know
ledge, inexplicable.
   This electromotive power, if not antecedent, does not ap
pear to me to be consequent to chemical reaction. I conceive
that it operates upon all the imponderable elements within its
scope, tending to accumulate them at the " electrodes" under
a greater or less degree of tension. The potency of the re
sulting discharge, when the circuit is completed, is regulated
both by the tension and the quantity of the imponderable mat
ter accumulated. But the presence of reagents, which favour
the extrication of imponderable materials, as in the more effi
cient voltaic apparatus, is compatible only with a feeble insu-
    Third Series. Vol. 9. No. 53. Sept. 1836.            2B

218             Dr. Hare on the Difference between
lation, while arrangements more favourable to insulation, as in
De Luc's Electric Column, are incompatible with a copious
supply of the imponderable matter.
    Probably upon an analogous ability to produce or annul, to
promote or retard, chemical reaction, the efficacy of animal
and vegetable organization is founded, being obviously depen
dent on an arrangement of masses. The voltaic series of a
gymnotus is evidently an animal organ, and its analogy with
the voltaic series produced by human ingenuity induces me to
consider the latter in the same class of agents as' the organs
by which life is supported.
    I should have expected, that in establishing the highly inter
esting fact that every elementary equivalent has the same
quantity of electricity, the ingenious author of this discovery
would have adverted to the analogous observations of Petit and
 Dulong respecting the specific heat of elementary atoms. It
 strikes me as important, that similar conclusions should have
 been arrived at by such high authority, both as respects caloric
 and the electric fluid. lam surprised that Faraday should
 appear to have overlooked this analogy in the explanation of
 the practical results which he has obtained.
    No hypothesis appears to be more generally sanctioned at
 this time among chemists than that which ascribes the aeriform
 state to a union between caloric and ponderable matter. When
 hydrogen unites with oxygen, caloric is evolved. It follows
 that when these substances are made to resume the gaseous
 form, caloric must be supplied to them.
     When it is considered that the inferences of Petit and Du
 long, respecting the specific caloric, and those of Faraday re
 specting the electricity combined with ponderable equivalents,
 tend to demonstrate the coexistence in them of equivalent at
 mospheres of each of those imponderable fluids, does it not
  authorize a surmise that in the voltaic current they may be
  associated ; and that with those equivalent measures of elec
 tricity which Faraday has shown to pass, corresponding por
  tions of caloric are imparted? The idea of Berzelius, "that
 the heat and light evolved during powerful combinations, are in
 consequence of an electric discharge at the same moment taking
 place" being cited by Faraday in the language of this quota
  tion, he observes, that it " is strictly in accordance with his
  view of the quantity of electricity associated with the particles
  of matter." To me it appears to be no less in accordance
  with the idea that heat and light are associated with those
  atoms to a commensurate extent ; and since, by the premises,
  electricity reacts with them, they may be presumed to react
  with electricity.

                 Mechanical and Galvanic Electricity.            219
    That heat, light, and electricity are all concomitant pro
 ducts of electro-chemical reaction, is self-evident. Agreeably,
 then, to the strict rules of induction, wherefore is the principle
 last mentioned to be considered as the cause of the others?
    Where is the proof that the heat and light evolved between
the " electrodes" are effects merely of electricity ? The fact of
the apparently uidimited evolution of heat from a finite portion
of wire duly subjected to a voltaic circuit, is inexplicable, con
sistently with the materiality of caloric, unless we suppose the
fluid to be derived from the same electro-chemical reaction to
which we owe the electricity associated therewith.
    I conceive it to be almost self-evident, that mechanical and
voltaic electricity are due to the same fluid, so far as they are
strictly electrical. The only doubt with me is, whether the
very different characteristics of the phenomena produced by
the different means alluded to could be explained without sup
posing some other modifying causes. And at all events, from
the reasons above given, I am dissatisfied with the explanation
that the difference is dependent on quantity and intensity.
    In terminating my observations, I subjoin the following
statement of my opinions as heretofore expressed in one of my
text-books.
    " It does not appear to me that the production of electro
magnetic phenomena, both by galvanic and by electrical dis
charges, disproves my opinion, that caloric and electricity are
connate and coordinate products of galvanic action.
    As ignition is producible by either discharge, whether elec
tric or galvanic, the fluid of heat, no less than the electric fluid,
may in both cases be concerned ; and it is yet to be shown,
that magnetic phenomena are ever due to the unalloyed agency
of electricity.
   It is true that magnetism has been imparted, by discharges
of mechanical electricity, without any ostensible agency of ca
loric ; but it is equally true, that magnetic movements have been
produced also, by the application of heat, unaccompanied by
any ostensible agency of the electric fluid ; and it seems as ra
tional to suppose that caloric and electricity are associated in
the first instance as in the last. >
   Those who consider electricity, varying in quantity and in
tensity, as the common cause of electrical and galvanic ignition,
and of thermo-magnetic phenomena, must suppose that this
principle and caloric are capable of a reciprocal action. In
the first case, caloric is evolved by electric action ; in the last,
electric currents are produced by calorific repulsion. Hence,
as action and reaction are equal and contrary, I deem it ra
tional to suppose that in some cases the former, in other cases
                                  2B2

 220     Mr. Rainey on the Attractive Power of Magnets,
 the latter, may be the prime mover ; but that both participate
 in every galvanic, electro-magnetic, or thermo-magnetic cur
 rent.
 XLV. On the Difference between the Attractive Powersfor soft
    Iron of the Electro-magnet and the Steel Magnet ; in reply to
    Dr. Ritchie. By G. Rainey, Member of Hie Royal College
    of Surgeons.
   To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
       Gentlemen,
 rT,HE last Number ofthe Philosophical Magazine, at page 83,
     contains some remarks by Dr. Ritchie upon a paper which
 I communicated in May last (printed in the Number for July),
 concerning the cause of the great disproportion in the attrac
 tive power of the electro-magnet for soft iron when in contact
 and at a distance, compared with the attractive power of the
 common steel magnet under similar circumstances. The con
 cluding paragraph of Dr. Ritchie's paper is as follows :
    " In the explanation given by Mr. Rainey, the lifter is sup
 posed to react powerfully on the electro-magnet, so as to in
 crease its power, a supposition which cannot possibly be ad
 mitted. For the electro-magnet must, in the first place, give
 the lifter all its magnetic power, consequently the power of the
lifter can never exceed that of the electro-magnet, and conse
quently never can induce a higher magnetic state in it than what
 has already been done by the voltaic helix." What Dr. Ritchie
pronounces to be a supposition which cannot possibly be ad
mitted, I will prove, I think to Dr. Ritchie's satisfaction, both
by reasoning and experiment, to be an absolute and undeniable
fact. My position is, that the lifter of a common horse-shoe
magnet can exceed the power of the magnet to which it is ap
plied ; and in case that magnet has not received its maximum
of magnetism, can induce in it a higher state of magnetism
than that which existed before the application of the lifter;
and that in proportion as the permanent magnet resembles in
its texture soft iron, the effects of induction on it and on the
electro-magnet more closely resemble each other, so as to
render it obvious that the effect of the keeper on the two is the
same, excepting in degree.
   Let a and b denote the inducing power of the magnet A, and
let B be a piece of soft iron, placed in the position represented
in the annexed diagram, and sufficiently large to receive all

                in reply to the Rev. Dr. Ritchie.               221
the magnetism S is capable of
Itis evident that a will represent the mag
netism induced at the adjacent end of the
soft iron, and b that at the remote one: now
in this position of the soft iron B can have
no more magnetism than it receives from
S ; consequently, cannot exceed the power
of the magnet A, and therefore cannot in
duce in it a higher degree of magnetism
than it possessed before the contact of B.
So far Dr. Ritchie's assertion holds good ;
but the circumstances are very different
under which the armature is placed in the
electro-magnet, or the common horse-shoe magnet referred to
in my paper.
   Now let B be placed, with its extremities in contact with
both poles of the magnet A ; then, according to the first case,
a will represent the magnetism at the S pole, and b that at the
N pole ; but as S has induced in B a + b of magnetism, so N
must induce in B b + a of magnetism ; therefore 2 a will now
represent the magnetism at the S pole, and 2 b that at the N
pole. According to this reasoning, the contact of the armature
should tend to induce a + b of magnetism in the magnet A,
provided A has not received its maximum of magnetism,
or is not too hard to admit of further induction by the reaction
of the keeper.
   This is exactly what occurs, which will be manifest from
the following experiment. Take a common horse-shoe mag
net, magnetized in the ordinary manner; then weaken this
magnet by gliding repeatedly the armature from the poles to
the neutral point : this mode of reducing the power of a mag
net is much better than by applying its poles to the similar
poles of another magnet, as it does not alter the disposition of
the magnetism in the metal ; consequently the position of the
neutral point remains in the centre. The magnet being thus
treated, note accurately its magnetic power ; then apply a piece
of soft iron to its poles, in the manner in which the lifter is em
ployed in the electro-magnet; and after the removal of the soft
iron, the magnet will be found to have acquired a considerable
increase of magnetic power. If the lifter be slided from the neu
tral point to the poles, its reaction will have been exerted more
generally upon the steel, and the magnetism induced by the
keeper will consequently be increased. By performing these
experiments upon magnets composed of steel of different de
grees of hardness, it will be found that the softer the steel is
the greater will be the increase of the magnetism it acquires

  222       The Rev. Dr. Ritchie's Remarks on certain
 from the reaction of the armature : and the density also of the
 armature has considerable influence over its inducing power,
 both on the steel magnet and the electro-magnet ; if the arma
  ture applied to the electro-magnet be made of very hard steel,
 it will not sustain so much weight from the same intensity of
 galvanic current as if it be made of soft iron.
    Thus it will be obvious that the more the steel is allied to
 iron in its temper, the more closely the effect of the keeper
 upon the steel magnet will resemble that upon the electro
 magnet. Hence the explanation of the action of the armature
 upon the one will apply to the other.
    In order that no misconception of my meaning may take
 place, I will give one application of the above reasoning to the
 case of the electro-magnet. Suppose a feeble galvanic current
 to have been passed around an electro-magnet, and that the
 magnetism induced by this current is represented by a and b;
 then, according to the foregoing explanation, 2 a and 2 b will
 represent the magnetism on each side of the centre of the ar
 mature ; and as this exceeds the magnetic power induced by
 the voltaic helix in the electro-magnet by a + b, the armature
 will induce a + b of magnetism in the electro-magnet As
 soft iron offers so little impediment to the inducing power of
 the armature, this power may be considered to exert its maxi
 mum effect upon very soft iron, and its minimum on the
 hardest steel : now suppose the electro-magnet to have received
 an accession of magnetism from a stronger galvanic current,
 which may be represented by c + d, then the inducing power
 of the armature will be raised to 2 (6 + d) at one extremity,
 and 2 (a + c) at the other ; and the electro-magnet will have
 now received from the armature c + d more of magnetism,
 and so on for all future additions of magnetism induced by the
 voltaic helix, until the electro-magnet has attained the highest
 state of magnetism it is capable of.                        •
 XLVI. Remarks on certain proposed Improvements in the
    Magneto-Electric Machine. By the Rev. William Ritchie,
    LL.D.t F.R.S., Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Royal
    Institution ofGreat Britain and in the University ofLondon.
 IN the last Number of the Philosophical Magazine, p. 1 20, there
     is a paper on Magneto-electric Machines, by Fred. Mullins,
 Esq., M.P., of such an extraordinary nature, that I feel my
 self called upon to point out its fallacy and inconsistency. As
facts are by far the most stubborn things to get rid of, I shall
 simply state two experiments, which will be quite sufficient,
 without entering at all into the principles of the science.

  proposed Improvements in the Magneto-electric Machine. 223
   Experiment 1. Take two bars of soft steel of any convenient
size, cut one ofthem in the middle, and bend the other into the
form of a horse-shoe magnet ; temper both to the same colour,
magnetize them equally, and try their powers in the following
manner : bring the two bars, as
in the figure, to different di
stances from the lifter A B, and
ascertain their attractive power ;
remove the bars and substitute
the horse-shoe, and its power of
attraction, and consequently its
inducing power, will be found to
be much superior. Place the
bars and horse-shoe in succession at the same distance from a
revolving lifter, and the electricity induced on the coil will be
found to be much greater, both in deflecting a needle and in
decomposing water, with the horse-shoe magnet than with the
equal bars.
    Hence the absurdity of using bar magnets instead of horse
shoe ones to induce magnetism on soft iron, and thence voltaic
electricity on a coil.
    Experiment 2. Cut a bar of the same length as before into
three portions, bend one of the pieces into an arc, magnetize
the two parts, apply the arc to form a horse-shoe magnet as
 Mr. Mullins proposes, repeat the previous experiment, and the
 old horse-shoe magnet will be found to be much stronger than
 the new one.
    It is easy to see how Mr. Mullins, in his experimental re
 searches, has been led into these errors. Horse-shoe mag
 nets, made by ignorant makers, are often left almost entirely
soft at the bending and only hardened towards the poles or ends,
 from the old absurd notion that the magnetism was accumu
 lated at the poles. The soft part of the circuit therefore,
 possessing scarcely any coercitive power, is very much in the
 same state with a piece of soft iron. Such a magnet may per
 haps be improved by cutting off the bending and supplying
 its place by a properly magnetized arc. Another error into
 which Mr. Mullins has fallen is not so easily accounted for :
 he affirms that the size of the arc is of no consequence. A
 tempered steel wire would therefore be as good as an arc
 formed of steel, two inches broad and half an inch thick. In
 stead then of recommending gentlemen who have horse-shoe
 magnets applied to magneto-electric machines, to cut off* the
 bending, the wisest course will be to let them alone if they are
 properly tempered, if not, to get them re-tempered and re-
 magnetized.

                              [   224     |
            XLVII.      Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                       ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
 Feb. 9, r I TiE reading was concluded of a paper " On the Ana-
  1836.
 by              tomyEsq.,
     Robert Garner,    of the
                           F.L.S.,"
                              Lamellibranchiate    which had been
                                     a portion of Conchi/erous     read
                                                               Animals,
 at the meeting on November 24, 1835.
    Founded principally on the author's individual observations,
 which have extended to the animals of several genera the anatomi
 cal structure of which is hitherto insufficiently known, this commu
 nication embodies also much information derived from the works of
 Poli, Cuvier, Bojanus, Home, M. de Blainville, and others. It is so
arranged as to constitute a condensed memoir on the subject to which
it is devoted, Comprehending a summary of all that is yet known
    After some general remarks on the high importance of a know
ledge of the structure of the animals that form those shells which
have at all times attracted the attention of the curious, but to an
acquaintance with which many naturalists, until of late years, have
been content to limit themselves, Mr. Garner proceeds to speak of
the position of the animal with respect to the shell ; and thence to
describe the variations in the form of the animal which occasion those
appearances in the shell on which rest the primary subdivisions
made by conchologists among the Lamellibranchiate Conchifera. He
regards Anomia as being in some measure intermediate between this
order and the Brachiopoda ; and in illustration of this view describes
with some detail the structure of the animal of that genus.
   Mr. Garner then adverts to the mode of growth of the shells and
to their structure, and considers them in the variations in form
which some of them undergo in their progress from the embryo to
the adult state. He dwells also on the diversity of form assumed by
the several groups of Bivalves, and shows in what manner these are
occasioned by the form of the animal that produces the shelly cover
ings ; referring to the foot especially as exercising in this respect a
very remarkable influence.
    The general review of the external form of the animal is succeeded
by an account of the several systems of which it is composed. These
are treated of in the following order : 1. Muscular system ; 2. Ner
vous system ; 3. Digestive system ; 4. Circulating system ; 5. Respi
ratory system ; 6. Excretory system; 7. Cilia (and into this part of
his subject the author enters with more than usual detail) ; and, 8.
Reproductive system. Under each of these heads a rapid review is
taken of the principal variations that occur in the order, and the
illustrative examples referred to are generally numerous.
    Finally, the author devotes a section of his paper to the diseases
and the parasites of the animals on which he treats.

                             Zoological Society.                      225
   In conclusion, Mr. Garner submits the subjoined tabular view
of an
   Anatomical Classification of the Lamellibbanchiate Conchi-
                              fkrous Animals.
With but one adductor muscle. Monomyabia, Lam.
   Tentacles very long, not distinct from the bran
      chiae ; an additional muscular system                Anomia.
   Tentacles short, separate from the branchice.
         No foot                                           Ostrea.
         A foot.
            Bronchia disunited medianly.
               Foot long, cylindrical ; ocelli at the edge
                  of the mantle                            Pecten.
               Foot short, thick, with a disk at the ex
                  tremity, from the centre of which
                  depends a pedicellated oval body ;
                  ocelli                                   Spondylus.
               Foot compressed ; no ocelli                 Lima.
             Branchite conjoined medianly                   Vulsella*
With two adductor muscles. Dimyaria, Lam.
   Mantle without separate orifices or tubes.
         Foot slender, byssiferous ; tentacles fixed . . Avicula*
         Foot thick, rounded, with a callosity             Area.
         Foot compressed, securiform                       Pectuncuhs.
         Foot oval below, its margin tentacular, ten
            tacles volute                                  Nucula.
         Foot large, pointed anteriorly, bent at an
             angle                                         Trigonia*
   Mantle with a distinct anal orifice.
         Foot small, byssiferous.
             Anterior muscle small ; retractile muscles
               of the foot numerous ; byssus large.
                  Byssus divided to its base               Mytilus.
                  Byssus with a common corneous cen
                     tre                                   Modiola.
                  Anus furnished with a long ligulate
                     valve                                 Pinna.*
             Muscles equal ; two pairs of retractile
               muscles only ; byssus rudimentary .... Lithodomut.
         Foot large, not byssiferous                       Vnio.
   Mantle with a superior and inferior orifice ; not
      elongated into tubes.
         Mantle widely open                                Cardium.
         Mantle closed around the foot or byssus.
             Foot short and discal, byssiferous ; an
               terior muscle small                         Tridacna*
             Foot small, cylindrical, bent at an angle;
               lips foliated                               Chama*
             Foot small, sharp ; lips simple               Isocardia*
   Third Series. Vol. 9. No. 53. Sept. 1836.                 2C

226                     Zoological Society.
  Mantle with two produced tubes, or siphons.
      Bronchia not produced into the lower tube.
        Mantle closed around the foot                Loripes.*
        Mantle open.
           Tubes disunited ; foot lanceolate.
             Foot large, rather falciform ; external
               bronchia shortened ; mantle tenta
               cular ; labial tentacles large        Donax.
             Foot small ; external bronchia short
               ened ; edge of the mantle simple ;
               tentacles small                       Psammobia.
             Foot moderate ; external bronchia as
               long as the internal ; tentacles
               large ; margin of the mantle en
               tire                                  Tellina.
             Foot small ; bronchia equal ; mantle
                tentacular                           Amphidesma.
           Tubes more or less united ; foot various.
             Bronchia united medianly.
               Tubes small, partially divided ; foot
                   very long, obtuse                 Cyclas.
               Tubes small, united to the ex
                   tremity; foot very long and
                   pointed                           Mactra.
                Tubes large, foot short and promi
                   nent behind                       Venerupis.
             Bronchia disunited medianly.
               Foot lanceolate, prominent behind ;
                   tubes small, united                Cytherea.
                Foot securiform ; tubes larger and
                   more or less distinct             Venus.
      Bronchia produced into, or attached to, the
           lower tube ; tubes always united.
         Mantle only open inferiorly for the protru
             sion of the foot.
           Tubes small ; lips long.
             Foot small ; bronchia of each side
                united into one                      Pandora.
             Foot larger ; bronchia separate ....    Corbula.
           Tubes long; lips small.
             Foot not byssiferous ; tubes large and
                coriaceous                           Mya.
             Foot byssiferous ; tubes moderate . .   Hiatella.
         Mantle open anteriorly.
           Foot long, club-shaped ; tubes short . .  Solen.
           Foot very short, rounded.
             Two distinct adductormuscles, the an
                terior one situated below a reflect
                ed portion of the mantle uniting
                the beaks instead of a cartilage ;
                tentacles large                      Pholas.

                               Zoological Society.                             227
                   Body very elongated ; adductor mus
                      cles united ; end of the mantle with
                      two calcareous pieces; tentacles
                      small ; no cartilage nor reflected
                      portion of the mantle                        Teredo.
    For the anatomy of the several genera marked in the above table
 with an (*), the author acknowledges himself indebted either to
 Cuvier, Poli, or M. de Blainville.
    He refers occasionally to other genera, besides those enumerated,
 as included in the groups distinguished by the characters given
 above.
    Mr. Garner's paper was accompanied by numerous drawings of
 the objects and structures described in it, which were exhibited in
 illustration of his communication.
    Feb. 23.—Mr. Gould, at the request of the Chairman, exhibited
 specimens of numerous Birds forming part of the Society's collec
 tion ; and directed the attention of the Meeting to those which he
 regarded as the most interesting among them.
    He stated that one of them was especially curious as exhibiting a
 form of Insessorial Bird, not safely referrible to any known family ;
 on which account he proposed to consider it as the type of a group
 to be designated
                                   Paradoxornis.
    Rostrum altitudine longitudinem superans, ad basin vibrissis in-
       structum : mandibuld superiore valde compressa ; culmine acuto,
      valde arcuato ; tomio edentulo, apicem versus valde incurvo, ad
       basin producto : mandibuld inferiore ad basin lata, robusta; to
       mio parvae,
    Nares           rotundatae, pone rostrum sitae.
            emarginato.
   Ala
    Tarsi
    Caudabreves,
   Pedes   magni,
           robusti,
            mediocris,
                  rotundatae
                    subtus
                     lseves.
                         gradata.     digitis magnis
                             lati: :remigibus          ; halluce
                                               4ta, 5ta,         longioribus.
                                                          et 6ta ungueque  postico
      maximis.
   Ptilosis ampla, laxa. *
   The breadth of the under surfaces of the feet is so great as to in
dicate considerable powers of grasping.
   Paradoxornis flavirostris. Par. arenaceo-brunneus, subtus pal-
      lidior;guttureque
     facie                albis nigro
               capite nuchdque       rufo-brunneis
                                          variis ; pectore  higro.
                                                    ; auribus  partim aterrimis ;
   Long. tot. 8 unc; ala;, 3-J-; caudee, 4$; tarsi, 1±; hallucis (ar-
      cuati), i.
   Rostrum splendide aurantiaco-flavum ; pedes ccerulescentes.
   Hab. (verosimiliter) in Nepalia.
   Mr. Gould regarded another of the Birds exhibited as the repre
sentative of a new type among the Thrushes ; and characterized it as
the type of the genus
                                   Actinodura.
   Rostrum subcompressum, subarcuatum, ad apicem subemargi-
      natum.
   Nares   basales, lineares, operculo magno tectae.
                                        2C 2

228            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
   Ala molles, breviusculse, concavre : remige lma brevissima, 4ta
      Staque longioribus.
   Cauda mollis, elongata, gradata.
   Tarsi elongati.
   Pedes majusculi : halluce ungueque poslico longiusculis.
   Ptilosis mollis, laxa.
   The wings and tail in the birds of this group are transversely
barred. The typical species are crested.
   Actinoduka Egertoni. Act. cristata ; supra nitidt rvfo-brunnea
      olivaceo tincta, subtus pallide rvfo-brunnea; crista, occipile, ge-
      nisque brunnescenti-cinereis ; remigibus ad basin rufis, pogoniis
      nigra flavoque fasciatis ; secundariis nigra brunneoque fasciatis;
      rectricibus sordidi ru/o-brunneis, lineis saturatioribus transversim
      notatis, alboque apiculatis.
   Long. tot. 8-J-unc; ala, 3+; cauda, 44; tarsi,           rostri, 1.
   Hab.
   Rostrum    pedesque brunnei.
          in Nepalia.
   The specimen described was presented to the Society by Sir P.
Grey Egerton, Bart., M.P.
   The following species were also characterized by Mr. Gould . viz .
Corvus pecloralis, Corv. curvirostris, Prionites carruliceps, and Plyc-
tolophus producing, of which the characters are given in the Pro
ceedings.
       XLVIII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
  BKtTISH ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE.
                            SIXTH MEETING.
THE sixth meeting of this Association, held at Bristol, has been
      highly satisfactory in every respect, both as regards the number
and the eminence of the men of science who attended, the quantity
and value of the communications, and the zeal and cordiality which
were manifested. A general outline of the proceedings has been
given in the daily and weekly papers : we shall, we conceive, best
promote the interests of science by reserving our pages as last year
for authentic and official details. We may, however, just notice the
subjects of two of the communications, on account of the lively in
terest which they excited.
   On the change in the chemical character of Minerals induced by
Galvanism. By R. W. Fox.
   Mr. Fox mentioned the fact, long known to miners, of metalli
ferous veins intersecting different rocks containing ore in some of
these rocks, and being nearly barren or entirely so in others. This
circumstance suggested the idea of some definite cause ; and his
experiments on the electrical magnetic condition of metalliferous
veins, and also on the electric conditions of various ores to each
other, seem to have supplied an answer, in as much as it was thus
proved that electro-magnetism was in a state of great activity under
the earth's surface; and that it was independent of mere local action
between the plates of copper and the ore with which they were in
contact, was shown by the occasional substitution of plates of zinc
for those of copper producing no change in the direction of the vol

                         British Association.                     229
taic currents. He also referred to other experiments, in which two
different varieties of copper ore, with water taken from the same
mine, as the only exciting fluid, produced considerable voltaic
action. The various kinds of saline matter which he had detected
in water taken from different mines, and from different parts of the
same mine, seemed to indicate another probable source of electri
city ; for, can it now be doubted, that rocks impregnated with or
holding in their minute fissures different kinds of mineral waters,
must be in different electrical conditions or relations to each other?
A general conclusion is, that in these fissures metalliferous deposits
will be determined according to their relative electrical conditions;
and that the direction of those deposits must have been influenced
by the direction of the magnetic meridian. Thus we find the me.
tallic deposits in most parts of the world having a general tendency
to an E. and W. or a N.E. and S.W. bearing. Mr. Fox added,
that it was a curious fact, that on submitting the muriate of tin in
solution to voltaic action, to the negative pole of the battery, and
another to the positive, a portion of the tin was determined like the
copper, the former in a metallic state, and the latter in that of an
oxide, showing a remarkable analogy to the relative position of tin
and copper ore with respect to each other as they are found in the
mineral veins.
   The Chairman (Dr. Buckland) said.it had been observed to them
last evening, that the tests of some of the highest truths which phi
losophy had brought to light was their simplicity. He held in his
hand a blacking-pot, which Mr. Fox had bought yesterday for a
penny, a little water, clay, zinc, and copper ; by which humble means
he had imitated one of the most secret and wonderful processes of
nature, her mode of making metallic veins. It was with peculiar
satisfaction he contemplated the valuable results of this meeting of
the Association. There was also a gentleman now at his right hand,
whose name he had never heard till yesterday, a man unconnected
with any Society, but possessing the true spirit of a philosopher ;
this gentleman had actually made no less than 24 minerals, and even
crystalline quartz. He (Dr. B.) knew not how he had made them,
but he pronounced them to be discoveries of the highest order : they
were not made with a blacking-pot and clay, like Mr. Fox's, but the
apparatus was equally humble ; a bucket of water and a brickbat
had sufficed to produce the wonderful effects which he would detail
to them.
   Artificial Crystals and Minerals.— A. Crosse, Esq., of Broomfield,
Somerset, then came forward, and stated that he came to Bristol to
be a listener only, and with no idea that he should be called upon to
address a Section. He was no geologist, and but little of a minera
logist ; he had however devoted much of hi stime to electricity,
and he had latterly been occupied in improvements in the voltaic
power, employing a battery which he had succeeded in keeping in
full force for twelve months by water alone, rejecting acids entirely.
Mr. C. then proceeded to state that he had obtained water from a
finely crystallized cave at Holway, and by the action of the voltaic
battery had succeeded in producing from that water in the course of

230           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
ten days numerous rhomboidal crystals, resembling those of the cave :
in order to ascertain whether light had any influence in the process,
he tried it again in a dark cellar, and produced similar crystals in six
days, with one fourth of the voltaic power. He had repeated the
experiments a hundred times, and always with the same results. He
was fully convinced that it was possible to make even diamonds, and
that at no distant period every kind of mineral would be formed by
the ingenuity of man. By a variation of his experiments he had
obtained green and blue carbonate of copper, phosphate of soda, and
20 or 30 other specimens.
   Mr. Crosse having also observed in a cavern in the Quantock Hills
near his residence that the part of it which consisted of slate was
studded with crystals of arragonite, while the limestone part was
covered with crystals of ordinary carbonate of lime, or calcareous
spar, subjected portions of each of these substances in water to long-
continued galvanic action, and obtained from the-,
            Slate                                Limestone
     Crystals of Arragonite.                    Calcareous Spar.
   It was mentioned to the Section on the following day, that although
no doubt could be entertained of the independence and originality
of Mr. Crosse's experiments, yet that he had been anticipated, in
the artificial production of many of the crystallized bodies which he
had formed, by M. Becquerel, and some other French chemists.
AURORA BOREALIS OBSERVED IN THE ISLE OF WIGHT, ON
                            AUGUST 10TH. '
   An aurora borealis was observed at Ityde, Isle of Wight, on the
night of Wednesday the 10th instant (August), which for its inten
sity, its occurrence so far south, and at such a time of the year, is
worth recording. It was first observed about half-past eleven
o'clock. There was the usual dark band upon the horizon under
the magnetic north, and to some distance right and left of that point :
at intervals of time the space above this became luminous, likea glow
 of twilight, and this broke out into columns, nearly upright, but in
clining above to the east, and, as far as could be judged by the eye,
parallel to each other, and not convergent to the zenith or any other
point in the heavens. They were gradually transferred by a slow mo
tion from west to east, and generally ended by assuming a fine red co
lour. The appearance continued for an hour or more, but about
one o'clock all had resumed the ordinary state. The stars were out,
twinkling very much, and falling stars were observed frequently on
that and the three or four preceding evenings.               M. F.
        ON THE REDUCING POWERS OF ARSENIOUS ACID.
            BY G. BONNET, ORNSHAGEN, POMERANIA.
   When arsenite of copper is put into a solution of caustic potash
or soda the colour of the mixture turns to a yellowish brown. This
effect takes place at ordinary temperatures, quicker or slower ac
cording to the strength of the alkali j upon application of heat the
process is hastened and perfected. The same effect also occurs

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.             231
when arseniteof potash or soda is mixed with a solution of any salt
of copper, and a caustic alkali is added to it. It also takes place
on mixing arsenite of potash or soda with hydrated oxide of copper,
and then adding a caustic alkali ; the change is very slow with heated
oxide of copper. Upon examination of the precipitate after washing
the following action takes place.
   Diluted sulphuric acid is coloured blue, and metallic copper is
left; muriatic acid added in a small quantity changes the preci
pitate into a white powder, a larger quantity gives a brown solution ;
from which it follows that the precipitate is a suboxide of copper;
this is confirmed by the experiments which follow. The reduction
of the oxide of copper can only be attributed to the effect of the
arsenious acid, which it is to be observed is converted into arsenic
acid. 100 parts of arsenious acid, taking 161 parts of oxygen for
its conversion into arsenic acid will therefore convert 159*6 of oxide
copper into suboxide. In order to ascertain whether the reduction
of the oxide of copper by the addition of the ingredients in this
proportion would also result, as well as by the employment of arse
nite of copper in which a larger quantity of arsenious acid was pre
sent, the following experiments were made :
    1*6 gramme oxide of copper were dissolved in very dilute sul
 phuric, and 1 grm. of arsenious acid was dissolved in a solution of
 10 grms. of caustic soda of specific gravity 1-20; the solutions were
mixed together cold, and 20 grins, caustic alkali were added ; the
mixture was placed in a warm situation and often stirred; the co
lour soon changed and the precipitate completely formed. The so
lution was poured off, and the suboxide copper was washed with
warm water and separated.
    The solution was neutralized by nitric acid ; sulphate of copper
gave a blue precipitate, and nitrate of silver a reddish brown pre
 cipitate, indicating the presence of arsenic acid.
   The washed precipitate mixed with boiled water acidulated by
sulphuric acid changed immediately to brown flakes of metallic
copper j the supernatant liquid was poured off, and the copper
well washed with boiling water, collected and weighed ; it weighed
0 62 gram.
   One half of 1-6 gramme of oxide of copper will give 0-638 me
tallic copper. The result of the foregoing experiment agrees nearly
with this ; it may be considered therefore that all the oxide of cop
per is reduced by arsenious acid to the state of suboxide. If this
experiment were repeated by taking double the quantity of arsenious
acid the same result would take place, and the oxide of copper
would be only reduced to the state of suboxide.
   When caustic ammonia is used, the oxide of copper is only par
tially converted into suboxide. The solution remains perceptibly
blue, and only becomes colourless upon the addition of a caustic
alkali. If the blue ammoniacal solution is supersaturated by sul
phuric acid, metallic copper is precipitated.
   The carbonated alkalies occasion no perceptible reduction of
oxide of copper, which is also the case with caustic lime.
   Upon considering the reducing power of arsenious acid on oxide

  232           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
  of copper, it is probable that oxygen may be separated from other
  metallic oxides; particularly in the case of the metallic acids which
  easily part with their oxygen. Several trials on metallic oxides
  gave negative results, but the idea was confirmed with regard to
  metallic acids.
      Manganesiate of potash was dissolved in water, a caustic alkali,
  and then arsenite of soda were added; upon mixing, the green co
  lour was restored, a dark brown precipitate fell, which was oxide of
  manganese.                        j.
      Chromate of potash was dissolved, caustic alkali and arsenite of
  soda added, the solution t»n warming became green. In this case
  no oxide of chrome fell. The arsenious acid prevented the precipi
  tation of the oxide of chrome by means of the alkali, which is evi
  dent by the following experiment.
      Hydrated oxide of chrome was dissolved in muriatic acid, to
  which was added a solution of arsenite of potash: caustic alkali did
  not give the least trace of oxide of chrome. When to the solution of
  oxide of chrome in muriatic acid, arsenite of ammonia, and then
  ammonia, were added, no precipitate took place. It is to be re
  marked that arsenious acid has also a reducing power over other
  acids, for example, on molybdic and tungstic acid, but for want of
  these acids I was unable to make the necessary experiments.—
  Poggendorff's Annals, 1836, No. 2.
    ON THE COMPOSITION OF PLAGIONITE. BY RUDERNATSCH.
     This mineral has been analysed by Professor H. Rose, who found
 it to consist of         Lead               40-52
                         Antimony           37-94
                         Sulphur             21-53
 and has given the formula of 4 Pb S + 3 Sb S5.
     As this combination of sulphur in sulphuret of antimony is in a very
 uncommon proportion to the sulphuret of lead, namely as 9 to 4, and
 as Berzelius, in his Jahresbericht, has thrown some doubt on the ex
 istence of such a compound, which he considers likely to be a mixture
 of the two, Mr. Rudernatsch was induced to repeat the examination
 of some very distinct and well-defined crystals : he followed the same
 mode of analysis as Professor Rose, which gave the following results :
                         Lead                40-98
                         Antimony           37'53
                         Sulphur.'.          2149       100-
     In a second analysis, which was only to determine the quantity of
 lead, he found 40'8 1 per cent.
    It therefore appears, by these analyses, that plagionite is a peculiar
 chemical combination.— Poggendorff's Annals, 1836, No. 4.
 ON SOME TRIPLE COMBINATIONS OF CHLORIDE OF OSMIUM
    IRIDIUM AND PLATINUM WITH CHLORIDE OF POTASSIUM
    AND MURIATE OF AMMONIA. BY R. HERMANN OF MOSCOW.
    1 .— Triple Salt of Chloride of Osmium and Chloride of Iridium
tvitfi Chloride of Potassium.—When the native mixture of iridium

                   Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.              233
   and osmium, as it is found in the platinum sand in the Uralian
   mountains, is mixed with chloride of potassium, and a current of
   chlorine is passed through it; the whole being heated, a combination
   takes place: when the solution is evaporated, dark brown, or nearly
   black octahedrons are deposited. They are composed of
                     Iridium                               26-6
                     Osmium                                IS-*
                     Chlorine and chloride potassium 60'            100"
   giving the formula Os CI4 + 2 Ir CI4 + 3 K CI5.
      If this salt is mixed with its own weight of dry carbonate of soda
   and heated in a retort, one portion of the osmium is sublimed in the
  neck of the retort as a binoxide. By heating the residue in con
   tact with the air, a further portion of osmium is sublimed. The re
  maining sesquioxide of iridium retains only a small quantity of
  oxide of osmium, which by digestion in nitro- muriatic acid and
  heating may be entirely driven off.
     2.— Triple Salts of Chloride of Iridium and Platinum tvith Muri
  ate of Ammonia.—This salt is formed in abundance in the platinum
  manufactory at St. Petersburg on the evaporation of the solutions
  from which platinum is precipitated by sal ammoniac. Hitherto it
  has been considered as a combination of chloride of iridium and
  muriate of ammonia. It is found however to contain, besides chlo
  ride parts
  100          are composed
        of platinum            of 31 76a small
                       and ammonia,             quantity of palladium.
                                         iridium,
                                  10*59 platinum,
                                   1-25 palladium,
                                 56 40 chlorine and muriate of ammonia.
  It is therefore a combination of 1 atom chloride of platinum, 3 atoms
  chloride of iridium, and 4 atoms muriate of ammonia, with a small
  quantity of chloride of palladium and ammonia.
     3.— Triple Salt of Chloride of Iridium and Platinum with Chlo
 ride of Potassium.—When the sesquioxide of iridium and platinum
 is digested with muriatic acid, the solution gives off the smell of
 chlorine; chloride of iridium and chloride of platinum are dissolved
 by the acid. If nitrate of potash is added to the solution, the yellow
 colour changes to a wine red, and by the addition of chloride of
 potassium dark red octahedral crystals are deposited on evapora
 tion j this salt is composed of 8'00 iridium,
                                    32-00 platinum,
                                    60-00 chlorine and chloride of potash,
 giving the formula Ir CI4 + * PI CI4 + 5 K CK
    This action ofmuriatic acid on a mixture ofsesquioxide of iridium
 with platinum should not be overlooked in the analysis (according to
the direction of Berzelius) of platinum sand. Berzelius directs that
the mixture of the oxides of platinum, rhodium, and iridium, which re
mains after the precipitation by carbonate of soda of the double al •
kalinesalrs, should be digested with muriatic acid, in order to with
draw a portion of the alkali with which the oxides of rhodium and
iridium have combined. By this means iridium and platinum will in
    Third
every       Series. be
        instance     Vol.
                       held
                          9. No.  53. Sept.by1836.
                             in solution                     acid, which is
                                               the muriatic 2D

234-            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 necessary to be kept in view in order to obtain a correct analysis.—
 Poggendorff's Annah, 1836, No. 2.
     NOTICE OF THE LIFE AND CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE
                       OF THE LATE M. NOB1LI.
    The following notice of the scientific labours of M. Nobili, from
 the pen of Professor A. de la Rive, is translated from an article in
the Bibliotkeque Vniverselle.
¦ " It is with a feeling of the deepest grief that we announce the loss
 which science has recently experienced in the person of the Chevalier
 Leopold Nobili of Reggio. This distinguished natural philosopher
 died at Florence, on the 5th [17th?] of August 1835, at an age which
gave the hope of a still longer continuance of his life: it appears
 that lie sank under an affection of the chest. This loss, felt by all the
learned world, is especially so by the editors of the BMiotheque
 Universelle, to which M. Nobili was in the habit of consigning his
important researches. Our journal has had the advantage of making
known the first labours of the learned Italian, and of publishing
thenceforward successively all the others. We therefore believe that
we obey a sacred duty, and discharge the debt of a very natural
gratitude, in endeavouring to recall in a few words the principal
 services which M. Nobili has rendered to science.
   "After having occupied himself with investigations respecting mag
 netism and light, purely theoretical, M. Nobili began in 1825 to devote
 himself to experimental researches. He commenced by inventing
the galvanometer with two needles, which has since rendered such
great services to experimental philosophy, and which has been
generally adopted ; its description will be found in the BMiotheque
 Un'werselle, vol. xxix. p. 119. More recently, he added to this first
invention that of the comparative galvanometer. But the series of
investigations which in an especial manner made M. Nobili known
to the learned world, was that relative to the colours developed
upon metallic plates acting as poles in the electro-chemical decom
position of different solutions. The discovery of this brilliant pheno
menon, the study of all the circumstances which accompany and
modify the production of these coloured rings, were the object of two
important memoirs, which, inserted at first in vols, xxxiii. and xxxiv.
of the Bibl. Univ., were afterwards republished in most of the scien
tific journals.
   " It was while pursuing the examination of this subject, that M. Nobili
succeeded in demonstrating the cause of the electro-chemical motions
of mercury, (Bibl. Univ vol. xxxv. p. 161,) and in discovering in
the de-formation which the coloured appearances undergo in certain
cases, the existence of a reciprocal action exerted by electrical currents,
and analogous to the interference of luminous rays. (Bibl. Univ.
vol. xxxvi. p. 3.) Some years later, he resumed the questions
which related to the form and the production of these electro-chemi
cal appearances, and succeeded in employing them as a valuable
criterion to follow the elementary electrical currents in their progress,

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.                235
their distribution, and their mode of grouping. He thus deduced
from them important consequences respecting the interior mechan
ism of the pile, and the manner in which electricity distributes itself
in it. (Bibt. Univ. vol. Ivi. p. 150 )
    " Whilst studying the electro-chemical appearances, in reference to
the light which they might throw upon everything connected with
the electric current, M. Nobili did not neglect to consider them
independently, and with a view to the applications to the arts which
they might present. He has described in a long memoir (Bibt.
 Univ. vol. xliv. p. 337, and vol. xlv. p. 3.5,) the series of processes
by which he succeeded in constructing, by means of the electro
chemical appearances, a chromatic scale which presents every de
gree and all the different blendings of colours; this essay also con
tains many ingenious views respecting the theory of colours in ge
neral*. We cannot terminate what we have to say concerning this
part of M. Nobili's researches, without again insisting on the beauty
and variety of the colours which are obtained by the method which
he has devised ; we will add, that their permanency appears to us
truly remarkable, and we do not doubt that sooner or later art will
possess itself of the process, and derive great advantages from it.
As to the cause of the phenomenon of the electro-chemical appear
questionthe
ances,        learned
           ; but        Italian
                  it appears  to us
                                 hasbeyond
                                      scarcelydoubt, that they
                                                occupied       are owing
                                                           himself       to 1
                                                                   with the
a very strongly adherent deposition formed on the metallic plates,
by excessively thin films of the substances decomposed by the electric
current: this point, however, merits investigation.
   " The annlysis of the electro-physiological effects, obtained when a
frog forms part of the circuit, and of the consequences in relation to
animal electricity which may be drawn from them, was the object of
laborious researches on the part of M. Nobili. (Bibl. Univ. vol. xliv.
pp. 48 and 165.) He had already shown in a preceding essay, enti
tled 1 Comparison between the two most sensible Galvanometers, the
 Frog, and the Multiplier with two needles,' (Bibl. Univ. vol. xxxvii.
p. 10,) that the frog may give rise, by itself and without any exter
nal agent, to an electrical currentf ; he had studied the direction of
this current, and the circumstances which modify its direction and
its intensity. But in the memoir which we have first quoted, he
had deeply studied the phenomena which result from the combined
action of the current of the frog and the external currents, and he
had arrived at remarkable results respecting the influence of the di
rection of these last currents, in reference to the effects upon the
animal economy which result from them. He lately returned again
to this subject, (Bibl. Univ. vol. xlvii. p. 174,) less for the purpose
of adding new facts to it, than to combat M. Marianini, who was
also engaged in this question, but who had arrived at entirely dif
ferent results. We confess that we do not conceive why such di-
   * A translation of M. Nobili's Memoir here noticed, will be found in
the Scientific Memoirs, Part I., published on the 1st of August.—Edit.
   t Had not this been shown long ago, quite early in the history of Vol
taic electricity ?—Edit.
                                    2D3

23G            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
stinguished philosophers as Messrs. Nobili and Marianini have de
voted so much time to researches of so little general interest, and in
which it is so difficult to arrive at any precise and well-determined
result, and we even regret that they have done so.
    *' In the memoir which we have cited above, (Comparison, Sfc.) and
in a subsequent note, (Bibl. Univ. vol. xxxvii. p. 174,) M. Nobili
had cited several remarkuble experiments on the development of elec
tric currents by chemical action, and on the laws of this development.
He had placed beyond doubt the fact, disputed by Davy, of the
production of electrical currents by chemical action, and had shown
this production, in the case of simple solutions and double decom
positions, as well as in the others. He had found no relation be
tween the intensity of the currents obtained, and the intensity of the
chemical action, or the electric nature of the combined elements.
But having obtained sensible currents by applying heat to liquid or
humid bodies (such as moistened clay), he had thence concluded
that the electric currents developed in chemical action, are owing to
the heat which always accompanies it. Pursuing this idea, he
developed it more completely in a memoir, entitled ' On ilie Nature
of Electric Currents.' (Bibl. Univ. vol. xxxvii. p. 118.) In this
paper, the author successively passes under review the currents
which take place without chemical action, or the thermo-electric
currents, and those which are accompanied by chemical action, or the
 hydro-electric currents. While occupying himself with the first, he
carefully studies the case when the circuit contains only a single
metal, that in which it contains two, that in which the circuit is hu
mid, that in which it is mixed : in these two last cases, the current
appears to him to proceed always from the hot to the cold part ; in
the two first this law appears to suffer exceptions. In the examina
tion which he makes of the electric currents, M. Nobili finds also
that the electric effects follow the course of the heat, more sensibly
in the cases in which one of the elements is solid, because the heat is
concentrated in it, than in the case when both are liquid, because the
heat is there disseminated. Summing together all the proofs of
the identity of caloric and electricity, he finally arrives at the conclu
sion, that the electric current is only caloric in motion. The inverse
 conclusion might with equal reason have been arrived at, that caloric
 is only electricity in motion ; the truth isiprobably neither in one nor
 the other of these two identities, round which philosophers have, as it
 were, for a long time revolved. Singular weakness of the human
 mind, which, because effects resemble each other, absolutely requires
 that one be the cause, the other be the effect, as if they could not
both depend on a more general cause common to both !
    Whatever be the judgement awarded respecting the merit of the
 theory which we have just called to mind, the memoir of M. Nobili.
 will remain not less remarkable, from the curious facts with which it
 has enriched science. Thenceforward, the subject of thermo-elec
 tric currents never ceased to occupy the learned Italian : he espe
cially succeeded in mailing the thermo electric pile the most sen
 sible of thermoscopic instruments. His first attempts of this kind are

                 Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.                   237
recorded in the Bibl. Univ. vol. xliv. p. 22o ; more recently, in con
junction with M. Melloni, he has exemplified, by researches on the
passage of radiant caloric through bodies, all the advantage that
might be obtained from this new instrument placed in the hnnds of
experimental philosophers. It is well known to what admirable dis
coveries M. Melloni has since made it subservient ; but we ought
not to forget that we owe the first idea to M. Nobili.* Recently
again {Bibl. Univ. vol. lvii. p. 1,) he has published, accompanying it
with some curious results, a description of two new forms of the
 thermo-electric pile, adapted to augment its degree of sensibility,
already very great, and to suit it to certain calorific researches, for
 which it could not be used in its original form.
     " M. Nobili had also made some investigations relating to magnet
 ism (Bibl. Univ. vol. Ivi. p. 82) ; he had studied in particular the
 magnetic state which is frequently imparted to the wires of a galva
 nometer by the vicinity of magnetized needles. But he paid parti
 cular attention to the phsenomena of the currents developed by the
 induction of magnets. At the first news which he received of Mr.
 Faraday's discovery, he set to work with M. Antinori to explore this
 new and curious subject, (Bibl. Univ. vol. xl. p. 1 27.) These two
 experimentalists obtained, like Mr. Faraday, a;l the effects of electric
 currents, by employing solely the induction of a magnet; they espe
 cially succeeded in thus producing the electric spark, and in demon
 strating that M. Arago's experiment of the rotating disc is satisfac
 torily explained by means of the electric induction of magnetsf.
     " M. Nobili was besides lately engaged in varous interesting re
 searches : we have before us a memoir by him, dated the 25th of
 January of this year, the first part of which we insert in the present
  Number of the Bibl. Univ. ; its subject is • the distribution and effects
  of electric currents in conducting bodies' We are not aware that he
  has since finished any other labours ; if, however, it should be other-
     • Translations of the first two memoirs, by M. Melloni, on the trans
 ition of radiant heat have been given in Part I. of Scientific Memoirs ; and
  the series will be continued in Part II., which will be published un the 1st
  of November next.—Edit.
     t We must bee leave to express our dissent from the representations
  made by M. de la Rive, on these two subjects. In Phil. Mag. and Annals,
  N. S. vol. xi. p. 401, will be found a translation of a paper by MM. No
  bili and Antinori,"On the Electro-motive Force of Magnetism," with notes
  by Mr. Faraday, in which it is shown, that M. Nobili and his coadjutor
  obtained the vlectric spark from a common magnet before Mr. Faraday had
  obtained it, simply in consequence, to use their own words at the con
  clusion of their paper, of their having " entered into a path before they knew
  all the steps taken in it by the illustrious philosopher who threw it open."
  After Mr. Faraday had discovered the means of eliciting the spark from the
  electro-magnet, to obtain it from the common magnet was a direct con
  sequence of that discovery. Mr. Faraday also shows in these notes, that
  MM. Nobili and Antinori had altogether mistaken the character of the
  acting causes in Arago's experiments, the true theory of which he had him
  self, in fact, fully developed. A more detailed statement on this latter sub
  ject will be found in Mr. Faraday's letter, to M. Gay-Lussac, in the Annates
  de Chimie et de l'hysique, vol. li. pp. 404, 409, &c.—Edit.

  238             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
  wise, we shall hasten to publish whatever other researches have been
  made by thi3 skilful philosopher.
      " In recapitulation: during the ten years of his life which M. Nobili
  devoted to the sciences, he was principally occupied with electricity
  and magnetism, and the results of his numerous and interesting re
  searches in this department of physics may be arranged under the
  following heads : —
     " 1st, The improvement of galvanometers and the invention of the
  thermoscope-multiplier.
      *' 2ndIy,The discovery of the electro-chemical appearances upon the
  metallic poles, and the study of the distribution of electric currents.
      " 3rdly, Investigations relating to electro-physiological pheno
  mena.
      " 4thly, Researches relating to the production of electricity by heat
  and chemical action, and to the relations which subsist between these
  two modes of developing electricity.
     " 5thly, The study of magnetism, and more particularly of the pro
  duction of electric currents by the induction of magnets.
      " After having been momentarily interrupted in his labours by the
  events of 1831, M. Nobili resumed them, not long after, with re
  newed activity. Placed in that Museum of Florence in which the
  Academicians del Cimento performed their experiments; having at
  his disposal all the resources which this city, so worthy of the recol
  lections which it excites, presents ; honoured by the favour of a
  prince, at the same time the distinguished amateur and enlightened
  friend of the sciences; surrounded by cooperators of the highest
 merit, what would not M. Nobili have done ? he whom we had
 seen, after a youth devoted to the military profession, notwithstand
 ing the little assistance offered him by his native city, acquire in five
 years the scientific reputation which he enjoyed in 1830. Alas !
 why was it that a premature death came to destroy hopes so well
 founded, and to deprive physical science, which numbers so few at
 present, of one of its most able and devoted followers !
                                                      " A. DB LA RlVK.
    " Geneva, 30th September, 1835."
    We add the subjoined particulars from a notice of M. Nobili, by
 M. Matteucci, also given in the Bibliothique Universelle.
    «' To trace theeulogiiim of so celebrated a philosopher as M. Nobili,
is to write one of the brightest pages in the history of electricity ; is
to remind Europe, that in the country of Volta the germs of science
cannot disappear; is to render homage to the prince who knew how
to appreciate his labours, patronize his researches, and honour his
mortal remains ; it is also to discharge a debt arising from a high ad
miration for so many remarkable discoveries, and a sincere friendship,
which encouraged me in my first steps in science, a friendship which
very different scientific occupations have not since been able to change.
   "Born at Transilico (Garfagnana, Ducato di Modena) in 1784,
M. Nobili received his first scientific education in the military school of
Modena; it was there also that his talents for the physical sciences
began to develop themselves. Carried away in the military move

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.                           239
ment which swept over Italy, as well as the rest of Europe, he be
came Captain of Engineers, and he received on the field of battle,
from the hands of the Emperor Napoleon, the Italian decoration.
   " It would be difficult to describe the energy with which he related
to me one day, whilst walking on the banks of the Arno, the whole of
his military life, and particularly all the sufferings to which he was
a prey during the too celebrated Russian campaign.
   "Order and peace restored M. Nobili to his first studies, as they
restored to them, by a remarkable coincidence, a man who has fol
lowed a similar route in science, M. Becquerel, who had also been
Captain of Engineers.
   " Appointed Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Must urn of
Florence, that establishment to which his celebrated friend and coun
tryman M. Amici is attached aa Astronomer, M. Nobili gave during
two years, to a numerous auditory, lectures at once correct and full
of new views. It is by his cares, and by those of the director of the
establishment, that, thanks to the munificence of the sovereign, the
cabinet die physique has become one of the first in Europe, particu
larly with respect to the history of science.
    " M. Nobili was one of the forty of the Italian Society, a corre
sponding Member of the Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris, and of
several other learned bodies; he died August 17th, 1835, of a slow
entre'glite under which he had suffered for a long time.
    " A man of courage and rectitude, always lively and brilliant in
his private conversation, a skilful experimentalist, a learned philo
sopher, he left in his friends, in the friends of Italian glory, a deep
grief to have seen him so soon snatched from their friendship and
from science.
    "The Grand Duke of Tuscany has ordered a monument to be
raised to M. Nobili, by the side of the most illustrious Italians, in
 the church of Santa Croce, the Italian Pantheon. Honour to the
 prince who thus knows how to appreciate real merit !"
        METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS FOR JULY 1836.
    Chiswick.—July 1 —4. Very hot.           5. Excessively hot: thunder at
 night.      6. Thunder, which in London and its immediate neighbourhood
 was accompanied by hail of large dimensions : the latter, as also the light
 ning, did considerable damage.        7 — 11. Very fine. 1 2. Rain : very fine.
 13, 14. Very fine.          IS. Cloudy.         16—18. Fine.                19. Rain.
 20. Showery and cold : highest temperature in the day 35° lower, in the
 shade, than that on the 5th.        21. Fine : thunder showers : hail in some
 lightning
 parts     at night.
       of the  country. 28. Very22—26.
                                    hot. Cloudy     Heavy
                                               29. and                27. Overcast
                                                         fine.rain : stormy   at night.:
 30. Showery.        31. Cloudy and fine : rain.
    Boston.—July 1. Fine.         2. Cloudy.          3—5. Fine.           6. Cloudy:
 rain early a.m.      7—9. Fine. 10. Cloudy.            11. Fine. 12. Cloudy:
 rain early a.m. 13. Fine.          14. Cloudy.        15. Rain.         16. Cloudy:
 17, 18. Stormy.         19. Cloudy.                        21. Cloudy: rain a.m.
 and p.m.       22. Cloudy : rain p.m.        23. Fine : rain p.m.           24. Rain.
 earlyCloudy
 25.    a.m. : rain28.a.m.Fine.
                           and p.m. 29. Cloudy
                                           26. Cloudy.
                                                     : rain early27.a.m.  : rain: rain
                                                                       Cloudy      p.m.
 so. Cloudy : j-ain early a.m.       31. Fine.

 by
 Society
 Royal
 theOMr.
    made
AMGTof   HsateOrcioM;vdrstaPoemSlianeotOgsnNaitcr!ayl
     Sebpat                                                                          Dew-point. LRoy. Soc.on:d. Fdofeaghre.s
                                                                                                                      Ain9.M.
                                                                                                                                                  62 67 60 63 65 70 58 58 5965 65 67 53 59 59 53 54 54 54 54 51 51 52 53 54 55 59 60 6-2 54 54 582-
                                                                                                                       Boston.                                                                                                                                                         :04 14                                                  :08                 1-60
                                                                                                                                                                     . . . . •02                                                       •02                •02 •24 . . . .                       •06 •15 •34 •17 •05 •05                                    •22 .
                                                                                      Rain.                       Chisw.                                                                                                                                                                                       15                                                  1-78
                                                                                                                                                                               ¦08                                                     •01                •43              . . . •38 •03 •03 •03 •14                                  . . •32 •02 •14 •02
                                                                                                    Lo|ndon Roy.  Soc
                                                                                                                                       A9.M.                                                                                                                                                         '233 :047 ¦l8o"                                          158 Sum 1-886
                                                London;
                                                      CSociety
                                                       Hand
                                                        by
                                                        Mr.
                                                        BVEALL
                                                         oat
                                                          hrotinscuetwloaiunrca.kl,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           . . •250 .
                                                                                                                                                           .. .                        •116 . .                                                                 •316                      ¦311 ¦1269
                                                                                                                    BOBt.                                       calm calm 5. NW. NW. calm calm NW. w.                                                                                    calm
                                                                                                                                                   w. w.                                                                  W. W. w. w. NW. w. NW. s. w. N. NW. W. NW. W. w. w. 6. w. NW.
                                                                                                                Chisw. 1P.M.
                                                                                      Wind.                                                        W. w. SW. s. SE. NW. SW. NW. W. W. S. NW. SW. SW. S. w. SW. W. SW. N. SW. w. w. S. w. sw. S. SW. s. w. w.
                                                                                                     Lon:don Roy.    Soc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ne.var.
                                                                                                                                         A9.M.
                                                                                                                                                    E. SK. SW. SW. E. s w. 88W. WSW. SW. SW. S W. s w. SW. SW. s. 8W. w. w. s w. E. SW. WSW. SW. s. WNW. s. SW. S W. SW. SW.
                                                                                                            Boston. 8J     A.M.                          71-5                                                             70-5 63-5                              575                            57-5 58-5                          66-5                            62-1
                                                                                                                                                  70 66 70 7566 64 60 64 71 62 63 56 60,58 58 53 54 52 55 62 65 63 57 58
                                                                                                            C'hiswirk. Min. 5<r 46 47 56 63 45 51 48 55 56 60 52 54 51 46 56 52 47 50 43 47 47 45 50 49 59 47 59 54 46 52 43
                                                                                    Thermo et r.                                            Max. 88 88 84 92 94 79 76 77 79 87 88 7876 74 67 70 72 73 69 59 68 71 70 72 68 75 74 83 71 66 68 94
                                                                                                                            inf1^t[r.-j,1 Max. 77-6 76-9 79985-2 77-877-6 736 73-5 76-7 81-2 74-3 72-2 66-4 690 69-8 70-8 67-8 59-2 63-2 65-0 65-8 65-0 65-7 71-3 73-6 76-8 65-5 66-8 71-9
                                                                                                   Soc.on:don
                                                                                                  LRoy.                                                                                                                   807                        717                                                                                          697
                                                                                                                                             Min. 61-9 65-3 56-4 61-6 63-8 67-2 572 58-3 58-9 61-4 63-8 65-0 53-8 58-6 57-0 50-4 58-5 548 52-7 52-8 46-2 50-3 517 51-3 52-8 54-3 6o-2 55-8 61-4 54-9 50-5 571
                                                                                                                            Fahr. A9.M. 68-2 75-0 69-6 74-6 76-2 727 66-0 645 69-6 72-0 73-3 67-2 64-5 654 61-6 61-2 61-8 62-6 62-8 543 59-2 58-5 60-4 55-8 57-062-6 647 67-5 63-3 61-6 59-2 68-2
                                                                                                             Boston. M.HA.                        2948 2940 29-55 29-55 29-41 29         30 29-58 29-65 29-60 29-38 29-38 29-36 29-30 29-22 29-                  1 29-27 29-47 29-22 2900 2907 29-17 2948 29-   17 29-17 2950 29-44 29-38 28-95 29-30 29-68 2933
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       29-
                                                                                                                                                  30
                                                                                                                                                  097 30-185 302190-203 30-167
                                                                                                                                                                 330-275 30240           30-187
                                                                                                                                                                                         30130071 330-219
                                                                                                                                                                               12030-170 16
                                                                                                                                                                               30-
                                                                                                                                                                         30291 30-165              30-261         30- 301
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0-20 30-257 162       135
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1130-  142 29-706 29-969 29962 29-668 29734 29-908 30077 29441 29-658 29778 30-043 29724 29-787 30101 30-107 29-903 29-621 29-928 30-325 29-441
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30158 29890
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 30-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                30-089
                                                                                                                                            Min.                                                                                                                                   29-W2
                                                                                     Barometer.             Chiswick.
                                                                                                                                                  30-239 30-247                                           30-271 30-2 0                                                                                                            140 30059 29-665 30-289 30-418 30-418
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       29946 30-041 30002 29-895 29-82130-081 30116 29-699 29-758 29-897 30071 29-824 29960 30-132 30-
                                                                                                                                            Max.
                                                                                                      I.o:ndon Kov.Soc. A9.M. 136                  30- 30-220                                              30-305 30-257                       07530002 29-898 29774 29-911 30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        29734 30                               140 29-560 29-677 29794 30070 29835 29800 30-138 168 30- 30091 29-689 29990 30-453 30033
                                                                                          of
                                                                                           Days .Month.                                                                                                                  lOo.                                          1©7.
                                                                                                                                           July.                                                  Th.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  7.                                                Th.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    14.                                         Jh.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T21.
                                                                                                                  1S36.                           1. S.
                                                                                                                                                  F.     2. 3O. M.       4 5.  TC. 6.    W. F.            8. S.9. 11.           M. T.  12. # W13.. F.     15. 16.S. 18.       M. T.       20. F.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   29938 W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   19.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   29923             22. S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         23. O 24- M. 25. T.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           26. W.  27. O T28.h. F.29. S.30. O 31.

                              THE
             LONDON and EDINBURGH
PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                              AND
         JOURNAL               OF       SCIENCE. '
                           —<U+2666>—
                      [THIRD SERIES.]
                    OCTOBER 1836.
XLIX. On the Limestonesfound in the Vicinity of Manchester.
    By W. C. Williamson, Curator of the Museum of the
    Manchester Natural History Society.*
                     Sect. I. Introduction.
T I "'HOSE districts in the geology of which the saliferous
      group forms a predominant feature, are seldom consi
dered to possess any striking interest to the pursuer of that
pleasing study. The uniformity of the deposits, the rarity
of their organic remains, and their influence in producing a
tameness of surrounding scenery, have caused the red sand
stone districts to be regarded with anything but agreeable
feelings ; and this repugnance has often been the occasion of
an almost total inattention to localities which, when carefully
examined, have exhibited a series of results interesting to the
pursuer and important to science. A stimulus is thus given
to research, and even the unprolific red sandstone acquires a
powerful degree of interest from its connexion with and affi
nity to strata replete with organic life of the most interesting
kinds.
    Such has in some measure been the state of geological sci
ence in the vicinity of Manchester. On the south and south
west of the town commences that extensive range of new red
sandstone which diffuses itself over Cheshire, Staffordshire,
and several of the southern counties, presenting nothing of in-
                   * Communicated l>y the Author.
 " Third Series. Vol.9. No. 54. Oct. 1836.          2 E

24-2         Mr. Williamson on the Limestonesfound
terest in itself further than a few plain sections can afford, if
we except the salt mines of Cheshire. Concerning these, as
well as the variations of colour, much has yet to be learnt; but
the young student finds these questions too difficult to grapple
with, and the chief objects which would render the investiga
tion more pleasing to him, organic remains, are entirely
wanting.
   The northern side of the town is bounded by the vast series
of the Lancashire coal strata, which are always interesting, and
have consequently received a proportionate degree of attention,
especially from my friend Mr. Francis Looney; but the line
of junction between the saliferous and carboniferous groups
has been so little investigated, that the result has been an
error respecting the nature and position of a series of lime
stones which have now become the most interesting portion of
the geology of the district. This error is highly excusable, on
account of the difficulty of obtaining sections of the strata.
The surrounding country is so level that no natural ones can
be obtained except on the banks of the Medlock at Ancoats.
Human labour has exposed others on the line of the Liverpool
railway and at the pits near Ardwick, where some of the lime
stones are worked, but' these must be viewed in detail.
   Mr. Elias Hall, in his geological map of Lancashire, has
represented, by a green line, a series of limestones, under the
general head of magnesian, passing eastward of Stockport,
round the eastern and northern sides of Manchester, and ex
tending in an undulating direction to the western coast of Lan
cashire, near the village of Crosby. But here he seems to
have laid down the line with more distinctness than the ap
pearances will justify, as there are few points on the range
where any limestones are visible, and at three of the points out
of five, from Manchester to the coast, a limestone connected
with the coal-measures has been mistaken for and confounded
with the true magnesian limestone. These two we must ex
amine separately, the magnesian and the carboniferous series,
and as we proceed, we shall detail the circumstances which
induce us to differ from Mr. Hall's views.
                Sect. II. Magnesian Limestone.
   This stratum is but little exposed in this neighbourhood,
appearing only at two localities, Collyhurst near Manchester,
and Bedford near Leigh, between Manchester and the sea-
const, at both of which localities the exposed portion is ex
ceedingly circumscribed, and had we only been guided by ex
ternal appearances, we should have hesitated long ere we
identified the thin variegated deposit of Lancashire with the

                        in the Vicinity of Manchester.                       243
 extensive lamellar series of Yorkshire, or the peculiar crystal
 line one of Durham.
     The stratum at Collyhurst is exposed by a drain running
 down the side of the bank to the river Irk, where a red marly
 clay was visible, which on examination was found to contain
 fossil remains*. These were extensively collected by Messrs.
  Binney and Leigh, who made them the subject of a paper
  which was read before the Philosophical Society of Manchester
 and afterwards to the Geological Society of London f-
     Although mistaken in his views, great praise is due to Mr.
 Binney, for his industry and perseverance in bringing to light a
 number of interesting fossils ofgreat importance in drawingcor-
 rect conclusions concerning the nature of the stratum exposed.
     These gentlemen, in their paper, express a decided opinion
 that the fossils belong to the marles of the new red sandstone.
 Had this been correct, the discovery would have been a
 valuable addition to English geology; but subsequent inves
 tigation has proved that it is not. The portion ot stratum ex
  posed is so circumscribed and buried by the diluvial mass
 above, that little reliance can be placed upon the results of an
 examination of its relative position. What then must we turn
 to ?—Its organic remains. Some of these were first shown to
 me by Dr. Charles Phillips, of Manchester, towards the latter
 part of October, amongst which I recognised a specimen of
 Axinus obscurus, which afterwards proved to be one of its most
 abundant fossils. From this circumstance I was of opinion
 that the stratum would prove to be one of the divisions of the
 magnesian limestone, and such a statement I laid before the
  Philosophical Society at the time Mr. Binney's interesting
 paper was read. The following section was given by that
 gentleman, which in its general features corresponds with
  what I have observed.
                                                                           India.
 a. Top. Variegated marles. No organic remains                                  6
      bivalveredshells
 b. Strong        marie, traversed near its centre by a thin layer of fragile 6
 ft Light-coloured calcareous marles, marked with lines and spots of a
       beautiful red                                        :                   3
 d. Light- coloured calcareous strong marie, containing immense num
      bers of univalves (Turbo) and bivalves                                    5
 e. Clays, striped red and white, containing casts of bivalves                  4
/. Light-coloured marie, similar to No. 4                                       3
g. Variegated marles, with an immense number of univalves and bivalves 2
     The seams d and J', in the section called calcareous marles,
 are in fact concretionary nodules of limestone, containing spe-
    * Specimens of which, as early as 1832, had been sent to London by my
    t [See
friend        Francis
         Mr.our        Looney.p. 571. —Edit.]
                 last volume,
                                    2 E2

244          Mr. Williamson on the Limestonesfound
cimens of Axinus obscurus, and an Avicula, which will be no
ticed hereafter.
    At Bedford the magnesian limestone reappears under a
form very similar to that at Collyhurst, but has been far more
extensively exposed. It has for some time been quarried for
burning, but at present the pit is filled with water, so that the
fine section there presented from necessity cannot now be ex
amined. As at Collyhurst, it consists of a series of red clays,
with thin beds of limestone. The limestones are in numerous
thin seams, rarely more than twelve inches in thickness. To
wards the upper part they become still thinner, varying gene
rally from one to four inches, and not forming continuous
seams, but layers of flattened concretions, on the surface ofwhich
are found abundance of fossils. These limestones are variable
in colour ; the lower and thicker seams are of a greenish yellow
colour, and the thinner ones more tinged with the red sub
 stance which has given the colour to the separating marles.
                   Sect. III. Fossit Remains.
    The fossils of the magnesian limestone are neither nume
 rous nor of peculiar interest ; they chiefly consist of Axinus
 obscurus, Avicula, Crassina?, Trochus, and several varieties of
 minute turbinated shells, probably species of Turbo. The
 Axinus obscurus of Collyhurst differs only from those of Bed
 ford and Yorkshire in having a regular series of concentric
 striae on its external surface. These I have observed in
 impressions of some from the above places ; but neither the
 granular limestone of Bedford, nor the calcareous shelly marie
 of Yorkshire, is so well calculated to preserve the delicate
 characters of the shells as the fine clay of Collyhurst. The
 Axinus is found in every stage of growth, and at both localities,
 with the exception of one single specimen from Bedford, con
 sists entirely of single valves. From this it would appear
 that the shells had been gradually covered up, the ligaments
 being destroyed before they were buried and protected from
 decomposition and disunion of the valves.
    I am uncertain whether the Avicula be an undescribed spe-
 sies or not, but rather suppose it is. It approaches closely to
 Avicula socialis of Sowerby, which has induced some to con
 sider the stratum as identical with the muschelkalk. I believe
 Professor Phillips is of opinion that the species is undescribed.
 The Trochus, which is a small and beautifully granulated one,
 as well as the minute turbinated shells, are certainly new, al
 though some of them may be referred to by Professor Sedg
 wick, in his paper on the magnesian limestone of Yorkshire,
 without either figure or description. Two or three smaller

                    in the Vicinity of Manchester.                      245
bivalve shells occur, one of which, I believe, is Crassina, but as
they are only casts, the species cannot easily be determ ined.
The most important fossil is the Axinus, as from its extreme
abundance in the magnesian limestone of Yorkshire it formed
a ready means of identification.
    From this it will be seen that the magnesian limestone of
the neighbourhood of Manchester is an unimportant bed com
pared with that of many other districts. The German zech-
stein and kupferschiefer have their remains of the Monitor and
Palaeothrissum, together with the peculiar impressions of Fu-
coids. The limestones of Durham and Northumberland have
their Zoophyta and Radiaria, with numerous Mollusca and
remains offish. In Yorkshire are thick ranges of a yellow
lamellar limestone, so well exhibited on the line of the Leeds
and Selby Railway, literally teeming with beautiful specimens
of Axinus; and here we have only a few unimportant beds of
limestone, almost lost amongst the clays in which they occur,
and only exhibiting a few casts of fossils, of which but one or
two (the specific characters of which are so striking as not to
be mistaken,) can be distinctly recognised.
    We will now examine the series of limestones, which as a
means of local distinction we have called the
                  (Sect. IV.)      Ardviick Limestones.
    This provincial name has been given to the series of strata
from the pits where they are chiefly worked being situated
near the township of Ardwick. In this neighbourhood they
are only exposed at the surface in the bed of the river Med-
lock, near Ancoats, but on the elevated ground above the river
they are worked in several pits on a similar plan to the col
lieries. These are now the property of — Brocklehurst, Esq.,
and are under the management of Mr. F. Mellor, whose prac
 tical information and readiness to afford us every opportunity
of examining the sections exposed in the different pits have
been of the greatest importance to us.
    The following is an average section of the general appear
 ances of the strata at the above pits, in a descending order :
                                                                  Ft. In.
      Limestone                                                   4 u
      Coloured red and blue clay, by the miners called " clunch" 6 0
      Coarse micaceous grit                                       6 0
      "Clunch"                                                    6 0
      *' Roofstone," a shaly sandstone                            0 3
      Limestone                                                   3 0
      Clunch                                                      5 0
      Limettone                                               ••• 2 0

246           Mr. Williamson on the Limestonesfound
                                                        Ft. In. Ft.     In.
     Clunch and shaly clay                              17 0 "
     Limestone, according to Mr. Porter                   1 0
     Shaly clay                                         15 0 V79        6
     Limestone, according to Mr. Porter                   1 6
     Coloured clays                                     45 0
     Blue clay                                                       1  0
     Black bass                                                      1  0
     Coal                                                           0   C
     Blue clay, sometimes changing to red                           5   0
     Limestone, main seam                                           9   0
     Coloured shaly clays                                 (about) 60    0
     Coal                                                            1  3
     Coloured clays, extent unknown.
   On the banks of the Medlock we find the following section
 exhibited :
                                                                   Ft. U.
     Red clays, extent unknown ; one thin seam containing
        UnionidtE.
     Limestone                                                      4 0
     Red and blue clays                                           20 0
     Limestone                                                      3 0
     Clunch                                                       21 0
        [Here the section is lost for some feet under the diluvium.]
     Red sandstone and clunch in thin laminae                     10 0
     Hard seam of sandstone                                         1 3
     Soft red lamellar sandstones                                 20 0
     Hard grey sandstone                                            6 0
   At this part of the section the weir is fixed, which raising the
level of the water, conceals the black bass and main limestone.
For a space of 360 feet, the low banks of the river consist en
tirely of alluvial and diluvial matter concealing the strata
beneath. When they reappear, we observe the following
series :
                                                                   Ft. In.
     Coarse gray sandstone                                          3 0
     Blue marly clay                                                0 6
     Black carbonaceous shale                                       0 6
     Coloured clay with leaves of Stigmaria                         2 0
     Limestone                                                      1 0
     Coloured clays                                               1C 0
     Nodular limestone                                              2 0
     Red sandy clay                                                 1 8
     Limestone, perhaps lenticular                                 0 4
     Red sandy clay                                                3 0
     Blue clay                                                      1 0
     Thin red sandstones                                         27 0
     Shales and red sandstones                                   30 0
     Red clays                                                        —
   Both these sections are local ones, and of course liable to va
riation. The thin limestones I have no doubt will vary much
both in thickness and position, and with respect to the clays,
they are of little importance.

                  in the Vicinity of Manchester.             247
   Three of the limestones nre worked at Ardwick Cor the lime,
viz. the " Four- Feet Mine," I he " Yard Mine," and the main
or " Three- Yards Mine." There seems to be little difference
between the qualities of these, their chemical constitution as
well as general appearance being very similar.
   Although I have given the average thickness of the lime
stones in the section, their exact thickness cannot always be
estimated, owing to their being divided into layers with irre
gular seams of clunch. These interposing clays are not much
liked by the miners, being unfavourable to their process of
blasting, by diminishing the extent of the fall.
   This clunch, which forms an important feature in the vici
nity of the limestones, consists of a dark brown clay, irregu
larly tinged with a bluish green substance. It is found in
connexion with all the layers, and is often of considerable
thickness.
     Sect. V.    Mineralogical Character of the Limestones.
   The most striking character of the whole of these limestones
is the singular conglomerate appearance they present. This
is more or less visible in all the strata, but more especially in
the first, or Four-Feet Mine. A seam of variable thickness,
generally about ten inches, passes along the lower part of this
limestone, possessing the conglomerate character in so striking
a degree that the miners can always recognise it where it
appears, although it is sometimes interrupted ; they know it
by the name of Maxfield, a corruption of Macclesfield : the
name has no meaning in it, except from a local circumstance
of no importance.
   The limestone is generally of a light gray colour, often
tinged with red: where the mottled appearance presents itself,
the matrix is of a darker red or gray, and the imbedded frag
ments of a lighter hue, the ordinary colour of the stone.
   All the limestones are liable to slight variations of colour,
even in the different divisions of the same " mine," being
sometimes of a dirty gray and sometimes of a reddish yellow.
The lowest portion of the Yard Mine almost approaches to
black.
   The shales and clays between the limestones vary so much
that a detailed description of them would be difficult. They
are found of every variety, from a hard sandstone to a fine
grained strong clay or marl, which latter sometimes contains
organic remains, as above the " Four-Feet" seam on the bank
of the Medlock, where it contains an Unio abundantly, and
about sixty yards above the main or Three- Yards seam it is

248         Mr. Williamson on the Limestonesfound
filled with n variety of vegetable impressions, Ferns, Equisetoe,
&c, which will hereafter be described more fully.
   Some of the clays are compact, of a light blue colour, and
soon become decomposed on exposure to the weather. In
stances of these will be found above and below the black bass.
   The most important seam to the geologist, excepting the
roofs of the Four- Feet Mine, is the black bass, so called from
its dark colour. The seam varies exceedingly, sometimes
being less than a foot, and at others two feet in thickness, but
appears to be regular in its position. It is of no use for burn
ing, although it contains a small portion of lime. Its structure
is lamellar, resembling a dark shale, but rendered exceedingly
hard for the greater part of its thickness by the very large
proportion of sulphuret of iron it contains, the formation of
which seems to have been caused by the quantity of animal
remains found in connexion with it. This pyrites is generally
most abundant towards the upper part of the seam, where a
thin vein of it especially affords an indication of the presence
of an assemblage of remains offish.
   The number of freshwater shells and Entomostraca it con
tains afford good evidence of its freshwater origin, which will
sufficiently separate the series from the magnesian limestone,
the remains from which are all marine.
   Immediately below the black bass is the seam of coal, ge
nerally about six inches thick; it is very impure, and wants
the compactness of the regular coal-seams: when burned, it
emits a strong sulphureous smell.
          Sect. VI. Series in the Bed ofthe Medlock.
   In the bed of the river Medlock we cannot examine either
the main limestone or the black bass, as the former is con
cealed under a considerable depth of water collected by a weir,
which in all probability rests upon the bass. Immediately
below the weir, the other limestones are well exposed, with
their separating clays and sandstones, which slightly vary from
those of the Ardwick pits : I have not been able to detect the
seam of plants found in the Tunnel at the latter point, but here
we are able to trace the shales for a little distance above the
first limestone. Nothing however of interest presents itself,
except a thin seam of red marly clay, a few feet above the
limestone, which contains a number of Unionidec. Between
the weir and the point where the water- works formerly stood,
is an elevation now quarried into for the sandstones, which
presents us with the section I have given of the series below
the limestones worked at Ardwick. It presents but two lime
stones of a darker colour than those at the pits, but as one is

                    in the Vicinity of Manchester.            2+9
not more than two feet four inches, including a seam of clunch
which divides it, and the other is not above a foot in thick
ness, they are not worth following out. On the bed of the
river, between this point and the weir, a coal was observed,
and some of it picked out to burn in the lime-kiln. This was
in all probability the same as the fifteen-inch seam met with
at Ardwick.
    With what is immediately below the clays forming the base
of the Medlock section I am unacquainted, as the strata are
not exposed, the whole length being buried under the mass
of diluvium^ which becomes of considerable thickness, com
pletely covering up everything down to the level of the river.
                          [To be continued.]
             L. On the relative Signs of Coordinates.
                   By A. De Morgan, Esq.*
T> Y the report given in the Athenaeum of the proceedings of
      the British Association at Bristol, it appears that a dis
cussion arose to this effect The usual expression for the
perpendicular let fall from a point (?w, «) to the straight line
y = a x + b, namely,
                      p = + a—   m+b—n¦                (1.).
appears affected with a double sign. On the one hand, it was
contended that this double sign has a meaning deducible from
the existing conventions by which signs are interpreted; while
on the other hand, the weight of authority seemed to be in
favour ofthe + sign in this case being purely indeterminate.
The first opinion was advanced by Professor Stevelly; the
last by gentlemen whom it is not fair to name, as their views
were given on the spur of the moment, at the first reading
of the communication, but whose opinions are not to be lightly
treated.
    On thinking of this question, it has appeared to me that ac
cording to the sense in which words are used, both are right
or both are wrong, but that there is an interpretation which
ought to be preferred from those strong reasons of convenience
 which dictate the method of choosing between 4- and — in
other cases. Absolutely speaking, the preceding expression
 is certainly indeterminate ; but so, for instance, is the method
 of fixing the sign of the angle made by a radius vector with
                   • Communicated by the Author.
    Third Series. Vol. 9. No. 54. Oct. 1836.

250     Mr. De Morgan on the relative Signs ofCoordinates.
the axis of x. If we say that this angle shall be called posi
tive when it is formed by the rotation of a line from the posi
tive part of the axis of x towards that of the axis of y, it is not
 that, mutatis mutandis, the negative sign would not equally
 apply to that angle, but because we always consider those
 conventions which make the resulting equations most simple
 as preferable, and even practically necessary. In the same
 way this practical necessity may be shown to exist correla-
 tively with another hypothesis in the present case ; and it may
 even be made obvious that without an implied selection be
 tween the two signs in (1.) many equations which are used as
 universally true are not so in reality. The principle I as
 sume is, that continuity, and the universality of equations in
 their most simple and usual forms, are desirable.
                     \\
                        \
                          \ \             p s'A
                               y'
            C                  \                   A
                                 \\
                                    \
                                      \
                               D
    Let OA and OB be the directions in which x and y are po
 sitive, and let P be a point whose coordinates are m and «, in
that quarter of space in which both coordinates are positive.
 Now let moveable rectangular axes of £ and ij (new coordi
nates) first coincide with those of x and y, and then make a
complete revolution. Let these axes be On, 0/3, Oy, OS
 (not drawn), and let fl be the angle (the direction of revolu
tion being ABCD) by which O a has separated from O A
to gain any position in question. Supposing that at the ini
tial coincidence £ and x are measured positive in the same
direction (certainly the most convenient outset), the condition
of continuity requires that £ and ij should remain positive
until they become either nothing or infinite: the latter they
cannot become for the given point P. Hence—that is to say,
from this hypothesis, not of necessity, but of indisputable con
venience,—it follows that when Oct lies in the quadrant A'OD',

     Mr. De Morgan on the relative Signs ofCoordinates. 25 1
£ and >j are both positive; when in A' O B', £ is + and »j — ;
when in B' O C, £ and >j are both negative ; when in C O D',
£ is — and »)-K If we now take the equations of transforma
tion in the form in which they are most usually given,
               £ = n sin 9 + m cos 9 1                  ,q \
                ij = n cos 9 — m sin 9 J                   '
we find these to be universally true on the conventions above
mentioned, and not on any others. Let PO A = a, and we
have
          —
    £ = cos  a cos («-«)
                    v     '     q = cos a sin («-9)           (3.)
or (a < £ *) £ is positive from 9 = Jir + a to |?r + a,
and OTce iwsii ; while ij is positive from Q = ir + a to 9 = *,
and v/ce            The other cases with respect to a easily
follow.
   To return to equation (1.), taking the Wney = ax parallel
io y = a x + b as y O a, the axis of £, in which case
this expression must by what precedes be interpreted as ne
gative whenever O a falls between O A' and O O, and vice
versa. But as one part of the line^ = ax falls somewhere
in the angles A' O B', B' O C, the preceding expression, ab
solutely considered, has either sign. But if we attribute one
sign rather than the other to the corresponding value of £,
we are then, simultaneously with this hypothesis, under the
necessity of assigning the proper sign to >j, as above deter
mined. It must be observed that in the preceding hypothesis,
if £ be measured positively in the angle A OA', >j is positive;
while if £ be measured negatively in that angle, >j is negative.
Similar considerations apply to the whole perpendicular p,
which is either positive or negative, according to the hypo
thesis made respecting the positive and negative direction of
the line y = a x, and follows the same laws as any line which
is made up of the sum or difference of coordinates with re
spect to given axes and assigned directions of positiveness or
negativeness.
   In the preceding considerations will be found the answer
to the question relative to the sign of the radius of curvature in
a curve. There is no such sign, except it be one of perfectly
independent convention, until it is settled which is the positive
and which the negative direction on the tangent. But the
preceding will be sufficient to illustrate my view of the sub
ject as contained in the following assertion : that relatively to
                                2 F2

252      Mr. De Morgan on the relative Signs of Coordinates.
 fixed axes, with given directions of sign, a straight line oblique
to the axes need not be considered as having either sign, un
less in conjunction with an hypothesis relatively to the signs
of lines perpendicular to it; in which case the law of signs
 which is absolutely necessary for continuity is the one just
 laid down. And by continuity in this case is simply meant
 the condition, that whenever a moving line comes momentarily
 to coincide with a given line, its relations of sign are the
 same as those in the given line. This being assumed, the
 assignment of the relations of sign in any two given perpen
 diculars determines a relation between the signs of any two
 other perpendiculars. The indeterminaleness of equation (1.)
 simply implies that it was obtained without reference to any
 such relation. Those who are used to this subject will see
how the expression of a length by means of the tangent of an
angle instead of its sine and cosine introduces this ambiguity.
 When the two latter are both given, the line on one side of a
 point is distinguished from the other, which is not the case
 when the tangent is given.
    I take this opportunity to append a few remarks upon the
answer given by Mr. Graves in this Magazine of last April,
to the objections to his view of the logarithms of unity con
tained in my Calculus of Functions. That I did not make a
formal reply before this time arose from my considering both
sides of the. argument as brought to a sufficiently distinct
point by Mr. Graves in his communication, and particularly
in the following sentence.
    " If I am told that logarithm ought to be so defined that
x ought to be called an a-log., or logarithm to base a only
of the arithmetical value of a", 1 must say that I should
not approve such a restriction. It would, if the proposed
theorems be correct, arbitrarily exclude from the name of
logarithms orders of functions which enjoy the same funda
mental and characteristic properties as those that are favoured
with that name."
    It is then proposed by Mr. Graves to extend the name of
logarithm so as to include, not only what I should call the
logarithms to the arithmetical form of the base, but also those
to every other form yet considered in algebra. That is to
say, writing 5 in its most general form e i+2mirv'-1 and^ in
its form e logy+2n tta/— l, where log_y is the arithmetical lo
garithm, he defines x, the general logarithm ofj/, by the equa
tion

      Mr. De Morgan on the relative Signs of Coordinates. 253
    But in my remarks, the doubt arose from my not under
standing that an extension was proposed, but imagining that
it was asserted that the ordinary formulae, under ordinary de
finitions, were incomplete. And this appeared likely from the
title of the paper in the Philosophical Transactions, " An
attempt to rectify the inaccuracy of some logarithmic formula?;"
from the comparison of the results with the corrections of
trigonometrical formulae by MM. Poisson and Poinsot, those
corrections being of absolute errors caused by the processes
not being as general as the definitions ; and other things of
the same kind. But supposing it explicitly admitted that
an extension is proposed, I see no further objection to Mr.
Graves's system, but quite the contrary; and should even
suggest that the extension should include, not only the posi
tive forms of the base e, contained in i1 + 2""r V—i } DUt
 also the negative forms contained in s l+^m+iJirV^"!, which
 are equally the representations of the number e, affected by
 the remainder of those symbolic relations, the consideration
 of which constitutes one principal difference between algebra
 and arithmetic. The subject is not without analogy to that
 treated in the former part of this paper. So long as e is ab
 solutely considered, the logarithms of y are contained solely
 in the form x+2irm V — 1 ; but simultaneously with each of
 the algebraical forms under which e can be exhibited, exists
 a new class, which, relatively to the particular form in ques
 tion, are logarithms to the base s, if so defined, but under
 the common meaning of the term logarithm, to one of the
 algebraicalforms of s. I should myself prefer the latter me
  thod of expression. But under either definition, properly un
  derstood, the extension may be highly useful, and 1 am happy
  to bear testimony to the ingenuity which suggested it, and the
  talent with which it has been carried out.
     In page 287, I think Mr. Graves has not kept in memory
  a distinction which I have drawn in the Calculus of Functions
 already alluded to. The Alps upon Alps of solutions which
  I have shown to be possible in functional equations (§ 119.
  212.) belong only to those in which there are no independent
  functional subjects. In the case where there are independent
  variables (§ 97. in which among others $ x x <$>y = <p {x+y) is
  treated,) 1 have made the following remark : " The use of the
  Calculus of Functions in regard to these is to show that the
  obvious algebraical form which satisfies them is also the most
  general of continuousfunctions." It would surprise me not a
  little to see any other solution of the last-mentioned equation

 254           The Rev. J. H. Pratt's Reply to Disjota.
 more general than <f> x = a*. But assign a relation between
 x and y, say x = y, and the solution of x)3 = $ (2x) is
                          {i(co,s*t5D}"
 where 9 is any function which does not invert the cosine.
  And this is only a very limited solution.
 LI. Reply to Disjota's Remarks. By the Rev. J. H. Pratt, B.A.
    To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
        Gentlemen,
  T AM sorry that three of your valuable pages should have
      served no better purpose than to convince me that vour
 correspondent Disjota, has entirely mistaken the object of my
 communication printed in your June Number.
     It will be seen upon referring to that communication, that
 the words " only one " are emphatic : and by this I expected
 my readers to understand, that my object was not to revive
 the controversy respecting the proposition, that a function of
 0 and \|/ can be developed in a series of Laplace's coefficients;
 but to show, upon the supposition of Poisson's demonstration
 of this proposition being rigorous, that there is only one such
 series. In short, I conceive that the whole question involves
 two propositions, theJirst to show that the development is pos
 sible, the second to show that only one such development ex
 ists; and it is clear that your correspondent fancies that I in
 tended to prove theJirst, when, in fact, it was the second that
 1 wished to demonstrate.
    If Disjota will turn to page 387 of vol. ii. Camb. Phil.
 Trans., he will see that the object of the Astronomer Royal
in that place is to show that f (5, $>) admits of only one de
velopment and it is to Laplace's demonstration of this that he
objects ; and he will observe that the possibility of the deve
lopment is not called in question.
    But I fear that without a few more words my communica
tion will still be misunderstood by Disjota.
    I agree entirely with what he says at page 85, in the para
graph, "It is obvious         and wonder much why Poisson sets
about to prove in the way that he does in art. 112. page 225.
of the Theorie Mathematique dc la Chaleur, that his method
of development will lead to only one series of Laplace's coeffi
cients, since it appears to me (as it does to your correspon
dent) self-evident, because P< admits of only one form.

     Mr. J. D. Smith on the supposed new Metal Donium. 255
   Now the objection I urge is this : that although the " ana
lytical artifice" used by Poisson will lead to only one series
of Laplace's coefficients, it does not at all follow that I cannot
discover another analytical artifice which shall lead to another
development. For instance, suppose a and fi are two arbi
trary constants, then I can easily, d priori, conceive it possible
that f (fl, 4>, a, /3) can be developed in a series of Laplace's
coefficients Y0 + « Y, + as Yt +              by one process, and
also in another series Z0 + /3 Z, + /3* Z2 +               by another
process, and yet that when a = 1 and 0 = 1 the correspond
ing terms of these series shall not be identical. To prove that
they are identical is the object of my communication in your
June Number; which I hope Disjota will again peruse, and
I think he must then see that "his observations fall to the
ground," since they have been directed to a wrong point.
   In reply to the concluding paragraph of Disjota's commu
nication I refer him to the same volume and page of the Cam
bridge Phil. Trans, as before; and he will learn that the
Astronomer Royal was the first to point out that Laplace had
assumed, and not proved, thatJ'($, 4>) admits of only one de
velopment of the form required, and that Mr. Ivory had men
tioned this proposition of Laplace's without making any ob
jection to it.        I am, Gentlemen, yours, &c.
   Caius College, Aug. 12, 1836.           John Henry Pratt.
    LII. Experiments on the supposed new Metal Donium.
                         By Mr. J. D. Smith*
 TTAVING been led to question the elementary nature of
 *¦* donium, from an experiment on artificial ultramarine
hereafter noticed, I resolved on making some further re
searches to satisfy myself as to the existence or non-existence
 of this substance as a distinct metal. Circumstances obliged
 me to defer this examination until the present time; but now,
 from the particulars of the experiments I shall detail, I have
 no hesitation in expressing my perfect conviction that this
 supposed new body is a mere mixture of alumina with a mi
 nute portion of peroxide of iron.
    Some artificial ultramarine having been digested in dilute
 hydrochloric acid, and the filtered solution tested with hydro-
 sulphuric acid, for the purpose of ascertaining whether any
 metallic substance was contained in it, no precipitate was
 produced ; but on the addition of a little ammonia a copious
 green precipitate fell, which exactly coincided with Mr. Ri-
   • Communicated by the Author. A notice of Mr. Richardson's experi
 ments on Donium was given in our Number (or August, p. 157.

256            Mr. J. D. Smith's Experiments on
cliardson's description of sulphuret of (Ionium, in the Records
of General Science of June last. This precipitate on a further
examination proved to be alumina, with a trace of oxide of
iron. This experiment, as I have before mentioned, suggested
the suspicion that the oxide of donium of Mr. Richardson
was in reality alumina and peroxide of iron.
     H. J. Brooke, Esq., having kindly presented me with a
small portion of the mineral (Davidsouite) from which the
oxide of donium was stated to have been obtained, I re
duced about 10 grs. of it to a very fine powder: this, which
was of a light flush-colour, was fused with thrice its weight
of a mixture of carbonate of soda and potash in a platinum
crucible. The fused mass was then treated with dilute hydro
chloric acid, the solution evaporated to dryness, the residuum
dissolved in distilled water acidulated with hydrochloric acid,
and the silica separated by a filter, when about four fluid
ounces of solution were obtained.
     I then dissolved      gr. of peroxide of iron in hydrochloric
acid, added it to a solution of 200 grs. of alum, and precipi
 tated this mixture by ammonia; this precipitate when well
 washed was redissolved in dilute hydrochloric acid, and the
solution evaporated to the consistence of a syrup : a few small
 prismatic crystals of a yellow colour, which deliquesced when
 exposed to the air, were deposited : and when evaporated to
 dryness a residue of a light yellow colour and of an astrin
 gent taste, at first sweetish and much resembling that of alum,
 was obtained : this was then redissolved in a pint of distilled
 water,        fluid ounce of this solution was diluted with about
 3 ounces of water, anil excess of ammonia added to it ; the
 precipitate at first formed was immediately redissolved ; but
 all further attempts again to procure this entire re-solution,
 with another portion ol the solution of alumina and iron, either
 by pouring it into the ammonia or the ammonia into it, proved
 abortive. The solution after standing for 24 hours wasdecanted,
 leaving a very small quantity of a reddish brown flocculent
 [>recipitate, evidently the peroxide of iron. This solution
   i.-iving been carefully evaporated to dryness, and heated to
  redness in a platinum capsule, a light white friable mass re
  mained, which, treated with hydrochloric acid, partially dis
  solved, and the solution when tested with hydrosulphate of
  ammonia gave a light green precipitate.
      The solution obtained from the Davidsonite having been
 poured into a large excess of ammonia, gave a gelatinous pre
  cipitate; this was frequently shaken, and at the expiration of
  two or three days the supernatant liquor was carefully de
  canted. A fresh portion of ammonia was then added, and the

                 the supposed new Metal Doniurn.              257
digestion renewed ; but as no diminution in the quantity of
precipitate appeared to take place, the digestion was not con
tinued, but the liquor was filtered. These solutions being
mixed evaporated to dryness, and the residue healed to redness
in a platinum crucible, there remained a fused mass of a light-
brown colour : its fusion was doubtless owing to the chlorides
of potassium and sodium, derived from the flux previously
used : this mass when treated with hydrochloric acid gave a
solution which afforded a slight greenish-coloured precipitate
with hydrosulphate of ammonia, and there remained on the
filter a small portion of an insoluble gelatinous substance,
exactly resembling alumina.
   My endeavours to obtain an ammoniacal solution of the
substance contained in Davidsonite having been thus frus
trated, I redissolved the precipitate left by ammonia in di
lute hydrochloric acid, and submitted this solution, and the
solution of alumina and iron, before described, to the action
of the following tests ; the results of which, for the sake of
comparison, I have arranged in the following manner.
   A. refers to the solution of donium as described by Mr.
Richardson, B. to the solution of the substance I obtained
from Davidsonite, and C. to the solution of alumina and oxide
of iron.
   Ammonia gave with A. " a white flocky precipitate soluble
in excess"; with B. a gelatinous precipitate slightly soluble in
excess of the precipitant ; and with C. a gelatinous precipitate
partially soluble in an excess of the precipitant.
   Carbonate of ammonia with A. the same as with ammonia;
with B. a white flocculent precipitate; when excess of carbo
nate of ammonia was added and the solution filtered, hydro-
sulphuric acid gave a very slight green precipitate, therefore
it is slightly soluble in excess; with C. it acted in precisely
the same manner as B.
   Caustic soda with A. " white flocky precipitate soluble in
excess" ; B. and C. were also at first precipitated, and then
by an excess of the precipitant redissolved.
   Carbonate of soda gave with A. a " white flocky precipitate
insoluble in excess;" with B. a white flocculent precipitate
also insoluble in excess; with C. the same.
   Hydrosulphate of ammonia with A. produced n " flocky
green precipitate," with B. a beautiful dark-green flocculent
precipitate : C. acted in a like manner to B.
   Oxalate of ammonia with A. no precipitate, with B. and
with C. none.
   Phosphate of ammonia gave with A. a curdy white precipi
tate : with B. a dense white precipitate ; with C. the same ns B.
   Third Series. Vol.9. No. 54. Oct. 1836.              2 G

258     Mr. J. D. Smith on the supposed new Metal Doniutn.
   Arseniate of potash when added to A. gave a white flocky
precipitate" ; to B. slight white, which on the addition of a
drop of ammonia became a dense white precipitate; with C. it
acted in the same manner as with B.
   Chromate of potash gave with A. a " copious yellow preci
pitate ;" with B. and C. a gelatinous yellow precipitate.
   Sulphate of soda : A. gave none, B. and C. none.
   Tartrate of potash with A. produced a "slight white preci
pitate" ; with B. the merest trace of a precipitate, and the
same with C.
    Tincture of galls gave no precipitate with A., but deve
loped in B. a bluish black tint, and the same, only not so deep,
in C.
    Ferrocyanate of potash is not mentioned as having been
tried with A. ; with 6. it produced a deep blue colour, and with
 C. the same colour, but of a lighter shade.
    I may here remark, that when the dark green precipitates
 produced by hydrosulphate of ammonia from the solutions
 of Davidsonite, and of alumina and oxide of iron, were ex
 posed to the air for about 12 hours, they were both con
 verted into a brownish white gelatinous substance.
    The remaining solution of Davidsonite, and an equal quan
 tity of the alumina and iron, were then respectively treated
 with excess of potash, which in both cases redissolved the
 precipitate at first produced, except a small portion of a
 reddish brown gelatinous substance, which when dissolved in
 hydrochloric acid, and tested with ferrocyanate of potash,
 and tincture of galls, in each instance afforded abundant in
 dication of oxide of iron.
    The alkaline solutions having been respectively neutralized
 and the precipitates redissolved in hydrochloric acid, were
 boiled down in flasks to about 1 { fluid ounce; and both of these
 solutions afforded, with the tests already noticed, precipitates
 precisely similar to those they gave previously to the addition
 of the caustic potash, with the exceptions of ferrocyanate of
 potash and tincture of galls, neither of which produced the
 slightest discoloration ; the colour alsp of the precipitates pro
 duced by hydrosulphate of ammonia was an extremely light
 shade of green, very different from that produced before the
 addition of potash*.
    From these experiments it would appear, that the sub
 stance combined with silica in Davidsonite, and alumina
 mixed with a minute quantity of oxide of iron, are identical,
   • The solution
 hydrosulphuric    of potash employed became tinted on the addition of
                acid.

    Dr. Sdioenbein on the Action of Nitric Acid upon Iron. 2.59
 agreeing in every particular; anil differing from the character9
 assigned to oxide of donium only as regards the extent or
 solubility in ammonia and its carbonate. This substances
 according to Mr. Richardson, when combined with potash
 and sulphuric acid, affords a salt which crystallizes in octo-
 hedra : this furnishes additional confirmation of its identity
 with alumina.
    It is to be regretted that Mr. Richardson did not test his
 solution with ferrocyanate of potash, as the characteristic blue
 colour produced by this test would doubtless have directed
 his attention to the possibility of its being merely a mixture
 of alumina and iron, and not, as he supposed, a new sub
 stance.
    I have not tried any experiment on its reduction to an ap
parently metallic state, owing, partly to my not having any
donium remaining in my possession, and partly to my belief
that the preceding experiments will serve to show that the
supposed donium is nothing more than alumina containing a
trace of peroxide of iron. But I may, perhaps, be allowed to
hazard the conjecture, that the slate blue colour of the pow
der obtained by means of hydrogen gas, was owing to the
reduction of the peroxide to the state either of protoxide, or
    metallic
ofSt.         iron.
       Thomas's Hospital, Sept. 17, 1836.
LIII. Further Observations on the Action of Nitric Acid upon
                   Iron. By Dit. Schoenbexn.*
 I HAVE already remarked that nitric acid, which generally
 * attacks iron with violence, has no action upon an iron wire,
one end of which, before its immersion in the acid, has been
heated to dullness. From experiments since made, I find that
the action is dependent on the quantity of water combined with
the acid. This quantity I have not yet accurately ascertained,
but I find that acid of the sp. gr. of 1*36 diluted with 15, 30,
60, 120, 240, 480, and 960 times its volume of water attacks
an iron wire heated at one end in the same manner as when
not heated, and that the oxidated iron falls off by degrees into
the acid without being dissolved in it.
   Diluted nitric acid acts upon iron wire protected by pla-
tina or gold in the same manner as when the end of the wire
is heated. Many chemists state that iron is not acted upon
by ordinary nitric acid when diluted with three times its vo-
       • Communicated by Dr. Faraday. See pp. 53, 57, and J 22.
                                2 G2

 260          Dr. Schoenbein's further Observations
sume of water ; according to my experiments this metal is sen-
libly dissolved by nitric acid diluted with 1000 times its vo-
tume of water. As it is evident that the different action of
 she same nitric acid on iron is caused by a certain electrical
tate of the metal, I endeavoured to ascertain its nature by
making an iron wire the positive pole of a voltaic battery set
in action by nitric acid. I experimented in the following
 manner :
    Nitrie acid, of sp. gr. 1*36, at the ordinary temperature, was
 used in a circle of 15 plates, with a voltaic cup apparatus; at
 the positive pole an iron wire, and at the negative a platina
 wire, dipped into the acid. When I closed the circuit with
the negative wire, the iron wire was acted upon as usual ;
 when 1 closed it with the iron wire, by first dipping one end
in the nitric acid, and then making the other end the positive
pole of the battery, the same effect also took place ; but when
 I closed the circuit so that one end of the iron wire was first
 united with the positive pole, and the other end afterwards
 dipped into the acid, no action took place on the iron, and it
 possessed, after its separation from the positive pole, all the
 properties which it had by heating, or when protected by gold
 and platina,—precisely those which I have already so fully
 stated in my former paper. I heated the nitric acid used in
 the circuit to nearly its boiling point before it acted upon the
positive iron wire. It follows, of course, that under these cir
cumstances the water contained in the nitric acid was decom
posed. No hydrogen gas is given out at the negative pole
Irom strong nitric acid, for instance, of sp. gr. 1*36, but it
combines with a part of the oxygen of the acid, and converts
the latter into nitrous acid.
   At a temperature of 70° centigrade, a gas is given out at the
negative platina wire, which I have not yet particularly exa
mined, but which is probably deutoxide of nitrogen. It has
hitherto been considered that the other element of the water,
the oxygen, combines with the positive iron wire, and forms a
hydrate with the nitric acid.
   If the circuit is so formed that the nitric acid has no action
upon the iron wire, the free oxygen does not combine with
the metal, but is given off in a gaseous state, precisely as when
silver, gold, or platina wires are used. This is not only the
case with acid of the above strength, but also with acid diluted
with 1, 10, 100, and even 400 times its volume of water.
That the iron is not partially oxidated is evident from its un
changed metallic lustre, as also from the proportions of gas
given off' at both wires, which I found according to several
measurements to be as 1 to 2. If the two wires where the

              on the Action of Nitric Acid upon Iron.         261
water is being decomposed are brought for a few seconds into
contact (the nitric acid being diluted with about 10 parts of wa
ter), and then again separated, oxygen gas is no longer given
out at the positive iron wire, but a yellow nitrate is formed,
which sinks to the bottom ; if, however, the end of the iron wire
which has been dipped into the nitric acid is exposed to the
air for a moment and the circuit then closed, oxygen gas is
again given offfrom the iron. If the communication is broken
by means of the negative wire and again made, after a few se
conds oxygen continues to be given out at the positive iron
wire. When the acid is very much diluted, it requires some
time after closing the circuit before the oxygen gas appears. In
whatever manner the giving out of the oxygen gas is inter
rupted, it always recommences if the iron wire is exposed for
a short time to the air, and the circuit then formed by it in the
 usual way. Exactly the same effects take place when diluted
 sulphuric or phosphoric acid is substituted for nitric acid.
    In order that oxygen gas should be given off by these acids
at the positive iron wire, it is first necessary that the negative
pole should be in communication, by means of a wire, with the
decomposing fluid; that one end of the iron wire should be in
 contact with the positive pole, and the other end with the acid.
 By any other mode of closing the circuit, oxygen gas is not
 given out, even when the iron wire has been previously dipped in
 diluted sulphuric or phosphoric acid. The giving out ofoxygen
 gas will be interrupted upon bringing the wires of the poles
 into contact when the last-mentioned acids are used, and will
 not return upon exposure of the iron wire to the air. No oxygen
 gas is given out at the positive iron wire when subphosphorous
 or phosphorous acid dissolved in water is substituted, probably
 because it combines with the acid : when diluted alkalis are
 used, oxygen gas is given out at the positive end, in whatever
 way the circuit may be closed. During my experiments I
 have observed many other singular phenomena, which I shall
 communicate hereafter, when the circumstances under which
 they occurred are better understood. One of these, however,
 I will mention in conclusion : in the same nitric acid in which
 a platina wire served for the negative pole, a quantity of hy
 drogen gas was given off, but when an iron wire was substituted
 for the platina, no gas appeared. It was only when a consi
 derable time had elapsed after the substitution that hydrogen
 made its appearance.
     From several of the above-mentioned facts, it appears that
 the law formerly laid down, that oxygen gas is only given out
 at the positive pole of a battery when it is terminated by a no
 ble metal, does not hold good ; that the same cause which ren

262           Mr. E. M. Clarke's Description of
ders an iron wire indifferent to nitric acid, prevents the oxida
tion of this metal during the decomposition of water by means
of the galvanic battery. I shall not for the present enter
further into the theory to be deduced from these facts, as t
am satisfied many further researches still require to be made.
  LIV. Description of E. M. Clarke's Magnetic Electrical
                            Machine.
  To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
     Gentlemen,
UROM the time Dr. Faraday first discovered magnetic
-"- electricity to the present, my attention, as a philosophical
instrument maker, has been entirely devoted to that important
branch of science, more especially to the construction of an effi
cacious magnetic electrical machine, which after much anxious
thought, labour and expense, I now submit to your notice.

                  his Magnetic Electrical Machine.
    Fig. 1 . a a', the magnetic battery, resting against four ad
justing screws, which pass through the mahogany back-board
b; c, a strap of brass, having an opening in the middle,
through which a bolt and nut pass that are fixed in the board
b ; d and d', fig. 2, two soft-iron armatures, screwing into a
 brass mandril, which is seated between the poles of a a', ro
 tatory motion being communicated to it by a band passing over
 the mandril, pulley, and the mahogany multiplying wheel e;
ff, fig. 1, and ff, fig. 2, coils of insulated copper wire, the
 commencement of each coil being in metallic connexion with
 the break g, and the terminations of each in connexion with
 the hollow brass cylinder z ; i, a closed box to contain mer
 cury, the connexion being made with the commencement of
 the coils ff and ff, by the copper hook k, one end of which
 rests on the break, the other end screwing through the top of
 the box i into the flood of mercury which it contains ; /, a spi
 ral spring of steel wire, one end dipping into the mercury in
 the box i, the other end rubbing on the hollow cylinder z.
     Fig. 3. An apparatus to show the decomposition of water
 by magnetic electricity, for a description of which see my paper
 in the number of your Magazine for June 1835(vol. vi. p. 42?),
 but differing in as much as the gases are here collected mixed
 in one tube.
     Fig. 4. An apparatus to show the ignition of platina wire
 by magnetic electricity ; aa',b b1, two pieces of insulated cop
 per wire twisted together ; c, a piece of very fine platina wire
 soldered to a b.
     Fig. 5. Apiece of soft iron bent in the shape of a horseshoe
 magnet, having two coils of insulated copper wire, and an
  iron keeper to show that magnetic electricity induces magnet
  ism on soft iron.
     The advantages of these arrangements are as follows :
     First. That I am enabled to give motion to my armatures
  without communicating any vibration to my magnetic battery,
  which I know by experience to be highly injurious to either
  bent or straight bar magnets.
     Second. As my magnetic battery stands perfectly indepen
  dent of the armatures, and also of the machinery which gives
  them motion, every facility is afforded of withdrawing the bat
  tery from the machine, so that it may be applied to any other
  purpose where powerful magnets are required.
     Third. Having in November, 1834, tried the effects pro
  duced by coils of wire varying in diameter, I found that the
  thick copper bell-wire gave brilliant sparks, but no perceptible
  shock, whilst, on the contrary, very fine wire gave powerful
  shocks, but very indifferent sparks. I took advantage of my

  264
  discovery,  andMr.
                   furnished
                      E. M. Clarke's
                                my machines    with two
                                        Description  of armatures,
  thereby being enabled to give the separate effects of quantity
  and intensity to the fullest extent of power that my magnetic
  battery was capable of supplying.
     Fourth. By my intensity armature (which has 1500 yards
  of fine insulated copper wire on it) I am enabled to go through
  the various experiments that are usually performed by a num
  ber of separate galvanic plates. The effect this armature pro
  duces on the nervous and muscular system is such, that no
 person out of the hundreds who have tried it could possibly
 endure the intense agony it is capable of producing ; it is ca
 pable also of electrifying the most nervous person without
 giving them the least uneasiness ; it shows the decomposition
 of water (the gases can be obtained separately or mixed at
  pleasure) and also of the neutral salts; it deflects the gold
  leaves of the electroscope, charges the Leyden jar, and by an
 arrangement of wires from the mercury box to the magnets a a',
 the electricity is made distinctly visible, passing from the mag
 netic battery to the armature, and by the same arrangement
 not only shocks, sparks, but also brilliant scintillations of steel
 can be obtained from a a'.                           Fig. 6.
    Fifth. By my quantity armature, fig. 2,
  (which has forty yards of thick copper
 bell-wire, and has twice the weight of
 iron ofthe other armature,) I am enabled
 to go through the various experiments
 that are usually performed by a single
 pair of voltaic plates or by a calorimotor,
 but it will not perform any of the same
 experiments that can be produced by
 the intensity armature; it gives large
 and brilliant sparks, sufficiently so that '
 a person can read small print from the
 light it produces ; it induces magnetism
 in the apparatus fig. 5; it ignites gunpow
 der and the platina wire of the apparatus fig. 4, "without thepla-
 tina wire being inclosed in a hermetically sealed glass tube ; it de
flagrates gold and silver leaf, and produces brilliant scintilla
 tions from a small steel file. The most interesting experi
 ment it performs is that of producing rotary motion of the
delicately suspended wire frames round the poles of a ver
tical horseshoe magnet. Fig. 6. a a', a cylindrical horseshoe
magnet, on a tripod stand, having levelling screws bb' b" ; cc1,
improved flood cups ; d d\ rotating wire frames, having two
little cups at top to hold a drop of mercury ; e, the connecting
fork. When this apparatus is connected with the mercury box

                fit's Magnetic Electrical Machine.           265
of the magnetic electrical machine, either rotatory or recipro
cating motion can be produced at pleasure of the wires dd.
   Sixth. In a paper of mine (see Phil. Mag., March 1835: vol.vi.
p. 169.) I gave a diagram of that part of the magnetic electrical
machine called the mercury cup, in which a copper disk B' re
volves, (being in connexion with one end of the copper wire
coils by the wire A',) and a double-bladed or pointed piece of
copper B also dips, it being connected with the other ends of
the copper wire coils by the wire A. It is obvious that by
this arrangement, when the point and disk are put into rapid
motion, the mercury must be scattered about, which is not
the only evil, for as you require a very accurate adjustment of
the surface of mercury, so that the pointed piece B will leave
the mercury at a particular period twice during each revolu
tion, each succeeding rotation tends to destroy that adjustment,
consequently the effect produced is constantly on the decrease,
and ultimately ceases altogether unless you stop and renew the
level you previously had. By my arrangement the mercury
is inclosed in a wooden box, and the steel spring /, and the
hollow brass cylinder s, do the duty of B' A' C of the old ar
rangement, and kg also do the duty of B A C, so that the mer
cury is not directly acted upon as formerly. Whatever adjust
ment you make is permanent, and, come when you will, you are
sure of a uniform and steady supply of electricity. This is a
most important point for medical practitioners, as the uncer
tainty of action of all electrical machines, both magnetical and
    Third Series. Vol.9. No. 5*. Oct. 1836.           2H

266            Professor Johnston on the Iodides of Gold.
riotionul) has been the great drawback on their being more
extensively used by the faculty.
    Seventh. The great portability of my machine makes it very
convenient for travelling, as there is a mahogany case which
slides upon m against b, where it locks at n ; there is a closet in
the case, into which all the apparatus, figg. 2, 3, 4, 5, pack.
                                Edward M. Clarke, Magnetician.
    No. 9, Agar Street, West Strand, London.
LV. On the Iodides of Gold. By James F. W. Johnston,
     Esq., A.M., F.R.S.E., fyc. fyc, Reader in Chemistry and Mi
     neralogy in the University of Durham.*
                  I. Proto-iodide of Gold. Au + I.
 Vlf HEN iodide of potassium in solution is added in ex-"
   " cess to a solution containing terchloride of gold, a pre
 cipitate is obtained of a greenish yellow colour, while the su
 pernatant liquid becomes dark-coloured from the excess of
 iodine held in solution. If the terchloride be in excess, the
 precipitate has a blueish gray colour, being a mixture of the
 yellow powder with iodine, or with the teriodide of gold. If
 the precipitate be heated in the dark-coloured mother liquor,
 it diminishes in quantity, and on cooling gradually separates
 in minute golden yellow crystalline scales of great beauty, ex
 hibiting apparently triangular and square faces, and not infe
 rior in lustre to iodide of lead crystallized from a similar hot
 solution.
      This beautifulyellow compound consists chiefly ofprotoiodide
  of gold. According to the analysis of Pelletier {Ann. de Chim.
   et de Phys., vol. xv. p. 1 16) it contains 34 per cent, of iodine.
  Exposed to the air and light, it is gradually decomposed, and
  more readily when moist, giving off iodine. At 150° Fahr.
  it begins to give off iodine; at 230° Fahr., it undergoes almost
  total decomposition, losing only one per cent, additional when
  heated to 400° Fahr. Two portions prepared at different
  times, lost when decomposed by heat, 33-96 and 34*43 of iodine
  respectively. After exposure to the air for ten days it lost
  only 9'G per cent.
      A compound of one atom of gold with one of iodine should
   contain 38"83 per cent, of iodine. The low temperature at
   which the compound is decomposed rendering it probable that
   the crystallized portions analysed by Pelletier and myself
   might contain metallic gold, I collected first a heavier brighter
   portion which collects at the bottom when the precipitate is
   heated in the mother liquor : it lost when dried and heated
                        • Communicated by the Author.

           Professor Johnston on the Iodides of Gold.         267
only 0*1 per cent., and was therefore nearly pure gold. An
other large portion, containing some of these brighter scales
mixed with it, lost 24-86 per cent.
   It appears then that the crystalline scales which fall from a
hot solution of proto-iodide of gold are a mixture of this iodide
and of metallic gold to the amount of 12 or 13 per cent.
   A portion of the precipitate, prepared by adding terchloride
of gold to iodide of potassium in excess and afterwards wash
ing with water, of a bright yellow colour with little lustre, lost
when heated 34-93 per cent. Obtained by this process, there
fore, it contains 10 per cent, of metallic gold.
   Prepared by pouring a solution of iodide of potassium on
protochloride of gold, washing with water, drying in a cool
place on bibulous paper, it has a pale green colour. Heated
to redness, 10 346 grains, apparently of great purity, lost 38*85
per cent., almost the exact theoretical quantity.
   The proto-iodide of gold, therefore, is a pale green powder,
which decomposes slowly in the atmosphere, is soluble in hy-
driodic acid and in hot dilute solutions of the alkaline iodides,
precipitating from the latter on cooling in brilliant scales of
a gold yellow colour, intimately mixed with about 1 2 per cent,
of pure gold. At 150° Fahr. it is partially, and between 300°
and 400° wholly, decomposed; and it consists of
                                      Calc.       Exp.
            Gold        24-86       61-167       61-15
            Iodine      15-783      38-833       38-85
                        40-643     100          100
               II. Teriodide of Gold. Au + 3 I.
   When a solution of terchloride of gold is gradually added
to one of iodide of potassium the solution becomes dark-
coloured, and if agitated, the dark green precipitate which ap
pears is nearly all redissolved. This continues till one equi
valent of terchloride has been added for every four equivalents
of iodide of potassium, and there are formed three equivalents
of chloride of potassium and one of the double iodide (iodo-
aurate) of gold and potassium, which, unless the solutions be
very concentrated, all remain in solution. The reaction is as
follows : 4 K I . Au Cl3 = 3 K CI . K I + Au I3.
   This reaction, however, does not always take place exactly
as here represented. The teriodide is so easily decomposed
that, when precipitated, instead of being entirely redissolved
by the excess of the alkaline iodide, it is partly decomposed,
and a portion of the proto-iodide falls, the liberated iodine
being held in solution.
                             2 H2

268         Professor Johnston on the Iodides of Gold.
   If more terchloride be now added, the teriodide falls in the
form of a dark green powder, and continues to fall on every
successive addition till the solution becomes nearly colourless.
The precipitate may be washed with water without much de
composition, but cannot be dried, either by exposure to the air
or by artificial heat, without considerable loss of iodine. I
have not therefore attempted any direct analysis of it. It is
soluble in hydriodic acid and in solutions of the iodides, with
partial decomposition and formation of the proto-iodide, and
is decomposed by the alkalies and alkaline earths. Exposed
to the air, it gradually becomes yellow, changing into proto-
iodide, and ultimately into metallic gold.
   Double Iodide {Iodo-aurate) ofGold and Potassium.— When
concentrated solutions of terchloride of gold and iodide of po
tassium are mixed with agitation in the proportion of rather
less than one equivalent of the former to four of the latter and
set aside, crystals of this salt speedily begin to deposit them
selves in long acicular prisms ; or if a concentrated solution of
iodide of potassium be digested on teriodide of gold, the latter
is largely dissolved, and the solution becomes of a dark brown
ish red, almost black, and, except in thin layers, opake. Set
aside, this solution deposits crystals sometimes an inch in length,
which are slender, perfectly black, opake even by candle
light, possessed of a high degree of lustre, and having much
resemblance to crystallized schorl. They have the form of four-
sided doubly oblique truncated prisms, cleaving readily parallel
to the terminal plane, and longitudinally striated on one pair
of the faces, indicating, probably, a cleavage parallel to the
other pair.
   These crystals are soluble in a weak solution of an alkaline
iodide, or of hydriodic acid, but are partially decomposed by
pure water. At 150° Fahr. or under, they emit a faint odour
of iodine, and gradually become purple ; in the air, at com
mon temperatures also, they lose iodine but very slowly, and
are otherwise permanent They contain no water of crystalli
zation. Heated in a close tube they therefore give off no
moisture, but emit violet fumes, and leave a skeleton of a gold
yellow colour, exhibiting the original form of the crystal.
   Dried at a temperature of about 100° Fahr., these crystals
lost when heated, in two experiments, 50-61 and 51 '43 per cent
of iodine, and left, after washing out the iodide of potassium,
26-46 and 26*95 per cent, of metallic gold. They consist
therefore of                                   Calc.    Exp> Mean.
    1 equiv. gold                  24-86       2676      26-705
   S equiv. iodine                 47*349      50-97     5102
    1 equiv. iodide of potassium 20 682        22-27     22-275
                                   92-891     100       100

      Researches into the Physiology of the Human Voice.     269
    Teriodide of Gold with Iodides of Sodium and Ammonium.—
These salts are prepared by digesting solutions of the respec
tive iodides on the teriodide. They both crystallize in black
four-sided prisms, having much lustre, those containing am
monia being generally flattened. They are both deliquescent,
that of sodium so much so that it is obtained in crystals with
freat difficulty ; that of ammonia only in a moist atmosphere,
   have not ascertained whether or not they contain any water
of crystallization.
    The teriodide dissolves also in solutions of the iodides of
barium and strontium, giving similar dark-coloured solutions.
A solution of the iodide of iron likewise takes it up in consi
derable quantity, and forms with it a crystallizable compound.
    The solution in hydriodic acid has the same dark red co
lour. Set aside to spontaneous evaporation, it deposits mi
nute black prisms, which, on exposure to the air, acquire a
beautiful purple tint, probably from loss of iodine. Whether
these are merely crystals of the teriodide, or a compound with
hydriodic acid, I have not ascertained. The former is the
more probable.
    Like the solutions of the terchloride, those containing the
teriodide are also decomposed by the addition of caustic am
monia. The precipitate is of a brown colour, more or less
dark, sometimes almost black, and, like fulminating gold, it
detonates when heated, giving off iodine and ammonia. The
 dark precipitates are obtained by pouring liquid ammonia into
 an excess of the teriodide ; the lighter, by dropping a solution
 of the teriodide into caustic ammonia, and agitating at each
 successive addition. They are decomposed by hot nitric acid,
 evolving iodine, and leaving a mixture of proto-iodide and me
 tallic gold.
    Durham, August 30, 1856.
 LVI. Experimental Researches into the Physiology of the Hu
            man Voice. By John Bishop, Esq., Sfc. $c
                        [Continued from p. 209.]
 r I ^HE lungs having been supplied with air by the muscles of
       inspiration, the ligaments of the glottis are drawn into
 the vibrating position.
     The air in the chest and trachea being now condensed by
 the muscles of expiration, a portion of the glottis yields to its
 pressure, and the edges are curved upwards so as to be nearly
 parallel to the axis ot the vocal tube, leaving between them an
 aperture through which the air passes. The tension and elas
 ticity of the vocal ligaments tend to restore them to the plane

 270        Mr. Bishop's Experimental Researches into
 of the vibrating position, whilst, at the same time, the air is
 acting in an opposite direction.
    The vibration of the edges of the glottis thus produced, by
 communicating to the adjacent air an alternate state of con
 densation and rarefaction, the sounds of the voice are ac
 complished.
    The relative length of the vibrating surface of the glottis is
 regulated conjointly by the pressure of the column of air in
 the trachea, and the tension and resistance of the vocal liga
 ments.
    A certain degree of condensation of the air is therefore re
 quisite, the maximum varying with the proportion ofthe area of
 the chest to that of the trachea. It is upon these hydrostatic
 principles that the small muscles which close the glottis are ca
 pable of resisting the whole force of the respiratory muscles*.
    If a person possessing a deep bass voice be directed to expel
 his breath in a manner not quite sufficient to yield the lowest
 possible note, on applying the ear to his mouth a clicking mo
 tion is perceived. If the tension and velocity of the air are
 now increased, the clicking ceases, and a continued sound is
 produced, but of an exceedingly grave pitch. During the
 previous state, Dr. Young f observes, " a delicate ear may
 detect the vocal chords vibrating twenty-six times in a second,
 or about two octaves below the A of a common bass voice."
    The intensity of the voice in the same medium:): , and under
similar collateral circumstances, depends on the pressure of the
column of air in the trachea, and the range ofmotion performed
by the vibrating edges of the glottis.
    The true vibrating surface of the glottis is the mucous mem
brane. The vocal chords confer on it the tension, resistance,
position, and probably other conditions necessary for vibra
tion. Aphonia often results from undue relaxation of this
membrane.
    When we consider the fundamental pitch of the human
voice, and compare the length of the vocal ligaments with that
of stringed instruments, or the length of the vocal tube with
that of wind instruments, we must at once perceive that the
   * The force of the expiratory muscles is about a pound on every square
inch of the surface of the chest,
   t Nat. Phil., vol. ii.
   j Acording to Derham, the human voice has been heard at the distance
often miles at Gibraltar. Boussingault, in his ascent of Chimborazo with
Colonel Hall,'at the height of 6004 metres, found the voice scarcely audible,
inhaling hydrogen gus also greatly enfeebles the voice. The intensity of
the tone varies reciprocally with the density of the air under similar colla
teral circumstances.

                  the Physiology of the Human Voice.                       271
vocal organs vibrate very slowly, simply by their relaxation *,
     The fundamental
a subject     which M. Savartpitch of
                                    hasthe
                                         veryvoice will varydemonstrated.
                                               successfully    as the length
of the vocal ligaments, and the power of adjustment in the
vocal tube to vibrate in unison with the glottis. This is the
cause of infants having acute voices, which gradually become of
a graver pitch until tney arrive at the age of puberty, when
the voice of males assumes an altered character; the pitch
suddenly becoming a fifth or an octave graver, attended with
hoarseness, and a temporary inability to control and regulate
the tones f. During that period, whilst speaking, in the same
sentence the voice sometimes becomes suddenly elevated a
 fifth or an octave; but at the expiration of from eight to twelve
 months its character becomes finally settled %. Eunuchs do
 not undergo any change of this kind.
      In the female also, at the age of puberty, the larynx un
 dergoes a change, differing however in kind and less extensive
 in effect. In the male the whole larynx is enlarged, whilst in
 the female it chiefly increases in breadth; the junction of
 the wings of the thyroid anteriorly is at a more obtuse angle,
  and the prominence of the pomum Adami is less conspicuous.
  The voice at this period acquires a fuller and rounder charac
  ter, with a greater intensity of tone.
      The natural key or pitch of the vocal organs may be found
  by sounding the voice without elevating or depressing the
  larynx; the grave octave of that note will be the fundamental
  pitch of the voice}. I have frequently tried this experiment on
  singers, and have always found this hypothesis verified by the
  result. The pitch of the vocal organs being thus on the con
  fines of the lowest tone of the acute, and the highest of the grave
  succeeding octaves, occupies a middle or central position, af
  fording a great facility to their actions in varying the tone.
       In illustration of the advantages of this position, let us sup
   pose the pitch of the voice, in a state of rest, to have been
      * Both temperature and moisture have also very sensible effects on the
   vibrations of elastic membranes.
      •f- Bennati is of opinion that the voice should not be exercised by singing
   during this period. The cases of Donzelli and Donizetti (Hecherch. tur la
   Mec. de la Voix Hum-) admit of a very different construction. It is well
   known that persons acquire as well as hie a good quality of voice after its
   breaking.
       \ The voice of a person possessing a grave, loud, and reedy character of
   tone will sometimes yield three or four harmonics of the fundamental note ;
   this was first observed by M. Knecht, of Leipsic. It is singular that by
   closing the lips lightly, and making them vibrate with the voice, they will si
   multaneously yield vibrations in harmony with the glottis, but two or three
    octaves graver in pitch.
       § The tone which may possibly be produced of a graver pitch loses both
    its quality and intensity, and cannot be considered as belonging to the na
    tural compass of the voice.

272           Mr. Bishop's Experimental Researches into
placed at either extreme of the grave or acute termination of
these octaves. The vocal tube would then have to pass through
very disproportionate spaces. Suppose, for example, the grave
octave were C ; to arrive at the G of the next succeeding oc
tave the organs would require to ascend a twelfth ; or had they
been placed at the opposite extreme, to descend a fourth ; but
as they are now adjusted, it would only be necessary, for the
accomplishment of the same tone, to ascend a fifth, or descend
a fourth.
    The pitch or key of the vocal organs, at the point of rest, is
the basis which determines the different characters of voices
recognised by musicians. Accordingly we find that what are
denominated the bass, the barytone, the tenor, the counterte
nor, &c. amongst males, and the soprano, mezzo soprano, and
soprano sfogato amongst females, are variations of pitch which
give an enlarged compass of voice for the purposes of melody,
and fill up the musical intervals between the gravest and most
acute voices.
    Ferrein, Fetis, and other French authors have observed
that specific characters of voice are peculiar to certain locali
ties. In Picardy, for instance, the finest bass voices occur.
Languedoc, and Toulouse, with its environs, are celebrated
for tenors ; whilst in Burgundy and Franche-Comte, female
voices of the first quality are found. No cause has hitherto
been assigned for these peculiarities, which do not appear to
exist in this country.
    All these modifications of the voice are dependent upon the
key of its fundamental tone. We may estimate the average
compass of tones comprised between the lowest notes of good
bass voices, being about the C string of the violoncello, and
the most acute of female voices, reaching C on the second
leger line above the G clef, to be four octaves ; but there are
individuals who can exceed these two extremes.
    M- Biot calculates three octaves and a half to be the extreme
range, but this I know from experience to be too low an esti
mate.
    The power with which the vocal organs are thus endowed,
of varying and modulating the grave and acute tones of the
voice, has been from an early period a principal subject of
inquiry. Aristotle and those who followed him, till the com
mencement of the last century, were of opinion that the acute
tones of the voice depend upon the relative velocity, quantity,
and temperature of the air passing through the glottis, com
bined with the size of its chink *. This theory was adopted
 ra.yf.ai, fictpu* li to r* fyctliuc.—Ariitotclu Opera, lib. 2. Problematum,
 sect. xi.

                   the Physiology of the Human Voice.                     273
by Galen *, Boethius, Fabriciusf, Marciennef, Kircber, Per-
 rault§, and many others ||.
     Dodart^f also at first embraced the Aristotelian hypothesis
respecting the velocity of the air in the aperture of the glottis,
but finding it insufficient, he adopted a new theory, which,
owing to its elaborate researches, has obtained the greatest
attention .
     His theory, however, of the parabolic curves of the glottis,
 the whistle, and the vox humana pipe of the organ, were by
no means happy deductions from his researches.
     Ferrein** has proved by experiment that the vocal chords
are capable of yielding all the tones of the voice, and has endea
voured to show that their tension regulates the modulations,
and that they are governed by the same laws as stringed mu
sical instruments.
     Mr. Willisff also appears to be of the same opinion as Fer
rein with regard to the tension of the vocal ligaments. He
observes, " To obtain the various notes from the glottis,
therefore, it is only necessary to vary its longitudinal tension
after the ligaments have been placed in the proper position."
     M. Savart, whose valuable researches have contributed
greatly to our acoustic knowledge, conceives that the superior
and inferior ligaments of the glottis form an apparatus analo
gous to the duck-whistle £|, and that all the variations of the
glottis are regulated upon the same principle as that instru
ment, a view which has been adopted by several physiologists
of the present day.
     A consideration of these diversified and unsatisfactory the
ories induced me to reinvestigate this subject, and for this
purpose to repeat the experiments of Ferrein. In the first
place, I observed, that in order to produce any sounds what
ever, it was requisite to close the chink of the glottis §§, by
bringing the edges of the vocal ligaments into immediate con
tact, when, by straining them tolerably tight, the sounds be-
    • Galen, Opera, De Larynge, lib. 7-
    + De Larynge, Vocit Organo.                     \ Harmonie Umversellc.
   § Essait de P/iy&it/ue ; Traite da Bruit.
   J| Casserius,2)e Organo Vocis, Sfc.
   f Mem. de VAcad. Royale, 1700, 1707.                Hid., 1747-
    •ft Csimb. Philos. Trans., vol. iv.
   %% The transverse sections of the larynx in figg.4. and 5. give an appear
ance not unlike the duck-whistle, which is a small circular box, perforated
in the centre by two holes, situated opposite to each other : according to
the hypothesis of Savart, the tones of the voice would have rather resem
bled the whistle than the reed.
        Liscovius (loc. cit., p. 29-34.) confirms this remark. He says that
no tones arc formed where the glottis is very much dilated.
     Third Series. Vol. 9. No. 54. Oct. 1836.                   2I

- 27+         Mr. Bishop's Experimental Researches into
  came loud and distinct, but possessing a more reedy quality of
  tone than belongs to the voice in the living body.
     The difference was doubtless attributable to the absence of
  the mouth and nasal cavities, which powerfully influence the
  melody of the voice.
     Finding that during the production of sound the chink of
  the glottis remained closed, excepting the parts in actual vi
  bration, I next minutely observed the change produced in the
  vocal chords ; I remarked that when the gravest tones were
  uttered, the ligaments vibrated throughout their whole length,
  and that as the tones became more acute, a proportionably
  smaller extent of the ligaments was thrown into vibration.
  During the production of the most acute tones, the tension of
  the vocal ligaments was but slightly increased, and the great
  est possible tension was insufficient to produce acute tones,
  whilst these ligaments vibrated throughout their whole length.
      A very slight movement of the tbyro-arytenoid muscle
  seemed to be sufficient to vary the tones, and they would fre
  quently become very acute without my being sensible of hav
  ing altered the tension. Hence it appears demonstrated that
  the motions of the thyro-arytenoid and crico-thyroid muscles
  so affect the vocal chords that a portion of them only is ren
  dered susceptible of vibration.
     Since therefore a muscular apparatus has been shown ex
  pressly adapted to produce all the motions necessary for the
  modulation of the voice, it may safely be inferred that the
  phenomena observed in experiments thus conducted actually
  take place in the living body, and that this is the true mode by
  which all the tones of the voice, whether acute or grave, are
  effected *. The ligaments of the glottis being attached at their
  extremities, are subject, as regards their vibrations, to the
  laws observed in simple strings, modified perhaps in conse
  quence of the reflections of the mucous membrane over them,
  owing to which a broad surface is presented to the current of
  air rather than isolated chords or strings.
      Having now considered the manner in which the glottis is
  made to yield all the fundamental notes, whether acute or
  grave, of the human voice, I shall investigate the nature of
  those changes which take place in the vocal tube in order to
  yield vibrations isochronous with those of the glottis.
     The intimate relation existing between the glottis and the
      • The observations of Magendie tend to confirm those deduced from
  my experiments. He found that the glottis of a dog vibrated in a small
  proportion of its length during the utterance of acute tones, but in a larger
  proportion during the grave tones. This illustrates the identity of the mo
  tions of tho glottis artificially excited, with those of the living animal.

                 the Physiology of the Human Voice.                       215
vocal tube in which it is placed, the manner in which they are
adjusted to each other, and the acoustic effects resulting from
this reciprocal action, present an interesting field of inquiry.
    Although it has been demonstrated that the glottis is capa
ble of producing all the range of tone without the aid of the
rest of the vocal organs, its function becomes more limited
when placed in the vocal tube, for in that position it can vi
brate in perfection only when in unison with the pitch of the
tube.
    When the vocal tube lias by any means lost its power of
vibrating in accordance with the glottis, the consequence is, that
the glottis will either merely reach phonation, produce dis
cordant tones, or become silent altogether.
    Magendie mentions a person who having a small aperture
in the trachea, was obliged to tie a cravat tightly round it, to
restore the power of adjustment, and enable him to speak.
    I lately witnessed an analogous case of loss of voice owing
to a fistulous orifice below the glottis.
    The glottis being situated near the superior extremity of the
vocal tube, does not alter the fundamental pitch of the voice ;
hence Mr.Wheatstone * very justly remarks that the trachea
exerts the same influence below the glottis as it would above
it t-
    When the voice is raised in the scale from grave to acute,
a corresponding elevation takes place in the larynx, towards
the base of the cranium.
    By placing the finger on the pomum Adami, this motion
can be easily felt, and at the same time the thyroid cartilage
is drawn up within the os hyoides, and presses on the epi
glottis; the small space between the thyroid and the cricoid
closes % ; the pharynx is contracted ; the velum palati is de
pressed and curved forwards; the tonsils approach each other,
and the uvula is folded upon itself§.
    The reverse of these phenomena takes place during the de
scent of the voice.
    These are the principal phaenomena which can be recog
nised by external observation ; the other changes being, on
account of their situation, invisible.
   * See Mayo's Physiology.
   t Those physiologists who would assign to the thyroid gland the mecha
nical office of acting as a damper to stifle the reverberations of sounds in
the chest, must have very erroneous notions of the functions of the vocal
tube.
   I See fig. 7..
   § Gerdy (Bulletin Umversel det Sciencei,) remarks, " La luette se ra-
eourciese graducllement jusqu'it s'effacer entierement, lorsque la voix uionte
tres-haut. ' See also Bennati, liecher. sur la Vou.
                                      212

276 Researches into the Physiology of the Human Voice.
    The effects of these variations on the tones of the voice have
been hitherto little understood. It has always appeared in
comprehensible why the vocal tube should apparently increase
in length in the production of the acute tones, and shorten in
the grave*, a circumstance which, theoretically, presents an
acoustic paradox. Dodart and many others have conceived
the elevation of the larynx to be merely for the purpose of
shortening the vocal tube in the super-laryngeal cavity, and
have considered the trachea as producing no effect on the key
of the tone, an error which has already been pointed out by
Mr. Wheatstone.
    Magendie's remarks on the shortening of the vocal tube ap
ply only to the approximation of the thyroid-cartilage to the
os hyoides.
    In order to ascertain the effect of these changes, I made the
following experiments on the dead body: having laid bare
the vocal organs of an adult male, I raised the larynx to the
position it would occupy by the elevation of the voice an oc
tave, being about half an inch, and at the same time minutely
observed the position of the lowest ring of the trachea in re
ference to the sternum. By this operation I found the trachea
was raised out of the chest, nearly to the same extent as the
larynx had been elevated towards the base of the skull. My
next step was to examine whether any change had taken place
in the diameter of the tube. Having for this purpose mea
sured the diameter of the trachea in its natural position, I
again elevated the larynx to the same extent as before, and
found the diameter diminished one third. These experiments
prove that, contrary to the general preconception, the eleva
tion of the larynx shortens the tube independently of the con
traction between the thyroid cartilage and os hyoides, and at
the same time lessens its diameter.
   The same effects may easily be detected during life by
placing the finger on the trachea immediately above the ster
num during the elevation of the larynx, when the trachea is
found to ascend out of the chest, and afterwards to return to
its former position, a movement in which the lungs and bron-
chii participate. The alteration of the tube in diameter may
also be perceived by grasping the trachea with the finger and
thumb (luring the elevation and depression of the larynx.
   Such are the principal means provided for adjusting the vi
brations of the vocal tube to those of the glottis ; but as the
variation of length is not sufficient to render the tube capable
of adjusting itself to the whole range of tones, the relative ten
sion of its superficies supplies the deficiency. The influence
                       • See Richerantl, p. 440.

                    Oh the Sivatherium giganteuni.                     277
of the tension of elastic membranes in modulating the tones
produced by them has been very satisfactorily demonstrated
by the interesting experiments of Savart *, and it is no doubt
materially concerned in the analogous phoenomena of the
voice. The diameter of a tube does not influence the pitch of
its sound, but there is an obvious appropriateness in the di
minution of the diameter of the trachea as the sound becomes
sharper ; for experience has taught the makers of wind instru
ments that the best qualities of tone for the lower notes are
obtained when the bore of the instrument is large, and for the
higher notes when it is small.
   The influence of the vocal tube, as far as relates to its ef
fects on the key of the voice, is terminated at the velum palati
by the several perforations of the nostrils, the" Eustachian tubes,
and the mouth. The opinion of Savart, that the mouth mo
difies the key of the tone is consequently erroneous f.
    We find analogous acoustic effects in musical instruments ;
for instance, the lowest joint of the flute, which is six inches
in length, having three perforations, when its keys are open
lowers the tone of the instrument only half a note. The im
portant distinction between the effects of air passing through
the tubes of musical instruments, according as their sides are
rigid or membranous, is, that in the former case, as exemplified
in flutes, hautboys, &c, the air vibrates independently of the
sides of the tube, whilst in the latter, the tube enters into com
pound vibrations with the         be continued.]
                             [To column    of air.
 LV1I. On the Sivatherium giganteuni, a new Fossil Ruminant
    Genus,from the Valley ofthe Markanda, in the Siv&lik branch
    of the Sub-Himalayan Mountains. By Hugh Falconer,
    M.D., Superintendent Botanical Garden, Sehdranpur, and
    Captain P. T. Cautley, Superintendent Doab Canal.
                  [Continued from p. 201, and concluded.]
 NOTWITHSTANDING the singularly perfect condition of the head,
       for an organic remain of such enormous size, we cannot but regret
 the mutilation at the muzzle and vertex, as it throws a doubt upon some
 very interesting points of structure in the Sivatherium : 1st, the presence
 or absence of incisive and canine teeth in the upper jaw, and their num
 ber and character if present ; 2nd, the number and extent of the bones
 which enter into the basis of the external nostrils ; and 3rd, the presence
 or absence of two horns on the vertex, besides the two intrn-orbital
 ones.
    * Annates de Chimie.
   + Tandis que la bouche en s'ouvrant plus on moins, et en changeant par
 consequence les dimensions de la colonne d'air, exerce aussi une influence
 notable sur le nombre des vibrations, conjointemeht avec les levres.—Ami.
 de Chimie, 1825.

278                 Dr. Falconer and Capt. Caulley
   Regarding the first point, we have nothing sufficient to guide us with
certainty to a conclusion, as there are ruminants hoth with and without
incisives and canines in the upper jaw ; and the Sivatherium differs most
materially in structure from both sections. But there are two conditions
of analogy which render it probable that there were no incisives. 1. In all
ruminants which have the molars in a contiguous and normal series, and
which have horns on the brow, there are no incisive teeth. In the camel
and its congeners, where the anterior molars are unsymmetrical and sepa
rated from the rest of the series by an interval, incisives are present in the
upper jaw. The Sivatherium had horns, and its molars were in a conti
guous series : it is therefore probable that it had no incisives. Regarding
the canines there is no clue to a conjecture, as there are species in the
same genus of ruminants both with and without them. 2. The extent
and connexions of the incisive bones are points of great interest, from the
kind of development which they imply in the soft parts appended to
them.
   In most of the horned lluminantia, the incisives run up by a narrow
apophysis along the anterior margins of the maxillary bones, and join on to
a portion of the sides of the nasals; so that the bony basis of the external
nostrils is formed of but two pairs of bones, the nasals and the incisives.
In the camel, the apophyses of the incisives terminate upon the maxillaries
without reaching the nasals, and there are three pairs of bones to the ex
ternal nostrils, the nasals, maxillaries, and incisives. But neither in the
horned ruminants, nor in the camel and its congeners, do the bones of
the nose rise out of the plane of the brow with any remarkable degree of
saliency, nor are their lower margins free to any great extent towards the
apex. They are long slips of bone, with nearly parallel edges, running be
tween the upper borders of the maxillaries, and joined to the ascending
process of the incisive bone, near their extremity, or connected only with
the maxillaries ; but in neither case projecting so as to form any consider
able re-entering angle, or sinus, with these bones.
   In our fossil, the form and connexions of the nasal bones are very dif
ferent. Instead of running forward in the same plane with the brow, they
rise from it at a rounded angle of about 130°, an amount of saliency with
out example among ruminants, and exceeding what holds in the rhino
ceros, tapir, and palaeotherium, the only herbivorous animals with this
sort of structure. Instead of being in nearly parallel slips, they are broad
and well arched at their base, and converge rapidly to a sharp tip, which
is hooked downwards, over-arching the external nostrils. Along a consi
derable portion of their length they are unconnected with the adjoining
bones, their lower margins being free and so wide apart from the maxil
laries as to leave a gap or sinus of considerable length and depth in the
bony parietes of the nostrils. The exact extent to which they are free, is
unluckily not shown in the fossil, as the anterior margin of the maxillaries
is mutilated on both sides, and the connexion with the incisives destroyed.
But as the nasal bones shoot forward beyond the mutilated edges of the
maxillaries, this circumstance, together with their well-defined outline and
symmetry on both sides of the fossil, and their rapid convergence to a point
with some convexity, leaves not a doubt that they were free to a great ex
tent and unconnected with the incisives.
   Now to determine the conditions in the fleshy parts, which the structure
in the bony parietes of the nostrils entails.
   The analogies are to be sought for in the Ruminantia and Packydermala.
   The remarkable saliency of the bones of the nose, in the Sivatherium,
has no parallel, in known ruminants, to guide us j and the connexion of the
nasals with the incisives, or the reverse, does not imply any important dif

                      on the Sivatherium giganteum.                          279
fercnce in structure in the family. In the Bovine section, the Ox and the
Buffalo have the nasals and incisives connected : whereas they are separate
in the Y&k* and Aurochs. In the Camel, they are also separate, and this
animal has greater mobility in the upper lip than is round in other rumi
nants.
   In the Pachydermata, both these conditions of structure are present
and wanting in different genera ; and their presence or absence is accom
panied with very important differences in the form of the corresponding
soft parts. It is therefore in this family that we are to look for an explana
tion of what is found in the Sivatherium.
   In the Elephant and Mastodon, the Tapir, Rhinoceros, and Palaiothc-
riiim, there arc three pairs of bones to the external nostrils ; the nasals,
the maxillaries, and incisives f. In all these animals, the upper lip is
highly developed, so as to be prehensile, as in the Rhinoceros, or extended
into a trunk, as in the Elephant and Tapir; the amount cf development
being accompanied with corresponding difference in the position and form
of the nasal bones. In the Rhinoceros, they are long and thick, extending
to the point of the muzzle, and of great strength to support the horns of
the animal ; and the upper lip is broad, thick, and very mobile, but little
elongated. In the Elephant, they are very short, and the incisives enor
mously developed for the insertion of the tusks, and the trunk is of great
length. In the Tapir, they are short and free, except at the base, and pro
jected high above the maxillaries ; and the structure is accompanied by a
well-developed trunk. In the other pachydermatous genera, there are but
two pairs of bones to the external nostrils, the nasals and the incisives:
the latter running up so as to join on with the former; and the nasals,
instead of being short and salient, with a sinus laterally between them and
the maxillaries, are long, and run forward, united to the maxillaries, more
or less resembling the nearly parallel slips of the Ruminantia. Of this
genera, the Horse has the upper lip endowed with considerable mobility ;
and the lower end of the nasals is at the same time free to a small extent.
In all the other genera, there is nothing resembling a prehensile organ in
 the upper lip.
    In the Sivatherium, the same kind of structure holds as is found in the
 Pachydermata with trunks. Of these it most nearly resembles the Tapir.
                                          nose being larger and more salient
 from the chaffron ; and in there being less width and depth to the naso
 maxillary sinus, than the Tapir exhibits. But as the essential points of
 structure are alike in both, there is no doubt that the Sivatherium was in
 vested with a trunk like the Tapir.
    This conclusion is further borne out by other analogies, although more
 indirect than that afforded by the nasal bones.
    1st.—The large size of the infra-orbitary foramen. In the fossil, the
 exact dimensions are indistinct, from the margin having been injured in
 the chiseling off" of the matrix of stone : the vertical diameter we make
 out to be 1*2 inch, which perhaps may be somewhat greater than the truth ;
 but anything approaching this size, would indicate a large nerve for trans
 mission, and a highly developed condition of the upper lip.
    2nd.—The external plate of the bones of the cranium is widely separated
 from the inner, by an expansion of the diploe in vertical plates, forming
 large cells, as in the cranium of the Elephant : and the occipital is ex
 panded laterally into alae, with a considerable hollow between, as in the
 Elephant. Both these conditions are modifications of structure, adapted
 fur supplying an extensive surface for muscular attachment, and imply a
    * Cuvier, Ossemetu Fouiles, tome iv. p. 131.       f Ibid., tomeiii. p. 29.

  ^80                 Dr. Falconer and Capt. Cautley
  tliick fleshy neck, with limited range of motion ; and, in more remote se
 quence, go to prove the necessity of a trunk.
     3rd.—-The very large size of the occipital condyles, which are greater
  both in proportion, and in actual measurement, than those of the Elephant,
  the interval between their outer angles, taken across the occipital foramen,
  being 7'4 inches. The atlas, and the rest of the series of cervical vertebrae,
  must have been of proportionate diameter to receive and sustain the con
  dyles, and surrounded by a large mass of flesh. Both these circumstances
  would tend greatly to limit the range of motion of the head and neck.
  But to suit the herbivorous habits of the animal, it must have had some
 other mode of reaching its food; or the vertebrae must have been elongated
 in .a ratio to their diameter sufficient to admit of free motion to the neck.
 In the latter case, the neck must have been of great length, and to support
  it and the load of muscles about it, an immense development would be
  required in the spinal apophysis of the dorsal vertebras, and in tbe whole
  (interior extremity, with an unwieldy form of the body generally. It is
  therefore more probable that the vertebrae were condensed, as in the Ele
 phant, and the neck short and thick, admitting of limited motion to the
 head : circumstances indirectly corroborating the existence of a trunk.
     4th.—The face is short, broad, and massive, to nn extent not found in
 the Ruminantia, and somewhat resembling that of the Elephant, and suit
 able for the attachment of a trunk.
     Next with regard to the horns :—
    There can be no doubt, that the two thick, short, and conical processes
 between the orbits, were the cores of horns, resembling those of the
 Bovine and Antilopine sections of tbe Ruminantia. They are smooth, and
 run evenly into the brow without any burr. The horny sheaths which
 they bore, must have been straight, thick, and not much elongated. None
 of the bicorned Ruminantia have horns placed in the same way, exactly'
 between and over the orbits : they have them more or less to the rear.
 The only ruminant which has horns.similar in position is the four-horned
 Antelope' of Hindustan, which differs only in having its anterior pair of
 horns a little more in advance of the orbits than occurs in the Sivatlterium.
 The correspondence of the two at once suggests the question, " had the
 Sivatherium also two additional horns on the vertex ?" The cranium in
the fossil is mutilated across at the vertex, so as to deprive us of direct
evidence on the point, but the following reasons render the supposition at
 least probable :
    1st. —As above stated, in the bi-cavicorned Ruminantia, the osseous
cores are placed more or less to the rear of the orbits.
    2nd.—In such known species as have four horns, the supplementary
pair is between the orbits, and the normal pair well back upon the
frontal.
    3rd.—In the Bovine section of Ruminantia, the frontal is contracted
behind the orbits, and upwards from the contraction, it is expanded again
into two swellings, at the lateral angles of the vertex, which run into the
bases of the osseous cores of the horns. This conformation does not exist
in such of the Ruminantia as want horns, or as have them approximated
on the brow. It is present in the Sivatherium.
    On either supposition, the intra-orbitary horns are a remarkable feature
in the fossil : and if they were a solitary pair on the head, the structure,
from their position, would perhaps be more singular, than if there had
been two additional horns behind.
    Now' to estimate the length of the deficient portion of the muzzle, and
the entire length of the head : —                                          ,
         * The Tetracerui or Antilope juadricornis and Ckeiarn of authors.

                      on the Sivatlierium giganteum.                              281
   In most of the Ruminantia, where the molars are in a contiguous unin
terrupted series, the interval from the first molar to the anterior border of
the incisive bones is nearly equal to the space occupied by the molars ; in
some greater, in some a little less, and generally the latter. In other
Ruminantia, such as the Camelidte, where the anterior molars are Asym
metrical with the others, and separated from them by being placed in the
middle of the diasteme, this ratio does not hold ; the space from the first
molar to the margin of the incisives being less than the line of molars. In
the Sivatherium, the molars are in a contiguous series, and if on this
analogy we deduce the length of the muzzle, we get nearly 10 inches for
the space from the first molar to the point of the incisives ; and 28*85 inches
for the whole length of the head, from the border of the occipital foramen
to the margin of the incisives ; these dimensions may be a little excessive,
but we believe them not to be far .out, as the muzzle would still be short
for the width of the face, in a ruminant.
   The orbits next come to be considered. The size and position of the
eye form a distinguishing feature between the Ruminantia and the Pachy-
dermata. In the former it is large and full, in the latter smaller and
sunken ; and the expression of the face is more heavy in consequence. In
the Sivatherium the orbit is considerably smaller in proportion to the
size of the head than in existing ruminants. It i3 also placed more forward
in the face, and lower under the level of the brow. The rim is not raised
and prominent, as in the Ruminantia, and the plane of it is oblique; the
interval between the orbits at their upper margin being 12-2 inches, and at
the lower, 16 2 inches. The longitudinal diameter exceeds the vertical in
the ratio of 5 to 4 nearly, the long axis being nearly in a line from the naso
maxillary sinus across the hind limb of the zygomatic circle. From the
above we infer that the eye was smaller and less prominent than in ex
isting ruminants; and that the expression of the face was heavier and more
ignoble, although less so than in the Pachyderniata, excepting the horse ;
also that the direction of vision was considerably forwards, as well as la
teral, and that it was cut off"towards the rear.
   This closes what we have been led to infer regarding the organs of the
head. With respect to the rest of the skeleton we have nothing to offer,
as we are not at present possessed of any other remains which we can with
certainty refer to the Sivatherium *. Among a quantity of bonesf collected
from the same neighbourhood with the head fossil, there are three singu
larly perfect specimens of the lower portions of the extremities of a large
ruminant, belonging to three legs of one individual. They greatly exceed
the size of any known ruminant, and excepting the Sivatherium giganteum,
there is no other ascertained animal of the order, in our collection, of
proportionate size to them. We forbear from further noticing them at
present, as they appear small in comparison for our fossil : and besides,
there are indications in our collection, in teeth and other remains, of
other large ruminants, different from the one we have described.
   The form of the vertebrae, and more especially of the carpi and tarsi,
are points of great interest to be ascertained; as we may expect modifica
tions of the usual type adapted to the large size of the animal. From its
   * See note to page 201.—Sac. Asiat. Soc.
   f We note here a very perfect cervical vertebra of a ruminant in our posses
sion, which must have belonged to an animal of proportions equal to that of the
Sivatherium; but from certain characters, we are inclined to suspect that it is allied
to some other gigantic species of ruminant, of the existence of which we have
already tolerable certainty. Of the existence of the elk, and a species of Ca-
melida, Lieut, liakcr of the Engineers has shown us ample proof.
    Third Series. Vol. 9. No. 5*. Oct. 1836.                        2 K

282                  On the Sivatherium giganteutn.
bulk and armed head, few animals could be strong enough to contend with
it, and we may expect that its extremities were constructed more to "give
support, than for rapidity of motion. But, in the rich harvest which we
still hope to reap in the valleys of the Marianda, it is probable that speci
mens to illustrate the greater part of the osteology of the Sivatherium will
at no very distant period be found.
    The structure of the teeth suggests an idea regarding the peculiarities of
the herbivorous habits of the animal. In the description it was noticed
that the inner central plate of enamel ran in a flexuous sweep, somewhat
 resembling what is seen in the Elasmotherium, an arrangement evidently
 intended to increase the grinding power of the teeth. It may hence be
 inferred, that the food of the Sivatherium was less herbaceous than that
of the existing horned ruminants, and derived from leaves and twigs; or
 that as in the horse, the food was more completely masticated, the digestive
 organs less complicated, the body less bulky, and the necessity of regur
 gitation from the stomach less marked than in the present Ruminanlia.
    The following dimensions, contrasted with those of the elephant and
 rhinoceros, will afford a tolerably accurate idea of the size of the Siva
 therium. They are characteristic, although not numerous :—
                                          Elephant. Sivatherium. '"J.*? ,-non,ed
 From margin of foramen magnum                                         nocen».
    to the first molar                     2310 in. 18 85 in. 24 9 in.
 Greatest width of the cranium             26 0        22 0         12-05
 Do. do. of face between the malar
    bones                                  185         1602          920
 Greatest depth of the skull               17 80       11-9         1105
 Long diameter ofthe foramen magnum 2-55                2-6          2-6°
 Short do.           do.        do           2-4         23          1*5
         Average of the above              15-06       12-38       10 22
    If the view which we have taken of the fossil be correct, the Sivathe
 rium was a very remarkable animal, and it fills up an important blank in
 the interval between the Ruminanlia and Pachydermata. That it was a
 ruminant the teeth and horns most clearly establish ; and the structure
 which we have inferred of the upper lip, the osteology of the face, and
 the size and position of the orbit, approximate it to the Pachydermata.
 The circumstance of anything approaching a proboscis is so abnormal for
 a ruminant, that at the first view, it might raise a doubt regarding the cor
 rectness of the ordinal position assigned to the fossil ; but when we inquire
 further, the difficulty ceases.
    In the Pacht/dermata, there are genera with a trunk, and others with
 out a trace of it. This organ is therefore not essential to the constitution
 of the order, but accidental to the size of the head, or habits of the animal
 in certain genera. Thus in the elephant, nature has given a short neck to
 support the huge head, the enormous tusks, and the large grinding apparatus
 of the animal ; and by such an arrangement, the construction of trie rest
 of the frame is saved from the disturbance which a long neck would have
 entailed. But as the lever of the head became shortened, some other
 method of reaching its food became necessary ; and a trunk was appended
 to the month. We have only to apply analogous conditions to a ruminant,
 and a trunk is equally required. In fact, the camel exhibits a rudimentary
 form of this organ, under different circumstances. The upper lip is cleft ;
 each of the divisions is separately moveable and extensible, so as to be an
 excellent organ of touch.
    The fossil was discovered near the Mark;inda river, in one of the small

     Mr. Mullins on the Construction of Voltaic Batteries. 283
valleys which stretch between the Kyarda-d6n and the valley of Pinjor, in
the Sivalik or sub-Himalayan belt of hills, associated with bones of the
fossil Elephant, Mastodon, Rhinoceros, Hippopotamus, &c. So far as our
researches yet go, the Sivatherium was not numerous. Compared with the
Mastodon and Hippopotamus (H. Sivaleiuu, Nobis, a new species charac
   Northern
terized      Dodb, six
         by having     incisors
                    Sept.       in either jaw, ) it was very rare.
                           15, 1835.
LVIII. Observations on the Construction of Voltaic Batteries ;
    with a Description of a Battery exhibited at the Royal In
    stitution of Great Britain, June 3, 1 836, in which an uniform
    and powerful current is sustained for any period required.
    By Fred. Wm. Mullins, Esq., M.P., RS.S., Sfc*
 TSM AVING for some years devoted all the time I could spare
 * * from other avocations to researches in voltaism and elec
tro-magnetism, I frequently experienced considerable incon
venience from the impossibility of keeping up an equally pow
erful current of electricity for a period sufficiently long to
answer my purposes ; and in one particular instance, which I
shall more especially refer to in a future paper, as con
nected with a very important discovery, the obstruction to
the inquiries I was then making was so great, that I resolved,
if possible, to conquer the difficulty, and conceived that not
withstanding the disappointments that had previously attended
similar attempts, some means might still be discovered by
which those consequences of chemical action on the metals
employed in the galvanic circuit, and which Sir Humphry
Davy and other distinguished philosophers had decided to be
the chief cause of the decline of electric power, might be pre
vented, or, at all events, considerably diminished. I therefore
commenced a series of experiments on this subject, in the
course of which it struck me. that a conducting substance in
terposed between the two metals would effectually protect
both metals from the injurious effect of the gases and oxides
formed while the battery was in action, while the electric cur
rent would find a free passage, and a surface of copper, or
whatever other metal performed its functions, in the fittest
state to receive it from the electrolyte. I had been previously
in the habit of using membranous substances as conductors
of voltaic electricity, in a course of experiments in which
I had been engaged with the view of obtaining a new mode
of developing voltaic power ; and having found that thin
membranes, when moistened in alkaline or acid solutions, af-
   * Cominunicated by the Author. An abstract of Professor Daniell's
paper on the Constant Voltaic Battery, recently constructed by him, will be
found in our latt volume, p. 421.
                                     2 K 2

284              Mr. Mullins's Observations on the
forded a free passage to the electric fluid, I concluded that my
object would be fully attained by their employment in the vol
taic circuit. I accordingly prepared a very thin calf's bladder,
and having placed in it a coil of thin sheet copper, with a small
quantity of solution of sulphate of copper, I immersed both in
an earthenware pot containing a cylinder of zinc fitting close
 to its inner surface, and distant from the surface of the copper
an inch and a quarter, and a sufficient quantity of diluted sul
 phuric acid, in the proportion of 5 of the acid to 100 of water;
 and on testing the power of this battery with the voltameter, I
 found that the first deflection suffered very little diminution
 for several hours, though I had made no alterations in the
 fluids used, nor in any way disturbed the arrangement (in this
experiment the pot used was only two and a half inches in
 diameter and three deep). In a second experiment, made
 with the same battery and with the same solutions, having
connected it with an electro-magnet of the horse-shoe form,
four inches in length and five eighths in diameter, the mag
net sustained £0 lbs. attached to the keeper for three hours.
Having thus proved the possibility of obtaining a continuous
and equally powerful current for a long period, it next be
came a question whether the power could not be still further
increased and prolonged by the use of other conducting li
quids in contact with the same quantity of metallic surface ;
and after a long course of experiments upon the nature of che
mical action on metals in voltaic connexion, and the compara
tive effects of different electrolytes of different degrees of
strength,—the results of which I consider sufficiently important
to form the subject of another paper,— I found that of the va
rious acid, alkaline, and saline solutions tested, muriate of
ammonia in the proportion of 5 parts of the saturated solu
tion to 100 of water, gave me the best conducting fluid, com
bined with the least injurious action on the zinc surface ; in
fact, so slight that, after several days of constant action, the
zinc plate, which was amalgamated, was scarcely corroded or
reduced in thickness.
    It next became important to examine what connexion ex
isted between the power produced and the distance between
the zinc and copper; and it appeared natural to conclude that
the more remote the surface of the copper from that of the
zinc, the less would be the effect produced on completing the
circuit ; but, as I was aware that great diversity of opinion ex
isted upon this subject, with the view of fully satisfying myself
with respect to the best mode of construction of voltaic batte
ries, I prepared an apparatus by means of which I was en
abled most accurately to measure the increase or diminution

                Construction of Voltaic Batteries.           285
of power according to the relative distances of the two metals.
It consisted of a cylindrical earthenware vessel, four inches in
diameter, in which was placed a cylinder of zinc, as close to
the inner surface as possible: the centre contained a copper
coil, of one inch diameter, inclosed in a membranous bag, and
there were four other copper coils, of greater and different di
ameters, so constructed, however, that the largest did not
contain a greater surface of copper than the smallest. When
the coil of least diameter was used, the deflection of the volta
meter only reached 60°; on introducing the next in size and
removing the first, the deflection increased to 65°; the third
brought the needle to 71°; the fourth to 7*°; and the fifth,
which was distant only a quarter of an inch from the zinc, to
87°. I repeated the experiment in an oblong trough, with
square plates of zinc and copper, gradually advancing the zinc
to the copper, and with the same results ; thus demonstrating,
that in the construction of voltaic batteries, whether square or
cylindrical, the nearer the surfaces of the metal are brought,
   It may be well here to state that in the course of these ex
periments I found that, in each pair of plates, an increase of
zinc surface beyond a certain limit will not give an increase of
power, and consequently I am of opinion that a larger quantity
of zinc than is requisite is employed in all the batteries in ge
neral use.
   Having thus experimentally ascertained the proper distances
of the metals, as well as the best conducting fluids, I con
structed a single voltaic battery, in which I brought the prin
ciples already stated to bear, as much as the interposed mem
brane and other circumstances would permit, and of which I
will now give a brief description : in an earthenware pot, six
inches deep and four wide, I place a cylinder of amalgamated
zinc, standing on three legs, half an inch long, cut out of the
cylinder, the depth of which, including the legs, is only two
inches ; within this cylinder, and at three eighths of an inch
distant, stands a copper vessel, having a rim a quarter of an
inch wide surrounding its outer edge, round which the bladder
is tied ; the bottom of the vessel rests on a circular piece of
baked box wood, which projects one fourth of an inch beyond
the cylinder ; a thin oblong bladder, well cleaned and moist
ened, is drawn over all and fastened round the upper rim by
a string, the wood at bottom preserving it from contact with
the copper, which would otherwise injure the membrane. This
cylinder, which is the depth of the pot, is pierced with six
holes equidistant from the top and bottom, which communi
cate with an inner cylinder, separated from the outside one

286          On the Construction of Voltaic Batteries.
by a space of three fourths of an inch, the bottom being on a
level with the lower edge of the holes and soldered to the
larger cylinder ; this chamber is intended to hold crystals of
sulphate of copper when required, and to receive the solution,
which should not rise higher than the upper edges of the
holes. A small quantity of the ammoniacal solution is to be
poured outside the membrane until it rises to the upper edge of
the zinc; the latter solution does not require renewal; the
former will require the addition of a few crystals of the sul
phate every four hours. An electro-magnet of the horse-shoe
form, the limbs of which were five inches long and one inch
in diameter, having four coils of thin wire, each coil contain
ing thirty feet, when connected with a battery of the dimen
sions given, sustained for several hours a weight of 112 lbs.;
but this is not a safe test, for I have always observed that
electro-magnets to which weights have been for some time at
tached, lose their temporary power to a certain extent, and
acquire a slight permanent power. This arises, I apprehend,
from the straining of the soft iron and the consequent uneven-
ness of the poles, as well as from a certain change in the con
tiguity and internal arrangement of its particles, and presents,
in my opinion, an insurmountable obstacle to the useful appli
cation of electro-magnetic power in the way alluded to by
Mr. M'Gauley at the late meeting of the British Association.
    Upon the same principle, conjoined with another which in
a future paper I shall more particularly advert to, I have con
structed a somewhat different form of battery for intensity ef
fects ; it consists of a number of zinc and copper cylinders, of
the same proportions as those before described, placed in a pot
of the same size as that already mentioned, one within the
other, the copper cylinders being lined with caoutchouc for in
sulation. In this battery the power is immense in proportion
to the quantity of the metals used, and arises, I conceive, from
the application of a principle which I believe is quite novel in
the construction of voltaic batteries, namely, that of diminish
ing the metallic surfaces as the fluid in its onward passage
accumulates, thus acquiring increased force in proportion to the
smallness of the substance to which it is restricted. By merely
altering the connexions of the plates, which by the mode I
have adopted can be done with the utmost facility, this battery
can be turned into a powerful quantity one, and for both, a
wine-glass full of the solutions is amply sufficient
   In a future paper I hope to be able to enter at greater length
into these and other results of the investigations in which I
have been for some time engaged.
   Beaufort House, Killnrney,          FnED. Wm, MulLINS.
        Sept. 1, 1830.

                              [   287    ]
LIX. Remarks on Mr. Rainey's Theory of Magnetic Re
   action. By the Rev. William Ritchie, LL.D., F.R.S.,
   Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Royal Institution of
   Great Britain and in the University of London.
  To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
      Gentlemen,
TF the explanation given by Mr. Rainey, with regard to the
    reaction of the lifter, (p. 220,) be admitted, it will completely
overthrow the Newtouian law of the perfect equality of action
and reaction. To save you the trouble of preparing anew cut, I
shall use the one employed by Mr Rainey in his last commu
nication. Mr. Rainey takes for granted
that a piece of soft iron B, placed in the
direction of one of the sides of the horse
shoe magnet, will have a magnetic power,
represented by b, induced on its remote
still retainswhilst
extremity,          the power
              its inducing    power
                                  of the   Now
                                      b. pole S
the simplest experiment shows that S can
not induce a power on a piece of soft
iron without having its own power dimi
 nished by an equal quantity. If, there
fore, b represent the absolute power of
 the pole S, the magnetism induced at the
 other extremity of the soft iron must be less than b, the dimi
 nution depending on the length of B. Hence when brought
 into the position across the poles, the pole S has not induced
 the magnetism represented by a + b, otherwise its own mag
 netism would have been completely destroyed. The same re
 mark applies to the pole N. Hence 2 a will not represent the
 magnetism at the pole S, nor 2 b that at the pole N. There
 fore the contact of the lifter cannot induce the magnetism a + b
 in the magnet A, whatever be its temper or state of magnetism
 with regard to saturation.
    The example which Mr. Rainey gives of increasing the
 magnetism of a weak magnet, which has been previously mag
 netized to saturation and has had its magnetism diminished, is
 one of the most unfortunate examples he could have chosen.
 I have formerly shown, in the Philosophical Magazine, that
 if magnetism be induced in one direction and then destroyed,
 the original magnetic state is easily restored.
    The reaction of the soft iron does not therefore create or
 induce magnetism, it only assists by its reaction in restoring
 in some measure the weak magnet to its original state. If

 288                   Mr. Talbot on the Optical
 Mr. Rainey can increase the power of a horse-shoe magnet of
 tempered steel, which has been magnetized in the usual way, to
 the same strength as the weakened magnet, by means of per
 fectly soft iron, then it must be admitted that the lifter can by
 itsreaction induce a greater degree of magnetism than the prime
 motor itself possessed. Till then we must admit the truth of
 the Newtonian law of action and reaction without exception
 or reservation.
      LX.      On the Optical Phcenomena of certain Crystals.
                  By H. F. Talbot, Esq., F.R.S.*
 COME time ago I had the honour to communicate to the
 ^ Royal Society an account of my invention of the polarizing
 microscope t- Ihis instrument possesses so great a power of
 developing the internal structure of transparent bodies, even
 in their minutest visible particles, that I feel confident the em
 ployment of it will lead to many new and interesting results.
 At present I mean to confine myself to the description of a
phajnomenon which shows strikingly the beautiful order and
regularity with which nature disposes the fabric of some of
 her minutest visible works.
    The object 1 speak of is a kind of minute crystallization
which may be obtained in peculiar circumstances, and I doubt
not, in many different ways ; but the manner in which it has
presented itself to my observation is as follows.
    Acrystal ofborax is placed in a drop of phosphoric acid some
what diluted upon a plate of glass,and then moderately heated
until the crystal dissolves in the acid. It is then set aside to cry
stallize. It is well to prepare a number of these plates at once,
varying the relative proportion of the acid and salt, in order that
the desired kind of crystallization may be found in one or other
of them ; for there is a considerable variety in the crystal
line forms obtained by this method, some of which indeed are
very singular. But when that kind of crystallization takes
place which it is more particularly my intention to speak of,
the field of view of the microscope is seen covered with mi
nute circular spots, each of which is like a tuft of silk radi
ating from a centre, and is composed of a close assemblage of
delicate acicular crystals forming a star. But besides these,
are seen interspersed among them a number of circular trans
parent bodies, which are evidently modifications of the former,
   * Read before the Royal Society May 5th, 1836 : and now communicated
by the Author.
   f See Lond. and Edinb. Philosophical Magazine, vol. v. p. 321.

                  Phenomena of certain Crystals.                       28 9
being, in fact, tufts or stars of acicular crystals in such close
assemblage as to be in optical contact with each other and to
produce the appearance of a single individual. Now let us
suppose a group of these circles to be under examination
with the polarizing microscope, and when the polarizers* are
crossed, we observe the following phenomenon. The field of
view being dark, the little circles become luminous, and we
see upon each of them a well-defined and dark cross, dividing
the crystal into four equal parts. All these crosses are placed
similarly, and are parallel to each other, and their direction
remains unaltered when the crystals are turned round in their
own plane by revolving the plate of glass upon which they
stand. This beautiful appearance can be seen with a mode
rate magnifying power. I measured the diameter of some of
the larger crystals, which I found to be from               to       of an
inch. But there are many much smaller, and indeed they
may be seen decreasing in size, until nothing remains visible
of their structure but the four luminous quadrants, appearing
like four minute dots of coloured light placed close together.
   I proceeded to examine the circles with a high magnifying
power, and under favourable circumstances of illumination,
and I observed in them a very admirable structure.
   Each circle has upon it one or more coloured rings arranged
concentrically, but the number as well as the colour of these
rings is different in different individuals.
   The innermost ring is deeply coloured or black, and in
closes a central space of white light, which is traversed by
the arms of the cross intersecting in the centre. This part of
the cross, which stands within the innermost ring, is beautifully
well defined, and perfectly black. The general appearance
resembles the figure 98, in Brewster's Optics, which is a re
presentation of the rings seen in uniaxal crystals. It espe
cially resembles it in the circumstance above mentioned, viz.
the more defined outline of the part of the cross which is
within the innermost ring.
    We have hitherto supposed the polarizers to be crossedi
but if we place them in a parallel position we shall see a phe
nomenon complementary to the above. The circle now pre
sents four patches of coloured light, one in each quadrant ;
and we generally see near the centre four black or obscure
spots, which correspond to the arms of the cross in the other
position.
    Such is an outline of the microscopic appearances presented
   • By this term, for the sake of brevity, I here designate the polarizing
and analysing prisms of single-image calcareous spar, or the plates of tour
maline which may be employed in their stead.
    Third Series. Vol.9. No. 54. Oc*. 1836.                    2L

290         On the Optical Phenomena ofcertain Crystals.
by these little crystals, which are probably the minutest bodies
in which so complicated an optical structure has hitherto been
witnessed. I find that the smaller the circles are, the more
perfect is their form and the brighter their colours.
     These crystals, as I have already observed, probably con
sist of spicula diverging from a point, but which are in the
closest possible contact, and in a state of complete mechani
cal cohesion. It seems to follow as a consequence from such
a structure that their density must increase from their circum
ference towards their centre. Now it is worthy of remark,
that Sir David Brewster has discovered very similar phaeno-
mena by polarized light in the crystalline lenses of certain
fishes, which are known by direct experiment to increase in
density towards the centre. Indeed the figure which he has
given of the lens of the codfish in the Philosophical Transac
tions for 1816 (Plate XII. fig. 1.) is so like the appearance of
one of the crystals which I have described, that it might be
supposed to have been intended for a representation of it
   . Having pointed out this resemblance, I may also mention
another class of facts to which I think those I have de
scribed possess a considerable analogy. I mean the optical
 figures which Brewster has discovered in spheres of glass
whose density was rendered variable by heating them.
     He says* that, " if we take a cold sphere of glass and im
 merse it in a trough of hot oil, placed in a polarizing appa
 ratus, we shall observe a black cross with four sectors of po
larized light. If the sphere is turned round it will exhibit in
 every position the very same figure. If we now suppose the
 trough to be filled with such spheres they will exhibit the
 same phaenomena in whatever direction the polarized light is
 transmitted through them, and even if they were in a state of
 motion. A fluid composed of such spherical particles would
 exhibit the same polarizing structure in every possible direc
 tion, and even if it were in a state of rapid gyration. If the
 particles possessed the structure that produces circular polari
 zation the fluid would develop the phaenomena exhibited by
 oil of turpentine, &c."
     And againf, "The structure of the particles of a circularly
polarizing fluid must be exactly the same along every one of
 its diameters ; that is, the structure must be symmetrical round
 the centre of the particle, or analogous to that which takes
place in common polarization when a sphere of glass has its
density regularly increasing or regularly diminishing towards
its centre."
      * Library of Useful Knowledge, art. " Polarization of I<ight," p. 51.
      t p. 45, ibid.

                          Astronomical Society.                       291
     I have quoted these remarkable passages at length, because
 it appears to me that what is there advanced merely as a hy
 pothesis, acquires a considerable degree of probability from
 the facts which I have stated, since I have succeeded in ren
 dering actually visible circular particles of excessive minute
 ness, in each of which the microscope detects the very struc
 ture imagined by Brewster, viz. the black cross and four sec
tors of light. So that it appears not improbable that the cir
cular-polarizing properties of fluids may be owing to the pre
sence of multitudes of particles similar to these, which they
hold in solution.
              LXI.      Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                   ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY.
 Nov. 13, r I ''HE following communications were read:—
   1835.      A
    I. Two elementary solutions of Kepler's Problem, by the angular
 matics in theByUniversity
Calculus.                   of Edinburgh.
                 William Wallace,    A.M., &c. &c, Professor of Muthc^
    II. Observations of Mars at the opposition 1834-35, made at the
Observatory, Cape of Good Hope. By Mr. Maclear.
    These observations, which, including the stars observed with
the planet, are nearly 200 in number, were made between Novem
ber 23, 1834, and February 10, 1835. They are entirely made with
the mural circle, and appear to have been forwarded immediately
to England.
    III. Letter from Mr. Snow to the Secretary, dated October 9,
 1835, on the latitude of his observatory at Ashurst.
    The method here adopted by Mr. Snow was invented by the
celebrated Romer, above 130 years ago, but has ever since remained
unnoticed, till within these few years, when it has been used in the
determination of the latitudes of places, in some geodesical measure
ments on the Continent. The method is described by Bessel, in Schu
macher's Astronomische Nachrichten, a translation of which is given in
the Philosophical Magazine for May, 1825 (First Series, vol. lxv.
p. 354.); and it is also noticed by Dr.Pearson, in his Astronomy, vol. ii.
p. 594. If the declination of the star can be relied on, the method is
capable ofgreat accuracy: the mode pursued was as follows.—A transit
instrument was placed with its axis north and south, so that the
eastern and western passages of a star over the prime vertical might
be observed, and the latitude might then be deduced from the known
declination of the star. The assumed declinations were taken from
Pond's catalogue of 1112 stars; the instrument was kept carefully
adjusted for level, and the error of collimation, known to be small,
was eliminated by reversing the telescope on different evenings.
The transit telescope was of twenty inches focal length, and the
                                   2L2

292                      Astronomical Society.
object was to try " with how little expense and trouble, compared
with that which is encountered in the use of a circular instrument,
a very fair latitude may be obtained."
    Of twenty different observations, two were rejected as evidently
affected by errors of level ; the remaining eighteen gave results, of
which the extremes differed by six seconds of space. The mean
was 51° 15' 56", being 2" less than that obtained from the Ordnance
map by Lieut. Murphy. The latitude and longitude, from the lat
ter, are
                  51° 15' 58" N. and 0" lm 9»3 W.
    IV. Observations of occultations made at Ashurst, by Mr. Snow.
    These are, April 6, 1835, immersion of x Geminorum; April 12,
immersion of Saturn's centre ; April 1 6, emersion of A Ophiuchi j
 August 14, immersion of v Arietis.
    V. Observations made as Trinity College, Cambridge, by Mr.
 Rothman.
    These are Oct. 7, 1834, emersion of 0 Ophiuchi ; and several im
mersions and emersions of Jupiter's satellites, in October and De
 cember, 1835.
    VI. Observations made at Fort Charles, Port Royal, Jamaica, by
 Captain Sir Everard Home, Bart., and Mr. Drury, of His Majesty's
ship Racehorse. Communicated by the Rev. G. Fisher.
    These consist of observations of the end of the solar eclipse of
 Nov. 30, 1834, and of eclipses of Jupiter's satellites. Mr. Fisher has
 annexed an observation of his own of the occultation of Saturn, on
 April 12, 1835.
    VII. Transits of the moon and stars observed at Argos, at the
 observatory of General Gordon. By Mr. James Robertson.
    These observations were made in the last quarter of 1 834 and the
 first of 1835.
    The longitude of the Acropolis at Argos has been deduced in the
 French survey of the Morea. According to the estimation of the
 relative positions of the Acropolis and Gen. Gordon's Observatory,
 the longitude of the latter, as determined from the moon culminating
 stars, exceeds that obtained from the survey by 5' 36"-4 of space.
 The observatory is a small low building, in the garden of Gen. Gordon
 at Argos ; the transit instrument is by Jones, and is firmly fixed on a
 stone pillar ; the dock is by Lepaute, has a mercurial pendulum, and
 goes tolerably well ; the telescope with which the satellites ofJupiter
 were observed is by Harris, of 3£ feet focal length, and the power
 used was about 130.
     VIII. Various observations, made at the Royal Observatory,
 Edinburgh. By Professor Henderson.
     These consist of occultations, and of eclipses of Jupiter's satellites,
 in 1834-35 ; and observations of Pallas, Ceres, and Saturn, at their
 last oppositions.
     IX. Extract of a letter from Dr. Pearson to Francis Bailv, Esq.,
 containing an observation of Halley's Comet :
     " On the 1 9th of October I had an opportunity of directing a
 telescope to the Comet, as it passed k Ophiuchi, to the north side of

                        Astronomical Society.                        293
which it approached within about 2' of the nucleus, at a quarter past
six solar time. As this star is in the catalogue of the Astr. Soc ,
the right ascension and declination of the Comet at that time may be
nearly ascertained. On looking into the ephemeris of the Nautical
Almanac, I observed, that from the 28th to the 30th of October would
be a desirable time for determining the Comet's place j but as my
large circle is now used only in the meridian, I was obliged to substi
tute a small altitude and azimuth circle, which reads 10" in altitude
and 15'' in azimuth, with a telescope magnifying about 20 times, and
having an aperture of an inch and half diameter. Having placed this
small instrument in the meridian previously, in an open situation,
and made all the adjustments for my purpose, on the 29th I had
fortunately a view of the Comet between the south and west, though
i'. was frequently covered by passing clouds, and at last totally ob
scured ; however, I succeeded in making two observations, while my
assistant marked the time by a sidereal clock, giving the right as
cension of the mid -heaven : thus obtaining data for the accompanying
computations. A mean of two results, corresponding to the mean of
the two times noted, it is presumed will not be far from the truth;
though not so correct as if the large circle had been used.
    " I send the computations to you, partly to show how a similar
portable instrument, with circles not exceeding seven inches in dia
meter, may be used for this and similar purposes ; and, partly, be
cause the observations were taken at the latest period that offered,
before the Cornel's arriving at the perihelion of its orbit. Should the
 determination now sent be found tolerably correct, you will perceive
 that the right ascension on the 29th of October exceeded the maxi
 mum given in the Ephemeris, above referred to, by about thirty mi
 nutes."
     X. A letter from M. Mossotti to Mr. Baily.
    This letter contains computations and deductions relative to the
 transit of Mercury over the sun's disc, on May 5, 1832, as recorded
 in the Memoirs of this Society, vol. viii. p. 268. From fourteen
 observations of the distance of the planet from the sun's centre he has
 formed as many equations of condition, and resolving them by the
 method of least squares he has deduced certain results, which are still
subject to a further correction, depending on the true time of con
junction of the sun and planet at Greenwich ; which was not known
 to M. Mossotti when he wrote the letter. M. Mossotti also trans
 mitted, at the same time, some further remarks on the solar eclipse
 of January 20, 1833, recorded in the same volume of the Memoirs,
 p. 224. In the computations relative to this subject, he has employed
 an equation which he considers to possess an advantage (over all
 those given by the common method) of presenting all the unknown
 quantities, that we are in search of, in a linear form ; and is, in fact,
 the very formula by means of which he deduced the results in the
 equations employed in the transit of Mercury above mentioned. The
 formula is a transformation of the general equation for an eclipse, or
 occultation, inserted in Dr. Pearson's Introduction to Practical As
 tronomy, vol. ii. p.675,&c, but which is too long to be here inserted.

 29t                        Astronomical Society.
 By applying this formula, however, to the eclipse in question, he de
 duces certain results, which, in this case also, are subject to further
 correction, depending on the true time of conjunction at Greenwich.
  M. Mossotti likewise continued his observations on certain stars, with
 which the Comet of Encke was compared on June 6, 1832, as recor
 ded in the same volume of the Memoirs, p. 245, for the purpose of
 identifying the principal determining star used on that day. The
 result of his observations confirms the accuracy of Mr. Henderson's
 deduction, as recorded in p. 250. There is a remarkable circum
 stance, however, attending this inquiry, which is worthy of notice.
 It appears, from p. 24*8, that M. Mossotti observed three stars, which
 he compared with his determining star above mentioned, for the pur
 pose of identification when he should have an opportunity of seeing
 the stars again ; they being at that time too near the sun. On his
 reexamining this portion of the heavens at a subsequent period, he
 was surprised to find that the second star was no longer visible.
  He says that he looked for it several times, without success; and has
 only been able to recognise the very small star, that was visible in
 the field of view with the comet, as represented in the diagram.
    XI. The following communication was received from Mr. Baily,
 relative to the medal offered by His Majesty the King of Denmark for
 cometary discoveries :
    " His Majesty the King of Denmark has been pleased to found a
 gold medal, of the value of twenty ducats, to be given to the first
 discoverer of a telescopic comet, subject to the following conditions,
 which are, in some respects, different from those published in the
 year 1832.
    " 1 . The medal is to be given to the person who may first discover
 a telescopic comet (that is, a comet not visible to the naked eye at
 the time of its discovery), and not of known revolution.
    " 2. The discoverer, if in any part of Europe except Great Bri
 tain, must send immediate notice to Professor Schumacher, of Altona;
 and if in Great Britain, or any other quarter of the globe except
 Europe, must send immediate notice to Francis Baily, Esq., of Ta
 vistock Place, London.
    " 3. Such notice must be sent by the first post after the discovery,
 and in case no post should be established in the place, then by the
first conveyance that presents itself, without waiting for more obser
 vations. A strict attention to this condition is absolutely necessary,
 for, when it is not complied with, the medal will not be awarded at
 all, if there be only one who has seen the comet; and, where it has
 been seen by more than one, it will be given to the discoverer next
 in order of time who does comply with this condition.
    " 4. The first notice should contain, not only the time of the dis
 covery, as nearly as the same can be ascertained, in order to avoid
 any disputed claims, but also the best possible determination of the
 position of the comet, and the direction of its course, if these points
 can (even approximately) be ascertained from the observations pf
 one night.
  ¦ *' 5. If the first night's observations are not sufficient to determine

                           Astronomical Society.                         295
all these points with sufficient accuracy, the discoverer must, as soon
as he gets a second observation, send another communication as above
directed, together with a statement of the longitude of the place, if
it should not be a known observatory : but the hope of getting a
second observation will not be admitted as an excuse for delaying
the communication of the first.
   " 6. The medal is to be adjudged twelve months after the disco
very of the comet, and no claim can be admitted after that period
has elapsed.
   " 7. Professor Schumacher and Mr. F. Baily are to determine
whether a discovery is to be considered as established or not : but,
should they differ in opinion, Dr. Olbers, of Bremen, is to decide
between them.
   " N.B. Professor Schumacher and Mr. F. Baily have undertaken
to communicate to each other, respectively and immediately, such in
formation as they may receive relative to the discovery of these co
mets."—Dated November 1, 1835.
   XII. Observations of Moon-culminating Stars, made at the Ob
servatories of Greenwich, Edinburgh, and Cambridge, during the
months of June, July, August, September, and October, 1835.
    December 11, 1835.—The following communications were read:—
   I. Sixth Catalogue of Double Stars observed at Slough, with the
20-feet reflector, in 1831 and 1832. By Sir J. F. W. Herschel. In
a letter to Mr. Baily.
   As this is, in reality, the eighth communication which appears in
the Memoirs relative to this subject, it has been considered desirable
that the following index should be given to the whole. The first
three are not numbered, but are headed differently from each other :
and a distinction must be drawn between the series of lists ofmeasures
and the series of catalogues.
  Volume and                   Number of first
     Page.      When read.     and last Stars.      Name in the Heading.
              June, 182G           1— 321      Account, &c.
              May, 1827         322— 616       Approximate Places, &c.
              Jan., 1828        CI 7— 1000     Observations, &c*
              April, 1830     1001—1937        Fourth Scries, &c.f
              June, 1831           1- 7351     Micromettical mcasures,&c.
              June, 1832      1938—3241        Fifth Catalogue, &c.f
              May, 1834         736—1112:      Second Series ofmeasures, &c.
              Dec., 1835      3242—3346        Sixth Catalogue, &c.f
    These observations (the last of the preceding list) were made at
Slough, and would have been forwarded to the Society before the de
parture of Sir J. Herschel for the Cape of Good Hope, had he not
been prevented, by pressure of other business at that time, from re-
   * Contains a comparison of Slough and Dorpat observations of 384 stars.
   t Only new stars numbered: others referred to other calalogues.
   J These are measures, not Stars. [Abstracts of these communications
will be found in Phil. Mag. and Annals, and Lond. & Edinb. Phil. Mag., for
the above years respectively.—Edit.]

  296                       Astronomical Society.
  ducing nnd arranging ihem. He therefore took the rough observa
  tions with him, and availed himself of an interval of leisure to arrange
  them in the same form as his other catalogues. The stars observed
  are less in number than those of his former catalogues, but they are
  in some respects more interesting, from the greater number of deli
  cate and difficult objects comprised; the measures of which, with
  those in Struve's great work on Double Stars (said to be in course of
  publication), it will be important to compare. The catalogue con
  tains 105 new double stars, as well as the observations of several
  others that were previously known ; the positions and distances of
  which, as observed by Sir J. Herschel, are here recorded: some of
  the stars, however, inserted in Struve's catalogue, he has been unable
  to find in this review of the heavens.
     Sir J. Herschel states, that he has nearly gone over the whole south
  circumpolar region, to 60° from the pole; the observations of which
  are in the course of arrangement. He is somewhat surprised at the
  extraordinary paucity of close double stars, which cannot arise from
  ¦want of power in the telescope, or from the nature of the climate : for
  he considers his mirrors as perfect as it is possible to make them ;
  and he represents the beauty and tranquillity of the climate to be
  such, that the stars are reduced to all but mathematical points, and
  thus allow of their being viewed like objects under a microscope. But
  although the number of double stars is so small, considering the
* richness of the southern heavens in stars, yet he represents the ne
  bula as very copious ; and has accordingly collected a numerous list,
  which will doubtless, in due time, be laid before the public.
     II. A Letter from the Superintendent of the Nautical Almanac to
  the Secretary, of which the following is a copy :
                               "Nautical Almanac Office, Dec. 6, 1835.
     " My dear Sir,—I have the pleasure of forwarding, for distribu
  tion, some copies of an Ephemeris of Halley's Comet, founded on the
  revised elements of the orbit, which appear, as far ns I have yet
  tested them, to represent the observations very well; so well, indeed,
  that I shall not hesitate to adopt them as the basis Of my future pro
  ceedings with the cometary calculations.
     " An accurate Ephemeris for the period of the Comet's apparition
  is now absolutely necessary, to enable observers to identify the stars
  with which the Comet has been compared, to determine parallax, and,
  finally, to settle their observations. It may, therefore, be as well to
  apprise you, that such an Ephemeris, founded upon the revised ele
  ments, and embracing the period between Aug. 1, 1835, and March
  31, 1836, is now in progress, and will be published next week.*
     " It is my intention afterwards to determine, for the same period,
  the effects produced upon the right ascension and declination by a
  minute variation of each of the elements of the orbit; and, finally, to
  compute the effects of the disturbing forces of the old planets. These
  tables will be prepared and published with nil possible dispatch. We
        * This Ephemeris has since been completed and printed.—Src.

                              Astronomical Society.                      297
     shall thus have an accurate representation pf the Comet's track, de
     rived from good approximate elements, and corrected for perturba
     tions ; together with the most ample means of rectifying the orbit, as
        " There
     soon         are manyshall
           as astronomers     observers
                                 be prepared
                                        who are
                                             witheither  unaccustomed
                                                  their reduced        to, or
                                                                observations.
     have a distaste for, the labour of reducing observations ; and very
     few persons, I apprehend, who will undertake the task of resolving
     the final equations of condition. I therefore take this opportunity of
     inviting observers to transmit their observations to me, with a full
    statement of all particulars necessary to an accurate estimate of their
    value ; and of making known my intention, as soon as the observa
     tions can be collected, to get out the best orbit that they are capable
    pf yielding.
                           ¦- . • •       " Ypurs, very truly,
                                            - •• •• <t w. s. Sthatfprd."
      "A. De Morgan, Etq., Sec. Royal Att. Soc."
        III. Extract of a Letter from Captain Smyth to the President, con-
    taining-the translation of a notice from M. Cacciatore :
        " One important thing I must communicate to you. In the month
    of May I was observing the stars that have proper motion; a labour
    that has employed me several years. Near the 17th star, 12th hour,
    of Piazzi's Catalogue, I saw another, also of the 7'8th magnitude, und
    noted the approximate distance between them. The weather not hav
    ing permitted me to observe on the two following nights, it was not
    till the third night that I saw it again, when it had advanced a good
    deal, having gone further to the eastward and towards the equator.
    But clouds obliged me to trust to the following night. Then, up to
    the end of May, the weather was horrible; i^eemed:in Palermo as if
    winter had returned : heavy rains and impetuous winds succeeded each
    other, so as to leave no opportunity of attempting anything. When
    at last the weather permitted observations at the end of a fortnight,
  • the star was already in the evening twilight, and all my attempts to
    recover it were fruitless: stars of that magnitude being no longer
    visible. Meanwhile the estimated movement, in three days, was 10"
    in JR, and about a minute, or rather less, towards the north. So
' slow a motion would make me suspect the situation to be beyond
    Uranus. I was exceedingly grieved at not being able to follow up so
    important an examination.'
       IV. Report on the new Standard Scale of this Society, drawn up
    at the request of the Council, by Mr. Buily.
       The commencement only of this Report, which is very long, was
    read ; the remainder of it being deferred till the next meeting of
    the Society. An abstract of the., whole will be given in our next
    Number.
        V. Observations of Mpon-culminating Stars, made at the Obser
    vatories of Greenwich, Edinburgh, and Cambridge, during the month
    of November, 1835.
        Third Series. Vol.9. No. 54. Oct. 1836.                 2M

  298                      Zoological Society.
                         ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
     (Feb. 23, continued.)—A paper by Mr. Owen was read, entitled,
  " Descriptions of some new or rare Cephalopoda, collected by Mr.
  George Bennett, Corr. Memb. Z.S." The subjects referred to in it
  included specimens of Cranchia scabra, Leach ; a small nondescript
  Loligo ; the head and principal viscera of a Decapodous Dibranchiate
  Cephalopod from Port Jackson ; a small nondescript species of Octo
  pus ; and a very small specimen of Argonauta hians, with its Cephalo-
  podous inhabitant (Ocythoe Cranchii, Leach), and a large cluster of
  ova : all of which were exhibited, in illustration of the communica
  tion, by permission of the Curators of the Museum of the Royal Col
  lege of Surgeons, of which collection they now form part.
     The specimen of Cranchia scabra was taken by Mr. George Ben
  nett in a towing net in lat. 12° 15' S., long. 10° 15' W.; and was
  at first regarded by him as a species of Medusa : and Mr. Owen
  observes, that from the uncommon form which this very remarkable
  Cephalopod presents, one cannot feel surprised that it should have
  been, at the first view, referred by its captor to a Radiate family,
  with which the Cephalopods bear, in more than one respect, an ana
  logical relation.
     As the type of its genus Mr. Owen considers the Cranck. scabra
  with reference to the generic characters that separate Cranchia from
  the neighbouring groups : from Loligo and Onychotcuthis it is di
  stinguished by the continuity of its mantle with the dorsal parietes
  of the head ; and from Sepioteuthis, Sepiola, and Rossia by the pro
  portions and position of its fins. The form of the fins alone is evi
  dently insufficient in Cephalopods for generic distinctions, as will
  appear from considering the variations in this respect that occur in
  the several species of the well-marked genus Onychoteuthis, Licht. ;
  and also in the several species of Loligo as at present restricted, some
  of which, especially- Lot. brevis, Blainv., make so close an approxi
  mation to Cranch. scabra in the rounded contour, as well as the ter
  minal position, of their fins, that were it not that the exterior margin
   of the mantle is in all of them free on its dorsal aspect, the latter
   Cephalopod, notwithstanding its singular form, could not be sepa
  rated genetically from the Loligines on external characters alone.
   As in the figures published by Ferussac of the Cephalopods named
   Cranch. cardioptera by Peron and Cranch. minima by himself, the
  anterior margin of the mantle appears to be free on its dorsal aspect,
> similarly to that of the true Loligines, it must be doubted whether
  these species are correctly referred to the genus Cranchia : and the
  same doubt may perhaps be extended to Cranch. Bonelliana, Fer.,
  in the description of which no mention is made of the adhesion or
  otherwise of the mantle to the posterior part of the head. This ad
  hesion Mr. Owen regards as an essential character of the genus.
     The specimen of Cranchia scabra on which the genus was founded
  by Dr. Leach, having been imperfect in some of its parts, Mr. Owen
  carefully describes the species anew from the perfect individual ob

                          Zoological Society.                       299
tained by Mr. George Bennett ; which is smaller than the original
specimen, measuring only 1 inch 8 lines in total length to the end
 of the outstretched tentacle. The body is remarkable for its great
flaccidity, which is owing to the very small space occupied by the
viscera : these are situated at its anterior part, and not, as in Loli-
gopsis, at the bottom of the sac. Besides this disproportion between
the bulk of the viscera and the capacity of the containing sac, Crati-
chia has other relations with Loligopsis in the absence of the infun
dibular valve, which exists in all the other Decapodous Cephalopods ;
and in the non-articulation of the base of the siphon by a double
ball and socket joint to the internal surface of the ventro-lateral
parts of the mantle. In the Decapodous Cephalopods generally the
funnel is articulated to the mantle, at the anterior part of its base,
by two ball and socket joints, the projection being on the mantle
and the socket on the funnel ; both consisting of cartilage, covered
with a fine synovial membrane. The projecting cartilage is of an
oval form in the Cuttle-fish : but in Loligo it forms an elongated
ridge ; which in Onychoteuthis commences at the anterior margin of
the mantle and extends one third down the sac, forming two thin
lateral cartilaginous lamina placed rather towards the ventral aspect
of the mantle : an elongated groove in the opposite sides of the fun
nel plays upon each of these ridges. In Loligopsis the sides of the
funnel adhere to the corresponding cartilaginous lamina, which differ
from the lateral cartilages of other Decapodous Cephalopods only by
their greater length and tuberculated form. In Cranchia, as in the
 Ociopoda, these cartilages are entirely wanting; but the ventral
parietes of the base of the siphon become expanded, thin, and trans
parent ; and adhere to and become continuous with the correspond
ing parts of the mantle.
   Mr. Owen regards as new the species of Loligo referred to, and
describes it under the name of Lol. laticeps : four specimens of it, the
largest of which measures only 1+ inch from the extremity of the
mantle to the end of the outstretched tentacle, were obtained by
Mr. George Bennett among the Sargasso weed, in lat. 29° N., long.
47° W. When alive they were of a fine purple colour with dark
red spots. The specimens are now destitute of colour on the fins
and on the under surface of the third and fourth pairs of arms, and
the spots are but few on the under part of the head and mantle ;
on the inner surface of the firBt, second, and third pairs of arms the
dark pigment is disposed in broad, irregularly shaped, transverse
bands, passing across between each of the pairs of suckers.
   The head, as is indicated by the trivial name, is comparatively
broad ; and the arms which it supports are relatively longer than in
the Loligines generally, the second and third pairs being nearly
equal in length to the trunk. The body is subcylindrical and coni
cal, gradually diminishing in circumference till it terminates in a
point at the posterior margin of the fins, which do not extend con
joined together beyond this part. The fins are terminal and dorsal*
a space of about half a line intervening between their origins ante
riorly, whence their bases converge and are united at the apex of
                                2M2

  300                      Zoological Society.
  the trunk : their superior contour is an obtuse angle ; their inferior
  margin is rounded.
     In the Cephalopod described as Cranchia cardioptera, Per., to which
  the species under consideration has a superficial resemblance, the
  terminal fins have a semicircular contour, and their origins are
  widely separated anteriorly; they also extend beyond the termina
  tion of the trunk : the trunk, moreover, is broader in proportion to
  the head, and does not diminish gradually to a point, but is rounded
  off at the posterior extremity. The Cranchia minima of Ferussac
  may be at once distinguished from Lol. laticeps by the extension of
  the trunk beyond the small rounded fins, which gives a trilobate
  contour to the termination of the body.
     In internal organization Lol. laticeps agrees with the other Loli-
 gines whose anatomical structure has been' ascertained.
     The fragments of the Decapodous Cephalopod obtained at Port
 Jackson are too imperfect to allow of their being satisfactorily re
 ferred generically : they may, however, have belonged to a species
 of Loligo or of Sepioteuthis. As in some species of both these
 genera, the outer lip was characterized by eight short processes, on
 the inner surface of which, at the extremity of each, were three or
 four small suckers, attached by peduncles, and having precisely the
 same structure as those of the eight large exterior arms. In this
 repetition of the structure of the external series of cephalic processes
 there is an evident analogy to the different series of labial processes
 of Nautilus. In some species, as for instance Lol. Pealii, Le Sueur,
 the acetabuliferous labial processes are more developed than in
 Mr. George Bennett's specimen. In Lol. corolliflora, Til., they hare
 been compared by Bojanus to the internal shorter series of tentacles
 of a Medusa ; affording another evidence of the analogy, though
 remote, between the Cephalopods and the Radiata.
    The two lateral processes at the termination of the rectum being,
 in this instance, evidently adapted to form a valve for the closure of
 the anus, Mr. Owen was induced to examine the corresponding
 structure in other species ; and to conclude, from his examination,
 that similar appendages, although varying in form and position,
perform the same office in other Decapoda. The slenderness of the
anal processes in Onychoteuthis and Loligopsis being such as to pre
 clude the possibility of their acting as mechanical guards, it is in
ferred that they may: perform the function of instruments of sensa
tion, and convey the stimulus to contract to the muscular parts
that close the outlet of the alimentary canal. In the Octopoda the
anus is not similarly provided; and, indeed, it may be generally re
marked that valvular or other guards are developed among the Ce
phalopoda only in such as have the power of propelling themselves
forwards in the water.
    The generative apparatus forming part of the fragments referred
to, Mr. Owen examined it with some care. His most important
observation relative to these organs relates to a small round flat
fleshy body, attached near the anterior aperture of each of the two
nidamental glands, destitute of any outlet, and of an orange colour.

                           Zoological Society'.'                     301
 A single bilobed organ, of a bright orange or red colour, similarly-
 connected with the anterior extremities of the nidamental glands,
 exists (as was long since pointed out by Swammerdam) in the Cut
 tle-fish. In Sepiola the corresponding body is single, and of a rose
 colour. And there exist two such bodies in a small Cephalopod
 taken by Capt. Ross on the shore of Boothia, which Mr. Owen has
 recently described under the name of Rossia palpebrosa. Consider
ing the bright colours which these bodies commonly present, and
 their structure and relations to the generative apparatus, Mr. Owen
 feels authorized in regarding them as analogous to the suprarenal
bodies, hitherto regarded as peculiar to the Vertebrate 'series. .
 '. The small Octopus described by Mr. Owen was obtained by Mr.
 George Bennett, like the Loligo laticeps, among the Sargasso weed ;
which forms, as it were, a bank in the midst of the ocean, affording
shelter to many marine animals of littoral genera. The condition
of the generative organs would appear to indicate that the specimens
brought home were not adult, and the species consequently may be
assumed to attain a greater size than that of the largest individual
in the collection, which measures only I4- inch from the end of the
sac to the extremity of the longest arm. Of the eight arms the first,
or dorsal, pair is the longest, as is the case in many species of Oc
topus ; the second pair is nearly of the same length as the first ; the
third pair (which in the Decapods is commonly the .longest) is scarcely
half the length of the first; the fourth pair' is nearly two thirds of
the length of the first. The musculo-membrarious web, which is
usually extended between the bases of all the arms in the Octopi, is
in this species developed to the ordinary extent between the four
dorsal arms only : the webs between the second and third arms,
and the third and fourth arms, on each side, are very short ; that
between the fourth pair is wanting. From this peculiarity Mr. Owen
proposes to name the species Octopus semipalmatus.
 : Its anatomy generally agrees with that of Oct. vulgaris.
 : The remaining specimens described by Mr. Owen are the shell
and animal of Argonauta hians, Lam. They were obtained in lat.
4° S.,|long. 17° W. The animal was alive at the time of its capture
by Mr. George Bennett, but fell out of its shell when it was moved
on the following morning. A mass of eggs was then exposed in the
involuted portion of the shell, which increased so greatly in size after
being put into spirit that they now occupy so much of the cavity
that not more than one third of the body of the parent could be
forced into it.                                     s :
    Referring to the fact that the Cephalopods hitherto found in the
shells of each species of Argonauta have invariably presented
characters as specifically distinct as those of the shells in which they
were' found, each species of. animal having appropriated to it its own
peculiar "species of shell—a fact which extends not only to Arg.
Argo; Arg. tuberculoid, and Arg. hians, but also to an undescrfbed
species obtained in the Indian seas by Capt. P. P. King, R.N., for
which Mr. Owen proposes the name of Arg. rufa, he is disposed to
believe that the shell really belongs to the animal that occurs in it.

302                        Zoological Society.
On this account he speaks of the animal in question as the Arg. hians,
discarding the name of Ocythoe Cranckii applied to it by Dr. Leach.
   In carefully describing the specimen before him, Mr. Owen cor
rects some errors in the account given of the animal by its original
describer, and furnishes various particulars which, from the con
tracted state of his individuals, were unobserved by Dr. Leach. He
also adverts to the statement made by that able zoologist, that
in this species all the internal organs are essentially the same as in
Octopus : and remarks that Arg. hians, like Arg. Argo, recedes from
the naked Octopods and approaches the Decapods in the structure of
the branchial hearts, which are provided with a fleshy appendage,
in the form of the appendages cf the vena cava, which are shorter
and thicker ; and in the relative position of the lozenge-shaped ink-
bag, which is not buried in the substance of the liver, but lies in its
anterior concavity : the inferior salivary glands are also relatively
smaller. The following differences, as compared with Octopus, oc
cur in other internal organs which adhere to the type of structure
that characterizes the Octopodous tribe of the Dibranchiata : the
laminated pancreatic bag is of a triangular form, and not spirally
disposed ; the two oviducts are devoid of the circular laminated
glands which surround them in Octopus about the middle of then-
course ; they are also disposed in four or five convolutions as they
pass behind the roots of the bronchia ; and they terminate at a rela
tively greater distance from the base of the funnel.
   Mr. Owen then describes various portions of the internal struc
ture of Argonauta ; and especially its brain, its principal nervous
cords, and the lateral muscles, here at their minimum of develop
ment, which attain in Nautilus, as the muscles of attachment to the
shell, so enormous a size.
   The eggs are in nearly the same state of development as those
which have been described by Mr. Bauer and by Dr. Roget ; and
consequently afforded no conclusive proof as to the nature of the
connexion of the animal with the shell. In one of them, from the
form of the opake body contained within it, Mr. Owen for a moment
entertained the idea that the nucleus of the real shell might be
found : on tearing open, however, the external tissue, the contained
substance turned out to be nothing more than the yelk, separated
by an intervening stratum of clear fluid from the transparent mem-
brana vitelli ; and the whole substance of the opake mass separated
into the flakes, granules, and globules of oil, of which the vitellus is
      " composed : there was not a trace of any consistent parts of
          yo, nor the slightest particle of calcareous matter. : •-' <[',
              l concludes his communication by a tabular view of the
              , exhibiting the external and internal characters common
to the entire class ; those of the several orders and families com
prised in it ; and the names of the genera included in each family.
   March 8.—Mr. Ogilby read a paper, entitled '* Observations on
the opposable power of the Thumb in certain Mammals, considered as
a zoological character : and on the Natural Affinities which subsist
between the Bimana, Quadrumana, and Pedimana." -. . ¦ ¦ >                 i

                          Zoological Society.                    SOS
   In the summer of 1829 it occurred to Mr. Ogilby to observe that
two living individuals of Mycetes Seniculus did not use the extre
mities of their anterior limbs for the purpose of holding objects be
tween the fingers and thumb, as is common among the Quadrumana ;
and he ascertained also, on closer examination, that the thumb, as
it has generally been considered, was not in these animals opposable
to the other fingers, but originated in the same line with them.
Struck with the apparent singularity of the fact, he was induced to
pay particular attention to all the other animals, referred by zoolo
gists to the Quadrumanous family, to which he had access ; and the
continued observation of more than six years has assured him that
the non-opposable character of the inner finger of the anterior ex
tremities, which he first observed in the specimens referred to, is
not confined to the genus Mycetes, but extends throughout the
whole of the genera of the South American Monkeys, individuals of
all of which have now been seen by him in the living state. In
none of them, consequently, does a true thumb exist on the ante
rior limbs : and as a further consequence it follows, that the whole
of them have hitherto been incorrectly referred to the Quadrumana
by zoologists generally. There is a solitary exception among de
scriptive writers from this mode of viewing the subject, D'Azara
(as Mr. Ogilby has very recently become aware) having spoken of
the anterior extremities of some of the species observed by him as
having five fingers originating on the same line with each other :
but the statements of that original observer appear, in this respect,
either to have been unnoticed by other authors or to have been
passed by as undeserving of attention, so entirely were they at va
riance with the preconceived notions of all.
   Of the eight natural genera which include all the known Monkeys
of the Western Hemisphere, one, Ateles, is entirely destitute of a
thumb, or has that member existing only in a rudimentary form be
neath the skin. In five others, Mycetes, Lagothrix, Aotus, Pithecia,
and Hapale, the anterior thumbs (using the ordinary expression for
them) are placed absolutely on the same line with the other fingers,
are of the same form with them, act invariably in the same direc
tion, and are totally incapable of being opposed to them. In the two
remaining genera, Cebus and Callithrix, the extremities of the an
terior limbs have a greater external resemblance to the hands of Man
and of the Monkeys of the Old World : the internal finger is placed
further back than the general line of the other fingers, and has, on
that account, when superficially noticed, the semblance of being
opposed to them ; but, as has been correctly observed by D'Azara
with reference to Ceb. capucinus, it is less separated than in Man :
it is, besides, of precisely the same slender form with the rest, is
weaker than them, absolutely without power of opposition to them,
and habitually acts in the same direction with they. The impres
sion derived from contemplating the hands of the Old World Mon
keys might induce the belief that the extremities of the Cebi are si
milarly constituted : but if the knowledge that in Mycetes, Pithecia,
&c, there are no opposable thumbs, lead to a close observation of

304                         Zoological Society.
the anterior extremities of the Cebi, it will be found that they do
not act as hands, and cannot be considered as possessing the powers
of those organs. From innumerable observations of many species
of that genus Mr. Ogilby states that it was very evident, notwith
standing the fallacious appearance occasioned by the backward posi
tion of the organ, that they had not the power of opposing the
thumb to the other fingers in the act of prehension : and, in fact,
their principal power of prehension seems to be altogether indepen-
deflt of the thumb, for, generally speaking, that member was not
brought into action at . all, at least not simultaneously with the other
fingers, but hung loosely on' one side, as Mr. Ogilby has seen it do,
in like circumstances, in the Opossums, Phalangers, and other ar
boreal Mammals : when actually brought into play, however, the
thumb of the Cebi invariably acted in the same direction as the other
fingers. Cebus consequently agrees in the character of non-oppos-
ableness of thumb with the nearly allied genera. And in this hi
therto unsuspected peculiarity zoologists obtain a far more impor
tant character by which to distinguish the Monkeys of the Old and
New World than that hitherto relied on, the comparative thickness
of the septum narium, or than the accessory aids afforded by the
absence of cheek-pouches and callosities. Hence, according to
Mr. Ogilby, as the Monkeys of America have now been ascertained to
be destitute of anterior hands, they can be no longer included among
the Quadrumana; and he proposes in consequence to regard them as
Pedimand. ' He considers that in the latter series, the Monkeys of
America form a group parallel to that of the Monkeys of the Old
World among the Quadrumana : and viewing the Quadrumana as
consisting of two primary groups, that of which Simia forms the
type, and the Lemuridte, he proceeds to analyse the Pedimana in
order to determine whether any group analogous to the Lemurs
exists in it. He finds such a group in the association of the genera
Didelphis, Cheironectes, Phalangista, Petaurus, and P.hascolarctos,
(together with a new genus, Pseudochirus, which he has found it
necessary to separate from Phalangista as at present constituted) ;
and for this association he uses the name of Didelphidte. Aware
that the modifications observable in the dentary systems of these
several genera have been regarded by many zoologists as betoken
ing a difference of regimen, which has led to their being viewed as
constituting distinct families; he, in the first place, states, as the
result of his observation of the habits of the numerous species of all
these genera which have been, from time to time, exhibited in the
Society's Gardens, that there is little or no difference, in this re
spect, between the Opossums and Phalangers, but that all are equally
omnivorous ; and then proceeds to discuss the modifications that
exist among them in the number and form of the several kinds of
teeth, which are not, in his estimation, so very different in reality
between the Opossums and Phalangers as they appear to be at first
sight. In further support of his opinion that this association of ge
nera forms a natural family, Mr. Ogilby refers to the gradual and
uninterrupted transition from the naked-prehensile-tailed Opossums

                            Zoological Society.                   305
of South America, through the equally naked-tailed Couscous, Sa-
lantia, of the Indian Isles, to the true Phalangers ; and from these
to the Petaurists directly on the one hand, and by means of the
Pseudocheirs to the Koalas on the other.
    On the prehensile power of the tail Mr. Ogilby particularly in
sists, as on a faculty possessed by the greater number of the Pedi
mana, and as one which is, in truth, almost confined to them : only
three known genera belonging to other groups, Synetherus, Myrme-
cophaga, and Cercoleptes, being endowed with it. He remarks on
this faculty as on one of considerable importance, affording as it
does, in some degree, a compensation for the absence of opposable
thumbs on the anterior limbs. Combined with the prehensile tail,
in every known instance, whether among the Pei.imana or in other
groups, is a slowness and apparent cautiousness of motion, not ob
servable in any of the Quadrumana except in the Nycticebi. In none
of the true Quadrumana is the tail prehensile.
    Another evidence of the distinctness, as two groups, of the Qua
drumana and the Pedimana, is furnished by their geographical distri
bution. The Quadrumana are strictly confined to the limits of the
 Old World : the Pedimana, almost as exclusively to the NewWorld;
for Mr. Ogilby considers the continent of Australia to belong more
 properly to America than to Asia. The very few apparent excep
 tions that occur to this latter position are in the presence of some
 species of Phalangers in the long chain of islands that connect the
 south-eastern shores of Asia with the north-eastern coast of Aus
 tralia ; islands which may, in truth, be fairly regarded as belonging
 partly to the one and partly to the other, and the productions of
 which might consequently be expected to partake of the character
 of both.
    Mr. Ogilby subsequently adverts to another Pedimanous animal,
 the Aye-Aye of Madagascar, constituting the genus Cheiromys ; re
 specting the affinities of which he speaks with hesitation, because,
 having never had an opportunity of examining the animal itself, he
 is acquainted with its characters only at second-hand. He is, how
 ever, disposed to regard it as representing a third group among the
 Pedimana, to be placed in a station intermediate between the Mon
 keys of the New World and the Didelphidee. With the latter he
 would, in fact, be disposed to associate it, were it not destitute of
 the marsupial character which belongs to all the other animals com
 prised in that group. In some of the Didelphidee, the Phalangers
 and Petaurists especially, there is a marked approximation to that
 rodent form of incisor teeth which obtains in Cheiromys, and which
 has hitherto been regarded as especially attaching to it an abnormal
 character.
     Man is the oaly other animal furnished with hands ; and how
 ever distinct he may be as regards his moral and intellectual powers,
 he must, zoologically, be considered on physical grounds. By his
  struotural characters he becomes associated with all those of which
     Third has
  mention        previously
            Series. Vol. 9. No.
                            been54.
                                  made     Mr. Ogilby's communication
                                    Oct.in1836.          2N           ;

 306                         Zoological Society.
although he unquestionably constitutes among them a peculiar group,
    Mr.Ogilby
sensibly        concludes
           exalted above theby rest,
                               proposing
                                     as well    aboveofall
                                          theasname        other Mammals.
                                                        Cheiropeds, Cheiro-
 poda, to include all the Mammals that are possessed of hands ; and
 by subjoining a table of the families and genera included in this or
 der, as he regards it. Of this table the following may be regarded
 as an abstract.
                            Class. Mammalia.
                           Order. Cheirofoda,
               Mammals with opposable thumbs
    On the anterior extremities only                        Bimana.
    On both anterior and posterior extremities. . . . Quadbumana.
            And with anthropoid teeth,
                        Monkeys of the Old World.
            ————— abnormal teeth,
                        Lemuridte.
    On the posterior extremities only                        Pedimana.
            And with anthropoid teeth,
                         rodent teeth,
                       Monkeys    of the New World.
                         abnormal teeth,
                        Cheiromys.
                        Didelphidee.
    March 22.—Notes by Mr. Martin on the visceral and osteological
Anatomy of the Cariama, Dicholophus cristatus, III., were read, and
are given in No. xxxix. of the " Proceedings."
    In illustration of Mr. Martin's Notes, the mounted skeleton of the
 Cariama was exhibited ; as were also preparations of several of the
viscera.
    Notes by Mr. Martin, of the anatomy of a specimen of Bufforis
  Touraco, Corythaix Buffonu, Vaill., were subsequently read, and are
 also given in No. xxxix. of the " Proceedings."
    Mr. Bennett directed the attention of the Meeting to an interest
ing series of the Indian Antelope, Antilope Cervicapra, Pall., now at
the Society's Gardens. It consists of four individuals : an adult and
aged male, brought by Col. Sykes from Bombay, and presented by him
to the Society nearly five years ago ; a younger, yet adult, male, which
 was presented, in an immature condition, about two years since ; an
immature male, lately arrived in the Menagerie, and in about the
same state of development as that in which the last-mentioned indi
vidual was when it was originally presented; and an emasculated in
dividual of full growth. In the older of these Antelopes the rich deep
colour of the body generally is so intense as almost to approach to
black, and the horns are strong and fully developed : the possession
of horns and the depth of colouring, which are peculiar to the male
sex, are exhibited in it at their maximum. The second individual ap
proximates nearly to it in the degree in which these secondary sexual
characters are developed. In the third, the youngest of the series,
there exist the horns characteristic of the male, but these organs are
yet of small growth, are only beginning to be annulated at their base,

                              Zoological Society.                      307
   and ore commencing their first spiral turn ; its colour, as is very
  generally the case among the young of animals that in adult age are
  differently coloured in the sexes, is that of the female, which in this
  instance is a Hull fawn with a pale stripe along the side: it has, con
  sequently, in these two striking particulars, full evidence of immatu
  rity. The emasculated individual was probably, at the period when
  that accident or operation occurred which prevented the development
  of its sexual characters, at nearly the same age as the one last ad
  verted to : it has since continued to increase in bulk, and it even ex
  ceeds in size, as often happens in castrated animals, the perfect adult
  male of thesame species : but the secondary sexual characters of the
  male have not been developed in it : it retains the dull fawn colour
  of immaturity, and its horns have not acquired the strength, the annu-
  lation, or the spiral turns which belong to those of the adult and per
  fect male. One of the horns has been broken off ; perhaps the more
 readily from some weakness in its structure, consequent on its unim
 portance to an animal so degenerated : the other retains, at a short
 distance from its normally formed tip, a few rings, but beyond these
 the surface has become smooth, the substance remains weak and
 comparatively small, and the direction, instead of being in a succes
 sion of spiral turns, is in a single sweep, passing backwards above the
 base of the ear and then descending along the curve of the neck : it
 has, though weaker, much of the character of the horns of the African
 race of Sheep. The general appearance of the animal is also sheep
 like and tame.
     Mr. Bennett proceeded to remark that these animals, although cu
 rious and interesting on account of the variations exhibited by them,
 in accordance with their several conditions, in those acknowledged
 secondary sexual characters, colour and horns, were yet more in
 teresting when considered with reference to the state of another organ,
the use of which has long remained a problem to zoologists, but which,
it appeared to him, must be referred to sexual relations; he alluded
now to the lacrymal sinus. Referring to its structure as to that of a
sac, opening externally by a lengthened slit, but perfectly closed
within, he remarked, that that organ could not possibly be in any
degree connected with the functions of respiration ; there being no
aperture through it for the passage of air. Its inner surface is covered
by a smooth skin, with a few scattered and very short bristles, and
is defended by a dark-coloured and copious secretion of ceruminous
matter, which has a slight urinous or sexual odour. He did not
feel himselfcompetent, he stated, to explain the precise manner in
which this organ is available for sexual purposes ; yet he felt con
vinced that such is its use, from the consideration of its relative de
velopment in the several Indian Antelopes of the Society's Mena
gerie.
    In the more aged of these individuals, as indeed in the adult Indian
Antelope generally, the large cutaneous follicle beneath the eye known
as the lacrymal sinus, is so prominent as to form a most striking feature
in the animal's physiognomy: it never appears as a simple slit, its
thickened edges pouting so widely as to be at all times partially

303                        Zoological Society^
everted. When the animal is excited, and it is constantly highly ex
 citable, the eversion of the bag becomes complete, and its thick lips
 being thrown widely back, the intervening space is actually forced
 forwards so as to form a projection instead of a hollow: the animal
 is, on such occasions, delighted to thrust repeatedly the naked lining
 of the sac against any substance that is offered to him, which soon
 becomes loaded with the odour that has been referred to as belonging
 to the secretion. In the second individual, although it is perfectly
 mature, the protrusion of the inner surface of the sac is not quite to
 so great an extent as in the more aged male ; and the less thickened
 edges of the sinus allow of a nearer approximation to its closure in
 the unexcited state of the animal. The youngest male has the lips
 of the sinus small and closely applied to each other, so as to hide
 completely the whole of the internal lining of the sac, and to exhibit,
  externally, a mere fissure : in it the lips are but slightly moved when
  the animal is interested. The emasculated individual, notwithstand
  ing its full growth, has its suborbital sinus nearly in the same condi
  tion as that of the immature male : it is merely a slight fissure, the
  edges of which are closely applied to each other j and in it those
  edges do not appear to be at all moved, the animal being generally
  careless and inanimate. It would consequently seem that the same
  cause which induced the retention, by this individual, of its immature
  colours, and which arrested the perfect growth of its horns, was ade
  quate also for the checking of the development ofthe suborbital sinuses.
  Those organs, therefore, would appear to be dependent on sexual per
  fection ; and consequently to be, in some manner yet to be ascertain
  ed, subservient to sexual purposes, with the capacity for which they
  are evidently, in the phases of their development, essentially con
  nected.
     Mr. Owen, who had conceived it possible that the secretion of
   these glands, when rubbed upon projecting bodies, might serve to di
  rect individuals of the same species to each other, remarked that he
  had endeavoured to test the probability of this supposition by pre
  paring a tabular view of the relations between the habits and habitats
   of the several species of Antelopes, and their suborbital, maxillary,
   post-auditory, and inguinal glands ; in order to be able to compare
   the presence and degrees of development of these glands with the
   gregarious and other habits of the Antelope tribe. He stated, how
   ever, that it was evident from this table, that there is no relation be
   tween the gregarious habits of the Antelopes which frequent the plains,
   and the presence of the suborbital and max iliary sinuses ; since these,
   besides being altogether wanting in some of the gregarious species,
   are present in many of the solitary frequenters of rocky mountainous
   districts. The supposition, therefore, that the secretion may serve,
   when left on shrubs or stones, to direct a straggler to the general
   herd, falls to the ground.
      Mr. Owen's Table is as follows :

                             Zoological Society.   Hilly
     rbital T
Suborbital           f" Antilope Sumatrensis.             forests; habits of309  tbe
     maxil- V
and ma:                                 Goat.
lury sinuses. J                  Cervicapra. Open plains ofIndia; gregarious.
Suborbital si                    quadrUcopa. Senegal.
nuses large.                           of six orOpen
                                 melampus.        eight.plains of Cafrraria ; flocks
                                 Forfex. Africa.
                                 adenota. Africa.
                                 quadricornis.
                                 picta. Dense forests of India
                                 scoparia. Open plains of S. Africa; sub-
                                       gregarious.
                                  Tragulus. Stony plains and valleys ofS. Africa ;
                                       in pairs.
                 B               melanotu. Plains, bides in underwood ; in
                                       pairs.
                                 Dorcas. Borders of the desert ; gregarious.
                 U               Kevclla. Stony plains, Senegal ; gregarious.
                 o-I             subyutturosa. Plains, Central Asia; grega
                  ?                     rious.
                                 Bennettii. Rocky hills of Deccan ; not gre
                                       garious.
                                 Arabica. Stony hills of Arabia.
                                 SatmmerringiL Hills in Abyssinia ; not gre
                                       garious.
                                  Euchore. Dry plains ofS. Africa ; gregarious.
                                 pygarga. Plains, S. Africa; gregarious.
                                 Mhorr. Deserts of Morocco.
                                 Dama.
                                 ruficollis. Deserts of Nubia ; gregarious.
                        Antilope Colus. Vicinity of lakes ; gregarious, migra
          small.                        tory.
                                 gutturosa. Arid deserts, Asia ; periodically
                                        gregarious.
Suborbital              Antilope Saltiana. Mountainous districts, Abyssinia ;
sinuses.                               in pairs.
                                  Oreotragus. Mountains of the Cape ; like
                                        the Chamois.
                                  Thar. Hills of Nepaul ; not gregarious.
                                  Gazella. Senegal.                           ?
 Suborbital             Antilope BubaUs. Mountains and deserts, Tripoli ;
 glands.                                gregarious.
                                  Caama. Plains of S. Africa ; gregarious,
                        f         lunata. S. Africa.
                                  Gnu. Karroos of S. Africa ; gregarious.
                                  taurina s. Gorgon. S. Africa ; gregarious.
 Maxillary                        mergens.
                                        in pairs.
                      f Antilope silvicnllrix. Forests  andand
                                                 Thickets      underwood,
                                                            underwood,       Africa.
                                                                         S. Africa;
 sinuses.
                                   Grimmia. Guinea.
                                  Burchellii.
                                  platous.
                 1                perpusilla. Bushes, S. Africa ; in pairs.
                                   Maxtvellii.
                                  pygmaa.

   310                         Zoological Society.
   No suborbital,      f Antilopt Strepsiecros. Woods and banks of rivers,
   or maxillary                          Caffraria ; subgregarions.
   sinuses.            |           tylvatica. Woods, Caffraria; in pairs.
                                   scripta.
                                   Koba. Senegal.
                                   Kob. Senegal.
                                   Eleotragut. Reedy banks, Cape ; subgre-
                                        garious.
                                   redunca. Goree.
                                   Capreolus. Underwood, S. Africa; subgre-
                                        garious.
                                  Landiana. Underwood, S. Africa; subgre-
                                        garious.
  (Post-auditory     I Ant'dope Rupicapra. Mountains, Europe ; subgrega-
  sinuses.)          (_                 rious.
  No suborbital,     f Antilopt Addax. Deserts, N. Africa; in pairs,
  or maxillary                    Leucoryx. Acacia groves, N. Africa ; gre-
  sinuscs.           |                 garious.
                                  Oryx. Woods and plains, S. Africa; sub-
                                       grcgarious.
                                  leucophaa. Open plains, S. Africa; sub-
                                       gregarious.
                                 barbata. Open plains, S. Africa ; in pairs.
                                 equina. Plains, S. Africa; in pairs.
                                 ellipsiprymnus. S. Africa.
                                  Oreat. Open plains, S. Africa ; gregarious.
                                 Canna. Deserts, Cape ; gregarious.
                                 Goral. Elevated plains, Himalaya ; grega
                                       rious.
     Mr. Ogilby remarked, with reference to this subject, that he had
 had opportunities of observing, at the Surrey Zoological Gardens, a
 female of the Indian Antelope, in which, when he first saw her, the
 lacrymal sinus was in a state of quiescence : but when he observed
 her again, a month afterwards, and probably in improved condition,
 that organ was in a state as excitable as it is in the old male of the
 Society's Gardens.
     He added, as a general remark, which, however, he stated was not
 universal, that in intertropical animals the lacrymal sinus is larger
than in more northern species, and in those whose range is limited to
mountainous districts.
    He also described the lacrymal sinus of a species of Gazelle, which
he had observed after death : it consisted of a gland furnished with six
excretory ducts placed nearly in a circle, and with one central duct :
from the orifices of these ducts, when squeezed, there issued out
strings of a dense ceruminous matter.
    Mr. Bennett stated in conclusion, that since making his observa
tions on the Indian Antelope, which had led him to form the opinion
he had advanced with respect to the use of the lacrymal sinus, he had
received from Mr. Hodgson of Nepal, a Corresponding Member of
the Society, a letter in which, among other subjects, some remarks
are made on this organ as it exists in the Thar Antelope, and in the
Cervus Arittotelit ; in the former of those animals, Mr. Hodgson's

                            Zoological Society.                       311
observations prove that during the breeding-season the lacrymal sinus
is in a high state of activity. Mr. Hodgson's letter, which is dated
Nepal, June 18, 1835, refers also to other glands in some othtr An
telopes, as will be seen by the following extract.
    " The Chiru Antelope has exceedingly large inguinal sacs, which
hang by a long narrow neck from the loins. The longitudinal quasi
maxillary gland of the Cambin Otan I doubt the existence of, and
believe its ' suborbital sinus ' to be similar to that of Thar.
    " The latter differs essentially from that organ in any Deer or An
telope I have seen ; being furnished with a huge gland, filling the
whole cavity or depression on the scull, and leaving the cuticular fold
void of hollowness : it is filled up, like the bony depression, by the
gland j whereas the gland of this sinus, in most Deer and Antelopes,
is a tiny thing, and a dubious one. As to any Cervine or Antilopine
animal breathing through the suborbital sinus, it cannot be, unless
they can breathe through bone and skin ! If you pass a fine probe
down the lacrymal duct, you see the probe through the bottom of
the osseous depression holding the cuticular fold called the suborbital
sinus. But, however thin the plate of bone at the bottom of the
former, it is there, without breach of continuity; and the cuticular
portion of the apparatus has a continuous course throughout, leaving
no access to the inside of the head. I am watching closely a live
specimen of Cervus Aristotelis, to discover, if I can, the use of this
organ. In a recently killed male of this species, I passed a pipe into
 the nose, up to the site of the suborbital sinus, and tried, in vain, for
half an hour, with the aid of a dozen men's lungs, to inflate the sinus.
 Not a particle of air would pass; nor could I cause the sinus to un
fold itself, as the live animal unfolds it, by means of a set of muscles
disposed crosswise round the rim of it. In dissecting the sinus, I
found only n feeble trace of a gland ; so also, in the Muntjac.
    " But in the Thar, the gland is conspicuous, being a huge lump of
 flesh, bigger than, and like in shape to, the yolk of an egg. The live
 Thar, too, in the spring especially, pours out a continuous stream of thin
 viscid matter from the sinus; not so in any Deer. The Thar's gland
 seems to me connected with the generative organs: and I take its
 profuse secretion to be a means of relieving the animal (when it has
 no mate particularly) from the extraordinary excitement to which it
 is liable in the courting-season. I have witnessed that excitement,
 and have been amazed at its fearful extent, topical and general, for
 six weeks and more.
    "The Chiru's labial sacs, or intermaxillary pouches, are, most
clearly, accessory nostrils, designed to assist breathing at speed.
They spread with the dilatation of the true nostril, and contract with
 its contraction. This species has but five molar teeth on each side of
either jaw."- 3. H. H.

 312     British Association for the Advancement of Science*
  BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOB THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE.
    The following is a list of the Officers of the Association appointed
at the late Meeting at Bristol :
                   President.—The Earl of Burlington.
 Vice-Presidents.—Dr. Dalton, F.R.S. Sir P. Egerton, Bart., F.R.S.
                           Rev. E. Stanley, F.G.S.
                      Treasurer.—John Taylor, F.R.S.
 GeneralSecretaries.—Rev.W.V.Harcourt,F.R.S. R.I.Murchison,F.R.S.
           Assistant General Secretary.— Prof. Phillips, F.R.S.
 Secretariesfor the Liverpool Meeting.—W. C. Henry, M.D., F.R.S.
                              C. S. Parker, Esq.
         Treasurerfor the Liverpool Meeting.—S. Turner, F.R.S.
                               Members of Council.
    Members elected.—Prof. Christie, F.R.S. Prof. Daniell, F.R.S.
G. B. Greenough, F.R.S. H. Hallam. Prof. Henslow. R. Hutton,
F.G.S. Sir W.Rowan Hamilton, F.R.S. J. W. Lubbock, F.R.S. Prof.
Lindley, F.R.S. Prof. Owen, F R.S. Prof. Powell, F.R.S. John
Robison, Sec. R.S. Edinb. N. A. Vigors. Rev. W. Whewell, F.R.S.
Wm. Yarrell, F.R.S.
    Members ex-officio.—The Trustees : C Babbage, F.R.S. R. I.
Murchison, F.R.S. John Taylor, F R.S. The Officers named above.
    Secretaries.—E. Turner, M.D., F.R.S. Rev. James Yates, F.L.S.
    The Reports which have been undertaken for the ensuing Meeting
are as follows :
    Capt. Sabine. A continuation ofliis Report on the state of know
ledge as to the Phfflnomena of the Earth's Magnetism.
    Mr. Lubbock.
pointed   to considerThea proposition
                           result of theofdeliberations
                                           that gentleman        the construc
                                                        of aforCommittee   up-
tion of new Empirical Lunar Tables. The Committee consists of
the Astronomer Royal, Mr. Baily, Prof. Challis, SirW. R. Hamilton,
Mr. Lubbock, Prof. Rignud.
    Prof. Johnston. On the present state of knowledge of the Che
mical and Physical Properties of Dimorphous Bodies in their respec
tive forms.
    Mr. J. Taylor. On the Mineral Riches of Great Britain, in rela
tion more particularly to Metalliferous Districts.
    Mr. Yarrell. On the state of knowledge of Ichthyology.
    Rev. Wm. Taylor. On the various Methods of Printing which
have been prepared for the use of the Blind.
   The following is a statement of the new and renewed Grants of
Money for the advancement of particular branches of science, which
have been made by the Association at this Meeting.
                     Mathematical and Physical Science.
230/. For the discussion of Observations of the Tides; at the disposal
           of J. W. Lubbock , Esq.
 150/. For the discussion of Observations of the Tides in the port of
           Bristol ; at the disposal of the Rev. W. Whewell.
  70/. For the Deduction of the Constant of Lunar Nutation ; under
         direction of Sir T. Brisbane, Mr. Baily, and Rev. Dr. RoLinson.

       British Associationfor the Advancement ofScience.                313
 30/. For Hourly Observations of the Barometer and Wet-bulb Hy
           grometer ; at the disposal of VV. S. Harris, Esq.
100/. Renewed grant for the establishment of Meteorological Obser
           vations and Experiments on Subterranean Temperature ; at
           the disposal of a Committee, consisting of Prof. Forbes, W.
           S. Harris, Esq., I'rof. Powell, Col. Sykes, and Prof. Phillips,
          who will act as Secretary.
500/. Enlarged grant for the procurement of accurate Data to deter
           mine the question of the Permanence or Variability of the
           Relative Level of Land and Sea. The Committee consists
           of Mr. Baily, Mr. De la Beche, Col. Colby, Mr. Cubitt,
           Mr. Greenough, Mr. Griffith, Mr. Lubbock, Capt. Portlock,
           Mr. G. Rennie, Rev. Dr. Robinson, Prof. Sedgwick, Mr. Ste
          venson, and Rev. VVm.VVhewell, who will act as Secretary.
100/. For Experimental Investigations on the Form of Waves ; at the
           disposal of John Robison, Esq., and J. S. Russell, Esq.
500/. Renewed grant for the Reduction of Observations in the Hist.
           Celeste and in the volumes of the AcadAmie des Sciences for
           1 789 and 1 790; under the direction of the Astronomer Royal,
           F. Baily, Esq., J. W. Lubbock, Esq., and Rev. Dr. Ro
           binson.
150/. For experiments on Vitrification ; under the direction of Dr.
           Faraday, Rev. W. V. Harcourt, and Dr. Turner.
 80/. Renewed grant for the construction ofa rock-salt Lens j under
           the direction of Sir D. Brewster.
                    Chemical and Mineralogical Science.
 501. Renewed grant for Researches on the Specific Gravity of
           Gases; under the direction of Dr.Dalton and Dr. C. Henry.
 30/. For Researches on the Quantities of Heat developed in Com
           bustion and other chemical Combinations ; at the disposal
          of Dr. Turner.
 15/. For       disposal ofonDr.theDalton
          theResearches                    and Mr.ofW.
                                     Composition        West.
                                                      Atmospheric  Air j at
              For up
 24-/. 13/.drawn          Prof. Johnston.
                   thebypublication    of Tables of Chemical Constants
           kinson.
 60/. Forcold    blast; at on
              Researches   thethe disposal
                                     Strength
                                            of Messrs.  made with
                                               of Iron Fairburn         and
                                                                andhotHodg-
                          Geology and Geography.
 20/. Renewed grant for Experiments on the Quantity of Mud sus
           pended in the water of Rivers ; under the direction of Mr.
           De la Beche, Mr. G. Rennie, and Rev. J. Yates.
 30/. For special Researches on Subterranean Temperature and
           Electricity ; at the disposal of Mr. R. W. Fox.
 50/. For Researches into the Nature and Origin of Peat Mosses
           in Ireland ; under the direction of Col. Colby.
                                     Botany.
 25/. For experimental Researches on the Growth of Plants under
    Third Series. Vol. 9. No 51. Oct. 1836.              2O

31 *          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
          glass and excluded from air, according to the plan of Mr.
          Ward ; under the direction of Dr. Dalton, Dr. Daubeny,
          Rev. James Yates, and Prof. Henslow, who will act as
          Secretary.
                                Medical Science.
  501. Renewed grant to the Committees appointed to investigate the
          subject of the Anatomical Relations of the Absorbents and
          Veins.
          the Motions
  50/. Renewed            to Sounds
                   grantand              of the Heart.
                               the Committees       appointed to investigate
  25/. ForOrgans
          G.  O. Rees,
                  ; under
             Researches andinto
                            the
                              Dr.the
                                  direction
                                       Chemical
                                    Turner.       Composition
                                             of Dr. Hodgkin, Dr.      Secreting
                                                                  of Roget,  Dr.
  23/. For
 25/.  Renewed
          Mr.
          Man
            Investigations
               King.
                and
                  grant
                     Animals
                         for on
                              theinthe
                                     Investigation
                                     thePhysiological
                                                    of Influence
                                         Arctic Regionsthe; Effects
                                                            at the of
                                                                    disposal
                                                                     of Cold
                                                                        Poisons
                                                                              of
                                                                              on
          on the Animal Economy ; under the direction of Dr. Roupell
         and Dr. Hodgkin.
 25/   Renewed grant to the Committee formerly appointed to inves
         tigate the Pathology of the Brain and Nervous System. Of
          this Committee Dr. O'Beirne has been requested to act as
          Secretary.
  25/. For Investigations on the Physiology of the Spinal Nerves ;
         under the direction of Mr. S. D. Broughton, Mr. E. Cock,
          and Dr. Sharpey.
                                   Statistics.
150/.  For Inquiries into the actual State of Schools in England, con
         sidered merely as to numerical analysis ; under the direction
         of Mr. Hallam, Mr. Porter, and Col. Sykes.
                            Mechanical Science.
 501.  Renewed grant for an Analysis of the Reports of the Duty of
          Steam-Engines in Cornwall ; under the direction of Mr.
          Cubitt, Mr. J. Rennie, and Mr. John Taylor.
         LXII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
         ON SEVERAL NEW COMBINATIONS OF PLATINUM.
                       BY J. W. DOEBEREINER.
I^HE cyanuret of potassium and platinum, produced according to
       the method of L. (unci in, is known to form, with a solution of
the acid protonitrate of mercury, a beautiful smalt-blue precipitate,
with the disengagement of a small quantity of nitrous gas.
   On a closer examination this precipitate affords several interesting
appearances and new products (cyanuret of mercury and platinum,
cyanuret of platinum, and a compound of hydrocyanic acid and
cyanuret of platinum), as well as the proof that platinum and cyanogen
are mutually disposed to enter into very close combinations.
   This precipitate may be washed with cold water acidulated by nitric

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.               31$
acid and then dried, without suffering any alteration in its colour.
But if boiled witli this water, it yields protonitrate of mercury, and
becomes quite white. If a solution of protonitrate of mercury be
poured upon this white precipitate and left at rest on it at or
dinary temperatures for several hours -or longer, the precipitate
gradually becomes as blue as it was at first ; and after some days the
intensity of this colour increases, if the nitrate of mercury remains in
excess: if the precipitate be heated with the latter it remains white,
but after the evaporation of the water of the nitrate of mercury, it
becomes blue, and if the heat be increased, orange red.
   When the blue and orange red precipitate is strongly heated on n
piece of platinum foil, it detonates, giving out sparks and smoke, and
flying on all sides like sky-rockets, with a hissing noise. It is dis
solved in heated muriatic acid, with the formation of nitric acid and
hydrocyanic acid, and forms a colourless solution which is not rendered
turbid by alcohol nor precipitated by muriate of ammonia.
   The white precipitate kindles when heated on platinum foil
without detonating, burns away without tiame, and leaves behind
about 38 per cent, of spongy platinum, strongly disposed to ignition.
Boiling muriatic acid dissolves it, but without development of nitric
or hydrocyanic acid, and forms an almost colourless solution, which
a solution of potash turns yellow, and which, on evaporation to dry
ness, gives a residue, appearing partly red, partly yellow, and partly
blue, and this by a strong heat is decomposed into hydrocyanic acid,
chloride of mercury, and cyanuret of platinum.
  The solution of the alkalies and alkaline ear thsdecompose the coloured
and the bleached precipitates, and separate, from the first, protoxide
and peroxide of mercury, from the latter, only peroxide j at the same
lime they leave their radical in combination with the cyanogen of the
cyanuret of mercury, and in this combination form, with the cyanuret
of platinum, easily crystallizable double cyanurets of platinum.
When the white precipitate is gradually heated to redness in a glass
retort, it is decomposed into cyanogen gas, fluid mercury, and cya
nuret of platinum. The quantity of the latter is about 48 per cent.
(4*8 grains from 10 grains on which I experimented); we may there
fore consider the white precipitate as a combination of
   48  Cyanuret of
   52 Cvanuret       Platinum 1} = P*
                  of Mercury         d. r>
                                        Cy +¦ u     Cy, or d.
                                                Hy r>      Pt u
                                                              Hy n
                                                                 Cys.
and we may consider the blue (and red) precipitate as a combination
of this double cyanuret with protonitrate of mercury. I have not yet
examined in what relation these salts stand to one another, and whe
ther the blue colour belongs to the whole combination or merely to
 one of its products (perhaps the oxide of platinum).
   The cyanuret of platinum which remains after the pyro-chcmical
decomposition of the colourless cyanuret of platinum and mercury, is a
fine olive-yellow pulverulent substance, insoluble in water, acids, or
alkalies, combustible, and when burnt in the air leaving 78 to 79 per
cent, of pure platinum, and when heated with oxide of copper in the
pyro-pneumatic apparatus giving carbonic acid and nitrogen gases
nearly in the proportion of 2 to 1 j it therefore consists of one atom
of platinum and one of evanogen = Pt Cy.
                                    2 O 2

316            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
    If the cyanuret of mercury and platinum is diffused in water and
treated ,with hydrosulphuric acid, we obtain sulphuret of mercury
and a colourless fluid with a strong acid reaction, which contains, in
solution, a combination of cyanuretof platinum with hydrocyanic acid.
If we evaporate this liquid, this new combination presents itself as a
greenish yellow substance, with a metallic lustre on the surface, partly
gold, pnrtly copper colour; it deliquesces in damp air, and is very easy
of solution in water and absolute alcohol, and combines with the al
 kalies so as to form double cyanurets.
    If this combination, which on account of its acid properties I shall
call (Cyanplat'mwasserstoffsllure) a compound of hydrocyanic acid
 and cyanuret of platinum (H Cy + PtCy), be dissolved in absolute
 alcohol, and this solution left in the open air to evaporate on a watch-
 glass or plate of glass, the compound offers to the eye of the observer
 a peculiar crystallization, and at the same time an interesting but in
 describable cameleon-like piny of colours. If the dry acid be allowed
 to deliquesce in moist air and is then evaporated in dry air or in the
 sunshine, it crystallizes in exceedingly beautiful needles, grouped
 together like stars, which have a metallic lustre and are sometimes
 gold-, sometimes copper-coloured, like oxalate of platinum, but still
 more beautiful than the crystals of the latter. In the light and at a
 temperature of boiling water this compound undergoes no change,
  but when heated to above this point it is decomposed into hydrocyanic
 acid and cyanuret of platinum. If its solution in alcohol is mixed
 with some nitric ncid we obtain a liquid which evaporates, and
 heated strongly on a glass plate, forms an exceedingly beautiful pla
  tinum mirror.
     There may be formed also a similar compound with iridium (Hy
 Cy + Ir Cy), whose properties are perfectly analogous to the above
 compound with platinum.—Poggendorff's Annals, 1836, No. 3.
                          ON DECREPITATION.
     M. Baudrimont observes that authors have generally attributed the
 phenomena of decrepitation to the presence and sudden vaporization
 of water, or to the sudden production of aeriform matter. It is re
 markable, he observes, however, that the greater number of bodies
 which decrepitate are really anhydrous and fixed j such are sulphate
 of potash, sulphate of barytes, chloride of sodium, &c. In order to
 explain this anomaly it is supposed that these substances contain
 water interposed between their constituent parts. M. Baudrimont
 found, however, that after drying several fixed and anhydrous bodies
 in several ways, at a low temperature, as completely as possible, they
 still decrepitated when quickly heated ; he also observed that the
 slaty clays mixed with coal decrepitated strongly when thrown into
 a hot furnace, and that those which presented most surface decrepi
 tated the loudest. Slaty clay possesses a well-marked lamellar struc
 ture; and it was found that anhydrous bodies susceptible of decrepi
 tating did not undergo it, except they were crystallized and pos
 sessed a smooth easy cleavage. This disposition to divide evenly on
 large surfaces offers a ready explanation of their decrepitation. In
 fact, substances which decrepitate, being such as are considered

             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.                317
bad conductors of heat,—and their external parts are the 6rst heated,
—the dilatation which they suffer forces them to separate from the
neighbouring parts which have not yet acquired the same tempera
ture, and this is facilitated by their property of cleaving.
    There are substances which may decompose and yield volatile pro
 ducts when heated, and in this case it is difficult to say whether it is
to an unequal dilatation of their parts or to the repulsive action of
these volatile products that the decrepitation is to be attributed.
However, as they possess almost all a crystalline structure or an easy
cleavage, this structure is probably often the only cause, for they de
crepitate actually without having suffered the least apparent decompo
sition, as the cyanide of mercury and emetic tartar. Substances which
do not possess a crystalline structure, may decrepitate when they have
not been perfectly dried; such are plastic clays and argillaceous schist.
    From what has been staled, decrepitating substances may be di
vided into two classes, viz. fixed bodies, and those which yield aeriform
products. Among the first are sulphate of barytes, sulphate of stron-
tian, sulphate of potash, chromate of potash, bichromate of potash,
fluoride of calcium, chloride of sodium, chloride of potassium, bro
 mide of sodium, bromide of potassium, iodide of potassium, and
galena. Of the bodies which decompose and yield aeriform products
 at a high temperature, some are anhydrous, as nitrate of barytes,
 nitrate of lead, rhombic carbonate of lime, and cyanide of mercury.
 Others are hydrates, as tartar emetic, lamellar sulphate of lime, ace
tate of copper, bitartrate of potash, and ferrocyanide of potassium.
   Those substances which contain a large quantity of water in a state
of combination do not really decrepitate, unless they are susceptible of
cleavage : such are the carbonate of soda, sulphate of soda, sulphate
of magnesia, &c.
    Cleavage therefore is as essential a condition of decrepitation as
water or its elements.—Journal de Pharmacie, July 1836.
 ATOMIC CONFUSION. —MONOUYDRATED SULPHOCARBETHERIC
                                ACID.
   The above title is suggested by the perusal of a paper in
the Journal de Chimie Medicate, July 1836, entitled, " Sur un Me-
moire dc M. Couerbe sur la Chimie du Sulfure dc Carbon."
" M.Zeise, on examining the reaction of sulphuret ofcarbon and pot
ash dissolved in alcohol, obtained a crystallized salt which appeared
to be formed of potash and a hydracid equivalent to hydrogen, and a
sulphuret of carbon which he regarded as very probably different,
in the proportion of its elements, from the sulphuret of carbon of
Lampadius. There was then, according to M. Zeise, a sulphuret
of carbon, which acted the part of a complex supporter of combus
tion (comburant comjolexe), resembling cyanogen. In consequence
of this analogy, M. Zeise called this sulphuret xanthogen (on account
of the yellow colour of several of its compounds with metals). Its
hydracid he named hydroxanthic acid, and its compounds with me
tals he called xanthurets. He considered the oily liquid derived from
the reaction of sulphuric, hydrochloric, or acetic acid on his cry
stallized salt as hydroxanthic acid,aad the precipitates derived from

  318           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
  the mixture of metallic salts with the solution of hydroxanthate of
  potash as xanthurets. In this reaction, the hydrogen of the acid
  formed water with the oxygen of the metallic oxide, while the re
  duced metal combined with the xauthogen."
    " M. Couerbe, examining the sulphuret of carbon at a time when
  the composition of aethers occupied much attention, considered it
  not as a comburant analogous to cyanogen, but as a sulphacid, re
  presented by two atoms of sulphur and one atom of carbon, and
  thus corresponding to carbonic acid. He calls it sulphocarbic acid.
    " The salt of M. Zeise is not represented according to M. Zeise,
 by sulphuret of carbon and hydrogen united to potash, but by two
 atoms of sulphuret of carbon and one atom of eether combined with
 an atom of potash.
    " When this salt is decomposed by a dilute acid, it is not an hy-
 dracid which is obtained, but, according to M. Couerbe, an acid
 represented by two atoms of sulphuret of carbon and an atom of
 alcohol, which is thus analogous to sulphovinic acid, represented by
 two atoms of sulphuric acid and one atom of alcohol.
    " M. Couerbe thinks then that, when sulphuret of carbon is added
 to potash and alcohol, an atom of potash unites to two atoms of
 sulphocarbic acid and an atom of aether, and that the elementary
 atoms of these two compounds constitute an acid, which he calls
 monohydrated sulphocarbetheric acid (acide sulphocarbelheriqne mo-
 nohydrate). He thinks that this acid, when it is separated from
 potash, absorbs an atom of water and becomes a bihydrated acid.
          HYDROSULPHURIC AND HYDROSELENIC OTHERS.
    M. Lowig states that oxalic aether answers well for the prepara
 tion of some hydracid aethers which have been hitherto unknown,
 such as hydrosulphuric and hydroselenic aethers ; these are pre
 pared by adding it to sulphuret and seleniuretof potassium : hydro
cyanic and hydrosulphocyanic aethers are prepared in the same man
ner. The mutual decomposition always takes place with difficulty ;
and even with a great excess of the compound of potassium, there
always distils a considerable quantity of oxalic aether undecomposed.
Hydrosulphuric aether is obtained in the following manner: Sulphu
ret of potassium, prepared by decomposing the sulphate with char,
coal, is reduced in a hot mortar into a fine powder, and put while
yet warm into a retort, and then mixed with oxalic aether sufficient
to make a thin paste. After the mixture has been exposed for some
hours to a moderate heat,—the presence of water being carefully
avoided, that sulphuretted hydrogen and alcohol may not be formed,—
the distillation is to be commenced, and continued with an increas
ing heat until the oxalate of potash formed begins to decompose.
The product of the distillation is the hydrosulphuric and oxalic aethers,
and it is to be agitated for a considerable time with a concentrated
solution of pure potash or sulphuret of barium, which decomposes
the oxalic aether. The hydrosulphuric aether thus purified is de
canted and rectified from chloride of calcium. Its purity is known
by its not giving a precipitate with a solution of sulphuret of ba.
num. Hydrosulphuric aether is lighter than water, and has an ex-

                  Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.                      319
tremely disagreeable odour of asafcetida as well as an aethereal one;
a single drop is sufficient to diffuse this smell over a great space.
It has a sweet taste, which continues long; it has no action on test-
  iar smell Itand
ftapers.            its taste soluble
                is slightly    to it. With
                                      in water,
                                            alcohol
                                                 but and   aether
                                                       imparts        mixes pecu-
                                                                itsitstrong    in all
proportions : it burns with a blue flame, and disengages sulphurous
acid. It suffers no change by the contact of air. When boiled
with a solution of potash it is not decomposed ; but if distilled from
finely powdered hydrate of potash, sulphuret of potassium and al
cohol are obtained j but this decomposition takes place with diffi
culty, and a very large quantity of aether passes over without de
composition. Potassium decomposes it at a moderate heat; but the
decomposition soon ceases, because the sulphuret of potassium
produced forms a crust on the potassium and prevents a continuation
of the action. There is no disengagement of hydrogen during this
decomposition.
     Hydrosulphuric aether does not in the slightest degree act upon
peroxide of mercury, and is distinguished by this character from
mercaptan, as will be foreseen. Nevertheless it precipitates some
heavy metallic salts, especially an alcoholic solution of acetate of
lead ; the precipitate is of a yellow colour. Mixed with a concen.
trated alcoholic solution of acetate of lead, a white precipitate is
formed which strongly resembles the mercapturet of potassium of
Zeise. This aether may probably be prepared by distilling an in
timate mixture of sulphuret of potassium and dry sulphovinate of ba-
rytes. The distilled liquor possesses all the properties of the aether
described ; water must be carefully avoided in this operation. M.
JLciwig intends to describe the analysis and properties of this aether.
     Hydroselenic aether was obtained only in small quantity and but
little is known of it3 properties ; its odour is extremely disagreeable;
it burns, depositing selenium and giving a smell of horse radish.
     M. Ldwig found that hydrocyanic aether prepared with oxalic
aether, possessed the same properties as that obtained by M. Pelouze.
                                          Journal de Pliarmacie, July 1836.
     Part II. of SCIENTIFIC MEMOIRS will be ready for
publication on the 31st of October.
       METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS FOR AUGUST 1836.
    Chiswick.—August 1. Overcast: cloudy: clear and fine.              2 — 10. Fine.
 1 1. Fine: cloudy and windy at night.                 12. Overcast : hot and dry
 13. Dry haze : fine : lightning and rain at night.           14. Heavy rain with
thunder.         15, 16. Hazy: fine.      17, Very fine.       18. Overcast : fine.
 19. Cold and dry : fine. 20. Hazy : rain.          21, 22. Very fine. 23. Hazy:
rain. 24. Heavy rain : clear and cold at night. 25. Fine. 26. Drizzly :
rain.      27. Fine.        28. Rain.     29—31. Very fine.
    Boston.—August 1. Fine: rain p.m.             2, 3. Cloudy.          4. Cloudy :
rain p.m. 5—7. Cloudy. 8, 9. Fine. 10 — 13. Cloudy. 14, 15. Fine.
 16. Cloudy. 17. Fine. 18. Fine : rain p.m. 19. Cloudy. 20. Fine : rain
p.m.      2*1. Fine.       22. Cloudy : rain p.m. 23. Cloudy. 24, 25. Fine.
26. Rain. 27, 28. Cloudy. 29. Fine : rain p.m. 30. Fine. 31. Cloudy.

   hSrthe
 Mr.
the
Gof
 at
 Taby   sedmthe
      ARoyal
       Society
       oof  made  ibarnstesortanvmaotelrionygticsal
            Ocpe;Mat                                                                                        Soc.Lo:nd. Fofdaehgre. s
                                                                                                            Roy.
                                                                                                                         inA9.M.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :i*4                 1-22
                                                                                                                                                                        •11               •09                                                                                    •08 •'28                         •19                •33
                                                                                         Rain.                                                                                                                                                    ¦IS                                                :06                                                                      1-97
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ¦44                            •02             •13                    •69 •02 •i*4 •12 •20
                                                                                                           Lo:ndon Soc.Roy.A9.M.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0-993
                                              BMr.
                                                VEALL
                                                oat
                                                 Land
                                                 by
                                                  CsoSociety
                                                     hHattinrsotduiencroua.ilcntru/;ca,l                                                                                                                                                          •272                            •044 •075 •013 •027 ¦125                                   ¦088 ¦161 ¦188
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         J  S. calmj calm
                                                                                                                                                                           NW, NW, calm calm calm B. calm calm calm calm |calm calm calm                        calm                                                calm calm                                  calm|
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       w. w. H. sw. NW. w.                                                     w. w. w.
                                                                                                                         Chisw. P1.M.
                                                                                          Wind.                                                                     sw. WW.                  NE. NE. NE.                                                                                            W. SW. NK. NE. SC. S. SW. s. w. SW.
                                                                                                               Lon:don Roy.   Soc.                                                                                                                                                   vsarw.                 sw.var.
                                                                                                                                         A9.M.                      s w. sw. SE. SSW. N. N. N. N. N. N. HI. IM. NE. N. WSW. N E. WSW. SW.                                                      s w. N E.              N. NE. K SW. WSW. E. S W. S W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WNW.
                                                                                                                        Boston. '.AM                                                  63-5                 61-5                                57'5                                            58-5                                                                   61-5_^"59-6
                                                                                                                                                                    62 57 63 57 61 59 61 61 60 61 66 65 64 66 63 56 56 57 54 58 56 56 59 56 5756
                                                                                                                       Chiswick. 1MMax.in
                                                                                           Thermo et r.
                                                                                                                                  SelFf-areghistre.ing.I
                                                                                                                                                       MMin.A.M'9ax 697 690 74-6 72-2 70-5 67-       5 68-   95  70- 692 69-   0 68- 9 69-   0 72-0 71-9 72-56     71- 73-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4 72-  0 67-0 62-       4 668 67-4 63-         9 6t-5 653 655 2         70- 657 67-7 680 70-9
                                                                                                              Roy.
                                                                                                              Soc.Lo:ndon
                                                                                                                                                                      54-3 6 51- 543 57-
                                                                                                                                                                                       0 58-   7 57-2 519 545 54-9 9           50- 537 56-   4 54-5 595 590 54-5 257- 56-       75      54- 4    52- 51-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      93     53- 257- 495 48-4 6           55- 752- 56-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4 51-  0 52- 5 560 ~5^S
                                                                                                                                                                      4 68-9 65-
                                                                                                                                                                      60-              36
                                                                                                                                                                                   3 66-       61- 636 259- 62-  08      60- 596 620 59-5 654 62-2 62-5 62-        7 66-4 63-  8 59-2 59-        0 58-5 590 60-        2 55-4 58-   2 590620 59-      2 58-5 61-0 63"5 61-5
                                                                                                                          Boston. A.M.«4                              2940 29-36 29-40 2920 29-40 2957 29-65 29-61 2964 29-65 29-77 2980 2970 29-30 29-32 2955 2940 29-39 29-55 29-33 29-34 2914 29-05 29-45 29-58 29-26 29-29 29-37 2950 2952 2944 29-44
                                                                                                                                                                      02630 30037 2973629-823 972
                                                                                                                                                                                               29- 30093 150     30- 30-184 30-160 30-285 30-272 30
                                                                                                                                                                                                             30- 160                                   29- 29932 30-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 027 847            129 30077 29-953 30-  152 29790 29909 29-    633 29602 30- 00-2 30049 29-                110 30-135 29-956 29-602
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           973 29926 29962 30-
                                                                                              Barometer.                                                Min.
                                                                                                                                                                             30 29999 897
                                                                                                                                                                      30-178 075                                  30- 30-224 30204 30340 30-334 30-204 29921 30-07530188 30098 30-069 30-178 29-964 29-95529-787 748
                                                                                                                                                                                        29- 02230- 30161 30-212 169                                                                                                     29- 15930- 171
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    30- 30012 95429- 3001
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1 124  30- 30186 30-076 30-340
                                                                                                                                                         Max.
                                                                                                      ofDays I.lfn: Roy.         Soc.                                                                                           30204 30-307            14.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       29930
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ©                                                         29794 29-641                                                     076
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   30
                                                                                                                                                  A9.M.Aug.
                                                                                                                                                                              T.
                                                                                                                                                                              Q.
                                                                                                                                                                             30080
                                                                                                                                                                                         Tli.
                                                                                                                                                                                         4.C
                                                                                                                                                                                        29-859                                        11. 12.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Th.                                        18.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Th.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          17. 30081                                                 30168
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Th.25. 26.
                                                                                                                                                                        M.
                                                                                                                                                                        1. 30029
                                                                                                                                                                      30-181        3. 3F.
                                                                                                                                                                                   W.           5.
                                                                                                                                                                                                0-0 0 30-119
                                                                                                                                                                                                       S. 30-245
                                                                                                                                                                                                      6.      7. 8.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              O    M. 3T.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  30-202  9.    10. 30-348
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0-241 W.           $
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             F. 30-225
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13. 29960    15. 16.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M.     T. 301
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11\V.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    194
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    30-                     5. 29-956
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           30196
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           F19.   20. 29-954
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2O1. M.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S.                    23. 29-976
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   22. T.       24. 29984
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W.          O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            F. 29-936
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  27. 29964
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2O      M.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8. 30148
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              29. 30-212 301
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    30. 13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T.   31.

                                 THE
               LONDON and EDINBURGH
 PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                 AND
          JOURNAL                OF       SCIENCE.
                       [THIRD       —-
                             — SERIES.]
                    NOVEMBER 1836.
 LXIII. On a volatile Liquid pocured from Caoutchouc by
    destructive Distillation : with Remarks on some other em-
   pyreumatic Substances. By William Ghegoky, M.D.,
   F.R.S.E., Lecturer on Chemistry.*
 COME years ago a patent was taken out by Mr. Enderby,
 ^ of London, for the production of a volatile inflammable
 liquid by the distillation of caoutchouc. This liquid possesses
very remarkable properties. As prepared by Mr. Enderby,
it is colourless, very fluid, has no taste, but a peculiar ^ethereal
smell. Its specific gravity is very low, being = 0*680, and
it boils at a temperature below 100° Fahrenheit. As no ex
amination of this remarkable substance has yet been pub
lished, I venture to offer the results of some experiments
which I have made on it at intervals during the last two
years.
   As Mr. Enderby purifies his oil by rectification alone, my
first object was to push that process as far as possible, so as
to get rid of the less volatile matters which might be present.
By successive rectifications, carried on without ebullition at
about 80° to 90° Fahr., I at last obtained a liquid having the
specific gravity of 0'666 at 60° Fahr., approaching very nearly
to that of the eupion of Dr. Reichenbach, obtained by the
distillation of oil, viz. 0'655. The new liquid, however, is
not eupion, for it boils at about 90° Fahr., and is instantly
                   • Communicated by the Author.
   Third Series. Vol. 9. No. 55. Nov. 1836.               2P

322           Dr. W. Gregory on a volatile Liquid
decomposed by oil of vitriol ; while eupion boils at 1 10° Fahr.,
and resists the action of that acid.
   The boiling-point of the new oil is not constant That of
sp. gr. 0 670 begins to boil at 95° Fahr., but the tempera
ture soon rises, and towards the end of the distillation reaches
1 70° Fahr. Consequently, we cannot consider it as an un
mixed compound.
   Having taken some of this liquid with me to Giessen last
year, I submitted it to analysis under the eye of Professor
Liebig. Although I did not expect any very satisfactory result
from the analysis of a substance confessedly not free from mix
ture, I was rather surprised to obtain results indicating a com
position, in 100 parts, identical with that cf olefiant gas.
   I next proceeded to examine the action of sulphuric acid
on the new liquid. When the acid is added to it in large
quantity, part of the oil is decomposed instantaneously, while
the rest is dissipated by the heat evolved, leaving a black
semifluid mass. But if the acid be added gradually to the
oil at the bottom of a long tube, which is closed by the thumb
and cooled down after each addition, a colourless liquid is
obtained, swimming on the surface of the black mass above
mentioned. When the addition of new acid causes no further
development of heat, the liquid may be decanted, washed with
solution of potash, and rectified over chloride of calcium.
   This liquid has properties very distinct from those of the
oil which has yielded it. It has acquired an aromatic smell,
resembling that of turpentine, and it now boils at about 440°
Fahr. Notwithstanding, however, this remarkable change,
the analysis of the modified oil gave results closely coinciding
with those of the original liquid, viz. a composition identical,
in 1 00 parts, with that of olefiant gas.
   These analyses were made in September 1835. In the
Annalen der Phaimacie, October 1835, Professor Liebig has
directed the attention of chemists to the remarkable alteration
produced by sulphuric acid on the oil of caoutchouc; and has
conjectured that the change consisted in the conversion of
that oil into eupion, which resists sulphuric acid. If so, he
proceeds, then it is possible that eupion may be only pro
duced from the oil of tar by the action of the sulphuric acid
employed in its preparation.
   I cannot acquiesce in this view. The eupion of Reichen-
bach boils at 110° Fahr., and the oil alluded to at 440° Fahr.;
moreover their odour is quite different : and if we are to ad
mit them to be essentially the same, one of them must be in
the highest degree impure, implying the presence of some
other substance.

    procuredfrom Caoutchouc by destructive Distillation.     323
   I must, however, mention here a singular fact. Having
myself subjected caoutchouc to destructive distillation, I ob
tained none of Mr. Enderby's oil ; but on adding sulphuric
acid to the more volatile products, I got what I conceived to
be impure eupion. My failure in procuring the new oil I
ascribe to a difference in the temperature employed.
   Professor Liebig is inclined to the opinion that the other
substances described by Reichenbach are products of reaction,
and not educts. But I venture to remind him that creosote,
for example, may by detected in tar, by its smell and by its
antiseptic virtue ; that, according to Reichenbach, both eupion
and paraffine may be sufficiently purified, by rectification
alone, to exhibit their characteristic properties; and that pa
raffine may be extracted from the petroleum of Rangoon, in a
state of absolute purity, without the employment of any more
active solvent than sulphuric eether.
   M. Hess, in a note read in the Imperial Academy of Sci
ences of St. Petersburg, on the 11th of March* 1836, men
tions some circumstances which are highly interesting in re
ference to the present subject. After referring to the analogy
of the oil of petroleum with the eupion of Reichenbach, (an
analogy which 1 had demonstrated in a paper read to the
Royal Society of Edinburgh in December 183b, and since
published in their Transactions,) he slates that ini following
Reichenbach's process for the preparation of eupion from oil
he obtained a liquid of sp. gr. 0-71, which by the action of
potash he obtained at last so light as 0*648, and boiling from
68° Fahr. to 110° Fahr.
   This liquid he found to have the composition of olefiant
gas ; it contained, he says, but very little eupion, which might
be separated by sulphuric acid.
   Now my experiments above described render it extremely
probable that M. Hess's liquid is identical with that of Mr.
Enderby; and that the oil separated from it by sulphuric
acid is not eupion, but the second oil analysed by me.
   As M. Hess had previously shown that the pure oil of pe
troleum had the same composition as olefiant gas, and was in
its properties, as I had also proved, very analogous to eupion,
he thinks it highly probable that the composition of eupion is
the same.
   He then proceeds to divide the very numerous compounds,
which agree in containing, like olefiant gas, about 85*7 per
cent, of carbon, and 14'3 per cent, of hydrogen, into two
series. The one, of which paraffine, eupion, and olefiant gas
                  * Annates de Ckimie, vol. Ixi. p. 331.
                              2 P2

 324 Dr.W. C. Henry's Experiments on Gaseous Interference.
 are examples, he calls passive, because they do not act on
 sulphuric acid; the other, of which Faraday's quadro-car-
 buretted hydrogen and the oil obtained by himself, as well as
 Mr. Enderby's oil (if the two latter be not identical), are spe
 cimens, he calls active, as they act strongly on the same acid.
 I have mentioned his views here, in order to direct attention
 to the striking fact, established by my experiments, that Mr.
 Enderby's oil, belonging to one of these classes, is, partially
 at least, converted by the action of sulphuric acid into a liquid
 belonging to the other series, and retaining the same com
 position.
     Another circumstance well worthy of notice is the fact that
 several of the liquids in question yield uniform results as to
 composition, even when the portions analysed differ in density
 and volatility. This has been shown to occur likewise in the
 oils of turpentine and lemons, and seems to indicate the ex
 istence of an almost unlimited number of polymeric combina
 tions of carbon and hydrogen.
    When Mr. Enderby's liquid was first made known it was
 stated to be an excellent solvent for caoutchouc, which, from
its great volatility, would have rendered it extremely valu
able. But it is necessary to state, that I have not yet seen one
 specimen of it which, under any circumstances, in my hands,
possessed this property. Two gentlemen informed me that
they had succeeded in dissolving caoutchouc by means of it ;
but when asked to repeat the experiment with the same liquid
they both failed. If therefore this liquid be a solvent for caout
chouc, it must be under conditions with which I am not ac
quainted.
LXIV. Experiments on Gaseous Interference. By William
                  Charles Henky, M.D., F.R.S.*
r|"'HE singular power exerted by certain gases, of suspend-
       ing the action of finely divided platina on mixtures of
oxygen and hydrogen, was first observed and announced by
Dr. Turner f, shortly after Dbbereiner's discovery. It was
also about the same period noticed by Dr. Henry X in the
course of his researches on the application of platina to the
analysis of complex gaseous mixtures. More recently Dr.
Faraday J has described similar interferences, affecting the
   • Read before the Chemical Section of the British Association at Bristol :
and communicated by the Author.
   f Jameson's Journal, vol. xi. pp. 99 and 311.
   <U+2666> Phil. Trans., 1824, p. 266.; [or Phil. Map., First Series, vol. Ixv.
p. 272.—Edit.]                 § Ibid., 1834, p. 71.

  Dr. W.C.Henry's Expeiiments on Gaseous Interference. 325
activity of prepared plates of the same metal. Various modes
have been proposed of interpreting these phaenomena. Dr.
Turner (Chemistry, 5th edit., p. 647) observes, " One would
be tempted to suppose that these gases act by soiling the
metallic surface, though in some respects this explanation
is not satisfactory." In the Essay by Dr. Henry already re
ferred to (p. 282), it is suggested that this property ." is most
remarkable in those gases which possess the strongest attrac
tion for oxygen, and it is probably to the degree of this at
traction, rather than to any agency arising out of their rela
 tions to caloric, that we are to ascribe the various powers
which the gases manifest in this respect." Finally, the latest
writer on this subject, Dr. Faraday, concludes (par. 655.):
" Whether the effect produced by such small quantities of
 certain gases depends upon any direct action which they may
 exert upon the particles of oxygen and hydrogen, by which
the latter are rendered less inclined to combine, or whether it
 depends upon their modifying the action of the plate tem
 porarily (for they produce no real change on it) by investing
 it through the agency of a stronger attraction than that of
 the hydrogen, or otherwise, remains to be decided by more
 extended experiments." It was in the hope of illustrating the
 nature of these interesting phaenomena in gaseous chemistry
 that the following experiments were instituted.
     The carbonic oxide and olefiant gases are stated by all the
 above-mentioned inquirers to possess, in the most remarkable
 degree, the property of interference. I have selected those gases
 as fitter subjects for experiment than others which manifest
 the same property, because, as Dr. Faraday testifies, they pre
 vent combination, without at all injuring or affecting the
 power ofthe platina (644. and 6.), and hence exhibit the phae-
 nomenon in its simplest form. The platina which 1 em
 ployed was in the various conditions of (1.) plates prepared
 according to Dr. Faraday's method ; (605.) (2.) sponge from
  calcination of the ammonia-muriate, either alone or moulded
 with China clay into small balls; and (3.) the black powder
 precipitated by the addition of alcohol to the solution of proto-
  chloride of platina in potassa, according to Liebig's process.
     1. Carbonic Oxide.—To a mixture of oxygen and hydro
  gen, in the proportions required to constitute water, carbonic
  oxide was added, so as to form T'2th, T^th, and ^th of the
  entire volume. The prepared plate when admitted caused
  ho appreciable diminution, nor was any change observed du
  ring three or four hours in any of the three mixtures. The
  following morning evident but slight diminution was visible
  in fkm

326 Dr.W. C. Henry's Experiments on Gaseous Interference
    Since the gaseous products admit of exact analysis only
over mercury, a fluid through which the plate cannot be
passed without destroying the purity of surface essential
to its activity, I was induced to employ balls of platina and
China clay in the greater number of instances. Such balls,
introduced over mercury into mixtures containing from j'5th
to yjjth of carbonic oxide, produced no instantaneous action.
But in the course of five minutes there was generally a visible
diminution of volume, and in the space of two hours the ac
tion was complete. When the carbonic oxide formed a larger
element of the mixture, as from £th to £rd, the action was
still longer delayed. With one third there was scarcely any
visible decrease of volume during the first hour; and even
on the following day there remained much gaseous matter
uncousumed. Thus the residue of a mixture of *35 cu. in. of
carbonic oxide with *70 of hydrogen and oxygen in com
bining proportions (together I "05), amounted after twenty-
four hours' contact with the ball to "82. The proportions
were extensively varied between \ and yjjth as limits ; and be
tween these it was observed, that combination to a greater or
less amount was in all cases induced by a sufficient duration
of contact Carbonic oxide, it appears then, does not prevent
but only retards gaseous union.
    To ascertain the proportions in which the oxygen had been
shared by the gases opposed to each other, the residue .was
washed with limewater or with caustic potassa. In all cases
a notable diminution, due to the absorption of carbonic acid,
was observed, and from the limewater carbonate of lime was
precipitated. The quantity of carbonic acid so formed varied
with the varying proportion which the carbonic oxide had
borne to the hydrogen of the explosive mixture. When the
hydrogen and carbonic oxide were present in equal volumes,
and the oxygen was sufficient to saturate one of them only,
I found that the carbonic oxide had appropriated to itself, in
one experiment eight times, in another as much as ten times,
the volume of oxygen that the hydrogen had taken. When the
carbonic oxide was inferior in volume to the hydrogen, less
oxygen was expended in the production of carbonic acid, but
still considerably more in proportion than had combined with
the hydrogen. It is then a general fact, that carbonic acid is
generated in all cases in which carbonic oxide suspends the
action of platina on mixtures of oxygen and hydrogen.
    The next object of inquiry was to ascertain the action of
platina in its various forms on mixtures of carbonic oxide with
oxygen only. Dr. Faraday had noticed that at common tem
peratures " a mixture of two volumes carbonic oxide, and

Dr.W.[C. Henry's Experiments on Gaseous Interference. 327
one volume oxygen was unaffected by the prepared platina
plate in several days." (57*.) I found however that after
four days' contact with the plate, an appreciable diminution
had ensued. Thus 3 cu. in. of such a mixture were reduced
to 2f, indicating the formation of nearly \ cu. in. of carbonic
acid. But the union of carbonic oxide with oxygen was much
accelerated by causing the gases to stand in contact with the
platina over a solution of caustic potassa, instead of distilled
water, which had been used by Dr. Faraday. In such experi
ments there was a daily decrease of volume in the confined
gases, till the fluid by ascending covered the greater part of
the plate. Thus 3^ cu. in. were reduced to 1 cu. in. in about
seven days.
   Platina in the form of sponge had been previously stated
to cause the slow union of carbonic oxide and oxygen*.
This action I found was also quickened by admitting potassa
fusa with or without water above the confining surface of
mercury. Thus 1*40 cu. in. of a mixture of carbonic oxide
and oxygen in equivalent proportions became 1 "25 in the first
five minutes after introducing the platina sponge and potassa;
in the next five minutes 1*15, and in half an hour much less
than 1 cu. in. remained. In two hours less than half a cubic
inch was left, and the potassa, by rising so as to moisten the
sponge, terminated the experiment. Finally, the black pow
der of Liebig admitted into mixtures of carbonic oxide and
oxygen became incandescent at the moment of contact, and
continued to glow until all the carbonic oxide was converted
into carbonic acid. Platina therefore, in all its forms, deter
mines, at atmospheric temperatures, the union of carbonic
oxide with oxygen. In the state of plate the change goes on
with extreme slowness; in that of sponge, much more quickly;
and in the most minutely divided condition of powder, with
ignition and with great rapidity.
   In this unequivocal action of platina upon mixtures of
oxygen with carbonic oxide only, it appears to me, is to be
foutid the interpretation of the property residing in the latter
gas, of suspending the combining tendencies of hydrogen and
oxygen in mixtures of the three gases. Possessing, as has been
already shown, a stronger affinity for oxygen than is inherent
in hydrogen, carbonic oxide seizes, when mingled with those
two gases and exposed to the agency of platina, a much larger
proportion of the oxygen than is due to its comparative vo
lume. In such complex mixtures, just as in simple mixtures
of carbonic oxide and oxygen, the slow formation of carbonic
     * Phil. Trans., 1824, p. 267. [Phil. Mag., vol. lxv. p. 269.-Edit.]

  328 Dr.W. C. Henry's Experiments on Gaseous Interference.
 acid continues to be the predominant action. Hence the phe
 nomenon of "interference" is better explained by contem
 plating the gaseous mixture as one of carbonic oxide and
 oxygen to which hydrogen has been added, than as one of
 hydrogen and oxygen with which carbonic oxide lias been
 mingled. Such a simple mixture of carbonic oxide and oxy
 gen, in presence of the prepared plate or sponge, is in a state
 of slow acidification ; and the admission of hydrogen, a gas
 endowed with a feebler affinity for oxygen, occasions no essen
 tial change of the chemical actions previously in operation.
    This view of the mode in which carbonic oxide overrules
 the combining tendencies of hydrogen and oxygen is sup
 ported by experiments, long ago recorded, on the influence of
 increased temperature. For it has been shown* that the pha;-
 nomena of interference disappear at a heat between 3009 and
 340° Fahrenheit, the union of the elements of a gaseous mix
 ture which is slowly acted upon at common temperatures
 being then rapidly accomplished. Now this is precisely the
 temperature at which carbonic oxide, when heated simply
 with its equivalent of oxygen in presence of the platina sponge,
 is rapidly converted into carbonic acid. Instant action, with
 incandescence, I have found also follows the admission of the
black powder into mixtures of hydrogen, oxygen and carlx>nic
oxide ; and it has been already stated that simple mixtures of
carbonic oxide and oxygen (or carbonic oxide alone, the
oxygen being supplied by the powder,) are inflamed by platina
in the state of powder. The phaenomena of interference are
observed then only at those temperatures, and with that form
of platina, which induce the slow union of carbonic oxide and
oxygen; and wholly disappear at the higher temperature, or
 with that more active state of the metal which causes rapid
combination.
    An obvious objection, however, presents itself to the view
that carbonic oxide possesses a stronger affinity for oxygen
than hydrogen exerts, viz. that while hydrogen and oxygen
are speedily detonated at common temperatures by the plate
or sponge, the union of carbonic oxide and oxygen takes
place with great slowness. The explanation of this apparent
anomaly I believe to be, that the product of the combustion
of hydrogen (aqueous vapour) at once quits the surface of
the metal, and is liquefied by the cold sides of the tube;
while the combustion of the carbonic oxide yields a gas which
remains for a while adherent to the metallic surface next to
which it is generated, and thereby prevents a sufficiently rapid
           • Dr. Henry, Phil. Trans. 1824, pp. 278 and 280.

 Dr.W.C. Henry's Experiments on Gaseous Interference. 829
access of fresh unaltered gas to elevate materially the tempera
ture of the platina. In confirmation of this view I found that
caustic potassa, by absorbing the carbonic acid as fast as it
is formed, accelerates the acidification of carbonic oxide.
When the metallic superficies is so extensive (for instance, in
the powder of Liebig,) that a high temperature is quickly at
tained by the metal in contact with the first portions of gas
that are consumed, it has been already shown that carbonic
oxide, like hydrogen, then unites with oxygen, with incan
descence. Filially, it is well known that even mixtures of hy
drogen and oxygen do not detonate on first admitting the
prepared plate. During the first minute the union is ge
nerally very slow, and it only becomes explosive when the
temperature of the plate has been raised by its action upon
 the gaseous mixture.
    2. Olefiant Gas.—The defiant gas which I employed had
been carefully washed with caustic potassa, and in the experi
ments made over mercury, it had stood for many days in
 contact with dry potassa fusa. It resulted from all my ex
 periments with platina in its various conditions, that the pro
 perty of interference is much less energetic in olefiant gas than
in carbonic oxide*. Of this I could not feel satisfied without
repeated examination, because the reverse is the result of
 Dr.Faraday's experience, according to which olefiant gas inter
 feres when it constitutes ^th of the entire mixture, and carbonic
 oxide only when it amounts to ^th. I found, however, that in
 a mixture of 3'00 cu. in. explosive mixture with *08 of olefiant,
 in which the olefiant is about juth of the whole, the plate
 began to act visibly on first admission. In ten minutes there
 remained 2*50, and in a quarter of an hour 2*00, when the
 action became very rapid, the plate being so hot as to cause
 the ascending water, in contact with it, to boil, and only
 •25 cu. in. were left unconsumed. Even when the olefiant
 amounted to T'?th of the entire mixture there was manifest
 action in the course of a quarter of an hour, and in two days
 the water had covered the plate.
     Olefiant gas in much larger proportion, even when con
 stituting £th or |rd of the mixture, did not in the slightest de
 gree retard the action of the platina balls or sponge. Several
 trials were made, in which the olefiant and explosive mixture
 were mingled in equal proportions. In all of these the ball
 acted instantaneously, and ascended rapidly into the tube du
 ring one or two minutes, when its rise was suddenly checked.
 Thus T02 cu. in. were reduced in the first minute to '90, and
 became *82 after an hour's contact. The following day only '56
    • See also Mr. Graham's Experiments, Journal of Science, 1829,p, 356.
  Third Series. Vol. 9. No. 55. Nov. 1836.                2Q

 330   Dr.W.C. Henry's Experiments on Gaseous Interference.
 were left, which were not diminished by washing with potassa.
 Even when the volume of the olefiant was double that of the
 explosive mixture, there was instant action, though to a less
 extent than in the last experiment.
    When the volume of the olefiant was three times that of the
 explosive mixture, no immediate action was visible, though a
 notable diminution always took place in the course of a few
 hours or on the following day. Finally, the activity of the
black powder of Liebig was not suspended by the addition of
twenty volumes of olefiant to one of explosive mixture.
   On subjecting to examination the gaseous products of these
and other experiments on olefiant gas, mingled with various
proportions of the explosive mixture, very different results
from those afforded with carbonic oxide were obtained. In
the greater number of experiments with olefiant gas, no ap
preciable diminution was caused by prolonged contact, or by
subsequent washing with potassa; and though in some cases,
when the explosive mixture considerably exceeded the olefiant,
there was a perceptible absorption, yet the carbonic acid thus
evidenced was always of small amount. In three successive
experiments, in which olefiant gas and explosive mixture were
mingled in equal proportions, there was no measurable pro
duct of carbonic acid. Yet in all these cases, though the ball
ascended rapidly on first contact, its activity was soon sus
pended. Olefiant gas then possesses, like carbonic oxide, an
undoubted power of retarding the union of hydrogen and
oxygen, but it differs from carbonic oxide in not necessarily
affording carbonic acid by so acting.
   Similar differences presented themselves on submitting mix
tures of olefiant and oxygen only to the action of platina. To
the observation of Dr. Faraday, " that the most prolonged
contact with the prepared plates never induced the union of
the elements of olefiant with oxygen," I may add, that the
contact was not efficient, even when aided by the presence of
liquid potassa. The spongy metal, similarly conjoined with
potassa, was also for the most part entirely inert, and in the
few instances in which carbonic acid appeared, it was formed
very slowly, and in small quantity. At the temperature 480°
Fahrenheit, however, the sponge has been shown to occasion
the speedy though inexplosive combustion of olefiant in mix
ture with oxygen. Liebig's powder too caused the slow com
bination of the two gases at atmospheric temperatures, as was
evidenced both by considerable diminution of volume, and by
the test of lime-water; and when the tube containing the
gaseous mixture and powder was surrounded with boiling
water combination ensued with rapidity. Now the mode in
which platina acts is of course identical in the various states

 Dr. W. C. Henry's Experiments on Gaseous Interference. 331
of plate, sponge, or powder ; the powder presenting only an
infinitely larger extent of surface for gaseous contact than the
plate or sponge. Hence the tendencies of the constituents of
defiant to unite with oxygen, which are evidenced by com
bination to considerable amount in presence of the powder,
may be inferred to be operative, though less effectively, on
the surface of the same metal under other forms ; and viewed
in connexion with the unequivocal proofs of the nature of the
interference of carbonic oxide, these tendencies may be ad
mitted to furnish an adequate explanation of the more feeble
interference of olefiant gas*.
     The influence of temperature in quickening the action of the
sponge or powder on mixtures of olefiant and oxygen strongly
confirms this view, when taken in connexion with a pecu
liarity observed in the mode of interference of olefiant gas.
Thus it has been stated that olefiant mingled in equal bulk
 with explosive mixture did not prevent instant action ; and
that it began to interfere only when much of the oxygen and
hydrogen had combined together, with the disengagement of
great heat. The interfering power of olefiant gas, feeble at
 atmospheric temperatures, is then greatly augmented by heat,
which has been already shown to determine the separate com
 bination of the elements of olefiant with oxygen, and which is
well     recapitulation,
     Inknown                it may beaffinity.
                 to exalt chemical       stated that carbonic oxide in
 terferes with the action of platina upon mixtures of oxygen
 and hydrogen, by virtue of its stronger affinity for oxygen,
 which causes it slowly to take the larger portion of that gas.
 Olefiant gas, which at common temperatures has a weaker at
 traction for oxygen than hydrogen, suspends the combining
 tendencies of those two gases, only when its volume greatly
 exceeds that of the mixture, in which case the weaker affinity
 is aided by a greater number of atoms. Even with this advan
 tage olefiant is unable to appropriate the oxygen to itself, but
 only retards its union with hydrogen by opposing a weaker
  attractive tendency.
      Nor is the admission of attractive forces between the par
 ticles of mixed gases, even when not manifested by any visible
  action (as between oxygen and the elements of olefiant gas),
  inconsistent with what is known of chemical affinity as ope
 rating in the solid and liquid forms of matter. In the eighth
  of his admirable series of memoirs on electro-chemistry, Dr.
  Faraday has shown that zinc, having its surface thinly amal-
     * The interfering power of carbonic oxide as respects the action of the
  platina balls is eighteen times as great as that of olefiant ; carbonic oxide
  in the proportion of 7\,th interfering as completely as olefiant in that of
   iths of the mixture.
                                       2Q2

 332 Dr.W.C. Henry's Experiments on Gaseous Intetference.
 gamated, though incapable, when immersed in dilute sulphuric
 acid, of effecting the decomposition ofwater, has yet the power,
 by its attraction for the oxygen of the particles of water in
 contact with its surface, to induce a peculiar state of electrical
 tension or polarity in those particles of water, as well as a si
 milar but opposite state in the contiguous particles of zinc.
 By plunging a platina plate into the solution and completing
 the galvanic circle, this tension is relieved and decomposition
 of water instantly ensues. In the preparatory stage of this
 important experiment we have then a case of chemical forces
 in undoubted operation, yet giving no appreciable sign of
 their existence.
    Other arguments present themselves in favour of the opi
 nion, that the property inherent in certain gases of preventing
orTetarding the union of hydrogen and oxygen is to be re
ferred to their attraction for oxygen, and not to any peculiar
action of the metallic surface, by which it becomes invested
with the interfering gas. (I.) All the gases which have been
hitherto observed to exhibit this power, are such as are ca
pable of uniting with oxygen ; and the non-interfering gases
are such as cannot, at least within a considerable range of
temperature, be brought to combine with that element.
(2.) The property of interference follows, in its comparative
energy, the same order as the respective combustibilities of
the gases. Thus Sir Humphry Davy observed that carbonic
oxide and olefiant were most inflammable, while carburetted
hydrogen required for its combustion a much higher tempe
rature, being neither fired by white-hot charcoal nor iron.
Dr. Henry also has shown that in presence of the sponge,
carbonic oxide combines rapidly with oxygen at from 800° to
340° Fahrenheit ; olefiant at 520° ; and carburetted hydrogen
not at any temperature to which the mercurial bath could
be raised. I have ascertained that the two first gases observe
the same order of union in presence of Liebig's powder, car
bonic oxide inflaming at atmospheric temperatures, and
olefiant gas being rapidly acted upon at 212°. Now this
progression is precisely that of their interfering powers, car
bonic oxide acting when it constitutes only ^th of the mix
ture, olefiant gas not suspending action till it amounts to f ths,
and carburetted hydrogen possessing no power whatever of
retarding the action of platina even when its volume exceeds
by ten times that of the explosive mixture. Finally, that the
restraining force is wholly dependent upon the relations of
the mixed gases among one another, is deducible from the
fact that the same gases which suspend the combining ten
dencies of hydrogen and oxygen in presence of platina, resist
also other modes of effectuating the union of those gases ;

  Prof. Young's Method ofproving the Law ofGravitation. 333
for instance, the discharge of a Leyden jar. The curious facts
observed by Professor Graham, respecting the power of even
smaller quantities of the same and other gases to arrest the
slow oxidation of phosphorus, are also favourable to the
doctrine that the interfering gases act solely by virtue of their
superior attractions for oxygen.
LXV.                           1
          Simple Method ! of proving                         =r*F
                                        the Law of Gravitation.
    By J. R. Young, Esq., Professor of Mathematics in Belfast
    College*
r|1HE following is a concise mode of establishing the law of
  * gravitation, with the aid of only the most obvious dyna
mical principles. Its novelty, and remarkable simplicity, may
perhaps entitle it to a place in the Philosophical Magazine.
    Let R be the radius of curvature at any point of the pla
netary orbit, r the distance of the planet from the sun, p the
 semiparameter, and P the perpendicular from the centre of
 force upon the tangent through the extremity of r.
    By a known property of the conic sections, if from the foot
 of the normal, N, a perpendicular be drawn to the radius
 vector, the part intercepted between this perpendicular and
 the curve will be equal to the semiparameter. Hence by si
 milar triangles we shall have                                  ,i ,
                            r _ N
                            f38 y
 Now from the usual expression for the radius of curvature
 we have
                            N3      „ r»
                             P
 Moreover, by the resolution of forces,
               N / _ r \ _ force of gravitation               .j
               p \~ P / ~~        normal force                '
    But from the well-known theorem of Huygens, the normal
                        17*
 force is expressed by -g- ; and it is an obvious deduction from
  the first law of Kepler that the velocity varies inversely as
 the perpendicular upon the tangent. {Principia, sect. 2. prop.l.
 cor. 1.) Hence
     Normal force =        =        =                          (2.)
  Consequently (1.)
                    * Communicated by the Author.

S3* Mr. Graves's Explanation of a remarkable Paradox
                           Gravitation =
                                              pr
thai is, the attractive force varies inversely as the square of
the distance.
    By substituting for p its value a (1— <?*) we get the ex
pression usually given in books on physical astronomy.
    It may be proper to remark that the foregoing proof dif
fers but little in principle from one lately given by M. Tran-
son, in the Journal de Mathematiqucs ; but as that is made to
depend upon a property involved in the theory of caustics—a
subject quite foreign to the inquiry— it is presumed that the
process here given will be preferred on the score of elementary
simplicity.
   Belfast, Sept. 26, 1836.
LXVI. Explanation of a remarkable Paradox in the Calculus
    of Functions, noticed by Mr. Babbage. By John T.
    Graves, Esq., M.A., ofthe Inner Temple.*
TPHE following passage occurs in a very valuable paper by
  * Mr. Babbage, " On the Analogy between the Calculus of
 Functions, and other branches of Analysis," published in the
Philosophical Transactions for 1817. (vol. cvii. pp. 211, 212.)
    " Here perhaps it may not be misplaced to state a diffi
culty of a peculiar nature with respect to functional equations
which are impossible ; for the sake of perspicuity I shall con
sider a very simple case,
                                 ^>x = c^~                            (1.)
 for x substitute —, \|> —           = ctyx                           (2.)
                        xx
 and by multiplication, \|> x x              = c* if x x vf» —, or 1 = c8,
                                        X                    x
 from which it follows that c = + 1, or, in other words that
 the equation tyx = cty ^ is contradictory, unless c = + 1.
 Now the functional equation F {x, *J/ x, tyax} = 0 has been
 reduced by Laplace by means of a very elegant artifice to an
 equation of finite differences; nor am I aware that this pro
 found analyst has pointed out any restriction or any impossi
 ble case. If we treat the equation \J/ x = c \J>x" by his me
thod, we shall find for its solution
                                       — log log X
                             vj/ar = c                                (3.)
                       * Communicated by the Author.

     in the Calculus ofFunctions, noticed by Mr. Babbage.      335
and this solution satisfies the equation x = c 4> x" independ
ently of any particular value of n, and if we suppose n = —I,
                                   —logs X
we have                     x = c to*t-n                        (4.)
for the solution of the equation tyx = cty —, whatever may
be the value of c, and we have before shown that it cannot
have a solution unless c = + 1. The only explanation I am
at present able to offer concerning this contradiction is one
which 1 hinted at on a former occasion, viz. that if we sup
pose 4» to represent any inverse operation which admits of
several values, then if throughout the whole equation we al
ways take the same root or the same individual value of 4/, it
is impossible to satisfy the equation, but if we take one value
of \J> in one part, and another of the values of           in other
parts of the equation, it is possible to fulfill it by such means.
 This solution may, perhaps, appear unsatisfactory ; it is how
ever only proposed as one that deserves examination, and I
 shall be happy if its insufficiency shall induce any other per
 son to explain more clearly a very difficult subject."
     This passage is referred to by Professor De Morgan in his
 article on the Calculus of Functions, §. 72, in the Encyclo
paedia Metr-opolitana, and I generally agree with him in the
 cause which he suggests for the explanation of the difficulty,
 viz. a discontinuity in the form of <{/, by which I mean that for
 different sets of continuous values of x, t|> has partial non-con
 current solutions of different forms. What I now propose is to
 point out specifically the existence of that cause in the in
 stance put forward by Mr. Babbage, and the precise rationale
 of its application in explaining the difficulty in question. The
 accomplishment of these objects, which do not seem to have
 been hitherto satisfactorily effected, would not only be inter
 esting for its own sake, but would, in many analogous cases
 be conducive to clearness of reasoning, and tend to restore
 that confidence in the result of mathematical principles which
 is impaired when processes apparently legitimate lead to con
 tradictory conclusions. If, according to the explanation
  thrown out by Mr. Babbage, (as I understand it) \J/x had
  many valuesfor a given x, and we were allowed to shift its
  different values among the equations (1.) and (2.), substitut
  ing one of those values for the symbol vj» x in one part of
  either of those equations, and another in another, it is easy
  to see that we might get rid of the difficulty of supposing
  Ir* sts 1, and might even, if we had a sufficiently indeterminate
  tyx, allow to c an infinite number of values. By this plan,
  for instance, if tyx had two values, » and tf, -.— might

 336 Mr, Graves's Explanation of a remarkable Paradox
  mean — and — as well as 1.            But I think that, in the first
 place, such a shifting is not a legitimate proceeding, for the
 different values of a generic function of .v are themselves dif
 ferent individual functions of'.r, while the equations in question
 suppose a comparison of the same functions, and are couched
 ia an algebra applying to individual values; and, in the se
 cond place, even such an explanation would not succeed in
 the ease before us in wholly removing the real difficulty, for,
 even by the utmost shifting, we cannot suppose c an entirely
 arbitrary constant, unless for any given x,tyx itself be wholly
Juli ¦¦- ,              ~~ log log*
 arbitrary, which c lo8(-1) assuredly is not. The true so
 lution resembles while it differs from that thrown out by
 Mr. Babbage, unless (as may possibly be the case) the vague
terms he uses are intended to adumbrate the very solution
 which I contend to be correct. The paradox is occasioned
 not because \|> x has different values for one value of x,
but because ^ has different forms for different values of .r.
 1$ this so, and, if so, how does it obviate the difficulty? These
 are the inquiries which it is the design of this paper to answer.
 At the very threshold of our researches a question that
 must present itself is, What do we mean when we put x
          -log'*                                  J         ^-,.1 ¦-
z^ft<£               and assert that \ x ¦= cty — ? Do we mean
       «¦• . .'                         - log' »
 to assert that the expressions c log^-1; and c.c^sC-1^L
 equivalent generic forms, (like a* b* and [a b)1) as having each
 the same infinite number of values for any given x, when we
 let in all the acknowledged indefiniteness of the notation log 9
 and ai-i As I presume that such an assertion of general
 equivalence is not intended, and as it is not necessary for my
 future argument to deny it now, I shall not stop to prove its
 incorrectness, but this, at least, I think we must be supposed
 to mean, viz. that, for any given x within certain limits, the
            — log* r
form c lo8            includes some values or some fixed single
 value which respectively are or is equal to other severally
corresponding values or another corresponding individual value
«¦ ¦'¦ •¦ •                         -log3-^
included in the form c.c '"el-1) . I proceed, therefore, to
'• ' .. ,                                              log* *
point out a case of 4* x included in theform c ^gl - 0, which

      in the Calculus of Functions, noticed by Mr. Babbage. 337
satisfies the equation tyx =a c $ —; but I hope to show that " it
satisfies that equation only for such values of x as to exclude
one of the assumptions we must make ifwe would prove c*= 1
or that, " if it satisfies equation (1.), x must be classed with
one set of values, and —¦ with another different set : and
                              x
further, that if any of the latter set be substituted for x in the
                                        -'og*»
particular case of tyx included in c lo8         which before sa
tisfied (1.), that equation will no longer hold good, so that
 (2.), which is obtained by substituting — for x in ( 1 .), can-
not subsist simultaneously with (1.) for the assigned form of
«J/x." The instance I shall select will be given as being the
simplest illustration I can present of the application of this
 principle, and as being, morever, independent of any hitherto
 disputed peculiarities in my results concerning logarithms ;—
 not that I at all recede from those results, but that I wish to
 approve my present results to those who are not yet convinced
 of the former. The same principle may be proved to apply if
 we select any other individual case of \J» x included in the form
     _ J^fjL
 c      '°g(— l), which when a: is within certain limits, satisfies
 equation (1.), when cs is not = 1.
     To prevent misconception, it may be as well here to re
 mark, that I admit no difference of meaning in result, what
 ever difference of intermediate operation may be denoted, be-
            — log* >      log* x          log* I
 tween c '<* (*"'), c~ lo8(->) and c -l°s(.-h} and that as a ge-
  nericform, I considers los(_I) to be precisely equivalent to
     — log1*
  c '°8      , for if £ be a logarithm of — 1, so also is — k.
  Hence both expressions contain exactly the same values, it
  being remembered that any value common to both corre
  sponds to different individualizations of log (—1) in each.
     The proposed functional solution for being included in
                log1 1
  the form cloK(-1) leads us to consider algebraical symbols as
  capable of possessing imaginary values, since it involves
  log (— 1), an expression which has no real value. In the pre
  sent case we shall see that the discussion of the proposed func
   tion of x is cleared from the obscurity that surrounds it when
  x is real, by our knowledge of its properties when x is infini-
      Third Series. Vol.9. No. 55. Nov. 183G.           -2 R

  338 Mr. Graves's Explanation of a remarkable Paradox
  tesimally imaginary. Though this course may seem to savour
  of the system " ignotum per ignotius" it is no less true than
  bingular that in this instance a difficulty more peculiarly af
 fecting reals receives light from the consideration of iniagir
  naries. To exhibit x therefore in its most general form ad
 mitted in algebra, including imaginaries as well as reals, let
                          x = y + */~\ z                          {5.)
 y and z, which I call the " constituents" of x, being inde
 pendent quantities, positive, negative, or + 0 or — 0. Then
 we shall have
                     - = j/
                     x        +z ~
                           -7T-1              -sTl
                                              y2 +2               (6-)
    Here
 of x      it is important
       is always  of a different
                            to remark
                                 sign from        second constituent
                                       that the corresponding    con-
                1                              z
 stituent of — , for if z be positive, — - ~        will be negative,
               x                            2f ~\~z
 and vice versd.
    I must now lay down some necessary definitions of the no
tation employed, preparatory to the statement of a proposi
 tion which will be found further on, and I must here add
 that, in resorting to a new specificatory or individualizing no
 tation, I have unwillingly yielded to necessity, from finding
 that the indeterminateness of ordinary exponential and in
verse trigonometrical expressions almost always occasioned
perplexity and frequently led into material errors of rea
soning; not that I was unaware of the repugnance which any
new notation has to encounter, and the increased difficulties
it opposes to the reception of any new theory. Let the sym
bol v', placed before a positive quantity, be appropriated to
denote the positive square root ; then -^L= will denote 1 or
 — 1, according as x is positive or negative. When x is real,
and therefore z = 0, we have no more right to consider z
positive than negative, unless it be known absolutely that the
variable x is in such a varying state as to be about to become
x + dy+ */ — 1 dz, the sign of the real infinitesimal dz being
known; but still, when x is real, and nothing else is known
with reference to its varying state, this at least we know al
ternatively, that if we consider —%= = 1, there would be a
metaphysical impropriety, a wanton violation of analogy and
continuity, in not considering        -j^ — — 1, and vice versd.

      in the Calculus of Functions, noticed by Mr. Babbage.          8S9
When once we introduce into our calculations the considera
tion of imaginary values, we have to treat x or y + ^ — ] gf
as essentially a variable in both its constituents, and therefore
z can never fairly be supposed in the condition of an absolute
central stationary zero.       Let I V y* + z* denote the arithme-
                                                         -l       y
tical Neperian logarithm of V y* + z*. Let cos0+ ~\f y* +^
denote the circular arc not less than + 0 and not greater than
n, which, when radius =1, is equal to                ^    ¦.  It is ob-
vious that such an arc is always assignable, since
                                                               Vy*+z*
can never be greater than 1, nor less than —1.
   I come now to the following proposition, before referred to,viz.
                                g         _i      y
« i vy+*» +                          cOSo+ ~71?+7* is a NePerian
logarithm or e-log of x." This proposition is proved in my
papers on exponential functions cited in the 8th volume of this
Magazine^p. 281, (Number for April 1836) ; but as the heads
of the proof are very simple and at the same time illustrate
my subsequent reasoning in the present case, I shall briefly
recapitulate them here.
    Let the
biguous       notation e0f
           expression  e', denote
                             which isthat
                                       represented
                                           particularby  the sum
                                                      value           the
                                                             of theofam-
series          ,  .     fls       0*                fl"             ,„ :
where 6 is not limited to real values. It has not been unusual
to treat of e* when 9 is imaginary, and when this has been
done, the meaning of c* must have been tacitly defined (though
probably without regard to the possibility of e1 having many
values for any given 0) by reference to the preceding series,
which is convergent for all values of 9. A series, when resorted
to as a definition is most convenient if always converging, but
in development a series is not to be considered as correct and
safe merely on account of its convergence, for expressions may
be assigned which are developable by some incomplete me
thods in a converging series, and yet may be shown, from the
functional properties which constitute their best definition, to
be equal to n terms of such series together with a remainder
(sometimes representable in the form of a definite integral,)
which, in certain cases, instead of approaching towards 0 as a
                                  2 R2

340 Mr. Graves's Explanation of a remarkable Paradox
limit like the remainder of the series, recedes from !0 as ft In
creases. It is demonstrable from the nature" of'the series
and may, I think, be assumed as an admitted proposition,' that
  /      ..                 ^'=^V < r ,                       - (8.)
 v     ,       ;             "     l_     -i    ;
     Hence ^W^-i <U+2713> * c05o+ VTO'
 {*>)        = *0                  _ *
                           ' x^-IV^COSo+      -1 ' y              (9.)
 ( Mow, of the right-hand member of (9.), the first factor, viz.
e0l^y2^~z is evidently equal to V^-fa4, and if it can be
                                                 *       iw
shown that the other factor, viz. e$           */ *"   o+ ^y2+** is
            ,y+ i/    la
 equal to —              , our proposition will be proved, for
it "will be proved that f0i^ys+*3+^-1 v,"irC°S0+                 v
                                                     » cot-1 Wa+«*
 = v y + g» x ^——— = y+ v — 1 a — a;; that is to say,
 <•'. ¦-. .      ¦'            ,          .      *      —1 V           '•
it will be proved that I </y'1+z*+ v — 1 Tp^^^/pp
is an e-log of _y+            a or x, according to the most limited
definition I can conceive of the term Neperian logarithm that
will extend to imaginaries.                                   .      ,,„¦
     Now            g0 */~» - cos « + v'^l sin 9                (10.)
if by cos 0 be understood the sum of the series
                                    84
                                                                ("0
and by sin 6 the sum of the series
               # - its + nils-**
This not only follows immediately from the definition above
given of the notation e*, but the definitions of cos i and sin 8
accord with admitted theorems respecting the sine and cosine
when 0 is real. The two series (1 1.) and (12.)are convergent for
all finite values of 0, and I can see no objection to them as defi
nitions of sine and cosine, even when 6 is imaginary. I do ac
cordingly treat them as such in my general exponential theory,

       in the Calculus ofFunctions, noticed by Mr. Babbage. 841
 but for our present purpose it is enough that equation (10.) be
  admitted when 9 is real.
      It follows from that equation that                                   !•¦:/
 t : '. .       ¦ COS       —J-r- tts            / Z         _I       V        \
   eV-i Sm*             o+ 7f + z* = cos^cos^ —
                     +         sin (~ cos" 1           . f      a)      (13.)
but          cos /—     cos",1     . /      \ = -. /                    (14.)
for an arc, whether positive or negative, has the same cosine,
and          sin \-~ cos^ ^^L J =                           g                 ,|?
for if an arc be respectively in the first positive or in the first
negative semicircle, the sign of the sine of that arc will be
positive or negative accordingly.
    At this step it is important to remark the necessity that ex
ists for the introduction of the expression ~j=\i in order to
                                              z         -\        y_
secure the equality of e0^ -1 \/z*C°So+ V y* + z* to
                                                                "i :"' Hi" ti
          ¦'     ? in all cases, for if that expression were omitted^
                            cos"1 ; *f           ) substituted (af.'ihM
                                °+ *y + 2 '
 < .,                                                                »'t'i^
sin (—7= cos-1                   —\ we should not have                  .„, ,
 i                • / -i            y     \          *
                 S1D (coso+ <U+2713>pT?) = 77+7*
unless z happened to be positive ; for since the sum of the
squares of the sine and cosine of any arc is equal to 1, and
since positive,
ways      the sign of  thesine
                     the    sineofofcos
                                     an arc in the      ; will
                                                  ' first      be
                                                           semicircle  is al-
                                                                            1 1 It
                                                                        ... II.
                              [To be continued.]

                                [ 342     ]
                                . .               .     •   . ¦•¦¦¦t
LXVII. Experimental Researches into the Physiology ofthe
        Human Voice. By John Bishop, Esq., fyc. fyc.
I              [Continued from p. 277. and concluded.}
rT,HE falsetto, or voce di testa, has always been considered
 * a most embarrassing subject of research, and its peculiar
quality has excited the attention both of the physiologist and
of the musician. The change produced in the voice when pass
ing from the falsetto into the common tone, or the reverse, is in
some persons very sensible to the ear, whilst in others it is al
most imperceptible. It is remarkable that some individuals
have the faculty of producing, in the same pitch, three or four
tones, possessing either the falsetto or the common character,-
a circumstance which indicates that the difference between
them depends rather upon an altered state of the vocal tube
than upon any change in the glottis.
   The falsetto has generally been ascribed to some particular,
adaptation of the upper ligaments of the larynx. Dodart *
has attempted to prove that it is a supra-laryngeal function,
and that the nose becomes the principal tube of sound instead
of the cavity of the mouth. Bennati f also considers these
tones to be modified by the supra-laryngeal cavity, an opinion
not justified by the experiments which he has detailed.
   According to this hypothesis, we must suppose the influence
of the trachea to be entirely annulled ; but on what acoustic
principle this is to be effected he does not explain, nor indeed
can any one else. The changes observed by him in the pha
rynx were undoubtedly associated with corresponding changes
in the whole length of the tube, and all the phenomena he
has described may thus be readily explained.
   It was suggested to me by Mr. Wheatstone, that it was only
necessary to suppose the vocal tube capable of subdividing its
vibrating length to account for this peculiar character of tone.
Analogous effects are observed in the clarionet, the flute,
and other instruments ; the change taking place at the twelfth
of the fundamental note in the former instrument, and at the
octave in the latter. Having had an opportunity of examining
the phenomena in some individuals possessing remarkably fine
voices, I placed my finger lightly on the larynx, and requested
them to gradually elevate the voice from the primary to the
falsetto tones, when, although the ear could scarcely distinguish
            • Mem. dePAcad., 1707.
            t Rccherchcs tur le Mcchan. dc la Voix Hum.

        Mr. Bishop on the Physiology of the Human Voice,       343
the moment of transition, I found that the larynx suddenly
 fell, and then continued to re-ascend as the tones became
 more acute. On observing the motions of the larynx in a
 mezzo-soprano voice, I found a double falsetto, consisting of
several tones of each register, with the power of yielding either
the primary or the falsetto character. In this case the larynx
fell twice, but in a much smaller degree. An instance of this
kind of voice occurs in Miss Lanza. At the moment the la
rynx falls, during the continued ascent of the tones, the co
lumn of air and the tube become divided into portions separated
by nodes, yielding harmonics of the fundamental notes, and
the modulations of the voice are regulated, as before, by the
divided length and relative tension of the tube. A much smaller
quantity of air is sufficient to produce these tones; conse
quently, public singers who chiefly employ the falsetto, suffer
much less fatigue than those who use the primary notes.
    In conducting these observations, care must be taken that
the voice do not ascend or descend the scale too rapidly, other
wise the effect may escape detection. In further confirmation
of these views it may be remarked, that when the glottis is in
jured and silenced by disease, the voice is entirely annihilated,
which could not be the case if there were any means of pro
ducing sound by the superior ligaments of the larynx. There
is, however, no doubt that the human voice derives a portion
of its peculiar quality from the reverberations of sound in the
cavities of the chest and head, modified by every change in
these cavities as well as in the vocal tube. (The great effect
produced by the nasal cavities on the voice is well known.)
    Much pains have been taken by physiologists to find an
analogy between the organs of voice and artificial musical in
struments. Amongst those which have been selected for this
purpose are the drum, the duck-whistle, the reed, and various
other wind and stringed instruments. These attempts serve
to illustrate the complicated structure and functions of the vo
cal organs ; but it appears to me more simple, and at the same
time nearer the truth, to consider them in the following point
of view :
    They consist of elastic membranes inclosed in a tube. The
glottis is a most complex and beautifully constructed mem
branous vibrating apparatus, exquisitely adapted for producing
all the tones of the voice. The vocal tube, or pipe, is adjusted
on the most refined acoustic principles, to yield with the glottis
isochronous vibrations.
    The perfect adaptation of these organs, in a manner inimi
table by mechanical art, to produce the most melodious sounds,

344       Mr. Bishop's Experimental Researches into
and to vary them so as to imitate the tones of birds, beasts, and
musical instruments, with an almost infinite variety of other
sounds, justly excites our admiration and astonishment. Not
withstanding the great labour bestowed by musicians on the
temperament of keyed instruments, with a view to correct the
dissonances occurring in the construction of the diatochromatic
and enharmonic scales, so as to satisfy the ear, such instru
ments are far inferior to the vocal organs, which can produce
all the tones necessary for the most exquisite and perfect har
mony.
   The association of the organ of hearing with that of the
voice tends materially to its utility and perfection. Congeni
tal deafness deprives a person of the power of acquiring arti
culate language, except by a laborious process of tuition and
to a limited extent.
   By very slight modifications of the tube, the simple unin
terrupted tones of the voice will produce the vowel sounds,
which have accordingly been imitated by Kratzenstein, De
Kempelen, Willis, and others, through the medium of artifi
cial mechanism. The interrupted sounds, or voces limitatee,
require, on the other hand, the co-operation of the pharynx,
tongue, teeth, cheeks, lips, and nostrils ; the various actions of
which, by checking the sounds, produce the gutturals, dentals,
and labials of grammarians. According to the mode in which
the interruption takes place, and to the varied adjustments
of the organs employed in effecting them, these are distin
guished into mutes, explosives, nasals, liquids, and gutturals :
but the manner in which these effects are produced, it is not
 my present purpose to investigate, and indeed they have been
already minutely analysed by Haller, Soemmerring, Blumen-
 bach, Bell, Magendie, Bichat, and others. In the use of ar
 ticulate language the variations of the voice are usually within
 a minor third, either above or below the pitch of the vocal
 tube, and the inflections of tone are generally in the minor
 key. When in the vibrating position, the glottis is capable of
 yielding sounds during inspiration, which are used by some
 persons for the purposes of ventriloquism. The expressions
 of pleasure and pain are produced by mere variations of tone,
 without the aid of articulation. In laughing, the voice is re
 peatedly interrupted, in consequence of the glottis being al
 ternately opened and closed in quick succession. In crying,
 the tones follow each other in enharmonic and discordant, but
 longer intervals.
    The views here taken of the functions of the vocal organs,
 and of which the following is a brief summary, are confirmed

                  the Physiology of the Human Voice.                   SiH
both by analogy and by experiment, which, I conceive, af
ford demonstrative proof of the truth of the theory now ad
vanced, and completely refute those to which reference has
previously been made*.
   -first. The vibrations of the glottis are the fundamental
cause of all the tones of the human voice.
     Secondly. The vibrating length of the glottis depends con
jointly on the tension and resistance of the vocal ligaments,
and on the pressure of the column of air in the trachea.
     Thirdly. The grave tones vary directly and the acute tones
inversely as the vibrating length and tension of the vocal li
gaments.
     Fourthly. The vocal tube is adjusted to vibrate with the
glottis, by the combined influence of its variations of length
and of tension.
     Fifthly. The elevation of the larynx shortens the vocal
tube, and its depression produces the contrary effect. The
diameter and tension of the tube vary reciprocally with the
 length.
     Sixthly. The falsetto tones are produced by a nodal divi
 sion of the column of air, together with the vocal tube, into
 Separate vibrating lengths.
   ¦ Stjventhly. The pitch of the vocal organs, when in a state'
 of; rest, is in general the octave of their fundamental note.
     In conclusion, it may be remarked that the physiology of
 the human voice cannot fail to be a subject of interest to every
 inquiring mind, and many whose names shed a lnstre on sci
 ence have devoted a considerable portion of their time to its
 investigation. The advantages resulting from the study of
 the voice not only tend to enlarge the sphere of natural know
 ledge, but also, in a medical point of view, serve as a basis for
 quently contribute
 diagnostic,             to theand
                therapeutic,     general
                                     pathological
                                          benefit of  mankind.
                                                    inquiry,   and conse-'
     Animals far inferior in their organization and intellect to
 man, are endowed with the power of uttering tones sufficient
 for the sphere of their existence. The roar of the lion, thd
 lowing of the ox, the song of birds, and the hiss of serpents
 constitute a natural language which adequately expresses their
 wants and their passions, and is sufficient for the degree df
 intelligence belonging to the rank which they occupy in the
 scale of animal organization.
  ' • The hypotheses of Aristotle and Dodart respecting the size of the
 chink of the glottis must necessarily place the thyro-arytenoidean liga
 ments out of the vibrating position : the same objection applies to that of
 Ferxein, Th? theory of tension requires the glottis to be always open, and
 vibrating in its whole length, to produce every tone of the vocal scale, a
 supposition which is opposed both by observation and by experiment.
      Third Series. Vol.9. No. 55. Nov. 183G.                 2 S

346         Mr. Bishop's Experimental Researches into
             'Tis sweet
           " Bay  decp-mouth'd
                         to hear the
                                  welcome,
                                      honest aswatch-dog's
                                                 we draw near      ¦ ;
                                                             barkhome
             'Tis sweet to know there is an eye will mark
             Our coming, and look brighter when we come.
             'Tis sweet to be awakened by the lark,
             Or lull'd by falling waters—or the hum
             Thebees—the
             Of   lisp of children,
                            voice ofand
                                     girls—the
                                         their earliest
                                                 6ong of  birds—
                                                        words."
    The human voice may be denominated the music of the
mind; language, a figurative mode of expressing our ideas
and sentiments. The effects Sowing from this beneficent en
dowment are overwhelming in contemplation and almost infi
nite in extent. It is principally instrumental to all the moral
and physical improvements of man, and enables him to pour
forth his otherwise invisible, inaudible, unfathomable thoughts,
 to his fellow-man and to his God.
                        Explanation ofPlate III.
    Fig 1, Is a representation of the larynx, having the left
 wing of the thyroid cartilage removed, to expose a portion of
 the internal structure.
          a. The right internal surface of the thyroid cartilage.
       b b. The arytenoid cartilages.
       c c. The thyro-arytenoid ligaments ; the mucous mem
                 brane being removed.
          d. The chink of the glottis.
        e e. The posterior crico-arytenoid muscles.
         f. The left lateral crico-arytenoid.
         g. The cricoid
         h.         trachea.cartilage.
         f. The membranous and muscular portion of the tra
                chea, which regulates its diameter.
    Fig. 2, Is a representation of the larynx, similar to fig. 1,
 showing the whole of the muscles of the left side at one view.
 The mucous membrane is dissected away, and the upper edge
 of the thyro-arytenoid muscle slightly depressed, to expose
 the ligaments of the glottis.
       d.
       h.
       a, b,The
       g.     c, e,f.
                  cricoid
                  thyro-arytenoid,
                  thyro-arytenoid
                        Thecartilage.
                              same asmuscle.
                                          in fig. 1 . muscle.
                                         superior
     i k. The trachea.
    Fig. S. This figure presents a section of the larynx, imme
 diately above and parallel to the plane of the glottis. The
 view is vertical, with the mucous membrane removed to show
 the mechanism by which the voice is principally modulated.
          a. The rimula glottidis in a state of relaxation.
       bb. The thyro-arytenoid ligaments.

                 the Physiology of the Human Voice.              347
       c c.  The thyro-arytenoid muscles.
       d d.  The lateral crico-arytenoideal muscles.
          e. The edge of the thyroid cartilage.
      fJ".   The arytenoid cartilages, with their perpendicular
                projections cut through at f.
         g. A portion of the transverse arytenoid muscle.
       h h. The posterior crico-arytenoid muscles.
    Fig. 4. An internal anterior view of the larynx, produced
   ' a section transverse to its antero-posterior diameter.
          a. The epiglottis.
          c. The os
       bc b.          hyoides.of the internal surface of the thyroid
                   segments
               cartilage.
       dd.   The thyro-arytenoid muscles.
        e e. A portion of the thyro-epiglottideal muscles.
      Jf.    The pseudo-glottis.
      gg.    The sacculus laryngis.
       hh.   The cricoid cardial 2 S2
        i i. The chordae vocales, lying nearly parallel to the
               axis of the vocal tube.
         k. The internal aspect of the trachea.
  Fig. 5. The posterior segment corresponding to fig. 4.
         a. The pharynx.
       bb. The arytenoid cartilage invested by its mucous
               membrane.
       cc. The chorda? vocales.
      dd. The thyro-arytenoid muscles.
       ee. The wings of the thyroid cartilage.
      ff. The cricoid cartilage.
        g. The trachea.
    Fig. 6. This figure represents a transverse section of the
larynx : the thyro-arytenoid ligaments are turned perpendi
cular to the axis of the vocal tube ; the glottis is seen in the
true vibrating position.
      a a. A section of the thyro-arytenoid ligaments.
       b b. The pseudo-glottis.
       cc. A section of the thyro-arytenoid muscle.
    Fig. 7, Is an external side view of the larynx, showing the
action of the crico-thyroid muscles, by which the cricoid is
rotated with the thyroid cartilage, and the tension of the local
ligaments affected.
      a. The situation of the insertion of the vocal ligaments.
       b. The upper posterior edge of the cricoid cartilage, to
              which the arytenoids are articulated.
      c. The left crico-thyroid muscle.
       d. The articulation of the thyroid to the crico-cartilage.
       e. The dotted line, showing the position of the cricoid

348              Mr.Williamson on the Limestones
          cartilage when rotated with the thyroid, whereby the
          antero-posterior diameter of the larynx is enlarged
          and the vocal ligaments stretched from a d to a e.
     f. The chink between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages.
          The dotted line represents the closing of this chink
          when the cricoid is rotated on the axis of motion of
          these cartilages at the point d.
Bernard Street, Brunswick Square, June 7. 1836.
LXVIII. On the Limestones found in the Vicinity of Man
   chester. By W. C. Williamson, Curator of the Museum of
   the Manchester Natural History Society.
                 [Continued from p. 249, and concluded.]
 Sect. VII.—Other Localities "where Limestones are exposed.
 A T two more localities limestones have been pointed out to
      me by Dr. Charles Phillips, who has contributed so much
towards the elucidation of the geology of this district ; both of
these were exposed by the cutting of the Liverpool and Man
chester Railway. One of these is at the base of the Sutton
inclined plane on the Manchester side, and the other near
Whiston, on the opposite side of the hill, forming two of the
points which guided Mr. E. Hall in laying down the range of
the magnesian limestone, with which he confounded them.
   That at Whiston is exposed for about seventy yards, and
forms a seam six feet thick, but which never rises more than
nine feet above the level of the railway and is covered for some
extent by a series of solid sandstones. The top of the lime
stone consists of a greenish conglomerate, below which is pre
sented the reddish conglomeroid structure peculiar to the Ard-
.wick limestones, and the lower portion of the seam is composed
of the solid gray limestone common at the above locality.
   From its so strongly exhibiting the peculiar mottled ap
pearance, I am of opinion that it will correspond with the
uppermost or four-feet seam at Ardwick. This is in some
measure confirmed by the occurrence of the same minute tur
binated shells (Planorbis?) found in the Ardwick series; but
as no borings have been made on the spot, I cannot be certain
as to what exists below.
   The limestone at Sutton I cannot identify with any exposed
at Ardwick, although in its appearance and fracture it resem
bles the thin one of two feet below the main limestone on the
bank of the Medlock. It is only about a foot thick, and rests
upon a long range of the coal shales, which are very well ex
posed, exhibiting many partial faults and thin coal seams.
   As I before described, at Collyhurst we have the magnesian
limestone laid bare for a small space ; and about half a mile

              found in the Vicinity of Manchester.           349
further, on St. George's Road, the coal measures appear at the
pits of E. Buckley, Esq. According to the regular range of
the strata, we ought to find the Ardwick limestones exposed
between these two points, but they do not appear : on an ex
amination of the locality, the reason is obvious; the red sand
stone ranges unconformably with the coal strata, overlying
their outcropping edges, and thus completely covering up that
portion in which the limestones ought to have been met with.
The locality is a very difficult one to examine and decide upon,
from the want of sections at the most important points; but as
there is no doubt of the sandstone overlying the edges of the
coal strata, and the dip of the latter being such as would carry
their upper portions beneath where we find the red sandstone
on the surface, the apparent deficiency is accounted for.
                  Sect. VIII. Organic Remains.
    The fossil remains of this series of limestones, with one or
 two exceptions, are neither numerous nor exhibiting much
variety, although they are of a peculiar character : these we
 will examine in their separate classes, and then from their
 evidences endeavour to draw some conclusion as to the nature
 of the limestones and the circumstances under which they
 were deposited.
                       1. Vegetable Remains.
     These are not so numerous as, from the connexion of the
 strata with the coal measures, might have been expected, al
 though further investigation will doubtless bring new deposits
 to light.
     Stigmariaficoides is found abundantly in the seam ofcoal im
 mediately below the black bass. The coal appears to have been
 entirely composed of this plant, as it is the only one I have hi
  therto found in connexion with it. The character this extraor
  dinary plant must have given to the primaeval world cannot fail
  to have been highly singular, as from the highest to the lowest
  coals of this group of strata its abundance generally forms a
  conspicuous feature, whilst its range appears to have been
  almost universal. In a seam of indurated blue clay, below the
  black bass, the leaves of Stigmaria are found in the greatest
  profusion. The same is observed in a reddish clay on the bed
  of the Medlock, much lower in the series.
     In the blue clay, immediately above the black bass, I found
  a small and beautiful species of Sphenophyllum, much like
  Sphen. erosum, but with broader leaflets, and fewer in each
  whorl. In the same clay occurred fragments of a species of
  Pecopteris and also of an Equisetum, neither of which I was
  able to preserve.
     In working through a narrow passage of one of the mines,

 350              Mr. Williamson on the Limestones
 used only as a drain to carry off the water from the pits, Mr.
 Mellor and myself were rewarded by the discovery of a thin
 seam of red shale, about sixty feet above the main or three
 yards limestone, filled with the most beautiful remains of
 plants, which fully confirmed the opinion Dr. Charles Phillips
 had been the first to form and advance. Amongst these were
large specimens of Calamites decoratus, Brongn., and Cal. no-
 dosus ; stems of Lepidodendron Sternbergii, an elegant species
 of Neuropteris* with large leaflets, a small Cyclopteris, leaves
 of Stigmaria ficoides, fragments of a Pecopteris, Asterophyl-
 lites, and several other plants common to the coal series below,
forming a character which, if any truth exists in the theory of
 identification, cannot for a moment be mistaken.
                              2. Mollusca.
    These, like the plants, are not of numerous species. In
 the three limestones worked at Ardwick, and also at Whiston,
but most abundant in the Three Yards mine at the former lo
 cality, are countless myriads of a small depressed turbinated
 shell, the merit of the first discovery of which is due to Pro
fessor Phillips, who is at present investigating its nature. It
bears the strongest resemblance to a Planorbis, and is evi
dently of a nature very similar to the one found at Burdie-
house, by Dr. Hibbert, and figured in his memoir (page 13.).
In form it closely resembles the recent Planorbis Nautilus
(Fleming,) but is rather smaller. It occurs, as I said be
fore, in all the limestones worked, and Dr. Phillips found the
same fossil in the limestone at Whiston, and also in a frag
ment of shale from the colliery of E. Fitzgerald, Esq., atPen-
dlebury, about four miles from Manchester. It was found in
sinking down from the upper or "two-feet coal" to Buckley's
" three-quarters mine," the highest coal of any importance in
the Lancashire coal-field.
    The black bass is literally filled with fragments and perfect
shells of a species of Unio of small size. It bears a considerable
resemblance to Hibbert's Unio nuciformis from the Burdie-
house limestone, but is of a less globular form. This shell
varies considerably in size, being sometimes one and a half
inches in length, and at others not more than three quarters
of an inch. The depressed and crushed state in which these
fossils are found would indicate a shell of a thin and fragile
nature, and such it has doubtless been : they are most frac
tured towards the lower portion of the bass, no perfect ones
being there observable, but towards the top they are generally
uninjured, further than has been the result of pressure. Of
   • This I find to be Neuropleru cordata, which Dr. Phillips has since met
with in the coal measures at Oldham.

             found in the Vicinity of Manchester.            351
this shell, I found a single specimen in the blue clay which
contained the Sphenophyllum ; and in one of the thin seams of
red clay, above the first limestone, they are also to be met
with, though of a smaller size. Dr. C. Phillips found them
at Pendlebury, in the fragment of shale containing the Pla-
norbis. This was the circumstance that first induced the
above gentleman to differ from former observers in his opinion
as to the relative position of the Ardwick limestone, separating
it from the saliferous and connecting it with the carboniferous
group of rocks, an opinion of the correctness of which there
remains not the slightest doubt.
    My friend Mr. Joshua Alder, of Newcastle, informs me that
he has met with an Unio, closely resembling our specimens, in
the coal strata at the above place. This shell differs from the
 U. nuciformis of Burdiehouse in being broader and wider in
proportion to its length, as well as in being a more fragile and
delicate shell. I am inclined to think it is an undescribed
species ; if so, I would propose the name of Unio Phillipsii
as a slight return, not only for the private kindness I have met
with from Dr. C. Phillips, but for the service that gendeman
 has done to geology by his indefatigable exertions in investi
gating the nature of these limestones, as well as being under
his guidance in a district new to me when I first discovered
 this most characteristic shell.
    Towards the upper portion of the third limestone is found
 a thin seam of comminuted fragments of shells, amongst which
 may occasionally be found traces of more perfect specimens.
 These bear a close resemblance to, if they are not absolutely
 the same as, the fossil now under consideration. From the se
 veral localities where these shells are found, and from their
 extreme abundance, combined with the rarity of other Mol-
 lusca ofequal size, they must have formed an important feature
 of the fresh waters of that early aara.
    In the blue clay, immediately above the black bass, are a
 series of remains, in attempting to decide upon the nature of
 which I find myself completely puzzled. They are very thin
 bodies of a brown colour, nearly square in their form, two of
 the corners being angular, and the opposite one rounded : I
 have some nearly a quarter of an inch across. At first I
 imagined that these were scales of fish, but now think they
 must be same bivalvular shell. Their surface is marked with
 strong concentric ridges, and passing from the hinge (?) to
 the opposite corners, are two diverging elevated lines. I can
 not detect any traces of teeth, but have found several specimens
 in which the two valves (?) were connected at the hinge, and
 the four ridges commencing from one common point in the
 centre and diverging two each way : these I pointed out to

 352              Mr. Williamson on the Limestones
 Professor Phillips, who will perhaps be able to lay before the'
public some more decided opinion as to their nature.                           '
                            3. Entomostraca.
    Microscopic fossils are always with difficulty assigned to
their proper
difficulty       experienced
            was situations     in by
                                   theDr.
                                        scale
                                            Hibbert  amongstlife.
                                               of organized      the Ento This .
mostraca of Burdiehouse, and as a necessary consequence, we
 experience the same amongst those of Ardwick. Throughout
 the whole extent of the black bass, but especially amongst the
 broken Unionidce near the seam of coal, we find abundance of
minute remains, generally about j3th ofan inch in length, which
can only be assigned to the above-named group of Crustacea.
 I am uncertain whether there are one or two species: if two, the
one will be a Ci/pris, approaching very closely to Cyp. Fuba
in its beanlike form, but rather more elongated: the chief ob
jection is, our not being able to detect the hinge. The other
species, if different, is in reality subunivalve, with a lateral ,
opening on one side: this is closely allied to the recent Daph-
nia, and is probably of Hibbert's genus Daphnoidea. It is of
the same size and outward form as the one above described,, of
thing
groove
which better
         it
         : when
            may
              thanlargely
                  onlythebeberry
                             magnified,
                              the opposite
                                   of the coffee-tree
                                              side, showing
                                           I cannot    after itthe
                                                     compare          to
                                                                      natural
                                                                          any- ,
                                                                isit burned..
To judge from the drawings Dr. Hibbert has given, I think
our Daphnoidea
stinctly              he has observed,
          than any presents       the lateralfrom
                                                opening    ours more
                                                   whichmuch                in
                                                                    differ di-;
being perfectly smooth instead of granulated.
    From these remains we have, without any other evidence
whatever being wanted, a strong proof of the freshwater
origin of this portion of the series.
                          4. Remains of Fish.
    We now come to the group of remains which first attracted'
my attention in the limestones of Ardwick. In June 183.5 I
first detected remains of fish in the black bass, and have since
then at various periods made new additions to my collection.
As we have in no one instance discovered a perfect specimen,
the difficulty of identifying them with any known species must
of necessity be great, especially as they are in such a crushed
state that not even two scales can be found preserving their
relative positions.
   In the fifth number of the Zoological Journal, published
Apriltalented
and                  drawing
        1825, isE.a S. George,and  Esq.,
                                      description,       Sowerb)',
                                          and J. D.byC.the  late amiable Esq:, \1
of a remarkable bony plate, which the writers imagined to be a
portion of the palatal bone of some fish, found near Leeds In
the seam of coal commonly known in Yorkshire by the name

               found in the Vicinity of Manchester.            35 3
of the Beeston seam: this has since been examined by M.
Agassiz, who pronounced it to be a portion of the large tuber-
culated scale of some species offish.
    In the main limestone at Ardwick was found a specimen so
exactly resembling the one from Leeds, that the drawing
would almost serve for a representation of either. The only
difference I am able to perceive is, that the marginal portion,
which in the Leeds specimen is smooth, in ours is slightly tu-
berculated. It is also of an irony colour, whilst the other is
described as being of a bright glossy black. The specimen was
presented to the Society by Mr. Francis Mellor, the director
of the Ardwick lime-works.
    In one very thin seam passing through the black bass, the
position of which is generally marked by a line of pyrites, are
found remains of a small species of fish, much crushed, the
fragments being all detached.
    Of the scales I possess several forms : they are generally
small, rhomboidal, and of a bright glossy black, often corru
gated on the surface. Others are arrow-shaped, about one
 third of an inch long, having a depressed sulcus passing along
 the centre especially at the broad extremity, and irregular striae
 towards the apex. A third form, very thin, irregular in size, and
 marked with dots and undulating lines, I at first mistook for pa
 lates, but on comparing them with a specimen of a Paleeoniscus
 from the copper slate of Eisleben, I was enabled to determine
 to what portion of the fish each scale belonged : the thin un
 dulated ones are portions of the reticulated covering of the
 head; the rhomboidal, some smooth and some corrugated,
 belong to the body ; and the larger arrow-shaped ones have
 formed a single line along the dorsal ridge, from near the
 dorsal fin to the insertion of the tail. I cannot venture to say
 that they are of the same identical species, but they certainly
 approach very near in their characters.
     In one instance I found part of a small jaw-bone of some
  species of fish, which may have some connexion with the scales
 above described : it is about ^rd of an inch in length, and is
  furnished with a regular row of obtuse, glossy black teeth,
  eleven or twelve in number, and about -j^th of an inch in
  length. It is from the black bass.
     The same fruitful seam contains strong bony rays, similar
  to what we often find supporting the large dorsal fins of many
  species of fish. They are generally depressed, although we
  occasionally meet with them in their original rounded form.
  I have one specimen 2£ inches in length, but which must have
  been considerably longer.
     The most singular fossil I have yet met with is a specimen
   ThirdSeries. Vol.9. No. 55. Nov. 1836.              2T

354^               Mr. Williamson on the Limestones
from the black bass, and evidently connected with the teeth of
fish. Attached to a peculiar round body are two teeth (?)
about half an inch long, with the two lateral cutting edges
finely denticulated : they are separated about -r\jth ofan inch at
their base, but diverge until their points are nearly half an inch
asunder. I only know one portion of a fish to which this sin
gular fossil could belong, and that is, the apex of the upper
jaw. In many species of foreign fish are two teeth in that
situation which diverge as in our specimen, and this must
have been of a similar nature. It may belong to the same
species as the long rays*.
    In the roof of the Four-feet mine, Professor Phillips has been
so fortunate as to discover remains of Mcgalichthys Hibbertii,
a fossil which is now apparently diffused through several
of the limestones of the coal series: Mr. Mellor has in his
possession a beautiful specimen of a lower jaw with a row of
five teeth, with several other fragments. These are generally
indistinct and ill defined in their outlines. With the excep
tion of Mr. Mellor's beautiful jaw, the finest specimens of this
interesting animal have fallen into the possession of Professor
 Phillipsf, who will doubtless, in his expected paper at the
 meeting of the British Association, give a detailed account of
them, and their affinity with specimens from other districts
which I have not had an opportunity of examining.
    The following catalogue comprehends such remains as we
have now discovered in and above the third or main limestone :
   Plantce.—Neuropteris cordata, Pecopteris, Sphenophyllum, Sphenopteris
linearis ?, Cyclopteris, Lepidodendron Sternbergii, Stigmaria ficoides, Cala-
mites decoratus, Calamites nodosus, Asterophyllites.
   Motlusca.—Planorbis, Unio, unknown Bivalve ?.
   Enlomostraca. —Cypris, Daphnoi'dea?.
   Ichtkyolites. — Palseoniscus (scales and teeth). Teeth, opercular bone, and
rays of an unknown species. Megalichthys Hibbertii (scales, lower jaw,
teeth, fire).
              Sect. IX. General Results and Inferences.
    From these detailed descriptions and simple facts, we may
draw a few inferences as to the nature of the limestones and the
circumstances under which they have been deposited.
    This group of limestones has hitherto, as I before observed,
   • Since the above was written I have discovered a second specimen of
this most interesting fossil, closely resembling the one described, with the
exception of being rather smaller : it throws no new light upon its nature,
except exhibiting a small rounded tooth or process, about ^th of an inch
long, fixed between the other two. At the same time I found an opercular
bone, probably connected with the same species.
   t Since then I have found u large scale of this animal in the black bass, of
a rhomboidal form and closely resembling the scales of the thigh of the
American alligator.

              found in the Vicinity ofManchester.              355
been confounded with the magnesian limestone, which latter
stratum had never been distinctly identified in this neighbour
hood, until an examination of the fossils of Collyhurst led me
to the conclusion, that the clays and thin limestones there
exposed were the representatives of that series, so important
in Yorkshire and Durham. On comparing the fossils of the
magnesian series with those from Ardwick, we shall find that
no one species found at the latter place agrees with any yet
discovered in the magnesian limestone in England, the stron
gest evidence that they do not belong to the above series of
rocks. The small fish bears a considerable resemblance to
the Palaeoniscus from the copper slate or zechstein, a stratum
concerning the relative position of which I have some doubt.
   On comparing the fossils, however, with those from the car
boniferous system, we immediately observe their identity : we
have Sligmaria Jrcoides, the almost universal characteristic of
the coal measures ofLancashire and Yorkshire; several Filices,
especially a Sphenophyllum, a genus, I believe, confined to the
coal series; Calamites, and the still more important leaves and
stems of the Lepidodendron Sternbergii. However undecided
we might be previously, the discovery of these remains cannot
leave the slightest doubt as to their connexion with the car
boniferous group.
   The merit of the discovery of this important generalization
belongs to Dr. Phillips, who, in May last, explained his views
to the section of the Manchester Philosophical Society, and
expressed his firm conviction that geologists had hitherto been
in error in connecting these limestones with the magnesian
series; and the deciding upon the relative position of so large
a mass of strata, in such close connexion with the Lancashire
coals, cannot be viewed otherwise than as an important result.
    On a slight examination of the fossils, we observe another
important fact : no marine remains whatever have yet been dis
covered. When we find freshwater remains mingled with
those of marine origin, the probability is that the deposit was
formed in some estuary or mouth of some large river ; but
 here the remains are entirelyof freshwater origin. All the most
 important fossils which guided Dr. Hibbert in arriving at his
 splendid results at Burdiehouse, we find here. The entire abs
 ence of marine remains : the extreme abundance of microscopic
 freshwater Enlomostraca, of Unionidffi; fish of the genus Pa-
 laoni,sens; minute univalves, in all probability of the freshwater
 genus Planorbis; and lastly, the discovery of remains of Me-
galichthys Hibbertii, all concur in assigning to the limestones
 a freshwater origin. It would be needless for me to enter
 here into any long discussion on the nature of freshwater
                              2T2

 356        Dr. Mitchell on tlie Beds immediately above
 limestones, or the manner and circumstances under which they
  have been produced, as that lias been done in so masterly a
  style by Dr. Hibbert, in his memoir on the Burdiehouse lime
  stones : and the fact of the occurrence of freshwater lime
  stones in the carboniferous group has become so firmly esta
  blished, that what remains to be done is a careful investiga
  tion of the districts where the coal measures are exposed, in
  order to trace how far they extend, and what varieties of re
  mains of animal life they present. The ultimate result, I have
  no doubt, will be a vast mass of evidence respecting the cir
  cumstances under which the coal measures generally have
  been deposited, and a considerable additional light will thus
  be thrown upon the origin and formation of the coal itself.
  Thus, as the small mountain rivulet, receiving new force and
  power from the most insignificant sources, gradually rolling
  on towards the wide ocean, becomes the broad and noble river,
  so each new fact, however trifling in itself, will give a slight
  but additional impetus to the stream of knowledge which is
  fast bearing us forward to the ocean of some grand theory of
  geology : the collection of facts thus slowly accumulated will
  one day be grasped by some comprehensive and master mind,
  —a new Newton will arise and place in our hands one universal
  outline of the laws that have guided and still guide nature in
  her unvarying progress.
                                                 W. C. Williamson.
     Hall of Manchester Natural History Society,
                August 12th, 1836.
  LXIX. On the Beds immediately above the Chalk in the
      Counties near London. By James Mitchell, LL.D-,
      F.G.S.*
  'T'HERE is a description of flints found in beds immediately
-        over the chalk, and below the sand, in all the places
  where these strata are seen to meet, in the counties of Surrey,
   Kent, Essex and Hertford, and may very probably also be
  found in other counties, also in similar situations.
      There are sixteen localities in which I have seen this flint
  on the south side of the Thames, and five on the north side.
      Pit close
      The       to Croydon
           pits on  the south in   Coomb
                                side are : Lane.
      Road to Tunbridge beyond Farnborough.
1,1 ' Pit on the right of the road from Bromley to Chiselhurst.
 > "Pit in a vale on the south side of Elinstead near Chisel
  hurst.
                     * Communicated by the Author.

              the Chalk in the Counties near London.           357
   Loam-pit bill near Lewisham.
   Mouth of the Cavern on the side of Blackheath hill.
   Pit in Old Charlton on the south side of the Woolwich road.
   Great pit at New Charlton.
   Cliff opposite Woolwich dock-yard.
. Pit at Erith.
   Three pits near the bank of the river Cray near Crayford.
    Pit on the north side of the churchyard at Dartford.
    Trenches dug for forming a common sewer near Gravesend,
on property belonging to Mr. Rosier.
    The entrance to the tunnel of the Thames and Medway
canal at Higham.
    On the north side of the Thames the localities observed
are, Purfleet, a pit on the west side and another on the east
side ofBelmont Castle near Grays, and a pit on the east side
of Grays ; also a pit at George's Farm near Hertford.
    A similar stratum is seen at Newhaven in Sussex, and the
same flints have been seen in other counties, but not in their
original site.
    At Purfleet the name given to these flints is iron flints. The
 bed in which they are found is generally about eight or nine
inches deep, seldom above a foot, and consists of a reddish
 clay with an abundance of oxide of iron. Scarcely any sand
 can be got from this clay by washing. It is stuck quite full
 of flints. Some of these flints are very small, not exceeding
 an inch in length ; but the greater portion are three or four
 inches long, and some much longer. They are round, and
 terminating in a point at each end, and on the whole in form
 not unlike a cucumber. Some however are of a triangular
 form. The exterior is covered with a rough black crust, which
 is found to be a combination of silex and oxide of iron.
  When broken by the hammer the oxide of iron is found to
 penetrate about a quarter of an inch all round, and there are
 frequently streaks of iron further in the interior. The body
  of the flint is black, but decidedly distinct from the dark blue
 flints found in chalk. The fracture is conchoidal, but these
 flints, though not unmanageable, do not yield flakes in any
  direction so readily as the chalk flints. When burnt in the fire
  the exterior crust becomes reddish, and the rest of the flint is
  of a dirty white colour, not nearly so bright and beautiful as
  the porcelain substance made by burning chalk flints, it is
  exceedingly difficult, with ever so great caution, to get them
  burnt without cracking and flying in pieces. Such of these
  flints as have been exposed to the atmosphere have become
  partially decomposed immediately under the black crust.
     I have been informed by two gun-flint makers that such

358       Dr. Mitchell on the Beds immediately above
flints afforded the best sort of gun-flints for gentlemen's fowl
ing-pieces; but being less easily made than the gun-flints
from the chalk flints, and the material being less abundant,
they were more expensive. On account of the presence of so
much iron they are totally useless in the porcelain manufac
ture ; but I have been informed that on one occasion as many
as ten tons were obtained at the bottom of the great pit at
Erith which were so pure as to be saleable for that purpose.
Few specimens are large enough lor building, and therefore
their chief use is for road-material.
   An irregular broken line of flints of this description is to
be seen at the sides of the deep cuttings at the entrance of
the tunnel of the London and Birmingham railway beyond
 Watford. Great diluvial action has taken place, and the
upper surface of the chalk is torn and ridged ; and if, as we
have no reason to disbelieve, there was a bed of sand here
over the chalk, we must in consequence suppose that it has
all been carried away. But the flints peculiar to such beds
 are seen above the solid chalk, and below the diluvial matter,
scattered along on both sides of the cutting.
    I have seen such flints in considerable quantity in the fields
on the east side of Margate, in the Isle of Thanet, and like
wise in Norfolk and Suffolk.
   In the pit on the south side of Elmstead near Chiselhurst,
and in the pit on the south side of the Woolwich road, there
are in the same beds with these flints innumerable small frag
ments of the same kind of flint, but not in the least rounded,
and with sharp edges ; which proves that in these localities
there had been agitations, and that the flints had readily been
broken into fragments.
   The most extensive section of this stratum which I have
ever seen is at Newhaven in Sussex. It extends upwards of
a mile along the top of the cliff, and the peculiar flints may
be collected all along the foot of the cliff! They are well
known to the fishermen who collect chalk-flint boulders for
the Staffordshire potteries," and are carefully avoided. One
of these men said to me that he knew that one of them would
be enough to spoil a hundred pounds' worth of good material.
I found a cast of an Echinus there, but not a particle of the
shell remained upon it.
   There is another and very distinct variety of flint, which
may be seen in some of the pits in the same bed in which
the preceding variety has been found. I may mention the
pit at old Charlton near the Woolwich road, in the trenches
dug by Mr. Rosier near Gravesend, and on the south side or
Elmstead near Chiselhurst ; also at Purfleet.

          • '. the Chalk in the Counties near London.          359
    These flints are very large and of very irregular shape.
 They bear some resemblance to very large blocks of flint
 frequently seen towards the top of some chalk-pits. When
 broken with the hammer, however, they present instead of
 the deep dark blue of the chalk flints a grayish surface, in
 manv parts whitish, as if composed of silex differently granu
 lated, and probably mixed with argillaceous or other matter.
 When burnt in the fire they appear still more decidedly dif
 ferent in appearance. There are streaks of oxide of iron dif
fused near the surface, and in many instances throughout the
 whole mass, 'i he whole flint has not been formed at once,
 but one part has aggregated after another, and the divisions
are very perceptible to the eye.
    In the face of a fractured flint of this species is frequently
seen one dark black piece surrounded with a mass of grayish
flint, and sometimes more than one such dark piece. But
sometimes also there is a grayish piece of flint surrounded by
black flint : many divisions in curved and generally circular
lilies are perceptible.
    When burnt in the fire these flints separate into pieces,
leaving almost smooth surfaces on both sides at the places
of separation. These flints are totally useless for gun-flints
or for the porcelain manufacture, but are excellent for build
ing.
    Such flints are well known at Northfleet, being found very
abundantly in the loam immediately over the chalk-pits near
to Gravesend. But the watery action there has been so con
siderable that there is merely a thin stratum of diluvial matter
and vegetable mould over the chalk ; so that although I have
known of them for several years past, it was not until a few
months past 1 discovered them in situ in the places already
stated. They are not unfrequently seen in the fields in the
counties round London where the chalk comes up near to the
surface. If a name be given to them it n.ight be the gray
iron flint.
   In this flint I have found at Northfleet abundance of Echini,
the Echinocorys, Scutalus, Conulus, and Spatangus, generally
much crushed, and the shells ,themselves totally gone, pro
bably corroded and destroyed by the oxide of iron.
   Mr. Parkinson, in a paper published in the first volume of
the Geological Transactions, has remarked the difference of
the casts found in the gravel from the casts found in the chalk,
and contends that they are of different origin. I have no
doubt they are the same species as those in the chalk, and
that this bed which I have attempted to describe is the original
habitat of the fossils to which he refers.

S60       Mr. Saxton on his Magneto-electrical Machine ;
    The beds of sand immediately above these flints are of
different kinds.
    At New Charlton it is a fine white sharp sand, and is used
in the foundries about London. The sand at Old Charlton
is almost as good, but it is chiefly used for sanding floors.
At Erith, Purfleet, and Grays it is only fit for ballast. But in
the trenches dug by Mr. Rosier, and at Elmstead, it is quite
different. On taking samples of this sand to London and
washing it, and examining it when dry, I found it to be sand
exactly the same as that which is well known near London as
brickmakers' sand, which is exceeding soft when felt between
*he fingers, and is used for sprinkling the brickmakers' moulds
to prevent the adhesion of the clay. It is obtained for that
purpose from above the mud opposite to Woolwich, and off
 Crayford Point, and is, no doubt, washed down by the rain
and brought into the Thames by the rivers Cray and Darent
from the districts through which they run.
     In respect of the chalk immediately below these beds of
flint, in most of the localities examined the surface is perfectly
level, even, and unbroken ; and it is not furrowed and indented
as some observers have represented the upper surface of chalk
 always to be.
     That opinion must have been formed from the circumstance
 of the chalk, in almost all places where it is near the surface
 of the ground, having suffered much diluvial action ; and from
 chalk-pits generally being opened, from a motive of saving ex
 pense, on the sides of hills, where there is little top surface to
 be carried off. In the pit at Elmstead it is, however, different
 from the other localities. There the chalk is cut into ridges,
 the hollows of which are filled with these flints and clays co
 loured with iron: which is a proof that in one instance at
 least the chalk may have suffered diluvial action before the
 formation of these flints and of the beds of sand over them;
 but being only one locality out of twenty-one, it shows that
 the general rule is otherwise.
 LXX. Mr. J. Saxton on his Magneto-electrical Machine s
     with Remarks on Mr. E. M. Clarke's Paper in the preceding
     Number.
    To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
       Gentlemen,
 T REGRET that I am called upon to notice a very disin-
  *- genuous article in the Number of the Philosophical Maga
 zine for October. A reader unacquainted with the progress

               •with Remarks on Mr. E. M. Clarke.              361
which magneto-electricity has made since this new path of
science was opened by the beautiful and unexpected disco
veries of Faraday, might be misled, from the paper I have
alluded to, to believe that the electro-magnetic machine there
represented was the invention of the writer, and that the ex
periments there mentioned were for the first time made by its
means. No conclusion, however, would be more erroneous.
The machine which Mr. Clarke calls his invention,differs from
mine only in a slight variation in the situation of its parts, and
is in no respect superior to it. The experiments which he
states in such a manner as to insinuate that ihey are capable
of being made only by his machine, have every one been long
since performed with my instrument, and Mr. Clarke has had
every opportunity of knowing the truth of this statement.
   Though my machine is tolerably well known to the public
from its constant exhibition at the Adelaide-street Gallery
since August 1833, and my claims as its inventor have been
acknowledged by Professors Faraday, Daniel), and Wheat-
stone, in papers of theirs published in the Philosophical
Transactions, yet as no description of it has yet been published,
I will thank you to insert the following in the ensuing Number
of the Philosophical Magazine. I think the figures and their
explanation will be sufficiently intelligible to enable any work
man to construct a similar on*.
    Fig. Lis a side view of the magneto-electrical machine; the
magnet is placed in a horizontal position, and consists of
 twelve plates of the horse-shoe shape firmly fastened together.
 A vertical wheel communicates motion to a spindle, which
 carries round with it a cross of soft iron, on the extremities of
 which are fixed four soft iron cylinders. Fig. 2 represents
 the spindle and cross before the wire is coiled round the cy
 linders: when the wheel is turned, the bases of each of the
 cylinders pass in succession the two poles of the magnet as
 closely as possible without actual contact. Fig. 3 represents
 the side of the armature next to the poles of the magnet ; A
 and B are the soft iron cylinders on which the long wire for
 giving the shock is coiled ; and C D are the cylinders round
 which the short wires for giving the spark are coiled : the
 circular brass plates 1, 2, 3, 4 are for the purpose of keeping
 the wire on the cylinders. The wires are of copper covered
 with silk ; that for producing the shock is a double wire 400
 yards in length, and each 5'cth of an inch in diameter; and that
 for obtaining the spark consists of 20 lengths, each 75 feet
 long and y\jth of an inch in thickness, united together at then-
  two extremities. Fig. 4 is afront view of the armature, show
  ing the soft iron cross to which the cylinders carrying the
     Third Series. Vol.9. No. 55. Nov. 1836.          2 U

362 Mr. Saxton on his Magneto-electrical Machine;
              with Remarks on Mr. E. M. Clarke.               3G3
coils are fixed. The front end of the spindle is, for the pur
pose of insulation, made of ivory or hard wood, and the lancet-
shaped blades F are mounted on a copper wire, which passes
through the centre ofthe spindle, and to which one end of each
coil of wire is soldered. E is the copper disc which always re
mains in contact with the mercury in the cup below, and is by a
simple contrivance brought into contact with either ofthe other
ends ofthe two coils. This contrivance is shown in fig. 5, which
is an enlarged and side view of the front end of the spindle : at
G, in the socket of the copper wheel, is a notch, in which termi
nate one end of each of the wires A B and C D ; one side of the
notch is represented in contact with A B, or the long wire for
giving the shock, but by twisting the socket partly round the
other side of the notch it will be brought in contact with C D,
or the short wires for showing the brilliant spark, and pro
ducing the strongest heating effect. The points F in fig. 4,
are in the proper position to take the spark from the coils
C D, provided the socket of the disc is in contact with C D.
To obtain the spark from the coil A B, which is however far
less bright than the former, the notch must be brought into
contact with A B, and the points twisted round one quarter
of a revolution, or to that position that they will leave the
surface of the mercury at the instant when the coils from which
the spark is to be taken arrive at their greatest distance from
the poles of the magnet.
    For obtaining the shock, igniting wires, decomposing water,
&c, the points should be removed, and the two ends of the
 wire forming the circuit should be connected, one with the
 mercury in the cup, and the other with the termination of the
 wire which passes through the insulating end of the spindle.
    The action of the machine will be more readily understood
by confining the attention to a single circuit; for this purpose
 we must suppose two of the cylinders (those opposite each
 other) with their coils of wire to be removed. Each of the
 soft iron cylinders becomes, from the known laws of induc
 tion, a temporary magnet when it is opposite one of the poles
 of the permanent magnet : as each cylinder passes succes
 sively both poles of the magnet, its poles are changed twice
 during each revolution, and the cylinders cease to be mag
 netic when they are at equal distances between the two poles.
 Electric currents are induced in the coils round each cylinder,
 and on account of the alternate change of the poles, these
 currents are alternately in opposite directions. The part of the
 coil round one cylinder being, as above described, connected
  with the copper disc, and that round the other cylinder con-
                              2 U 2

 36+     Mr. Saxton on his Magneto-electricul Machine :
 nected with the dipping points, so that the current in both parts
 of the coil is continuous in the same direction, it is obvious that
 by the rotation of the spindle the circuit is alternately broken
 and renewed, and a spark occurs every time either of the cop
 per points leaves the surface of the mercury, into which the
 copper disc also dips, thus completing the metallic communi
 cation twice during the revolution of the spindle. In the ar
 rangement here described the successive transient currents
 are in opposite directions; to obtain a series of currents in
 the same direction, the double must be replaced by a single
 point, but in this case one half of the effect is lost.
    The first electro- magnetic machine, that is, an instrument
 by which a continuous and rapid succession of sparks could
 be obtained from a magnet, was invented by M. Hypolite
 Pixii of Paris, and was first made public at the meeting of the
 Academic des Sciences on September 3, 1832. A description
 of this invention will be found in the Annates de Chimie for
 July 1832 (that journal is always published several months
 after its date), and a representation of it in Becquerel's Traite
 de I'ElectricilS, vol. iii. It differs from mine principally in
 two respects : first, in M. Pixii's instrument the magnet itself
 revolves and not the armature ; and secondly, the interrup
 tions, instead of being produced by the revolution of points,
 were made by bringing one of the ends of the wire over a cup
 of mercury, and depending on the jerks given to the instru
ment by its rotation for making and breaking the contact with
 the mercury. With this machine, furnished with a coil about
 3000 feet in length, sparks and strong shocks were obtained, a
gold-leaf electrometer was made to diverge, a Leyden jar was
 weakly charged, and water was decomposed.
    My first complete magneto-electrical machine was exhibited
at the meeting of the British Association at Cambridge in June
1833, and that now in the Gallery of Practical Science in Ade
laide-street was placed there in August of the same year.
The effects first shown by my machine were the following : 1st,
the ignition and fusion of platina wire; 2ndly, the excitation
of an electro- magnet of soft iron (these were first shown
August 25th, 1833) ; and Srdly, those of the double arma
ture, producing at pleasure, either the most brilliant sparks
and strongest heating power, or the most violent shocks and
effective chemical decompositions; this was added to the in
strument in December 1835.
   I was led to furnish my magnet with the double arma
ture from the following circumstances. In November 1833,
Count di Predevalli brought from Paris one of Mr. Pixii's

               with Remarks on Mr. E. M. Clarke.               365
machines, and it was sent to the Adelaide-street Gallery in
order that its effects might he compared with those of mine*.
Mine was found to excel in the brilliancy of the spark, while
M. Pixii's machine was more effective in giving the shock
and affecting the electrometer. M. Pixii's machine had a
larger keeper and a much greater extent of copper wire.
Shortly after, Mr. Newman of Regent-street made a smaller
instrument on my construction, which gave the shock more
powerfully than my large one did : this also had a greater
length of coil, but the effect was at that time partly attributed
to the better insulation of the wire. I then convinced myself
by some experiments that the increased shock solely depended
on the length of the wire. The cause of the difference of
effect in the two cases admitted no longer of dispute after the
publication of the experiments of Dr. Henry of Philadelphia,
Mr. Jennings, and Dr. Faraday; as their investigations fully
proved that the spark is best obtained from a magneto-
electric coil when short, and the shock when it is long.
Mr. Clarke has no more claim to the application of the
double armature to the magnet than he has to the discovery
of the facts which suggested that application.
   In conclusion: I think it will be evident from the preceding
statement, that the magneto-electrical machine which Mr. Clarke
has brought forward, " after much anxious thought, labour,
and expense," is a piracy of mine ; the piracy consisting not
in manufacturing the instrument, —for everyone isat full liberty
to do so, but in calling it an invention of his own and sup
pressing all mention of my name^as connected with it. I do
not presume that Mr. Clarke is so ignorant as not to know
the meaning of the word " invention," but he has strangely
misapplied it by calling several other well-known pieces of
apparatus his inventions. Thus he has appropriated to him
self Ampere's Bascule Electrique, and calls it the Electrepeter.
Among other uses of this simple contrivance of the French
philosopher, it was employed in Pixii's magnet for the pur
pose of changing the direction of the current in the wire.
  24, Suisex-street, London University.           JOSEPH SaXTON.
                  • See the Literary Gazette, No. 8/8.

                             [   366     ]
LXXI. Reply to Dr. Boase's " Remarks on Mr. Hopkins's
   * Researches m Physical Geology'," in the Numberfor July.
   By W. Hopkins, Esq., M.A., F.G.S., ofSt. Peter's College,
   Cambridge.
               [Continued from p. 175, and concluded.]
r| "'HE two theories of the formation of veins of which I
      have spoken, equally depend on some process of infiltra
tion or segregation into previously existing fissures, and differ
only in the manner in which those fissures are supposed to
have been formed, in the one case by dislocation, in the other
by the mass becoming jointed. There is no reason why both
should not be true as applied not merely to veins of different
districts, but also to different veins of the same district, and
both will enable us to account for nearly all the phenomena
referrible to mechanical causes which veins present to us.
Let us now proceed to analyse the rival theory of the con
temporaneous formation of veins, of which Dr. Boase has
been one of the ablest advocates.
   In the first place, then, What are the physical causes
which this theory assigns for the observed phaenomena? We
cannot of course do better than answer this question by a
quotation from Dr. Boase's " Primary Geology *." " Is it
not within the bounds of probability that the chemical union
of the elements of the fused mass (of the earth's crust) whence
resulted such a vast body of definite minerals, should be ac
companied by the evolution of numerous currents of electri
city, or of analogous fluids ? for we know that the oscillations
of the particles of matter, whether produced mechanically or
during chemical combinations, will elicit streams both of
common and galvanic electricity. If, then, it be acceded
that the primary rocks may have been traversed by such cur
rents during their formation, we have an explanation of the
regular disposition of the granitic rocks, of veins, and other
crystalline substances ; and indeed not only of the subordinate
parts but of the entire mass.
   " This idea will remind the reader of Mr. R. W. Fox's ex
periments, from which he has concluded that the Cornish me
talliferous veins were formed by electro-magnetism. By such
imaginary currents, crossing each other in different directions,
we also fancy that the phasnomena of intersecting veins might
be accounted for, the more powerful ones having uninter
ruptedly continued their course, whilst the weaker ones ex-
                               • p. 385.

         Mr. Hopkins's Reply to Dr. Boase's Remarks.           367
perienced various degrees of diversion, being either partially
or altogether involved in the impetus of their stronger oppo
nents."
   Now it appears to me that all we can conclude from the
above reasoning (and I am not aware that it has been put by
anyone in a better form) is this,—that it is not impossible that
veins may have been the effect of certain electric currents
which, it is possible, may have existed. The theory rests, not
on our knowledge, but entirely on our ignorance. We know
not that these electric currents could be produced as above
supposed, and we know not whether if they did exist they
could produce the effects assigned to them. Let any one
consider whether by any reasoning like the above he could
give any rational account of such phenomena as the follow
ing:
   1. The approximate rectilinearity and parallelism of veins.
        tified
   2. The      masseswhich
            relations  to thetheir
                              dip and
                                   directions usually
                                       strike of      bear in stra;
                                                 the beds.
   3. Their division into two principal systems, approximately
        perpendicular to each other.
   4. The irregularity of the cross courses in width, as com
        pared with the bearing veins.
   5. The throw of a vein, or the difference of level of the
        same stratified bed in the opposite walls of the vein.
   6. The general relation between the throw and the hade,
        or inclination of the vein to the vertical.
   7. The numerous appearances of heaves and shifts in veins.
   These are some of the most obvious and general characters
which mineral veins present to us ; and yet I am not aware
that the advocates of contemporaneous formation have made
even an attempt (for as such we cannot regard the second
paragraph of the above quotation) to account for one of these
phenomena as a necessary or probable consequence of any
definite physical cause connected with their theory, while all
of them are, I conceive, perfectly accounted for on the hypo
thesis of an elevatory force, considered either as the original
cause of fissures, or as modifying them when previously pro
duced by joints. In the present imperfect state of our know
ledge of geological causation, I would not positively reject
any hypothesis carrying with it the most remote plausibility,
provided it could be received without giving up others of
stronger claims to our notice ; and therefore I would not ab
solutely reject this hypothesis of contemporaneous formation
as possibly applicable to certain veins, though I must still
regard the process as an inconceivable one ; but that we
should adopt it with reference at least to the veins of our

368       Mr. Hopkins's Reply to Dr. Boase's Remarks.
limestone districts, while it offers no rational explanation of
a single phaanomenon they present to us, can scarcely be ex
pected, I conceive, even by its warmest advocates. I wish
Dr. Boase had stated more distinctly the extent to which he
conceived it applicable.       Perhaps he will leave nie quiet
possession of the limestone districts and entrench himself
within the Cornish veins, not allowing that the phaanomena
above mentioned are to be distinctly recognised in them. If,
however, we consult for a moment the map published by
 Mr. Thomas of the Camborne and Chacewater district, and
that by Mr. Came of the district of St. Just, we recognise im
mediately a system of veins and of cross-courses such as has
 been mentioned above. The irregular width also of the cross-
courses is universally recognised; and though I am not dis
posed to place implicit reliance on all that has been advanced
respecting the heaves and shifts of Cornish veins, I should
regard any one as a bold theorist who, for the sake of his
theory, would set aside some of the facts of this kind which
have been adduced. Whether the other phsenomena above
stated under the heads (2.), (5.), and (6.) exist in many Cor
nish veins it is impossible to say, because evidence of them can
only be obtained where veins occur in masses so stratified as
to enable us to identify some particular stratum on opposite
sides of the vein. But leaving these out of the question, does
the theory of contemporaneous formation offer the smallest
explanation of the other phsenomena ?
   It appears to me difficult to conceive a theory in a more
perfectly unsatisfactory state than the one of which I am
speaking ; and, indeed, I scarcely understand what claim that
which affords no intelligible explanation of anything can
have to the title of theory. It seems mere hypothesis, with
out any direct support from physical facts or physical reason
ing,—a negative of other theories rather than a theory itself;
and the only foundation on which it appears to me to rest is
the assumed insufficiency of more definite theories to account
for some of the appearances presented by certain veins.
Whether the two theories I have discussed will hereafter be
deemed sufficient by geologists when careful observation shall
have been made with direct reference to them, I pretend not to
say, but I am quite certain that the theory of contemporaneous
formation must rest on foundations very different from those on
which it now stands before it can be admitted as affording
any explanation of the formation of veins in general.
   One of Dr. Boase's objections is founded on the want of
sufficient coincidence between the Cornish veins and joints.
At the same time it will be observed that he fully allows as a

               on " Researches on Physical Geology."              369
fact, established by his own observation, the general coinci
dence of their directions; and this general coincidence, which
seems equally to have struck Dr. Boase and myself, is pro
bably all that the theory of the formation of veins in joints
would require. If we could descend into any master joint,
and follow its course, we should no doubt find it frequently
intersected by other joints, some of them belonging to other
cross-systems, and others more partial and irregular. The
continuity, however, of a cross-joint through the matter of the
vein itself I should think a rare occurrence in our limestone
districts, and I confess that I should be much surprised to
find such to be anything like a general rule in the Cornish
lodes. That
quently,         such
           appears  verycases
                          possible,
                               mightbecause     is probable,
                                      occur, itand             think,
                                                    not very I unfre-
that the process of the formation of joints was one of long
duration, and might be continued after the segregation of
many of the Cornish lodes into the earlier joints ; and more
particularly, perhaps, might this be expected in those cases
in which the causes producing joints have acted with the
greatest intensity, which appears to have been in the older
rocks. It must be understood too that I here speak of the
absolute continuity of a particular joint, not of the general
directions of cleavage of the mass. It would appear by no
means improbable that the matter deposited in an open fissure
should become subject to the same kind of action which might
have previously produced a laminated structure in the sur
rounding mass. This presents, I conceive, no difficulty, be
cause it does not necessarily lead to the inference that this la
minated structure in the vein must have been superinduced
contemporaneously with that in the containing mass, an in
ference which might be drawn from the continuity of distinct
joints through the lode itself.
    With respect to what Dr. Boase appears to consider a re-
ductio ad absurdum, it is manifestly unnecessary to say any
 thing in direct reply, except what I have before stated, that it
is totally inadmissible to assume the earth's crust to have
 become jointed before the action of the dislocating force
 upon it.
    In what I have now advanced respecting these theories of
 the formation of veins, and of their relative claims to our ac
 ceptance, I would beg to be understood as speaking with re
 ference to existing evidence. With respect to the limestone
 districts I can feel little doubt of the result of more extended
 investigation. How far the two methods of formation will be
 found ultimately satisfactory as applied to the whole of the
 Cornish veins, I pretend not to say with equal certainty. It
    Third Series. Vol. 9. No. 55. Nov. 1836.            2 X

  370              Addendum to Prof. Young's Paper.
 is not that I feel the geology of Cornwall, as your corre
  spondent has stated, a stumbling-block,—because, even if I
  were ultimately to adopt the theory of contemporaneous for
  mation with respect to many of the Cornish veins, it would
  not change my opinion respecting the origin of those of our
 limestone districts, —but it is that the evidence obtained from
  the Cornish veins is essentially defective in a most important
  point, viz. as to the relative elevations of the beds on opposite
 sides of the vein, which can only be determined in distinctly
 stratified masses. It is this serious defect which, in a great
  measure, renders it so much more difficult to arrive at any
 positive conclusion respecting them than in other districts,
 and which ought to satisfy us that it is not in Cornwall that
 we must expect to find the tests of the truth of a theory which
 would attribute the phenomena of veins to the dislocations
 of the mass in which they exist. I trust, however, that im
 portant evidence may shortly be expected to be placed before
 us. From the ability and extensive knowledge of Mr. De la
 Beche we may hope to see new light thrown on Cornish geo
 logy; the researches of Mr. Hen wood in themhies of that di
 strict are likely to abound with important facts ; and we may
 perhaps be allowed to hope that Dr. Boase, who has the merit
 of being among the first to declare the importance of attending
 to the regular structure of rocks, will repeat his observations
 with more immediate reference to theories in which, however
 our present views may seem to differ, I feel happy to have
 interested him. Whatever may be the difference of our
 opinions, however, in speculative geology, I would express the
 hope which he has himself well expressed at the conclusion
 of his " Primary Geology "—" that as fellow-labourers in one
 common cause we shall be actuated by a mutual esteem, and
 only strive, in friendly competition, who can render the best
 interpretation of the great and glorious mysteries of Nature."
                     I am, Gentlemen, yours, &c.
    Cambridge, July 20, 1836.                     W. Hopkins.
 LXXII. Addendum to Article LXV. in the present Number,
                         by Professor Young.
HPHE inverse problem, or that which determines the orbit
 -*¦ from knowing the law of attractive force, may be solved
just as readily as the direct problem by regarding
                            ft   \T r*
                                    '

                   Reviews, Sfc—" The Botanist."                    371
or, which is the same thing,
                                     r3
                           R = P -pr                 '(30
as the general equation of the conic sections.
    For since the force in the radius vector varies as 1             its
                                                                 1   P
component in the direction of the normal must vary as -y • — .
But the normal force is
                                  c . Hr-ot.
                         R      P R • • r3                '
and consequently
                                   R                        (4.)
which equation, as it agrees with (3.), represents a conic sec
tion, whose parameter, 2 C, is determinable from the initial
circumstances of the motion.
     LXXIII. Reviews, and Notices respecting New Books.
 The Botanist ; containing accurately Coloured Figures of tender and
    hardy Ornamental Plants, with Descriptions. Conducted by B.
    Maund, F.LS., assisted by Professor Henslow. 4to. To be con
    tinued Monthly. No. I.
 TN the progress of science there occur periods when the establish.
      raent of works devoted to any of its branches, upon new plans, be
 comes absolutely necessary, in order to promote its advancement, by
 being conformable to the improvements already achieved. Former
 works cannot so easily be moulded to the changing conditions of
 modern science as new ones can be accommodated to its state at the
 time of commencing their career. Hence, in the science to which
 the work refers, of which we have above transcribed the title, every
 succeeding work undertaken by competent persons has been an
 improvement upon its precursors. Most of those in existence
 up to this time have been suited or addressed to those only who
 were already conversant with its language and classification. But
 an attempt is here made to render an illustrated work suitable to
 those who have mastered its elements, and conducive to the acquisi
 tion of these by beginners. The terms used in the descriptions of
 plants are in general unintelligible to the uninitiated, and therefore
 little more is learnt by reading the description than by looking at the
 plate. But in the work just started an explanation of every botani
 cal term is given, by means of a glossary, from the pen of Professor
 Henslow, a portion of which, till it be completed, will accompany
 each number, and to which reference can be made in every case of
                                   2X2

 372         Reviews, and Notices respecting New Books.
 doubt. This is an advantage which belongs to no previous work, and
 must greatly enhance the usefulness of The Botanist. The plates,
 both in the matter of engraving and colouring, speak for themselves :
 they are " beautiful exceedingly !" The selection and treatment of
 the subjects figured reflect credit upon the conductor and his assis
 tants, and if they avail themselves in the future numbers as judiciously
 of the varied resources at their command, the result will be the pro
 duction of a volume, or, as we hope, many volumes, calculated to
 delight and instruct all who may open them, of whatever age or
 se.i.                                                          * * *
 M. Mirbel's Report on a Memoir of M. Gaudichaud, relative to the
    Development and Growth of the Stems, Leaves, and other Organs
    of Plants, read in the Academy of Sciences at the sitting ofthe 2lst
    Detember 1835.*
    When we have collected a great number of facts, when we
 have viewed them on every side, and have compared them with
 one another, observing with care their resemblances and differences,
 we feel ourselves stimulated by the desire to seek out the laws of
 their existence, to generalize those which are susceptible of it, and
 to form them into a theory. Without doubt prudence would often
lead us to keep to the simple exposition of facts, but we cannot
 deny that it is very useful for science, that those who have disco
vered them should apply themselves to show us their connexion and
dependence. Exact observations are never slow in obtaining the
assent of all; theories, on the contrary, are subject to be for a long
time contested. In this conflict of different opinions, the opposing
parties bring forward all the known facts, put them to the test of a
more rigorous examination, and discover others which had escaped
preceding researches. Now, numerous and well-observed facts are
what essentially constitute the unchangeable foundations of science.
Thus, whatever be the issue of the struggle, there is a victory in
favour of the human mind, and both the victors and the van
quished have often equal claims to public esteem.
    These reflections are suggested to us by the perusal of the work
which M.Gaudichaudhas addressed tothe Academy,—a work which,
on the one part, is composed of a multitude of new facts, of acute
observations, and inductions as just as they are evident ; and, on the
other, presents a general theory which rests upon that of Du Petit-
Thouars, and considerably enlarges its basis. The material facts are
certain, the theory which generalizes and professes to explain them,
is still in doubt. De la Hire conceived it without supporting it by
proofs : Du Petit-Thouars, by bringing together all the observa
tions that seemed to him calculated to support it, gave it a scientific
existence; Agardh applied himself to reconcile it with the re-
   * From the Annates des Sciences Naturellei, tome v. p. 24.—The prize
for experimental physiology founded by M. Montyon for the year 1835 was
divided between this memoir and that of M. Poiseuille upon the causes of
the motion of the blood in the capillary vessels.

               Gaudichaud's " Vegetable Physiology."                 S7S
ceived opinions; and, quite recently, Lindley, an excellent observer
and a man of sound solid judgement, has strengthened it with all
the weight of his approbation. But we must allow that it reckons
as yet at least as many adversaries as partisans. M. Gaudichaud
arms himself to defend it with the arguments which his own dis
coveries supply. It is by the help of time only, and after a very
serious examination, that we shall be entitled to pronounce on the
validity of consequences deduced from facts too recently known for
us to be able as yet to measure their just bearing. We shall there
fore confine ourselves to stating briefly the theory unfolded by the
author, without venturing to approve or condemn it ; but we shall
not hesitate to give our opinion as to the accuracy of the numerous
facts which he has brought together.
    The task which M. Gaudichaud has undertaken is no light one.
He reviews in the following order the whole history of vegetable
life:
    1. Organography, or development and growth of the stems, &c. j
   2. Physiology, or phenomena of the life of plants ;
   3. Organogeny, or anatomical study of the development of
vegetable tissues.
    Organography, which forms the subject of the first part, subdi
vides itself into three chapters : 1. the dicotyledonex, 2. the mo-
nocotyledonese, 3. the acotyledonea?.
   The author delivers at the present time, for the judgement of the
Academy, the two first chapters of this great undertaking, the pre
cious materials for which are deposited in the botanical galleries of
the Jardin du Roi, where they are become an object of study and
admiration for connoisseurs.
    He sets forth the general principles by which he means to ex
plain not only the mode of development and the organization of
stems, but also the mode of development and the organization of
the processiles or appendicular parts, that is to say, of scales, leaves,
stipulse, bractea, calyxes, corollas, stamens, pistils, &c. which all
take their birth in the bud. These parts are only, according to
his idea, modifications of a single primitive organ of which the
monocotyledonous embryo is the type.
    In fact, in the same way that we see in the monocotyledonous
embryo, when it has taken all its normal expansion, a radicular
mamilla which constitutes its descending system, and a cauliculus,
a cotyledon, and its support, which form together its ascending sy
stem, in the same manner also we see in the more advanced plant
the root which represents the radicle, that is to say, the descending
system, and the merithallus with the leaf and its petiole, which
represent the cauliculus, the cotyledon, together with its support,
that is to say, the ascending system.
   This ascending system, modified in the other appendicular parts,
is not, however, so modified as that there is found in it no trace of
its distinctive features.
   The simple type which represents the monocotyledonous embryo
becomes double, triple, quadruple, quintuple, &c, in the dicotyle

37*        Reviews, and Notices respecting New Books.
donous or polycotyledonous embryo, and the same also is the case
with the vascular provision which it contains. We cannot be silent
on the merit of this sketch ; it is of an accuracy which is rigorously
demonstrated by the anatomy of the young plant.
   The vascular provision is composed of two sets of vessels : the
one is carried from the neck of the root to the bud ; the other
from the bud to the extremity of the root. The first raises as far
as the bud the raw sap which is there elaborated ; the second con
ducts as far as the root a part of the elaborated sap. This, in the
dicotyledoneae, being carried along between the bark and the wood,
forms the new woody layers by its union with the utricles origi
nating from the stem, and contributes in this manner to the growth
in diameter; whilst the other, by extending itself forwards at the
centre, and terminating at the bud which transforms into orga.
nized matter a part of the sap come from the root, carries on the
longitudinal growth. It thence follows that the bud receives from
below nothing solid, nothing organized, that it creates altogether
the vessels which enter into its composition, and that it is these
same vessels, developed below, which are represented in the
woody layers of the stem and of the root, of which they constitute
the most important portion. And as to the utricles of the layers,
whether they are carried on from beneath upwards, or from the
centre to the circumference, they become organized on the spot
between the bark and the wood, and have nothing in common with
the bud.
    This series of phaenomena, which takes place in the natural state
of individuals, exists equally in those which are grafted. All the
wood of the stem and of the root placed below the graft is com
posed of vessels emanating from the buds of the graft and of utri
cles engendered by the subject. This proposition is the corner
stone of the theory ; for if it were invalidated by observation, the
 theory would fall to pieces.
    The double vascular apparatus and the phaenomena which result
 from its presence, belong not to the dicotyledoneae alone; they are
 also found in the monocotyledoneae ; but they there undergo the
 modifications required by the particular arrangement of the threads
 of which the wood is composed.
    Such is in substance the doctrine which M. Gaudichaud pro
 fesses. If we consider attentively, it is, as we have already re
 marked, only that of Du Petit-Thouars and of Lindley; bat
 M. Gaudichaud has impressed upon it a character of generality
 which it had not. To come to this result, he has brought together
 a multitude of facts which, in whatever way they are interpreted,
 will conduce powerfully to the progress of science. His opponents
 it must be expected, will not fail to say that these facts, curious
 and unexpected as they may be, might be explained quite as well
 by their doctrine as by his. But notwithstanding this assertion, which
 should not be received on the strength of a simple dictum, as coming
 from persons who for a long time have formed another idea of the
 phenomenon of the growth of plants, all will agree, that by his

                Gaudichaud's " Vegetable Physiology."               375
  new work, M. Gaudichaud has raised himself as high as our most
  skilful phytologists. It is worthy of remark that, during the fatigues
  of two long voyages, in spite of the wretched state of his health,
  this indefatigable naturalist never ceased to apply himself to re
  searches of extreme delicacy, and that he has carried them as far
  as he would have done in the quiet of his closet. Here we can
  only name the least part of his most interesting observations.
     He has examined, drawn and described a multitude of seeds and
  embryos belonging to families still little known, such as the Nym-
 pheaceer, the Piperacex, the Gnetacete, the Cycadece. This last
 family supplied him, during his first voyage sixteen or seventeen
 years ago, with a succession of ovological facts of which some are
 still new, notwithstanding the recent investigations of MM. Corda
 and Robert Brown. He caused to germinate in their native climate,
 seeds of Piper, Peperomia, Loranthus, Avicennia, Bruguiera, Rhi-
 zophora, &c; and he now gives us positive notions respecting the
 first developments of these plants, which will take the place of vague
 or erroneous opinions in science. At the same time that he was
 bringing together numerous herbarium specimens, he studied the
 interior of stems, and found in the structure and arrangement of
 the ligneous body, strange anomalies which would little have been
 suspected there. It was particularly these observations which sug
 gested to him the project of bringing together all the facts of de
 velopment and growth under general laws, a project the execution
 of which he has constantly followed up since his return to France.
    In order that every one may be able to verify the facts, he has-
 chosen many examples amongst our commonest plants, and these
 have often furnished him with new views: we shall point out among
 others the radish, the turnip, the carrot, the beet, the horse
 chestnut. From the better known organization of these different
vegetable productions he has been able to derive arguments in
favour of his opinions. Some have also been furnished him by the
phenomena which the processes of barking, cuttings, grafts, lop
ping, and other operations of culture present. There is not, so to
speak, a single important fact of vegetation which he has not tried
to bring under the rule of his doctrine; and his efforts, even when
in certain cases some persons may have thought his conclusions too
hasty, have never been unproductive.
    Explanations concerning each fact would carry us far. Let us
dwell only upon three points, which amongst so many other re
markable ones, merit more particularly to engage the attention of
the Academy.
    At the base of a cauline bud of Draccena stript of its herbaceous
envelope by maceration, there appears, if we may so express it, a
kind of paw, a continuation of the superior ligneous fibres, which is
fastened on the ligneous body of the stem, and elongates itself into
threadlike fingers, numerous and divergent. These fingers are
evidently minute vascular fasciculi. Would they have descended
to the roots if the vegetation had not been stopt? This is very pro
bable.

                              Royal Society.
   The bud of a slip of Cissus hydrophora, stript of its bark, pre
sents at its base a ligneous network which partially clothes the
inferior portion of the old wood, and escapes on every side in root.
   These two examples taken, the one in the monocotyledoneae, the
other in the dicotyledonese, appear at first sight undeniable proofs
of the solidity of the doctrine of M. Gaudichaud ; yet, notwith
standing, several phytologists, whilst they accept the facts, reject
the theory. This is because the question is not so simple as it ap
troversy Ituntil
pears.           there shall
              is certain that be
                               it will
                                   an agreement
                                       not cease to     to athe
                                                    as be       physiological
                                                              subject of con-
results of the process of grafting.
    The third point touches the scientific reputation of an excellent
man, who sat here during more than forty years, and whose
memory will be ever dear to us. Every one knows the work of
M. Desfontaines on the stems of palms. A German phytologist,
M.Hugo Mohl, treating of the same subject with more numerous and
more varied materials, and all the resources of the science such as
fifty years' progress has made it, advanced, a short time ago, that
the numerous ligneous fibres were not formed at the centre, but
at the circumference ; and that it was in crossing the older fibres
obliquely that they reached as far as the heart of the tree. From
this fact he concluded that M. Desfontaines had deceived himself ;
yet it is not so, although the observations of M. Mohl are perfectly
accurate. The researches of M. Gaudichaud show that M. Des
fontaines has very well observed and described what he saw, and
that M. Mohl, far from having overturned the work of this learned
man, has rendered it more unassailable by completing it.
   The considerations set forth in this Report sufficiently make
known the motives which have determined the commission to di
vide the prize between M. Gaudichaud and one of his competitors,
M. Poiseuille, whose admirable works on the motion of the blood,
render him for the third time worthy of a distinguished testimony
of the esteem of the Academy.
           LXXIV.         Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                            ROYAL SOCIETY.
                      (Continued from vol. viii. p. 553.)
   1836.       A PAPER was read, entitled " Additional Observations
to Michael
April  21. Faraday, on Voltaic
                         Esq., D.C.L.,
                                  Combinations."
                                          F.R.S. Fullerian       Professor
                                                       In a letter         of
                                                                    addressed
Chemistry in the Royal Institution, &c. By J. Frederick Daniell,
Esq., F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry in King's College, London.
   The author has found that the constant battery, of which he de
scribed the construction in a former communication to the Royal So
ciety, might be rendered not only perfectly steady in its action, but
also very powerful ; as well as extremely efficacious and convenient
for all the purposes to which the common voltaic battery is usually
applied. With this view he places the cells which form the battery

                              Royal Society.                          377
in two parallel rows, consisting of ten cells in each row, on a long
table, with their siphon-tubes arranged opposite to each other, and
hanging over a small gutter, placed between the rows, in order to
carry oft' the refuse solution when it is necessary to change the acid.
Having observed that the uniformity of action may be completely
maintained by the occasional addition of a small quantity of acid, he
is able to dispense with the cumbrous addition of the dripping funnel ;
an arrangement which admits with facility of any combination of the
plates which may be desired.
   April 28. —On certain parts of the Theory of Railways ; with an
investigation of the formulae necessary for the determination of the
resistances to the motion of carriages upon them, and of the power
necessary to work them. By the Rev. Dionysius Lardner, LL.D.,
F.R.S.
   The author observes, in his prefatory remarks, that an extensive
and interesting field of mathematical investigation has been recently
opened in the mechanical circumstances relative to the motion of
heavy bodies on railways ; and having collected a body of experiments
and observations sufficient to form the basis of a theory, he purposes,
in the present paper, to lay before the Society a series of mathematical
formula?, embodying the most general expressions for the phenomena
of the motion of carriages on these roads.
   The author begins by investigating the analytical formulae for
the traction of trains over a level line which is perfectly straight, and
finds, first, the distance and time within which, with a given amount
of tractive power, the requisite speed may be obtained at starting ;
and also the point where the tractive power must be suspended, pre
vious to coming to rest. The excess of tractive power necessary to get
up the requisite speed is shown to be equal to the saving of tractive
power previous to a stoppage; and formula? are given for the determi
nation of the time lost under any given conditions at each stop.
   The motion of trains in ascending inclined planes which are straight,
is next considered ; and formulae are given combining the effects of
friction and gravity, in opposition to the tractive force. The cir
cumstances which affect every change of speed, and the excess of
tractive force necessary, in such cases, to maintain the requisite
speed, are determined ; as well as the other circumstances already
stated with respect to level planes.
   The friction of trains upon descending planes is next investigated;
and an important distinction is shown to exist between two classes of
planes ; viz., those whose acclivities are inferior to the angle of re
pose, and those of more steep acclivities. A remarkable relation is
shown to exist between the tractive forces in ascending and descend
ing the first class of planes. For descending planes of greater acclivity
than the angle of repose, the use of breaks becomes essentially re
quisite. The effect of these contrivances is investigated, as well as
the motion of trains on the accidental failure of breaks.
   In any attempts which have been hitherto made to obtain the
actual velocities acquired by trains of carriages or waggons under
these circumstances, an error has been committed which invalidates
    Third Series. Vol. 9. No .55. Nov. 1836.             2Y

                              Royal Society.
the precision
sledges             tht results
          movingofdown   an inclined
                                ; the plane.
                                       carriages     authorbeen
                                                Thehaving        treated
                                                             has here    as
                                                                      given
the analytical formula? by which the effect of the rotatory motion of
the wheels may be brought into computation ; this effect, depending
obviously on the amount of inertia of the wheels, and on the propor
tion which their weight bears to the weight of the waggon.
   The properties investigated in this first division of the paper, are
strictly those which depend on the longitudinal seciion of the line,
presumed to be straight in every part of its direction. There is,
however, another class of important resistances which depend on
the ground-plan of the road, and these the author next proceeds to
determine.
   The author then gives the analytical formula; which express the
resistance arising,—-first, from the inequality of the spaces over which
the wheels, fixed on the same axle, simultaneously move ; secondly,
from the effort of the flanges of the wheels to change the direction of
the train ; and thirdly, from the centrifugal force pressing the flange
against the side of the rail. He also gives the formulae necessary to
determine, in each case, the actual amount of pressure produced by
a given velocity and a given load, and investigates the extent to which
these resistances may be modified by laying the outer rail of the
curve higher than the inner. He assigns a formula for the de
termination of the height which must be given to the outer rail, in
order to remove as far as possible all retardation from these causes ;
which formula is a function of the speed of the train, the radius of the
curve, and the distance between the rails.
    In the latter part of the paper, the author investigates the method
of estimating the actual amount of mechanical power necessary to
work a railway, the longitudinal section and ground-plan of which
are given. In the course of this investigation he arrives at several
conclusions, which, though unexpected, are such as necessarily arise
out of the mechanical conditions of the inquiry. The first of these is,
 that all straight inclined planes of a less acclivity than the angle of re
pose, may be mechanically considered equivalent to a level, provided
the tractive power is one which is capable of increasing and diminish
 ing its energy, within given limits, without loss of effect. It appears,
 however, that this condition does not extend to planes of greater ac
clivities than the angle of repose ; because the excess of power re
 quired in their ascent is greater than nil the power that could be saved
 in their descent ; unless the effect of accelerated motion in giving
 momentum to the train could properly be taken into account. In
 practice, however, this acceleration cannot be permitted ; and the
 uniformity of the motion of the trains in descending such acclivities
 must he preserved by the operation of the breuk. Such planes are
therefore, in practice, always attended with a direct loss of power.
    In the investigation of the formulae expressive of the actual amount
 of mechanical power absorbed in passing round a curve, it is found
 that this amount of power is altogether independent of the radius of
 the curve, and depends only on the value of the angle by which the
 direction of the line on the ground-plan is changed. This result.

                                Royal Society.                           «7P
  which was likewise unexpected, is nevertheless a sufficiently obvious
  consequence of the mechanical conditions of the question. If a given
  change of direction in the road be made by a curve of large radius,
  the length of the curve will be proportion ably great ; and although
  the intensity of the resistance to the tractive power, at any point of
  the curve, will be small in the same proportion as the radius is great,
  yet the space through which that resistance acts will be great in pro
  portion to the radius: these two effects counteract each other; and
  the result is, that the total absorption of power is the same. On the
  Other hand, if the turn be made by a curve of short radius, the curve
  itself will be proportionately short ; but the intensity of the resistance
  will be proportionately great. In this case, a great resistance acts
  through a short space, and produces an absorption of power to the
  same extent as before.
\    In conclusion, the author arrives at one general and comprehensive
  formula for the actual amount of mechanical power necessary to work
  the line in both directions ; involving terms expressive,^™*, of the
  ordinary friction of the road ; secondly, of the effect of inclined planes,
  or gradients, as they have been latterly called ; and, thirdly, of the
  effect of curves involving changes of direction of the road, the velocity
  of the transit, and the distance between the rails j but, for the reason
  already stated, not comprising the radii of the curves.
     Although the radii of the curves do not form a constant element of
  the estimate of the mechanical power necessary to work the road,
  nevertheless they are of material consequence, as far as regards the
  safety of the transit. Although a short curve with a great resistance
  may be moved over with the same expenditure of mechanical power
  as a long curve with a long radius, yet, owing to the intensity of the
  pressure of the flange against the rail, the danger of the trains run
  ning off the road is increased : hence, although sharp curves cannot
  be objected to on the score of loss of power, they are yet highly ob
  jectionable on the score of danger.
     In the present paper, the author has confined himself to the ana
  lytical formulas expressing various mechanical effects of the most
  general kind ; the coefficients and constants being expressed merely
  by algebraical symbols: but he states that he has made an extensive se
  ries of experiments within the last few years, and has also procured the
  results of experiments made by others, with a view to determine the
  mean values of the various constants in the formula? investigated in
  this paper. He h:is also, with the same view, made numerous ob
  servations in the ordinary course of transit on railways ; and he an
  nounces his intention of soon laying before the Society, in another
  paper, the details of these experiments, and the determination of the
  mean values of these various constants, without which the present
  investigation would be attended with little practical knowledge.
     A paper was also read, entitled " Register of the State of the
  Barometer and Thermometer kept at Tunis, during the years 1829,
  1830, 1831 and 1832." Presented by Sir Thomas Reade, His
  Majesty's Agent and Consul General at Tunis. Communicated by
  P. M. Roget, M.D., Sec. R.S.
                                    2Y2

380                            Royal Society.
   The observations here registered are those of the thermometer at
9 a.m., at noon, and at 6 p.m., and the points of the wind, and height
of the barometer for each day of the abovemenlioned years.
   May 5.—A paper was in part read, entitled " On the Optical Phe
nomena of certain Crystals." By Henry Fox Talbot, Esq., F.R.S.
See our last Number, p. 288.
   May 12.—The reading of Mr. Talbot's paper was concluded.
   May 1 9.—A paper was read, entitled, " On the valuation of the
mechanical effect of Gradients on a line of Railroad." By Peter
Barlow, Esq., F.R.S.
   The exact amount of the influence of ascents and descents occurring
in the line of a railway on the motion of a load drawn by a locomotive
engine having been differently estimated by different persons, the au
thor was induced to investigate the subject. A few observations are
premised on the erroneous assumptions which, he conceives, have in
general vitiated the results hitherto deduced. The first of these is that
the expenditure of power requisite for motion is equal to the resistance
to traction ; whereas it must always greatly exceed it. No account,
he remarks, has been taken of the pressure of the atmosphere on the
piston, which the force of the steam has to overcome before it can be
available as a moving power. Another source of error has been that
the statical and dynamical effects of friction have been confounded to
gether ; whereas they are the same in amount only when the body is
put in motion by gravity ; but not when it is urged down an inclined
plane by an extraneous force. In the latter cuse these effects are no
longer comparable ; friction being a force which, in an infinitely small
time, is proportional to the velocity, while that of gravity is constant
at all velocities ; or, in other words, the retardation from friction is pro
portional to the space described, while that from gravity has reference
only to the time of acting, whatever space the body may pass over in
that time. It is an error to assume that the mechanical power of the
plane is equivalent to a reduction of so much friction ; for the friction
down the inclined plane is the same as on a horizontal plane of the
same length, rejecting the trifling difference of pressure ; and the
whole retardation in passingover the plane, or the whole force required
to overcome it, is the same at all velocities, and by whatever force the
motion is produced ; but the assisting force from gravity is quite inde
pendent of the space or of the velocity.
   In the investigations which the author has prosecuted in this paper,
he assumes that equal quantities of steam are produced in the same
time at all velocities ; and he adopts for his other data, those given by
Mr. Pambour in his Treatise of Locomotive Engines. He deduces a
formula from which, the speed on a level being given, we may compute
the relative and absolute times of a train ascending a plane ; and con
sequently also the ratio of the forces expended in the two cases ; or
the length of an equivalent horizontal plane ; that is, of one which
will require the same time and power to be passed over by the loco
motive engine as the ascending plane.
   The next objects of inquiry relate to the descent of trains on an in
clined plane, and comprise two cases : the first, that when the power

                                Royal Society.
of the engine is continued without abatement; and the second, that
when the steam is wholly excluded, and the train is urged in its de
scent by gravity alone. The author arrives at the conclusions, that
in the first of these cases, when the declivity is one in 139, the velocitv»
on becoming uniform, will be double that in a horizontal plane : and
that for a declivity of one in 695, the uniform velocity of descent will
be one fifth greater than on the horizontal plane ; and this, he ob
serves, is perhaps the greatest additional velocity which it would be
prudent to admit. A plane of one in 695 is therefore the steepest de
clivity that ought to be descended with the steam-valve fully open ;
to   planesthewith
all have           a declivity
                admission  of between
                               steam regulated
                                       this and sothat
                                                    as of modify
                                                       to one     the require
                                                              in 139   speed, -
and adjust it to considerations of safety ; and lastly, all planes of a
greater slope than this last require, in descending thein, the application
of the brake.
    A paper was also read, entitled, " On the application of Glass as a
substitute for metal balance-springs in Chronometers." By Messrs.
Arnold and Dent. Communicated by Francis Beaufort, Esq., Captain
R.N., F.R.S., Hydrographer to the Admiralty.
    In their endeavours to determine and reduce the errors arising from
the expansions of the balance-spring of chronometers consequent on
variations of temperature, the authors came to the conclusion that
there exist certain physical defects in the substances employed for its
construction, beyond the most perfect mechanical form that can be
given to it, which interfere with the regularity of its agency : so that
however exquisite may be its workmanship, and however complete its
power of maintaining a perfect figure when in different degrees of
tension, yet the imperfect distribution of its component parts may give
rise to great incorrectness in its performance. Hence the balance-
spring not only should be made of a substance most highly elastic,
but its elasticity should not be given to it by any mechanical or che
mical process : as a body in motion, it should be the lightest possible ;
and, as far as the case admits of, it should be free from atmospheric
influence. Glass suggested itself as the only material possessing, in
the greatest degree, all these desirable properties. Its fragility, al
 though apparently a great objection to its employment, was found, on
trial, to constitute no obstacle whatever ; for it was found to possess
a greater elastic force than steel itself, and thus to admit of greater
amplitude in the arc of vibration.
     It was first proposed to ascertain how far a glass balance-spring
 would sustain low temperatures ; and it was found by experiment that
 it resisted completely the effects of a cold as great as that of -)- 1 2° of
 Fahrenheit's thermometer ; thus satisfactorily removing any objection
 which might be brought against its use from its supposed fragility in
 these low temperatures. The next object of solicitude was to deter
 mine whether it would withstand the shock arising from the discharge
 of cannon in the vicinity; and its power of resisting concussions of
 this nature wns fully established by experiments made with this view
on board H.M.S. Excellent at Portsmouth.
     On comparing the performance of glass baliince-springs with me
tallic ones, when the temperatures were raised from 32° to 100°, it

38J                        Geological Society.
was found that while the loss in twenty-four hours in the gold spring
was 8m 4", that of steel 6m 25', and that of palladium 2m 31*, that of
a glass spring was only 40s. These differences the authors ascribe
principally to the different degrees in which the substances had their
elasticity reduced by an increase of temperature. As glass was thus
found to suffer a much smaller loss of elasticity by this cause than
metals, they proceeded to construct a glass balance suited to the cor
rection of the small error still occasioned by this cause, employing a
glass disc for this purpose. The compensation being completed, they
next tested the isochronism of the glass spring, and it proved to be as
perfect as any metallic spring. Chronometers thus constructed are
now in course of trial at the Royal Observatory. In common with all
other instruments of the same kind they have shown a disposition to
progressive acceleration, the cause of which is but little known, but
which appears to be influenced by the action of the air.
                         GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                     (Continued from vol. viii. p. 580.)
    April 13.—A memoir on the Geology of Coalbrook Dale, by Joseph
 Prestwich, Jun., Esq., was commenced.
   April 2/.—The memoir on the Geology of Coalbrook Dale, by Joseph
Prestwich, Jun., Esq., began on the 13th of April, was concluded.
    In a paper read before the Society in February 1834, Mr. Prest
wich gave an account of some of the principal faults of this coal-field,
and in the present memoir describes fully the extent and physical
features of the district, the formations of which it consists, the dis
locations not previously noticed, the superficial detritus or drift,
the organic remains, and the inferences which the author conceives
may be drawn from the facts enumerated. In the first place, how
ever, he acknowledges the assistance which he has received from Mr.
Murchison, Mr. Anstice of Madeley, and the gentlemen connected with
the coal- works; he also acknowledges the aid which he has derived
from Mr. Arthur Aikin's labours in the same district.
    The coal-field is bounded on the east by a slightly undulating line
ranging from Lilleshall to Bridgenorth ; on the north-west by a line
nearly coincident with the main road from Lilleshall to VVatling-street,
near Wellington, and thence by the VVrekin ; on the west the boun
dary is broken by the gorge of the Severn, but is formed, in part, by
the elevated ridges of Benthall and Wenlock ; and on the south-east
it is defined by the road from Much Wenlock to Bridgenorth.
    The area thus circumscribed consists of a platform raised about 400
feet above the Severn at Madeley, or 500 above the level of the sea ;
the surrounding country seldom rising to a height exceeding 350 feet.
It is intersected by numerous picturesque glens, including the cele
brated defile through which the Severn flows at the Iron Bridge, and
is traversed by several low hills, the most elevated of which is about
746 feet above the level of the sea ; but the Wrekin, which forms part
of the north-western boundary, rises to the height of 1320 feet.
   The formations of which the district consists are, commencing with
the oldest, 1st, some members of the Lower Silurian rocks ; 2ndly,
the Wenlock and Ludlow rocks, belonging to the Upper Silurian sy

                          Geological Society.                       &B9
stem ; 3rdly, the old red sandstone ; 4thly, carboniferous limestone;
5thly, coal measures ; 6thly, new red sandstone ; and, 7thly, trap.
   In describing the formations subjacent to the old red sandstone,
Mr. Prestwich states that he owes his knowledge of their order of su
perposition entirely to the previous labours of Mr. Murchison, and
that unassisted by them it would have been impossible for him to have
determined correctly their relative antiquity.
    1st. The lower Silurian rocks consist of quartzose grit succeeded by
micaceous flags, which are overlaid by a coarse-grained sandstone
alternating with beds of light grey clay. They occur on the flanks of
the Wrekin and Arcol Hills.
   2ndly. The Wenlock rocks are composed, in the lower part, of beds
of shale, and in the upper of limestone abounding with organic re
mains. They form the escarpment of Wenlock and Benthall Edges,
Lincoln Hill, &c. The Ludlow rocks consist of three divisions: the
lowest being formed of grey-coloured, soft, calcareous sandstones
and shales ; the middle of very thin beds of light grey and brown
limestone; and uppermost of sandstones. They are stated to occur
at Much Wenlock and Wyke, also near Apley, in the Meadow-pits
and in several other pits in Broseley parish ; likewise between Dean
and Willey, &c.
    3rdly. The old red sandstone skirts the southern parts of the coal
field, and consists of beds of dark red marl alternating with dark, mi
caceous sandstones.
    4thly. The carboniferous limestone appears on the south of Little
Wenlock, at Steeraways and Lilleshall Hills, and presents thin beds
of argillaceous limestone and shale.
    5thly. The coal measures consist of the usual alternations of shale,
sandstone, and coal, amounting at the Madeley Meadow pits to 135
beds, having an aggregate thickness of about 250 yards. The first
 70 or 80 beds are light grey, yellow, or red ; the succeeding 20 are
nearly black, and the underlying are mostly light-coloured. These
distinctions are general, but not universal. In the uppermost part of
the series clays and soft calcareous sandstones predominate ; in the
middle argillaceous sandstones and indurated clay ; while in the lowest
part fine hard sandstones. The upper coal seams are thin, generally
sulphurous, widely separated, and extremely irregular, but the lower
are nearer together, and are persistent throughout the field. The
average thickness of the seams is about 3 feet, and the number in
 different pits varies from 1 to 16. The following table contains the
 aggregate thickness of the seams and the number at each of the loca
lities mentioned :
                               Yards, ft. in.       Number of beds.
              Hadley             15 0 0                    16
              Sned's Hill         14 2 2                    12
              Malmslee           11 0 10                   13
              Langley            11 2 6                    11
              Dawlev              14 0 0                   16
              Lightnioor          13 2 0                    17
              Madeley             10 2 10                  24
              Broseley             7 0 9                    13

38+                       Geological Society.
   In these pits the measures are fully developed, and consequently
the variations may be explained by the thinner beds not having been
equally included. In the Madeley list every thin seam is given.
   The shales and sandstones vary greatly in their characters, though
the former are said to be more uniform than the latter, and to contain
layers of argillaceous carbonate of iron. A bed of freshwater lime
stone occurs in the upper part of the measures, at lnet, the Frog's
 Mill near Nordley, and at Tasley. It is very hard, has a tine con-
choidal fracture, and varies in thickness from one to two yards. A
minute account is then given of the changes presented at different pits,
and it is shown that the thinning out of the strata of sandstone and
shale is frequently of great advantage to the miner by bringing into
contact, beds of coal, which would otherwise be separated many feet.
   Carburetted hydrogen is disengaged in greater abundance from the
lower than from the upper measures, and in greatest quantity on
commencing a new work, especially on approaching a fault, when
large masses of coal are constantly blown off the main beds with loud
reports. Carbonic acid gas is rarely found in a pit at work, and Mr.
Prestwich suggests that the quantity sometimes noticed may have
 been accumulated in adjacent old pits.
   The mineral contents of the coal measures are confined to the ar
gillaceous carbonate of iron, sulphuret of iron, sulpliuret of zinc and
petroleum. The celebrated spring which once yielded more than a
hogshead a day, produces now only a few gallons a week ; but another
abundant spring has been discovered, and considerable quantities of
petroleum have been obtained in working the Dingle pit. Titanium is
found in considerable quantities in the hearthstones of the old furnaces
often beautifully crystallized, but in greatest abundance in a massive
state. In analysing some crystals of sulphuret of zinc found in the
coal measures the author detected titanic acid.
   6thly. New red sandstone.—Only the lower divisions of this forma
tion occur in the immediate neighbourhood of Coalbrook Dale, flank
ing the eastern and north-western sides of the field, and in some places
abutting against the dislocated edge of the coal measures. They con
sist of clay, marl, and sandstones, overlaid by calcareous conglo
merates, to which succeed coarse sandstone, marls, and other conglo
merates. The lowest beds pass conformably into the coal measures, the
line of distinction being chiefly distinguishable by the change in the
colour ; but some of the vegetable remains of the coal may be, though
rarely, detected in the sandstone series. Mr. Prestwich is of opinion
that there is a want of conformity between the lower and upper systems
of the new red sandstone series.
   7thly. Trap rocks.—The greater portion of the Wrekin, Arcol, Mad-
dox, and Lilleshall Hills, &c. are composed ofgreenstone, felspar rocks,
and amygdaloid. Smaller bosses also rise to the surface at various
points within the coal- field, and others have been discovered in the
deep workings ; but it is worthy of remark that no trap has been no
ticed in any of the crevices or fissures connected with the faults. The
trap does not appear to have charred the coal ; but at New Hadley,
at a point where a boss appears at the surface, the coal in its vicinity

                            Geological Society.                      385
loses its cohesion and becomes sooty, and the same change was no
ticed elsewhere near dislocations, though no trap was visible.
   Dislocations.—The author says that there is probably no coal-field
of equal size in the kingdom so greatly shattered as that of Coalbrook
Dale. The faults are most numerous and complicated where the
measures are thinnest, the miner in those parts rarely proceeding 20
yards without interruption, and frequently not more than two or three ;
but when so close together the dislocations are small in effect and ex
tent, and are connected with others of greater magnitude.
   The larger faults tilt the strata in various directions, but have ge
nerally a parallelism of strike, and deviate but very slightly from a
straight line. Sometimes the sides of the disjointed strata are in con
tact, when the edges of the beds of coal and shale have a shining stri
ated surface, but at others the sides are separated several yards, the
interval being rilled with the debris of the strata. The inclination of
the principal faults as well as of the minor, obeys no general law, and
even in the same fault it occasionally varies from 45° to !)0°. The
difference of level on the opposite sides of the principal dislocations
also varies considerably ; thus the Lightmoor fault, at Malmslee and
Old Park produces a difference of level of 600 or 700 feet, but at
Sned's Hill of only 300, and a branch of it does not affect the strata
more than 50 or CO feet. In some instances the change of level is by
steps or hitches, owing probably to unequal resistance, or a series of
small dislocations. Another character of the large faults is their sub
dividing, more especially at the extremities—the subdivisions occa
sionally taking a direction at right angles to the main fault, but when
they are numerous they diverge from it only a few degrees and extend
but a short distance.
   The author then describes minutely the chief faults ; the two prin
cipal of which, bounding the field on the east and partly on the west,
bring the disjointed edges of the coal measures in a level with those
of the new red sandstone; and he afterwards gives a table of the minor
faults, containing the name of each fault with its direction, extent,
average angle of inclination, breadth, fall, the greatest difference of
level produced by it, and the localities at which the difference of level
varies ; and from the phenomena presented by the faults, and the
fact that the field is a platform raised above the level of the sur
rounding country, the author infers that the coal-field has been ele
vated above its original position ; he also adds that the contortions of
the beds are not of any great magnitude.
   Superficial detritus or drift.—Thick beds of gravel and sand cover a
large portion of the surface, and are considered by the author as con
sisting of two distinct deposits. The lower, which is of local occur
rence, though from 20 to 50 feet thick, consists of fine-grained red
sand, containing beds of small angular pebbles of the adjacent rocks,
and thin, distinct seams of marl or clay. Imbedded in the sand are
frequently found masses of coal, some of them six feet in diameter.
The upper deposit is composed of rolled pebbles of rocks, composing
the coal-field and its boundaries, imbedded in coarse reddish sand.
Its distribution is more regular than that of the lower division ; and
   Third Series. Vol. 9. No. 55. Nov. 183G.               2Z

386                         Geological Society.
it is distinguished by the abundance of fossils derived from the Dudley
limestone and the coal measures, as well as the presence of marine
shells of existing species.
    Organic remains.—The fossils of the coal measures are described
with great detail, as well as the phenomena of beds containing marine
remains, alternating with others in which freshwater shells and land
plants occur; and a comparison is m;ide with the Canister coal-field,
 in which similar alternations have been noticed. -The following are
the principal points detailed in the paper respecting these alternations
 at Coalbrook Dale. The lowest part of the coal measures presents nu
 merous beds of sandstone and shale, with seams of good coal ; some
 of the beds containing in abundance vegetable remains, occasionally
 associated with Unios. To these succeed the bed called the penny iron
 stone, in which has been found a few vegetable remains and casts of
 Unios and Cyclades, but great abundance of marine remains belong
 ing to the genera Producta, Spirifer, Ammonites, Nautilus, Bellero-
 phon, Conularia, Euomphalus, Pecten, Orbicula, Terebratula, Venus,
 Asaphus, and Pentacrinites; remains also of fishes, namely, the Megal-
 ichthys Hibbertii and Gyracanthusformosus. The next series of beds,
 consisting of the usual alternation of sandstone, shale, and coal, in
 close vegetable remains and Unios. Upon these repose a stratum of
 micaceous shale, containing ironstone nodules in which have been
 found land plants, Unios in considerable quantities, remains of the Me-
 galichthys and Gyracanthus, and Trilobites of a distinct genus. This
 singular stratum is surmounted by a series, of great thickness, of the
 usual coal measures, in which organic remains and land plants have
 been observed, and is succeeded, in two localities, by the Chance
 penny-stone, in which Productus scabriculus occurs in vast abundance.
 The uppermost beds of the series, consisting of many thick beds of
  sandstone with layers of shale and one seam of coal, are" almost de
 stitute of organic remains. The distribution of the fossils is extremely
 irregular in different parts of the coal-field, being most persistent in
 the lower beds ; and though they are most commonly found in the
 ironstone nodules, yet they sometimes occur in the sandstones and
  shales adjacent to the coal seams.
     In the concluding part the author reviews the facts detailed in the
  memoir, and draws the inferences which he conceives they warrant.
     1st. Mr. Prestwich is of opinion that the alternations of freshwater
  shells with marine remains, do not prove as many relative changes of
  land and sea ; but that the coal measures were deposited in an estu
  ary, into which flowed a considerable river, subject to occasional
  freshes ; and he conceives that this position is supported by the fact
  of frequent alternations of coarse sandstones and conglomerates with
  beds of clay or shale ; and for the same reason he is of opinion that
  the vegetable remains did not grow where they are found.
     2ndly. After recapitulating the evidence in support of the protru
  sion of Coalbrook Dale through once continuous overlying forma
  tions, he calls attention to the important inquiry whether there may
  not be buried beneath the new red sandstone districts other conside
  rable coal-fields, which are unknown, because they have not been sub

                            Geological Society.                        387
ject to disturbing agents similar to those which exposed the district
under review.
    Lastly. With respect to the agents which have modified the surface
nf Coalbrook Dale, the author is of opinion that it was denuded, in
part, while beneath the level of the ocean ; that the lower bed of de
tritus, containing angular gravel and large masses of coal, proves a
sudden and short cataclysm ; while the upper beds of rounded gravel,
containing recent shells, indicate the long-continued action of a body
of water, since the existence of the present Testacea of our coasts.
    A letter from R. W. Fox, Esq., addressed to Sir Charles Lemon,
 Bart., M.P., F.G.S., " On the Formation of Mineral Veins," was
 then read.
    Mr. Fox is of opinion that mineral veins were originally fissures
 probably caused by changes in the earth's temperature; that they
 were small at first and gradually increased in their dimensions ; and
 that the mineral contents progressively accumulated during the whole
 period of the development of the fissures ; and as changes in the earth's
 temperature might produce changes in the direction and intensity of
 the terrestrial magnetic curves, he conceives that electricity may have
 powerfully influenced the existing arrangement of the contents of these
 fissures.
     Copper, tin, iron, and zinc, in combination with sulphuric and
 muriatic acids, being very soluble in water, Mr. Fox says, they
 would in this state be capable of conducting voltaic electricity; and
 as the rocks forming the walls of the veins contain different salts,
 they would be in opposite electrical conditions, and hence currents
 would be generated and readily transmitted through the fissures,
 and in time the metals would be separated from their solvents and
 deposited in the vein3. But, on the known principles of electro-
 magnetism, Mr. Fox adds, it is evident that such currents would be
 more or less influenced by the magnetism of the earth ; and there
 fore that they would not pass from north to south or from south to
 north as easily as from east to west, but more so than from west to
 east.
     The nuthor then offers some observations relative to the production
 of sulphurels from the decomposition of the metallic sulphates ; and
  explains how fissures, gradually widening, would be successively filled,
 and would account for veins occurring within veins; he offers some
  remarks also on the greater productiveness exhibited at the points
  where veins pass from one formation to another, and is of opinion
  that the fact may be explained by supposing the rock in which the
  vein is productive to have been electro- negative.
     In conclusion Mr. Fox states, that if in other parts of the world
  veins may be found to deviate from an east and west direction much
  more than they do in England, the apparent discrepancy may be ex
  plained by the rocks having yielded more easily in one direction than
  in another, and from a difference in the direction of the magnetic me
  ridian in different countries, as well as from the probability that it has
  varied greatly at different epochs.
                                     2Z2

 388                         'Zoological Society.
                          ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
     April 12.—Mr. Bennett directed the attention of the Meeting to a
living specimen of the brush-tailed Kangaroo, Macropus penicillatus,
Gray, which had recently been added to the Menagerie ; having been
 presented to the Society by Captain Deloitte, Corr. Merub. Z. S.
 He remarked particularly on the peculiarity of its actions, as com
pared with those of the typical Kangaroos ; and especially on the
 ease with which it vaults from the ground to any slight ledge, on
 which it remains perched, as it were, with its tail extended behind
 it : the tail, in fact, appearing to be in no respect aiding in the pro
 gression of the animal.
     Referring to some observations which he had made on the exhi
 bition of a skin of the same species, at the Meeting of the Society
 on January 13, 1835, (Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag. vol. vii. p. 67,)
 he stated it to be his intention to reduce into order his various re
 marks on the subject, and to accompany them by a figure of the
animal taken from the living specimen.
     Mr. Owen read the following notes of the morbid appearances ob
 served in the dissection of the specimen of the Chimpanzee, Simia
 Troglodytes. Linn., which lately died at the Gardens; and respecting
the habits and faculties of which some observations by Mr. Broderip
were read at the Meeting ofthe Society on October 27, 1835. (Lond.
and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. viii. p. 161.*)
     " Adhesions of the abdominal viscera to the parietes of the
 cavity existed in many parts, but more especially of the ascending
colon and caecum on the right side. On separating these adhesions
a purulent cavity was exposed, with which the ileum, near its ter
mination, communicated by an ulcerated aperture about half an
 inch in diameter. An abscess also existed between the lower end of
the caecum and the peritoneum, and the whole of the fundus of the
 caecum was destroyed by ulceration, together with part of the ver
miform process ; the remainder of which was much contracted and
shrivelled, and was found adhering to the sound part of the caecum:
The efficiency of the adhesive process in repairing, or at least pre
venting, the immediate evil consequences of a solution of continuity in
the intestinal parietes, was remarkably exemplified in this instance ;
for notwithstanding the extent to which this had taken place, not
a particle of the alimentary matters had escaped into the general
cavity of the abdomen, nor was the mischief suspected until the ad
hesions were separated.
     " On laying open the ileum it appeared that the original seat of
the ulcer had been a cluster of the aggregated intestinal glands :
similar patches in the immediate neighbourhood were in a state of
ulceration ; and others were enlarged, or more than usually con
spicuous, as they were situated farther from the scat of the disease.
    • An abstract of Mr. Owen's paper on the comparative osteology of the
 Orang and Chimpanzee appeared in Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mug., vol. vi.
p. 457.

                         Zoological Society.                      38'J
In the commencement of the colon, the solitary glands presented
a state of enlargement and ulceration, and here and there an inor
dinate vascularity ; but in the general track of the intestinal canal
traces of recent or active inflammation were very few. The con
dition of the mucous membrane of the intestines closely resembled
that which is so generally observed in phthisical subjects; here,
however, the strumous matter was not developed in the lungs,
but was confined to the mesenteric glands and spleen. All the
mesenteric glands were more or less enlarged by a deposition of
caseous matter : two, which are usually found adhering to the ter
mination of the ileum, were even in a stale of suppuration and ul
ceration, so that the parietes of the gut may have been attacked by
the ulcerative process on both side-,—from without by that com
mencing in the mesenteric glands,—from within by that of the glan-
dulce aggregates : it was most probably, however, progressive from
the latter point.
   " The spleen was greatly enlarged, measuring 5 inches long and
4 broad, with numerous small scattered tubercles, none exceeding
half an inch in diameter. Its substance was firm, but so disorganized
as to enable it to fulfil in a very slight degree the functions of a
reservoir of venous or portal blood.
   " The liver was enlarged about one third beyond its usual size,
and was of a pale colour ; but upon a close inspection it presented no
other morbid appearance than a congested state of the portal veins :
a condition frequently associated with strumous viscera, and which
was very well marked in this case, and perhaps dependent on the
diseased state of the spleen. The gall-bladder contained thick
but healthy-coloured bile.
   " The stomach seemed free from disease ; but had a large perfo
ration, the margins of wheh showed that it had resulted from the
post-mortem action of the gastric secretion.
   "The pancreas was healthy.
   " In the chest there were no adhesions. The heart was healthy.
The lungs were somewhat firmer than usual, and the air-passages
contained an unusual quantity of fluid secretion, in some parts
stained with blood ; but none of the air-cells had been obliterated
by either inflammatory action or strumous deposition : there had,
been recent subacute inflammation of the mucous lining of the
air-passages, but nothing more.
   " No Entozoa were met with in the dissection ; although the ali
mentary canal was carefully searched for them.
   " The brain and its membranes were healthy.
   " With respect to the organization of the Chimpanzee, so far as
the dissection was carried, the parts corresponded with the de
scriptions given by Tyson in his 'Anatomy of a Pygmie' ; and by
Dr. Traill in the ' Wernerian Transactions,' vol. iii.
   " The tunica vaginalis testis, which communicates with the ab
domen in the Simla Satyrus, was here a completely closed or shut
sac, as in the human subject."

890                         Zoological Society.
   " Descriptions of some Species of Shells apparently not hitherto
recorded: by W. J. Broderip, Esq., V.P.Z.S., F.R.S., &c." were
read. The reading of the communication was accompanied by the
exhibition of specimens of the several species referred to in it :
viz.
   Spondylus albidus ; Voluta Beckii and Convinna ; Conus Adam-
      sonii; Purpura Gravesii; and Bulinus Crichtoni, inflatus and
      Pusio.
   The characters, &c, of these shells are given in the " Proceed
ings " of the Society, No. XL,, from which we retain the following :
   Bulinus Crichtoni. Bui. testa fusiformi, longitudinaliter costatd
      et corrugutd, costis rugisque validis, subalbidd maculis spadiceis
      notata ; labio rosaceo-violaceo, labropallidiore, expanse), subreflexo:
      long. 3 (circiter), lat. 1-^ poll.
   Hab. ad Ambo juxta Huanuco Peruvian.
   Mus. Brod.
   This curious shell, which at first sight reminds the observer of
Bulinus Labeo, Brod., (Zool. Journ., vol. iv. p. 222,) brought home
by Lieut. Maw, R.N., and presented by him to the Zoological Society
of London, from whose Museum it has been stolen*, differs strongly
from it, as will be seen by a reference to the figure in the ' Zoolo
gical Journal' which is very accurate, excepting that the longitudinal
lines in the engraving are rather too strongly expressed. The apex
of the shell under description, the only specimem I ever saw, is
broken, and its actual length is 2 inches and -J. It will be observed
that the specimen is notched at the base, but I suspect that this arise*
from accidental distortion.
   April 26.—A Note was read, addressed to the Secretary by J. B.
Harvey, Esq., Corr. Memb. Z.S., and dated Teignmouth, April 24,
 1836. It referred to a series of specimens of Rostellaria Pes Pelicani,
Lam., presented by the writer to the Society, and which he regards as
interesting on account of the evidence afforded by them of the curious
fact, that in the shells of this species the outer lip is most thickened
at a time antecedent to the full development of the shell ; absorption
of the incrassated part of the lip taking place as the animal advances
in age. " This series," Mr. Harvey remarks, " clearly shows that
the shell, when not more than one half or three quarters grown, is
much thicker than when all the processes are perfected : and that,
when each process has a groove or channel in it, the shell is quite
thin, and has arrived at its full period of growth."
   The shells referred to in Mr. Harvey's letter were exhibited.
   Characters were read of the Vespertilionidee observed in the central
region of Nepal ; being a communication transmitted to the Society
by B. H. Hodgson, Esq., Corr. Memb. Z.S. They have already been
published in tine ' Journal of the Asiatic Society of Calcutta', for De
 cember, 1835, vol. iv. p. 699.
   * This certainly was, and I believe (wherever it may be) is, the only ipe-
 cimen in Europe. It was in remarkably fine condition.

                          Zoological Society.                       391
   The following are the species characterized :
   Rhinolophus armiger, Hodgs.
   Rfan. tragatus, Ej.
   Pteroptis leucocephalus, Ej.
    Pter. pyrivorus, Ej .
    Vesprrtilio fomiosa, Ej.
    Vesp. fnliginosa, Ej.
    Vesp. labiata, Ej.
    Mr. Hodgson's characters of these species are accompanied hy re
marks on the habits of the several genera of Bats which are repre
sented by them in the district in which they occur.
    A second communication by Mr. Hodgson was read, which has
also been published in the ' Journal of the Asiatic Society of Cal
cutta' (vol. iv. p. 648.) It was entitled " Specific Name and Cha
racter of a New Species of Cervus, discovered by Mr. Hodgson in
1825, and indicated in his Catalogue by the local name of Bdhraiya."
    The animal to which this paper refers is regarded by Mr. Hodgson
as constituting an important link in the chain of connexion between
the Deer of the Rusan and of the Elaphine groups : possessing in the
numerous snags into which the summit of its horns are divided one
of the principal characteristics of the latter group ; but agreeing
with the former in the absence of any median process on the stem
of the horn, and in the singleness of the basal antler. In stature
and aspect the species is intermediate between Cervus Hippelaphvs,
Cuv., and Cerv. Elaphus, Linn. Its general resemblance to the
latter is indicated in the trivial name assigned to it by Mr. Hodgson,
that of Cerv. Elaphoides.
     It is referred to in his ' Catalogue of the Mammalia of Nepal'
 (Proceedings, part ii. p. 99.) under the name of Cerv. Bahraiya,
 Hodgs.
     Specimens were exhibited of numerous species of British Fishes,
 forming part of the collection of Mr. Yarrell. They consisted of
 dried preparations of rather more than one half of the skin of each
 individual : a mode of preservation peculiarly adapted, as Mr. Yar
 rell remarked, for travellers over land ; specimens so prepared occu
 pying but little space, and being consequently as portable as dried
 plants. An incision is made in the first instance round one side of
 the fish, at a short distance from the dorsal and anal fins, and the
 whole of the viscera and flesh are removed, so as to leave only the
 skin of the other side with the vertical fins attached to it, and with
 rather more than one half of the head : the loose edge of skin left
 from the side in which the incision has been made, is then fastened
 by means of pins to a piece of board, so as to display the entire side
  of the fish which it is intended to preserve, and it is then hung up
  to dry in an airy but shady situation. The more rapidly the drying
  is completed, the more effectually will the colours be preserved. As
  soon as the skin is dried it is varnished ; and the loose edge of the
  skin on that side from whence the operation of removing the flesh
 has been effected is trimmed off with a pair of ' scissors, as being no
 longer useful. The preparation is then completed, and consists of
 the entire skin of one side of the fish, of the vertical fins, and of ra

•3J)2            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
ther more than one half of the head, the latter being important for
the preservation of the vomer, so as to show the absence or presence
of teeth on that bone, and their form. All the essential character*
of the fish are consequently preserved, if care be taken that the skin
be so attached to the board on which it is dried, as to retain its ori
ginal dimensions of length and depth : the due thickness of the fish
 may be secured in the preparation, if it be considered desirable, by
inserting beneath the skin, when extending it on the board, a suffi
cient quantity of prepared horse-hair.
    After explaining the mode which he had adopted in the prepara
tion of the specimens exhibited, Mr. Yarrell made various remarks
on those which he regarded as the most interesting among them ;
and particularly on a series of Trout and Charr from different loca
lities, and varying in colour according to situation, to season, and
also, in some instances, to food.
    He then directed the attention of the Meeting to the specimens of
the British species of Rays which formed part of the collection, and
pointed out particularly the difference, as regards surface, which ob
tains in the sexes of many of these fishes ; the skin of the female
being, in every instance, comparatively smooth. He added also, by
reference to these specimens, and to specimens of the jaws exhibited
for that purpose, an explanation of the differences which exist, in
ad^ilt individuals, in the teeth of the sexes respectively ; those of the
male becoming exceedingly lengthened and pointed, while in the fe
male they retain very nearly their original flattened surface: the form
of the teeth, equally with the armature of the surface, constituting
in these fishes a secondary sexual character, although both the one
 and the other have repeatedly, but erroneously, been considered as
adapted for the establishing of specific distinctions.
           LXV. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                    ehrenbehg's fossil infusoria.
 MDUJARD1N laid before the Philomathic Society of Paris,
        • some of the tripoli or polierschiefer of Bilin in Bohemia, to
 gether with a microscope, bv means of which it could be perceived that
 this tripoli is formed, as M. Brongniart has announced from the infor
 mation of M. Ehrenberg, entirely of the siliceous remains of organized
 bodies
    These bodies, all proceeding from the same living species, appear
 under two different forms : according as they are situated, trans
 versely or perpendicularly, they are minute rings, or rectangles en
 ^c.htlle, with transverse bars corresponding to each ring : some of
 those bodies, viewed obliquely, show well the identity of some with
 others ; they originally formed articulated tubes, perfectly cylindrical,
 from 1 0 to If) thousandths ofa millimetre in size, formed of contiguous
 rings, whose height is less by half, and which each have an extremely
 thin partition, as some broken rings show perfectly well ; but, at the
 present time, we find an analogous structure only in the Dintomse
which are placed by many naturalists in the vegetable kingdom, but

                 Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.               393
which have the shield more or less depressed, and each joint of which,
instead of having a single partition, is closed at the two extremities.
On the other hand, the BaciUaria have a prismatic shield, often
streaked or furrowed, but without real partitions.
    M. Dujardin observes that the greater part of the tripolis in the
mineralogical collections of Paris by no means present this character,
and under the microscope only show grains of silex; and that the same
is the case with regard to the silex of Saint Ouen {silex nectique), as well
as to the schists which envelope the menilite, which some German au
thors had referred to the polierschiefer. It would seem that the tri-
poli or polierschiefer of Bilin, very different from the others, belongs
to a very recent lacustrine deposit. That of Santa Fiora, which is
mentioned in the letter of M. Brongniart as presenting also the cha
racter specified by M. Ehrenberg, seems also to be the product of a
deposit of recent formation, which M. Dufrenoy considers as probably
presenting some analogy with the siliceous deposits of the Geyser.—
SocUU Philomathique de Paris, July 1 6. L'lnslitut, No. 168.
  ECLIPSE OF MAY 15,
METEOROLOGICAL               1836, AT GREENWICH,
                           OBSERVATIONS     MADE DURING         W. R. SOLAR
                                                       BY MR. THE     BIRT.
  h     m
 11    15    Howard's fair-weather cumulus, forming on the vapour
                plane; motion N. by E. As the masses passed over the
                river they were seen to break into smaller patches, and
                the thinnest dissolved.
         Obiervatory Vane.
 12 30 due E.                The cumuli are now prevalent.
  3 0 N.E.                   Cumuli still prevalent, their motion being
                               N.W. Considerable diminution of light.
                               White glare in irregular patches noticed
                               round the sun, and filling a circular space of
                               about 40° in diameter.
  3 10 S.E.                 White glare more evenly dispersed ; at this
                               time the wind suddenly shifted to S.E. and
                               more white glare formed in irregular
                               patches. Venus was now perceptible, and
                               continued visible for about half an hour.
                              The cumuli less numerous.
   3 20                     White glare more evenly dispersed; the cu
                               muli confined to a space of 40° round the
                               sun, except a large mass to the S.W. under
                               the sun.
   3 30 S.E.byS. White glare still filling a space of 40°. A few
                              masses of very thin cumuli before the sun.
                               Motion N.W.
   3 45                     White glare not estimable.
   4 0                      Cumulus augmenting in the S.W.
   4 10                     Cumuli nearly gone.
   4 15                     Breeze freshening.
   4 20 S.E.
   4 35 S.S.E.
   5          SE
  Third Series. Vol. 9. No. 55. Nov. 1836.                     3A

 39,*         Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
    During the latter part of the eclipse, from 3 p.m., the upper cur
 rent was steadily from the N.W. The most interesting portion of
 the observations is that relating to the white glare, which was evi
 dently due to the diminution of heat. A beautiful stratum of cirro-
 cumulus passed over between[8 and 9 in the evening. I was not able
 to observe its motion. The white glare was very prevalent during
the morning and forenoon, but the atmosphere was quite clear at
the commencement of the eclipse.
    The above observations may be divided into four portions, namely,
 those previous to the commencement of the eclipse ; 2nd, from this
 time to 3 hours ; 3rd, between 3 hours and 3 hours 45 minutes ; and
 lastly, those taken after that period. The first period was charac
 terized by considerable haziness in the atmosphere, which was the
 only modification of cloud observed until 1 1 hours 15 minutes, when
cumulus began to form the haze; then gradually diminished as the
cumuli increased, and when the eclipse commenced the sky was
free from haze, but much diversified with cumuli, which were very
prevalent, their motion being north by east, while the lower current
was due east.
    The second portion was characterized by the prevalence of cu
mulus, with an otherwise clear sky. The third portion was the most
interesting, as the effect of the eclipse on the state of the atmo
sphere was now exhibited. The most striking feature consisted in the
production of a white haziness that filled a space around the sun of
about 40 degrees in diameter; this was first noticed at 3 p.m., and
appeared evidently due to the diminution of temperature occasioned
by the interposition of the moon. I have used the term white glare,
by which Sir John Herschel designates the hazy appearance observed
around the sun in his observations of the summer solstice, December
21 and 22, at the Cape, inserted in the Athenaeum of May 14th. This
appearance continued visible until 3 hours 45 minutes, so that it dis
appeared about the same time after the greatest obscuration as it
appeared previous to it : at the commencement of this portion of the
observations the lower current was north-east, the upper current
having varied to north-west ; during it the lower current changed to
south-east, but the clouds kept moving steadily from north-west.
Another interesting feature at this time was the clearing of the at
mosphere of clouds, similar to that which takes place on a fine sum
mer's evening after a fine day similar to the present, when the fair-
weather cumulus alone is observed : as the temperature declines, less
moisture is exhaled from the surface, consequently no more cumuli
are formed, and a clear evening follows. A precisely similar phae-
nomenon was observed on the present occasion, but at a much earlier
period : this was also probably due to the diminution of temperature.
Nothing occurred to mark the fourth period, except a beautiful
stratum of cirro-cumulus, the largest variety which was noticed : be
tween eight and nine in the evening it passed over rapidly ; I did
not particularly observe its motion, but it was from the western ho
rizon.

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.               395
             ON A NEW SPECIES OF ACETATE OF COPPER.
   M. F. Wohler lias found that the neutral acetate of copper will com
bine with another proportion of water than that which is contained
in the common crystallized verdigris. This new salt is interesting
in many respects : it forms large, beautiful, transparent crystals, of
the same shade of blue as sulphate of copper, which at once serves
to show that a difference exists between it and the common neutral
acetate. When a crystal of this salt is heated to about 90° Fahr.
it soon becomes opake and green like verdigris, without changing
its exterior form, but by slight pressure is converted into a mass
of small crystals of verdigris. This transformation is immedi
ately perceived by throwing a crystal into warm water, and the
slower a crystal is heated the larger and more distinct are the small
crystals of verdigris into which it is changed. This phenomenon
exactly resembles the known changes of form which take place with
out change of composition, which have been observed in sulphate of
magnesia, sulphate of zinc, &c, and it is for this reason that this salt
of copper deserves attention ; for it shows that in phenomena of this
kind we ought to be careful to distinguish between those cases in which
chunge of form occurs without change of composition, and those
in which the one is the cause of the other. The preceding phenome
non belongs to the latter class ; for the change of colour and form is
connected with the separation of four fifths of the water of crystalli
zation of this salt. This latter modification does not occur when
the crystal remains entire and is become pseudomorphous, for the
disengaged water remains inclosed between the new formation of
small crystals ; and for the same reason, immediate analysis would
show the same proportion of water to exist in it, as in the modified
crystal. This circumstance might easily be overlooked, for when a
crystal changed to green is exposed to the air, it gradually parts
with the interposed water ; this quantity of water, although in itself
small, may be detected by pressing one of the transformed crystals
between blotting-paper, which will become damp, from the interposed
water retained between the new formation of the small crystals of
common verdigris. The quantity of water which the blue salt loses
by its conversion into the green is 26-48 per cent. ; this is four times
as much as that which is still retained by the resulting green salt,
that is, the common crystallized verdigris. Thus the blue salt con
tains 33- 1 1 per cent., or 5 equivalents of water ; it is very easily pre
pared by dissolving verdigris in warm, but not boiling, water acidu
lated with acetic acid, and crystallizing the solution.—Journ. de Phwt-
tnaaie, July 1 836.
         FACTS RELATIVE TO THE HISTORY OF jETHER.
   Some time ago M. Liebig was led, from the results of an analysis
of phosphovinate of barytes, to consider the acid of this salt as a com
bination of phosphoric acid and aether. A similar composition would
naturally be assigned to the sulphovinates, but the experiments which
were made to verify this supposition served only to show that by the

 396             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 suffering
aid            this class of salts
      of heatdecomposition.     Herelosttheamatter
                                              portion
                                                   rested, until water
                                                       of their         without
                                                                  M. Marchand
 discovered that the sulphovinate3 lose their water, with extreme faci
 lity, at ordinary temperatures, when placed over sulphuric acid in va
 cuo. It follows from his experiments that the sulphovinates of lime,
 barytes, and soda may be represented by the following formula :
               2 So' + Ba O (Ca O, NaO) + E O + 2 Aq.
And that, if we abstract, by means of the air-pump, the two equiva
lents of water which they contain, we then obtain a salt which is com
posed of 2 eqs. of sulphuric acid, 1 eq. of base, and 1 eq. of aether.
    M. Liebig has
 Sulphovinate         repeated
                  of potash doesthenot
                                     experiments
                                         contain anyofwater of crystallization.
                                                       M. Marchand     to verify
iheir important results and to confirm them in a more complete man
ner ; but he does not admit the doubt that this chemist has raised, as
to the formation of alcohol, when sulphovinate of potash is distilled
with quicklime. This formation, which M. Mitscherlich has noticed in
 his treatise, is not only, he says, an accurate fact, but there is produced
at the same time the oil of wine and combined hydrogen (I'hydrogene
 combine) of Serullas. Thus, if we mix sulphovinate of potash with
hydrate of lime and expose it to a heat of not above 392° Fahr., we
 only obtain alcohol, and the mixture does not blacken ; but if we use
quicklime instead of its hydrate, distillation affords a liquid from
which, when mixed with water, sulphate of oil of wine is precipitated ;
and if from the beginning a strong heat has been applied, the mixture
blackens, and there is defiant gas obtained along with the alcohol
and sulphate of oil of wine. The formation of the alcohol is easily
explained by the composition of sulphate of oil of wine : this sub
stance consists of 2 eqs. of sulphuric acid, besides 8C + 18H+0;
and by adding to this formula an equivalent of alcohol, 4 C+ 12
H+20, we obtain 12 C + 30 H + 3 O, that is to say, 3 eqs. of
aether. At the close of this investigation, M. Liebig relates the two
following experiments, which are remarkable for their elegance.
When a mixture of five parts of sulphovinate of lime and one part of
acetic acid — such as is obtained from dry acetate of lead and sul
phuric acid—is distilled with a gentle heat, a large quantity of pure
acetic aether is obtained. By distilling five parts of sulphovinate of
potash with five parts of sulphuric acid diluted with one part of water,
we obtain perfectly pure aether. Pure acetic aether is also procured
by heating concentrated phosphovinic acid with acetate of potash.—
Journ.de Pharmacie, t'ev. 1836.
                           HAS HEAT WEIGHT ?
       To the Editors of the Phil. Mag. and Journal of Science.
       Gentlemen,
    The question, " Has heat weight ?" has been long matter of dis
pute, and it is not easy to answer those who contend, that if its
weight be in the same ratio to that of hydrogen, as that is to the

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.            597
  weight of platina, the most delicate balance would not turn with so
  light a load ; besides, they would argue, there are many sources of
  minute error, which prevent the delicate experiment of ascertaining
  the supposed no change of weight, with change of heat, being de
  cisive ; such as change of length of the arm of the balance, change
  in the specific gravity of the body heated or cooled, and other
  errors the exact amount of which cannot be ascertained. The same
  objection may be urged against the apparently decisive conclusion,
  derived from the fact that when given weights of hydrogen and
  oxygen are combined by combustion, the weight of the water is
  equal to the sum of the weights of the elements though very in
  tense heat is produced during the combination. It must, 1 tnink,
  be acknowledged that human experiment proves nothing more than
  that if there be any gravitating force it is extremely small. But
  nature tries the experiment for us on a scale of magnificence,
  which we may in vain attempt to imitate, for if heat have weight
  it must necessarily when in motion have momentum ; and if the
  velocity of radiant heat from the sun be equal to that of light,
  some momentum should be discoverable. But granting that the
  momentum is too small in amount to show itself on the small scale,
  it would be sure, did it exist at all, to increase the period of revo
  lution of the planets. It has been proved that the planets revolve
  at such distances from the sun, and with such velocities, as that
  the centrifugal and attractive forces shall be equal, if the later
  force be inversely as the square of the distance. But if heat had
  any momentum, its particles, acting upon such large masses as the
  planets, must produce an evident effect by increasing their distances
  and periodic times. Now these are not increased ; there can then be
  no centrifugal force from this cause, heat can have no momentum,
  and therefore no weight.
     If it be objected to this conclusion that the ratio of attraction
  has been over-estimated, that it is sufficiently powerful to balance
  both the tangential force of revolution and the centrifugal force of
  the momentum of radiant heat ; I answer that this supposition, vio
  lent as it is, would not remove the difficulty unless all the planets
  were of the same size and mass, or unless the sectional area of all
  were proportionate to the mass.
     The densitv, or rather rarity, of the resisting medium which has
  accelerated Encke's comet, has not been ascertained, but it can
  hardly be such as to counterbalance the supposed centrifugal
, momentum of heat ; for if the density be uniform, then the velocity
* of the planets through it should be proportionate to the decrease
  of the rays of heat, that is, inversely as the square of the distance
  from the sun. If the density be inversely as the square of the di
  stance (supposing the medium analogous to an atmosphere), the ve
  locity of the planets through it should be uniform : neither being
  in accordance with facts.         Yours, &c.
     Manchester, Aug. 13, 1836.                       P. W. Holland.

 398          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
  dr. Hudson's reply to dr. apjohn's paper inserted in
        the philosophical magazine for september.
   In the course of September last we received from Dr. H. Hudson
a reply, dated Stephen's Green, Dublin, 10th September 1886, to
 Dr. Apjohn's paper inserted in our Number for that month, accom
panied by a private note addressed " To the Editors of the Philoso
phical Magazine," and dated September 12th, requesting the inser
tion of the reply. We acknowledged the receipt of Dr. Hudson's
 communication in the notice " To Correspondents" on the wrapper
 of our last Number, for October, staling it to be " under considera
tion". Having now given it full consideration, we regret that
from the very personal form which the controversy between Dr.
 Hudson and Dr. Apjohn has now, perhaps unavoidably, assumed,
we feel called upon to terminate the discussion in our pages. We
have no intention whatever, in doing this at the present juncture,
to express any opinion on the merits of the subject ; but were Dr.
 Hudson's reply to be inserted, Dr. Apjohn would have an equal
claim to the publication of his rejoinder, and a controversy, in
which nothing would be added to the progress of science, (for the
points in dispute do not involve any principles which have not al
ready been fully explained in the original papers), might be conti
nued indefinitely, or we might be compelled to close it at some fu
ture stage. Dr. Hudson, however, is entitled to the most explicit
record of the promptitude of his reply, and of his contradiction of
Dr. Apjohn's statements, on which account we have noted above the
 reception and date of his communication, and also inserted the pre
 sent paragraph.—Edit.
             FUS ELI'S PORTRAIT OF PRIESTLEY.
   It is not generally known that a portrait exists of Dr. Priestley,
painted, when he was about fifty, by the celebrated Fuseli, which de
rives a value, not only from the interest of the subject, but from the
faithfulness of the resemblance and the spirit and excellence of the
execution ; as well as from the circumstance of its being almost the
only portrait which the celebrated artist is known to have painted.
That his powers were zeaiously employed on this picture may be in
ferred from the circumstance that it was undertaken at his own
particular request, and presented to the common friend at whose house
they occasionally met, Mr. Johnson, the Bookseller, St. Paul's Church
yard, after whose death it was removed to the Library in Redcross
Street.
   Mr. Turner has been for some time employed upon this portrait, and
has produced
men   who haveanentered
                  excellent
                         intoengraving
                               a subscription              purpose.of gentle-,
                                        from it,forforthea number     He has
succeeded in giving to this print, which is a very faithful copy of the

                         Meteorological Observations.                             399
 picture, a powerful and pleasing effect; and the size is conveniently
 adapted either for the cabinet or the folio.
    Subscribers' names are received by Mr. Richard Taylor, at the Office
 of the Philosophical Magazine, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, where
 the copies (Proofs) will be delivered on application.
    A very few Proofs have been taken be/ore the letters for those who
 may be desirous of possessing them.
 SCIENTIFIC MEMOIRS, selected from the Transactions of Fo
        reign Academies of Science, and from Foreign Journals.
                       Part II., just published, contains
    Researches relative to the Insects, known to the Ancients and
 Moderns, by which the Vine is infested, and on the Means of pre
venting their Ravages. By M. le Baron Walckenaer, Hon. Memb.
 of the Entomological Society of France.
   The Kingdoms of Nature, their Life and Affinity. By Dr. C. G.
Cams, Physician to His Majesty the King of Saxony.
   Researches on the Elasticity of Bodies which Crystallize regularly.
By Felix Savart.
   Researches concerning the Nature of the Bleaching Compounds of
 Chlorine. By J. A. Balard.
    On the Laws of Conducting Powers of Wires of different Lengths
and Diameters for Electricity. By E. Lenz.
    Memoir on the Polarization of Heat. By M. Melloni.
    METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS FOR SEPTEMBER 1836.
   Chiswick.—Sept. 1. Very fine.           2. Overcast: stormy showers: clear and
cold.      3. Fine.      4. Rain : fine. 5. Cloudy : very fine.           6. Stormy
 showers.      7. Fine, but cool. 8. Very fine. 9. Overcast : cloudy : rain
at night. 10. Fine. 1 1. Cloudy: stormy at night. 12. Stormy showers:
clear and windy at night.          13. Cloudy and cold: boisterous.         14. Cold
haze: fine.        IS. Fine.        16. Showery.       17. Fine: thunder showers.
18—20. Cloudy, and fine. 21. Cold and damp: fine. 22. Foggy: very
fine. 23. Stormy and wet. 24, 25. Fine. 26, 27. Hazy : fine. 28. Clear :
heavy showers : fine.        29. Rain.       30. Clear and cool : stormy showers.
The summer, late in commencing as regards temperature, may be said to
have terminated with the beginning of this month. The temperature
falling so early and abruptly was confidently expected to remain only tem
porarily depressed ; but such expectations have been disappointed.
   Boston.—Sept. 1. Fine.               2. Cloudy: rain early a.m.: rain a.m.
3. Fine. 4. Rain : rain p.m.           5. Cloudy : rain early a.m.      6. Cloudy :
rain early a.m. : rain p.m.       7. Cloudy : rain p.m.       8. Fine.       9. Rain.
10. Cloudy: rain early a.m. : rain p.m. 1 1. Cloudy : rain p.m. 13. Stormy.
IS. Rain. 14. Cloudy): rain early a.m.: rain p.m. 15. Cloudy. 1G. Cloudy,
rain early a.m. : rain p.m.         17. Cloudy.        18. Fine.       19. Cloudy:
20. Cloudy: rain p.m.          81. Fine : rain p.m.          22. Cloudy ; rain p.m.
S3—25. Fine.          26. Cloudy.          27. Cloudy : rain p.m.      28 . Cloudy.
29. Cloudy : rain p.m.        so. Cloudy.

    Society
    OMat
the
Gby
 Mr.
 ATSof
    Royal
      tab-HespOrUci;
    made           aoMdtrvPaeotSlmnitOoeNlgnatirctyal                                    Dew-point. LRoy.  Soc.o:ud. Fdofeaghre.s
                                                                                                                           Ain9.M.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      52-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                              57 57 52 55 54 54 52 53 53 50 46 50 51 52 52 51 50 52 48 48 45 43 52 54 55 57 59 57 51 49
                                                                                                                          Boston.                                                                   ;09                                                                        :14 02                                                                 2-38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              05 05
                                                                                                                                                   •05 •15 •38 •12 •02 •07 •02                               •07 •22                      •06 •21 •30 . .                                •28 . . . . . .                         .•03 •05
                                                                                         Rain.                         Chisw.                 01                      16 70                   :38 :08                                           0406                         08                              «• . .                                    3-81
                                                                                                                                                    •22 •45 •14                                                      •02 •01 •01 •02                                .. ..                 ¦08 •22                            •04 •52 •33 •24
                                                                                                        Lo:ndon Roy.   Soc.
                                                                                                                                    A9.M.                                     091                                                  022                  088                                   044                                047                  Sum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2773
                                                      HBand
                                                      Society
                                                      VeaLL
                                                     Mr. by
                                                        LCoat
                                                           rhotisnctuiedloutainrca.lk;,                                                                     I69 •463 •113 ¦158                        •272 •050 •122                                          •141                •091                  •161 . .                      •486 ¦255
                                                                                                                            Boat.             aimi calm calm calm NW. w. calm calm calm calm NE. ME. calm calm v. NE.                                                                                                calm calm w. calm calm
                                                                                                                                                                                                              w.                       E.                                M. W. X. w. w. w. w.
                                                                                                                         Chi w. P1.M.
                                                                                        Wind.                                                  sw. sw. s. s. w. sw. N. sw. sw. w. w. M. M. N. ME. ME. NE. ME. W. w. w. s. sw. sw. w. s. sw. s. sw. w.
                                                                                                      Lo:ndon Roy.    Soc.                           vsw.ar.           sw.var. vsaer.                                                           ne.var.                                         sw.var.
                                                                                                                                  A9.M.                       s. sw.                   NW. WNW. s w. WNW. wsw. NE. KNE. N E. ME.                          MI. MNE. MW. W. W. w.                           wsw. sw. s w. s w. s w. N E. WSW.
                                                                                                                                               sw.
                                                                                                                   Boston. 8J   A.M.                                                  535 53-5 48-5                                                                                            58-5                  61-5              52-5            549
                                                                                                                                              61 56 54 57 55 55 55 49 56 54 55 56 55 58 56 51 50 44 58 58 58 62 55 51
                                                                                                                   Chiswirk. Min. 50 38 48 51 47 48 46 47 39 39 49 51 48 44 48 44 49 46 43 35 32 49 53 52 57 56 48 49 43 34                                                                                                                           32
                                                                                        Thermo et r.                                     Max. 72 67 68 70 65 64 63 66 63 60 61 57 59 61 64 65 64 58 61 60 53 62 63 70 68 7366 62 59 55                                                                                                                72
                                                                                                       Roy.
                                                                                                       lSoc.x>:ndon                      Max. 69-6 635 64-2 68-0 62-5 617 60-5 63-6 62-5 56-8 56-7 57-2 58-3 590 60-2 58-4 60-6 58-5 58-2 590 52-3 57-8 63-2 66-4 667 67-9 65-2 626 58-9 54-6                                                         61-2
                                                                                                                                         Min. 56-2 544 469 540 535 50-9 517 520 51-9 465 42-4 495 517 48-4 47                              4 500 495 50-5 48-3 487 42-6 407 467 539 539 579 58-6 52-2 51-9 46-6                                        50-3
                                                                                                                                 Fahr. A9.M. 664 29-29720 57-1 61-8 56-4 56-3 53-7 559 570 536 506 54-5 55-8 55-8 55-2 53-7 56-4 548 51-9 516 48-4 47-4 57-8 600 599 60-4 62-3 58-6 54-4 52-5
                                                                                                                                                    60-3
                                                                                                                                                    10                                                                                                                                                                                                560
                                                                                                                   Roiton. A.M.»4             14 29
                                                                                                                                              29-            37 28-85 28-84 2871 2902 18          29- 29-27 2943 2947 29-52 2964 62        29 2954 29-50 29472958 2943 6029 29-33 29482948 2950 29-47 29-                    11 2900 28-72 2877        29-27
                                                                                                                                                                                           2g-21
                                                                                                                                              29775 29-639 2937229538 29-303 61       1 29-738
                                                                                                                                                                                      29   29780              30-025 3002.3
                                                                                                                                                                                           29-784 29730 29773 30026
                                                                                                                                                                                                              29
                                                                                                                                                                                                              919     30 30078
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      00230091 11 30121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               30005
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               30-1  150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30 3163
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0-153 30073
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           170
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           30-            30077 29-985 29962 146
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30082                    30- 30-179 29937 29999 30-  154 29-930 29746 29-546 29270 29-406    29270
                                                                                                                                        Min.
                                                                                         Barometer.               rhtswirk                                                                                                                                                   Q9902
                                                                                                                                              29921 29-929 29939 2947229-65829-47629-785 29895 29924                                            30075 30030 29-982
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                30092
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                30-12H                                    3028830038 162                                        29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           30- 30-205 30-126 2986629-684 29-480 611     30-288
                                                                                                                                        Max.                                                                                                                                 30O18
                                                                                                            I.n:li. i Soc.Roy.A9.M. 29-81629768 2995929-386 29-560 29-360 29641 29746 792               29                                                       30002 29974 29989 30277 29-958 152       30- 30-178 14429-83729683
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      30-               29-272 29-426  29-877
                                                                                                ofDaysMonth.                                                                                                    i.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               i9
                                                                                                                            1836. Sept. 1.     Tli.                                         Tb.
                                                                                                                                                                                            8.                                             15.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Th.                                             22.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Th.
                                                                                                                                                     F.
                                                                                                                                                     2.C 3.   S. 4O- 5. M. 6.   T. W.  7. 9.       F. 10.S. 12.       M. T.    13. W.14. 16.     F. S.    17. 19.       M. T.20. 15230- F.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    21.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    30260
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W.          23. S24.  O. O  25. M.26. T.      \V. T.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             27. 28.    29.F.   30.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1©

                                THE
               LONDON and EDINBURGH
PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                AND
         JOURNAL                 OF       SCIENCE.
                       [THIRD SERIES.]
                    DECEMBER 1836.
     LXXVI. Facts relating to Optical Science.       No. IV.
                  By H. F. Talbot, Esq., F.R.S*
          § 1. Experiments on the Interference of Light.
 A LTHOUGH so much has been explained in optical sci-
**¦ ence by the aid of the undulatory hypothesis, yet when
any •well-marked phcenomena occur which present unexpected
peculiarities, it may be of importance to describe them, for the
sake of comparison with the theory.
   Such appears to me to be the case with those which I am
about to mention, in which, by means of a remarkable
compensation of some kind or other, common solar light ap
pears to play the part of homogeneous light, and to achroma
tize itself, if I may use such an expression, in a very high de
gree of perfection.
   Sir William Herschel was, I believe, the first who took
notice of the very beautiful coloured bands which are seen
by looking through two prisms placed in contact. Thus, let
A B C, A D C be two equal right-angled glass prisms in con
tact. We will suppose the sides A B, B C to be equal, and
the thickness of the prisms to be equal to A B, in which case
the combination of the two will form a cube. Let the two
prisms be gently pressed together by their face A C, which
must be previously well cleaned from any adhering dust, and
                     * Comniiinicnted by the Author.
    TJiird Series. Vol.9. No. 56. Dec. 1836.          SB

 402     Mr. Talbot's Facts relating to Optical Science.
 let them be fixed firmly in this position. Then if the observer
 looks through the cube at a bright
 white object, or at the sky, he will
 see a number of coloured parallel
 bands, the direction of vision be
 ing supposed to be perpendicu
 larly through two opposite sides,
 as A B, C D. If instead of this
 he looks through A B at a light
 coming from the direction X X
 and then reflected internally on
 the face A C, he will again see
 numerous coloured bands upon
 A C, but these will be comple
 mentary in their tints to the former
 ones. These coloured bands are analogous in their nature to
 Newton's rings, differing only in being formed between two
 •plane surfaces either parallel or very nearly so, and viewed
 by the observer at an incidence of 45°.
    But the beauty of the appearances may be surprisingly in
creased by transporting the apparatus into a dark chamber,
and suffering a single pencil of the brightest solar light to pass
through the prism, or to be reflected from the face A C. If
then a sheet of white paper be held up, at any distance from
the prism, the coloured bands are depicted upon it with the
greatest vivacity and distinctness. The transmitted bands
have altogether a different character from the reflected ones,
so that it is impossible to mistake one for the other, even with
out reference to the path of the ray.
    This experiment, easily tried, is one of the most beautiful
in optical science; I shall not, however, dwell upon it, be
cause I believe it is sufficiently well known, and that it has
been exhibited in some public lectures.
    Now, in making this experiment with care, I have observed
some remarkable circumstances.
    The coloured bands are not, as has been supposed, isochro-
matic lines. The deviation is sometimes very marked, so that
a band in the course of its progress acquires very different
tints from those which it possessed originally. This lact may
be considered of some importance with respect to the theory.
It takes place when the prisms are in close contact, and the
bands few in number. But the following is still more deserv
ing of attention. When the contact of the prisms is diminished
by interposing a hair between them, (still pressing them to
gether,) the coloured bands depicted upon the paper, become
more numerous, narrow and crowded. Frequently they alter

           Mr. Talbot's Facts relating to Optical Science.   409
nate a great number of times with two complementary colours.
This appeared to me so remarkable that I repeated the ex
periment with additional care. The radiant point of solar
light was made smaller, by transmitting the ray through a
lens of short focus, and the position of the combined prisms
was slowly altered by turning them round on their centre.
The appearance of the bands on the paper was all the time
carefully noted. I soon found a position of the prisms in which
the remarkable phenomenon occurred of a complete compen
sation of colour : that is to say, that the bands were black and
white. At the same time they were become exceedingly nar
row and numerous. A friend, who had the kindness to count
the lines, found one hundred and ten of them in the space of
two inches. On another occasion they were evidently much
closer, so that we estimated their number at two hundred in
the same space of two inches. The aid of a lens was requisite
to see them distinctly. They resembled more than anything
else the closely-ruled parallel lines by which shadows are pro
duced in some kinds of engraving, and which are often em
ployed in maps to represent the sea.
    Now, it requires in ordinary circumstances the employ
ment of very homogeneous light, in order to produce bands
anything like these in number and distinctness. In the pre
sent instance, on the contrary, common solar light was em
 ployed. The result therefore is quite unexpected, and it will
 be interesting to learn in what manner it is explained by
 theory.
    These bands are best seen in the light reflected from the
 face A C. And since the reflected ray does not enter the
 prism A D C at all, it cannot matter, I think, of what kind
 of glass it is composed. With respect to the other prism,
 it appeared to me that the experiment succeeded equally well
 whether it were of crown or of flint glass.
                 § 2. Experiments on Diffraction.
    In the original experiments of Grimaldi and Newton the
 diffracted images of objects were merely received on screens of
 white paper, by which method a great part of their brightness
 was necessarily lost. Fraunhofer first introduced the use of
 the telescope in these observations ; and Fresnel, I believe,
 that of the lens or microscope. Both these were very great
 improvements, though of an opposite character, and have
 caused the discovery of numerous most curious phenomena.
     In order to see these appearances in their perfection, it is
 requisite to have a dark chamber and a radiant point of in
 tense solar light, which, for the sake of convenience, should
                                3 B2

40*          Mr. Talbot's Fads relating to Optical Science.
be reflected horizontally by a mirror. I will relate a few, out
of several experiments which were made in this manner.
    1 . About ten or twenty feet from the radiant point, I placed
in the path of the ray an equidistant grating* made by Fraun-
hofer, with its lines vertical. I then viewed the light which
had passed through this grating with a lens of considerable
magnifying power. The appearance was very curious, being
a regular alternation of numerous lines or bands of red and
green colour, having their direction parallel to the lines of the
grating. On removing the lens a little further from the
grating, the bands gradually changed their colours, and be
came alternately blue and yellow. When the lens was a little
 more removed, the bands again became red and green. And
 this change continued to take place for an indefinite number of
times, as the distance between the lens and grating increased.
In all cases the bands exhibited two complementary colours.
    It was very curious to observe that though the grating was
greatly out of the focus of the lens, yet the appearance of the
bands was perfectly distinct and well defined.
    This however only happens when the radiant point has a
very small apparent diameter, in which case the distance of the
lens may be increased even to one or two feet from the grating
without much impairing the beauty and distinctness of the
coloured bands. So that if the source of light were a mere
mathematical point it appears possible that this distance might
be increased without limit; or that the disturbance in the lu
minous undulations caused by the interposition of the grat
ing, continues indefinitely, and has no tendency to subside of
itself.
    2. Another grating was then placed at right angles to the
first, and the light transmitted through both was examined by
the lens. The appearance now resembled a tissue woven with
red and green threads. It seemed exactly as if each colour
disappeared alternately behind the other. An alteration in
the distance of the lens, altered the tints of the two comple
mentary colours.
    3. A plate of copper pierced with small circular holes of
equal diameter and in regular rows, was substituted for the
gratings.by When
divided        coloured thislines
                              plateorwas
                                       bars.
                                          held When       the lensto was
                                                perpendicular              ap
                                                                      the ray,
                                  with gold-leaf,
   • A plate of glass covered pattern              on which
                                           consisting         several
                                                          of rows       circles
                                                                    of hundred
proached to the plate, there was a particular distance between
them at which there appeared in the centre of each circle a
parallel lines are cut, in order to transmit the light.at equal intervals.

           Mr. Talbot's Fads relating to Optical Science.     10$
black spot, as small and well defined in appearance as a full
point in a printed book, being a curious instance of the well-
known fact, of the interference of rays of light producing
darkness. This black spot was seen in all the circles at once,
in consequence of their having equal diameters.
   4. When the copper-plate was placed obliquely and held
in various positions, a great variety of very singular patterns
were displayed, which can be compared to nothing so well as
to tissues woven with threads of various colours. It would be
impossible to describe these, any more than the ever-changing
figures of the kaleidoscope. They seem to vary ad infinitum,
and in whatever position the plate is placed, they appear al
ways as distinct as if they were in the focus of the lens.
    5. In most optical experiments it is essential that vision
should be performed along the axis of the lenses which are
employed, or very nearly so. But in these experiments this
singularity occurs, that the lens may be placed in any posi
 tion ; so that when held even very obliquely the only effect is a
considerable alteration in the pattern, which in other respects
 remains as distinct to the eye as before. The experiments
hitherto related, are some which 1 had the pleasure of show
 ing to some distinguished members of the British Association
 a short time previously to the late meeting at Bristol ; and are
communicated in the hope that they may prove interesting to
 the cultivators of optical science.
        § 3. Remarkable Property of the Iodide of Lead.
    This substance possesses a property of a singular nature,
 which I believe differs from anything previously described ;
 or if it is reducible to known laws of chemical and molecular
 action, offers at least a very striking and beautiful example of
 them.
    If a solution of acetate of lead is mixed with a saturated
 solution of hydriodate of potash, and the mixture well stirred,
 the iodide of lead which is formed in abundance, though at
 first yellow, speedily grows pale, and afterwards becomes
 perfectly white. If a small quantity of this is taken when
 freshly made and moist, and squeezed between two plates of
 glass, it may be seen by the help of a microscope to be en
 tirely composed of very delicate capillary crystals; and if in
 this state it be laid aside, I do not find that it undergoes any
 change after being kept several months.
     But if, while fresh, it be warmed over a spirit-lamp, it sud
 denly turns yellow, the first impression of the heat being suf
 ficient to produce that effect. As soon as this happens, it
 should be removed from the lamp and again examined with

40G        Mr. Talbot's Fads relating to Optical Science.
the microscope, and it will be seen, net only that the colour
is changed, but that all trace of the white capillary crystals
has vanished, and instead of them the field of view of the
microscope is covered with an assemblage of transparent yel
low crystals which are in shape thin flat regular hexagons.
   But after a few minutes, as the plates of glass grow cool,
the white colour returns as before, and the microscope now
shows again a multitude of white capillary crystals, the hexa
gonal ones having in their turn entirely disappeared.
   The singularity of this change, which may be repeated
several times,— the remarkable fact of being able to view
the same substance, alternately of two different colours, and
with different forms belonging to those colours, induced me
to endeavour to see in what manner such a singular meta
morphosis took place. I therefore took the plates of glass
when cold and adjusted the microscope upon one of the ca
pillary crystals contained in them. It looked, when much
magnified, like a cylindrical thread of glass, of a clear white
colour and transparent. I then, without deranging the ad
justment, placed a small spirit-lamp beneath the glass, at a
moderate distance, and watched the effects of the heat. Af
ter a short time I observed the cylindrical thread shrink in
diameter, and at the same moment the axis of the cylinder split
open, and a yellow crystalline plate protruded itself through
the opening, increasing in size every moment, while the re
mainder of the white crystal quickly dissolved and disappeared.
This happened at several points of the axis of the cylinder,
so that when the change was complete, the yellow hexagons
were not unfrequently found arranged in a row or straight
line indicating the position of the former crystal. When the
heat is more suddenly applied, the dissolution of the white
crystal is proportionably more rapid, and the yellow hexagons
start into existence before the observer's eye with a sudden
ness which is very surprising, and increase so rapidly as to
triple or quadruple their diameter in a second of time, pre
serving all the time the exact figure of the regular hexagon.
Most of them are of a full yellow tint, but some are of a
greenish yellow, and some of a peculiar light brown, which
variety ol tint appears a circumstance worthy of remark, but
I do not know upon what cause it can depend.
   There is something in this experiment which is very pe
culiar. We are accustomed to see salts dissolved or melted
by heat ; or if they are of an insoluble nature, at any rate
they remain inert and passive when heated.
   But here we have a salt which crystallizes when heated, and
the more rapidly the greater the heat. I have described the

          On the Carboniferous Scries of the United States.              407
manner of change of this substance from its white to its yellow
crystalline form. And the following is nearly what happened
during its return to its former state.
     When it cools, the white crystals begin to shoot, and if
the microscope is adjusted upon one of the yellow hexagons,
it is seen to remain quiet and undisturbed until one of the
white needles, which elongate rapidly, passes near it. But
when the needle passes it, even at what appears in the micro
scope a considerable distance, the hexagon becomes corroded
on its edges, and then breaks up irregularly, and quickly dis
 solves.
     I observed that when a needle, during its growth, happened
 to strike a hexagon, this seemed to check it for an instant,
 and then it subdivided itself into a number of ramifications
 or smaller needles which diverged from that point; es if the
 force (probably of an electrical nature) which caused the
 growth or formation of the needle-crystal had been deranged
 or subverted by the disturbing influences which it had met
 with.
     The change from the white to the yellow form may be re
 peated four or five times; but when too much water has been
 evaporated by the heat, it ceases to occur. The white cry
 stals then merely dissolve when heated, without the formation
 of the yellow ones.
     Remarks. — Are the white and yellow crystals identically the
 same substance, assuming different forms at different degrees
 of temperature? Is this a case of what has been termed di
  morphism ? If I may venture a conjecture, I should say that
 the yellow crystals are a definite compound of the white cry
 stals with water. But however this may be, it appears to me
 that this and other properties of the iodide of lead are worthy
 of being more particularly examined.*
  LXXVII. On the Carboniferous Series of the United States
      of North America. By Richard Cowling Taylor, Esq.,
      F.G.S., Sfc.\
  T HAD just completed two articles on the upper series of
  -"- transition rocks, and the relative positions of the deposi
  tories of bituminous and anthracitous coals in Pennsylvania,
  with various detailed illustrative sections, which 1 had pro-
     • These two forms of iodide of lrad arc noticed in Dr. Inglis's " Ex
  tractsfrom his Prize Essay on Icdine;" Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. viii.
  p. ]!).—Edit.
     f Communicated by the Author.

*08       Mr. It. C. Taylor on the Carboniferous Series
posed to myself the honour of laying before the Geological
Society of London, when the interesting paper of Mr. Weaver
in the Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag. for August 1836, reached
me. I do not know how far what I have therein communi
cated may influence the opinions of this experienced geologist
on the subject of the age of those coal deposits which I have
imperfectly denned under the denomination of transition; but
for similar reasons to those whicli have led to Mr. Weaver's
communication in the Magazine, I am induced, through the
same medium, to state how I have arrived at a different opinion
to that which this gentleman entertains, on a very interesting
portion of American geology. I should greatly hesitate in
differing from an authority so deservedly eminent, and should
be tlisposed to adhere with much less tenacity to the views
which he has done me the honour to quote, but for the frank
admission that he has, unfortunately, not had the advantage
of seeing the district in question. However, I rejoice to per
ceive that the geology of this country is attracting the atten
tion of scientific observers, who have laboured so much and
so usefully in Europe, and who apply the experience acquired
in one quarter of the globe to the elucidation of unsettled
geological phaenomena in another.
   Mr. Weaver inclines to the opinion, in support of which he
adduces more than one authority, that the immense series of
 Pennsylvania rocks, amongst which are some inclosing nu
merous thick seams of authracitous, passing into bituminous
coals in certain places, belong altogether to the secondary car
boniferous series or order. It is scarcely necessary to enter
into a detailed statement of all the evidence which has occa
sioned a contrary decision, and which led to the classification
of the eastern coal-fields and the vast succession of conglo
merates and red shales and sandstones, with the grauwackc
and the upper series of transition rocks.
   The arrangement I have adopted, for the present, may be
very shortly recapitulated ; commencing with the highest.
   1. The (almost) horizontal carboniferous series, forming
        the great western bituminous coal-field of this country,
        whose eastern outcrop is the summit and the escarp
        ment of the Alleghany mountain range, through the
        greater portion of Pennsylvania. All geological writers,
        I believe, concur in denominating this a secondary
        coalformation. This series includes the conglomerate,
        or pudding-stone, and grit, resembling the millstone
        grit, on which the series is unquestionably based.
   2. 1 lie Old Red Sandstone, and red shales, many thousand
        feet thick. The dip of its numerous beds, passing

               of the United States of' North America.         409
        beneath the coal formation, increases gradually in de
        scending, until they are but a few degrees from ver
        tical, in central Pennsylvania. Mr. Weaver is satisfied
        with the existence and identity of this group in York
        State, but not that it is identical with that which 1 have
        traced from the same State and shown to pass imme
        diately beneath the bituminous (secondary) coal-field
        of Pennsylvania in Tioga.
   3. The Upper Transition and Grawsacke Series, commen
        cing at the termination of the red shales and sandstone
        at the base of the Alleghany mountain, and dipping
        at a very high angle under that mountain and the bitu
        minous coal on its summit, the whole series being
        much broken and heaved up on its edges, inclining in
        several anticlinal and synclinal groups. In Pennsyl
        vania this series consists of at least eight zones of
        (transition) limestone, in general deficient in fossils;
        and as many zones of sandstones and conglomerates,
        stretching parallel with the Alleghany. 1'he aggre
        gate of this upper transition system, even on the lowest
        computation, is of enormous thickness. It comprises
        four or five troughs or basins containing coal, which
        on the east side of the State is anthracitous, and on
        approaching the south-west, contains upwards of six
        teen per cent, of bitumen and volatile matter.
   Mr. Weaver, and one or two other writers, conceive that
the whole series, from No. 1 to No. 3, inclusive, is secondary.
If so, then must the grauwacke and upper transition series
be absent; nor can the red sandstone under the Alleghany
mountain and coal-field, be the old red sandstone, as I pre
sumed.
   I must confess that I have not seen beneath the great Alleg
hany coal-field a formation fully answering to the characters
of the carboniferous limestone. No such rock interposes be
tween this secondary coal-field and the red sandstone, for the
occasional beds of thin gritty gray limestone, resembling the
" cornstone " in the old red sandstone, cannot of course be
its representative. If we select for this purpose one out of the
eight zones of limestone, we might expect to find it in the
first and most western ; but although this slaty limestone con
tains some fossils in particular localities, it has no claim, par
excellence, to the title of the carboniferous limestone.
    In York State the limestone which is thought to resemble
in geological age and character the carboniferous limestone of
Europe, appears decidedly loiver in the series than the group
I have designated as the old red sandstone, but at the same
    Third Sei ies. Vol. 9. No. 56. Dec. 1836.             3C

410        On the Carboniferous Series of North America.
 time it (the limestone) reposes upon another red sandstone
 which Mr. Weaver considers the true old red sandstone in
 question. I have carefully traced these upper red sandstones
 from the State of New York until they sink under the great
 bituminous coal-field of Pennsylvania at Blossbury.
    The carboniferous limestone appears on the west side of
 the Alleghany mountain, accompanying the coal, in Tennessee,
 Illinois, Kentucky, and Indiana. Its resemblance to the
 mountain limestone of England is, I believe, admitted by all
 European as well as American geologists. I am far from be
 ing certain of its presence to the eastward of the outcrop of
 the secondary coal-field in Pennsylvania ; and I doubt if in
 York State this is the same formation which in the west is in
 close approximation with, and even contains, coal seams. I
 do not know which of the calcareous rocks is meant by Pro
 fessor Eaton, as the "limestone which supports the strata
 containing the Pennsylvania coal." My diagrams, which have
 been laboriously worked out, exhibit no limestone in Penn
 sylvania, between the secondary coal series and my old red
 sandstone group which averages a mile thick. The descrip
tion, therefore, refers to the contorted and frequently highly-
 inclined limestones, which range alternately with the upheaved
arenaceous rocks in front of the Alleghany mountain, along
an area seventy miles broad. Mr. Weaver infers (p. 117.)
 that all the carboniferous limestone series of the north-east
part of Pennsylvania supports equally the bituminous se
condary coal of Clearfield, Lycoming, Tioga and Bradford,
and the anthracitous deposits of Wyoming, Lehigh and
 Schuylkill ; the red sandstone and shales being in this view
continuous or identical.
    Here, therefore, is the point of difference with the views
I have been led to entertain. I see that both in the acknow
ledged secondary bituminous coal region, and in those of the
anthracite districts, the carbonaceous deposits are alike based
on red sandstones and red shales ; but the sections distinctly
show, that these are neither similar nor continuous beds,
either of coal or sandstones ; but are of different dates, the lat
ter being referrible to the transition series, the former to the
secondary.
   On the north-east extremity of the secondary coal-field, the
subjacent rocks, being much more horizontally disposed than
further to the south, are more obscurely developed; but all along
the eastern escarpments of the Alleghany the relative position
of the entire series seems apparent enough, when traced out
with ordinary caution. Mr. Weaver, however, maintains that
the application of the term old red sandstone, to that rock



              Mr. F. O. Ward on the Motion of the Arm.                  *1 1
 immediately beneath the great coal-field, is incorrect, it be
 ing only " an alternating series lying above the great body of
 carboniferous limestone." Tliis objection is obvious, if what
 I have termed the transition limestone at the base of this
 series be secondary, "carboniferous;" and if it can be proved,
 in the district I have imperfectly described, to " repose con
 formably on the extensive formation of old red sandstone."
     On this head I wish to be understood, not as insisting on
 the infallibility of my own individual sentiments, but as de
 sirous of apprising geologists of the grounds on which those
 views were founded. At the same time I am not quite pre
 pared to admit, with Mr. Weaver, that the whole of the coal
 deposits in Pennsylvania, belong to one great carboniferous
 order, and that the fact " is fully established by Professor
 Eaton." (p. 131.)
     A vast deal of investigation remains yet to be entered into
 before these debateable points can be adjusted. There is
good prospect of some of them being shortly elucidated by the
geological surveys simultaneously going on in the States of
 New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland and Virginia.
    Philadelphia, Sept. 23, 1836.
LXXVIII. Physiological Remarks on certain Muscles of the
     Upper Extremity, especially on the Pectoralis Major. Ky
     F. O. Waud, Esq., King's College, London.*
                                [With a Plate.]
      'HERE is a remarkable fold in the tendon of the pectoralis
  A major, which, though described by all anatomists, has
never yet, I believe, been explained. The muscle consists of
two portions, one smaller and upper, arising from the clavicle,
and passing downward and outward ; the other larger and
lower, arising from the sternum and ribs, and having a ge
neral direction upward and outward. The fibres of the muscle
thus converging towards each other, terminate in a flat tendon
several inches wide, which is attached to the upper part of the
humerus.
    Instead, however, of having the usual simple insertion re
presented in Plate IV. fig. 1, the lower part of this tendon is
folded up, behind the upper portion, so that the margin B
appears above the margin A, as represented in fig. 2.
    As it is an axiom in physiology that every arrangement is
to be accounted for, this peculiar twist has given rise to se
veral speculations. Some suppose it designed merely to di
minish the extent of the insertion. Others believe it to have
   * Read before the Royal Society June 1 6th, 1836 : and now communicated.
by the Author.
                                    3C2

412          Mr. F, O.Ward's Physiological Remarks
the effect of equalizing the length of the muscular fibres.
But independently of the consideration that the insertion would
have been quite as compact if the tendon had been thick and
single, instead of thin and double; and that the fibres are not
by any means equal in length, according to the second hy
 pothesis,—both explanations are defective, in as much as they
 show no reason for the muscular fibres crossing each other,
 so that the upper are attached below, and the lower above, the
 medium point of the whole insertion.
    I think that the arrangement becomes perfectly intelligible
 when the separate actions of the upper and lower portions of
 the muscle are considered with reference to the species of mo
 tion those actions require.
    The separate action of the lower fibres is to depress the
 arm when raised ; that of the upper fibres, to raise the arm
 when depressed. Of this any person may convince himself
 by laying the hand on the muscle ; first, while imitating the
 action of hammering; and then, while raising or supporting
 a weight: in the former case he will perceive a momentary
 convulsive contraction of the lower fibres; and, in the latter,
 a steady, continued tension of the upper.
    In the third and fourth sketches which exhibit these posi
 tions, the several directions of the humerus, and of the upper
 and lower portions of the muscle, are represented by lines, the
 arrow-head denoting in each figure which set is exerted, and
 in what direction it acts.
     Now since the humerus is a lever having the fulcrum at
 one end and the resistance at the other, the velocity it ac
 quires must be directly, and the force inversely, proportionate
 to the proximity of the moving power to the fulcrum.
     The most common, and therefore most important purpose,
 to which the depressing fibres are applied, is that of bringing
 down the arm in using the hammer, pickaxe, &c, as the car
 penter, blacksmith, goldbeater, and a hundred other artizans
 testify. In these motions velocity alone is required from the
 muscle, the gravity of the tool giving force to the blow ; and
 to produce this velocity the lower division is attached near to
 the fulcrum. Again, the commonest employment of the upper
 fibres consists in such actions as lifting, drawing, and the like,
 in which force, not velocity, is the desideratum ; and, in order
 to obtain force at the expense of velocity, the insertion of
 these fibres is brought down as far as possible towards the re
 sistance.
    It is remarkable that, in each instance, that very fasciculus
 of the muscle, which possesses most of the action peculiar to
 its division, possesses likewise that very point of the insertion

                     on the Motion of the Arm.               41S
 which affords it most of the leverage it requires. Thus it is
 not the uppermost portion, a, of the elevating division, (see
 the Italic letters in figs. 2 and 4,) which is attached to the
 lowest point, D, of the insertion, because there are succeed
 ing fibres (as b, figs. 2 and 4,) which form a less acute angle
 with the humerus while depressed : whereas it is the lowermost
 fasciculus (C, fig. 2,) of the lower division, that seeks the
 highest point, B, of the insertion, because this portion forms
 the least acute angle with the humerus when elevated (see
 fig. 3). This trait adds another to the innumerable proofs of
 the minute accuracy of the animal organization.
    Any action which requires from either portion, a species of
 motion contrary to that which it is adapted to produce,—as
 raising the body by the hands, which requires force from the
 fibres of velocity,—soon fatigues the muscle. Turning a winch,
 which is another instance of the same kind, is notoriously a
 very disadvantageous application of human strength ; and any
 employment in which steady and forcible pushing has to be
performed by the arms raised above the head, is extremely
fatiguing. In throwing a heavy quoit, which requires both
accuracy and force, the arm is swung by the side ; but in
throwing a light ball, for which velocity is requisite, the arm
 is always swung above the head. Cricketers are practically
 such good physiologists in this respect, that they have enacted
a law which compels the bowler to swing his arm by his side
 in throwing the ball, — because, if the ball were flung "over-
 handed" at the wicket, from so near a point as the bowler's
 station, its velocity would be unmanageable; whereas the
 " long-throw " who has to send up the ball from a distance,
 always swings his arm above his head.
    The muscles associated with each division of the pectoralis
 major benr out the proposed explanation by the analogy of
 their insertions. Thus the coraco-brachialis, and the anterior
 fibres of the deltoid, which cooperate with the upper division
of the pectoralis major, are attached to the front of the hu
 merus, half-way down ; evidently for the purpose of gaining
 force, which they do want, at the sacrifice of velocity, which
 they do not.
    On the contrary, the teres major and latissimus dorsi, which
assist the lower division of the pectoralis major in depressing
the humerus, act, like that muscle, near the fulcrum of the
lever; being attached to the inner margin of the bicipital
groove, just opposite to the pectoralis tendon. These two
muscles, indeed, are in several respects analogous to the two
divisions of the pectoralis major. The teres major, which is
superior and smaller, and arises from the scapula, may be

414         Mr. F. O. Ward's Physiological Remarks
compared to that portion of thepectoral which is superior and
smaller, and arises from the clavicle ; and the latissimus dorsi
which is inferior and larger and arises from the vertebrae and
ribs, resembles that portion of the pectoralis major which
is inferior and larger, and arises from the sternum and ribs.
The tendons of the two dorsal, like those of the two pectoral
muscles, are continuous at their lower margins, and, as if to
render the analogy complete, (though, in fact, to render the
leverage suitable,) the lowest fibres of the latissimus dorsi are
folded around the teres major, and inserted above it into the
humerus; because they are most nearly at right angles with
the bone when lifted to strike, and therefore most effective in
drawing it down. Fig. 5 is a front view of the insertion of
these two muscles, 6 representing the teres major, C the
latissimus dorsi folding round it to gain a higher point of at
 tachment, A the tendon of the pectoralis major raised out
 of its natural position, and D the bicipital groove to the
 borders of which these muscles are attached. The proposed
 explanation is further borne out by the comparative anatomy
 of the pectoral muscle in birds, in which it is developed to
 a very large size on account of being the principal motor of
 the wing. In these animals there is no crossing of the fibres
 of the pectoralis; they all assist in performing one action, and
 are consequently inserted in regular order, those which are
 superior at their origin having also a superior insertion, and
 vice versa, as may be seen in fig. 6, which is a sketch of the
 pectoral muscle of a pigeon. The turning under of the fibres
 represented at a seems at first sight to indicate a decussation
 of the upper and lower portions of this muscle, similar to that
 which occurs in the corresponding organ of man. But the
 resemblance disappears when the muscle is divided along the
 dotted line b c, and the humeral portion reflected as in fig. 7.
 It then becomes evident that the lower fasciculi though form
 ing a little bundle partly distinguishable from the rest of the
 muscle, and inserted by a separate slip of tendon, nevertheless
 join the bone below the upper fasciculi, and below the central
 point of the whole insertion. Professor Rymer Jones, who
 very kindly examined with me the muscles of the breast in
 the pigeon, confirms the accuracy of this observation.
    There is, however, an action, which, as it furnishes man
 with his most obvious means of sell- protection, must have
 been carefully provided for by Nature, and which seems to
 throw doubt on the correctness of the foregoing explanation.
 I mean the action of throwing the extremity forward, as in
 boxing. In this action, which requires great velocity, although
 all the fibres of the pectoralis major are in some measure

                     oil the Motion of the Arm.               415
brought into play, the upper set, that namely of least velocity,
are, it must be admitted, the principal agents, so far as this
muscle is concerned : in other words, Nature, according to
my explanation, causes a muscle to work at disadvantage, in
an action of essential importance.
   This, I think, is only an apparent difficulty, for in this mo
tion as correct a balancing of leverage is displayed, as can
anywhere be found throughout the body.
   The fist is thrown forward by a double motion. The
humerus, represented by A 13, fig. 8, revolves round the
point A till it takes the position A C, while the forearm,
represented by B D, revolves round the point B till it takes
the position 6 E, so that the resulting position of the whole
extremity is A C F. The upper division of the pectoralis
major, the anterior fibres of the deltoid, and the coraco-bra-
chialis, are the main causes of the first motion ; the triceps,
anconeus, and supinator muscles, of the second.
   The distance which the forearm passes through, repre
sented by the curve 2, exceeds considerably the space tra
versed by the upper arm, represented by the curve 1 ;
but as the motion of the forearm round the point B is from
above downwards, its extensors have no weight to raise ; on
the contrary, are assisted by gravity. Whereas the humerus,
though it moves through a shorter distance, moves upward,
and carries with it the forearm, so that its elevators have to
raise a considerable weight. In order that these two motions
may be completed in the same time, the former requires the
greater velocity, the latter the greater force. Accordingly the
triceps and its associate extensors, act on the ulna by a lever
between one and two inches long, while the three elevators of
the humerus act by levers whose respective lengths are about
four, five, and six inches. See figs. 8 and 9, in which P
represents the tendon of the pectoralis major, D that of the
 deltoid, C that of the coraco-brachialis, and T that of the
 triceps.
    I may just add, (for it is interesting to observe the uncon
 scious acquaintance which every man has gradually acquired
 with the precise capabilities and most effective application of
 every fibre in that complicated machine, his own frame,) that
 in preparing to strike a blow the elbow never hangs close to
 the side, as in fig. II, but is always thrown out, as in fig. 12;
 in order that the elevator muscles, all of which draw more
 or less inward, as well as upward and forward, may act during
 the strong effort at their full advantage.
    Thus, then, not only is the leverage of the upper and lower
 portions of the pectoralis major accurately adapted to the ac

 416;           Mr. F. O. Ward's Physiological Remarks
 tions of lifting and hammering which they respectively per
 form, but it is so proportioned to the leverage of the triceps,
 that the two muscles cooperate harmoniously in the action 6f
 striking a blow forward ; unequal spaces being traversed and
 unequal resistances overcome, in the same period of time, so
 that the resulting position of the limb is precisely the one re
 quired : while the strength of the one set of muscles bears
 6uch proportion to that of the set with which it acts in concert,
 that both remain unfatigued for the same number of ac
 tions.
    It is this diversified adaptation of parts, which forms the chief
 characteristic of the mechanism of Nature. Working with
 unlimited means, she yet works with scrupulous ceconomy;M
 her structures no power is redundant, nor a single advantage
 lost; so that, however completely an arrangement may sub
 serve one primary purpose, we find, upon renewed examina
 tion, an equally accurate adjustment to several secondary
 ends.
    When the means of estimating with precision the contractile
 force of the muscular fibre, are obtained, I have no doubt that
 these compound relations of power, lever, and motion pro
 duced, will form an interesting study*.
    Magendie t observes, that the intensity of muscular contrac
 tion depends partly upon certain peculiarities in the organiza
 tion of the fibres, such as size, firmness, colour, &c, and partly
 upon the energy of the cerebral influence, or the " puissance
 de volonte," by which they are excited to action. Muscles ac
 quire far more than their ordinary power, during those affec
 tions of the mind which stimulate the brain to strong action,
 such as rage, madness, &c, and also during certain convulsive
   * Borelli in his posthumous work De Motu Animalium, published in
 1680, has entered into an elaborate analysis of the mechanical relations of
the body, with a view to determining the absolute force of the muscle*.
 But unfortunately his experimental data (see, for instance, Part prima,
cap. 8,) are as loose and unsatisfactory as the subsequent calculations are
minutely accurate; and his reasonings are interwoven with a purely specu
lative hypothesis of the nature of muscular fibre, which he supposes to
consist of minute rhomboidal vesicles, contractile by inflation. By these
means lie brings out very startling results. Thus to the flexor longus
pollicis manus alone, he attributes a tractile force of 3720 pounds j t°. t°t
deltoid of 61,609 pounds ; to the intercostals of 32,040 pounds ; to the
glutaei of 375,420 pounds, &c. (see cap. 17, prop, exxiv. el scg ) Dr. Bos-
tock considers his estimate of the force of the muscles of the thumb to be
a hundred times too great. He has not noticed the twisted tendon of to*
pectoral in man, nor calculated its force and leverage. The only remarks
upon its strength I can discover, are in cap. 22, prop. cciv„ where, from its
smaH relative size, he proves it to be impossible " ut homines piopriii viri-
bus artificiose volare possint."                                            ]
   t Phytiologie, vol. i. p. 275.

                       on the Motion oj the Arm.                    41T
 diseases which have similar cerebral effects. From these and
 some other facts adduced, he inters that cerebral influence on
 the one hand, and certain qualities of the muscular tissue itself
 on the other, are the two elements of muscular contractility.
    Mayo has indicated a method of determining the maximum
 strength of individual muscles, by ascertaining the weight that
 is required to rupture their tendons. This mode is founded
 upon the argument that the tension which the tendon can
 sustain, probably exceeds but little that which the fibres can
exert; a supposition which is analogically probable, and in
 some measure supported by facts, since in praeternatural con
 traction sometimes the tendon, sometimes the trunk, of a
 muscle gives way*; proving that there is no great difference
 between the active and passive strength of these organs.
    The constant and equable stream of galvanism, afforded by
 Daniell's new battery, will furnish, I think, a good means of
comparing the strength of muscles, of regular shape and equal
 size, by ascertaining the contractile force it induces in its pass-
age through each.
    In order to subject any muscle to this experiment, it should
be separated from its fellows, and, at the distal end, from its
insertion. By the tendon, thus detached, it should be con
nected with a spring moving an index ; and the bone, into
which its opposite extremity is inserted, should be firmly fixed
at a known distance from the spring. The trunk of the muscle
should then be made part of the circuit ; and the distance to
which it moved the index during the transmission of the cur
rent for a given period (say one minute) might be taken to
express the force of the muscle as compared with others sub
mitted to the same treatment f.
    The comparative dimensions and weight of such muscles
as resemble each other in colour, firmness, and texture, would
also probably bear some proportion to their comparative force.
    Although neither of these methods of estimating muscular
contractility could be depended on alone, yet by a judicious
application of each in turn, to corroborate or correct the re
sults furnished by the others, a close approximation might at
last be obtained. And since we have proof that there is an
accurate balancing of muscular force in the fact that muscles,
or sets of muscles working together, are fatigued, equally and
simultaneously, we may fairly expect that v. liatever the ab-
   • See Tetanus Cooper's First Lines of Surgery.
   t The contraction of the muscle only occurs at the instants of com
pleting and interrupting the circuit. Contact must therefore be broken
and renewed at regular intervals during the experiment; which is readily
effected by means of a pendulum connected with the wire. See Bec-
•juerePs Traili de fKUclricili, vol. iv. p. 306.
    Third Series. Vol.9. No. 56. Dec. 18KC.              3 D

418           Mr. F. O. Ward's Physiological Remarks
 solute strength of muscles in different individuals may be,
 their relative strength will be found nearly alike in all, ex
 ception being of course made for the influence of habitual
 employments upon particular muscles. If, for example, in
 one arm the power of the biceps were one, and that of the tri
 ceps two, in another arm the power of whose triceps was two,
 that of the triceps would be four, or thereabouts ; or if not so,
 the difference would be compensated by a counter-variation in
 the leverage.
    It is also probable that in the same individual, under va
 rious conditions of lassitude or excitement, whether produced
 by bodily or by mental affections, each muscle retains its normal
 relation in point of strength to the others, whatever may be
 its actual gain or loss of contractility. So that if this ratio
 were once established by the mean results of cautious experi
 ments, it would be possible, from the absolute strength of one
 muscle, or set of muscles, to deduce by calculation the absolute
 strength ofeach of the remaining muscles in the same individual.
 We should of course meet with irregularities; some caused
 by disproportionate growth, and bearing an ascertainable re
 lation to its degree; and others depending on circumstances
 beyond the range either of observation, or of calculation ; but
 if a standard proportion does really exist, the deviations from
 it are certainly in opposite directions, and the true ratio will
 be discovered by taking the average of an extensive series of
 measurements and estimates. And when we reflect that
 within the last few years constant numerical proportions have
 been developed by Wenzel, Berzelius, Dalton, and others, in
 the chemical affinities of ponderable matter, and by Faraday in
 the action of the imponderable forces ; and—still more to the
 purpose—that mathematical laws so fixed and definite as to
 serve for the distinction of species, have been discovered by
 Schimper and Braun* to regulate vegetable growth ; it seems
 not unreasonable to surmise, that numerical proportions, as
 certain and invariable, may govern the secret workings of
 animal life, and be hereafter revealed by the discovery of ac
 curate, though involved, mathematical relations, between the
several organs of the animal machine f.
    A rigorous analysis of the mechanical relations of the mus-
   * ArcMvet de Bolaiaquc, vol. i. ; Martin's Abstract of Braun's Paper ;
Henslow'a Introduction to Botany, p. 124; Lirdley's Introduction to
Botany, second edition, p, 91. Lindley thus states ttie result of the inquiry :
" The whole of tbe appendages ofthe axis of plants,— leaves, calyx, corolla ,
stamens, and carpels,— form an uninterrupted spire governed by laws which
are nearly constant." For the causes of the occasional deviations from
these primary laws, see Henslow's Introduction^ 121.
   t i trust that an hypothesis thus indicated by the analogy of several as
certained laws, capable of inductive examination, and whether erroneous

                         on the Motion qfthe Arm.                          419
cular and osseous systems in various animals, would form a
good foundation from whence, in future, to push forward such
inquiries; and, besides this remote and dubious utility, con
tingent on the soundness of the foregoing speculation, such
researches would be of considerable immediate advantage to
science. They would give the geologist a new point of view
in which to examine fossil bones, and might enable him to
deduce, from the relative size, shape, and situation of the
marks indicating muscular insertion, new particulars concern
ing the strength and speed of extinct creatures ; they would
probably point out to the comparative anatomist analogies
and differences in the structure of animals, where none have
hitherto been suspected; and above all, they would tend to
introduce into physiology an exactness and certainty which
tiie science has not yet attained. As a first step to such an
analysis, I intend shortly to attempt a set of experiments on
the contractility of the muscular fibre, by the several methods
that have just been described. Those who undertake such
researches should bear in mind that the friction of the tendons
is an important element of the calculation. Muscles which
are extended in a straight line between their attachments, and
undergo no friction but that of the investing cellular tissue
(as the gastrocnemius), have greatly the advantage of those
whose tendons play over trochlear surfaces (as the obturator
or not, likely to suggest to its investigators tome useful experiments, will
not be classed with the extravagant iatro-mathematical speculations which
retarded the progress of physiology in the seventeenth ana beginning of the
eighteenth century. " Prudens qufestio dimidium scientite," says Lord
Bacon, a sentiment admirably elucidated by Herschel in the Preliminary
Discourse. " A well-imagined hypothesis," he says, " if it have been
suggested by a fair inductive consideration of general laws, can hardly fail
at least of enabling us to generalize a step further, and group together se
veral such laws under a more universal expression          and we may thus be
led to the trial of many curious experiments, and to the imagining of many
useful and important contrivances which we should never otherwise have
thought of." To which may be added the following judicious remarks of
Mr. R. Young : " As in practice nothing is perfect, and few things wholly
without merit, so, in theories, perhaps, none are without error, nor any
devoid of truth. The difference between opinions seems to lie chiefly in
the different proportions of truth and error which they contain. If this
be true, every advance in principles is only substituting a less imperfect
theory for one more so, and the last ever leaves something for futurity
to correct."—(Essay on the Powers and Mechanism of Nature, p. ix.)
   [We may refer the reader, on the subject of numerical proportions in
animal organization, to our abstract of Dr. W. Adam's paper, " On the
Oiteologica/ Symmetry of the Camel" in Phil. Mag. and Annals, vol. ix.
p. 364 : the paper itself will be found in the Transactions of the Linnsean
Society, vol. xvi. p. 525 et teq. See also Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. iii.
p. 457, vol. vi. p. 57. for notices of papers by Dr. Adam on the osteological
symmetry of the human skeleton.—Emt.]

  420               Mr. Tovpy's Researches in (he
 internus), or run in grooves (as the long head of the biceps),
  or perforate other tendons (as the deep flexor of the fingers),
  or turn through fibrous pulleys (as the digastric, the extensor
  of the toes, &c). By comparing the effect of a known force
  acting on particular tendons, at first in their natural situations,
  and afterward detached and free, the influence of friction in,
  each case would be readily determined. This source of error
  seems to have been very generally overlooked by writers on
  animal mechanics.                                             -««:;;lq
      I conclude, for the present, with suggesting that to distin
  guish the pectoralis major into " portio elevans " or " attol-
  lens," and " portio deprimens," might serve to impress the
  rationale of its peculiar insertion and twofold action, upon the
  memory of the student.                                          V
'" ijt "TT-T '.:          ¦                 —        '¦    ^'.'¦"TtTTTj
  LXXIX. Researches in the Undulatory Theory of Light, in
' ¦•Mvontinuation offormer Papers. By John Tovey, Esq. \'n
    To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
   S-IK,:tjENTlEMEN,                                           :\.{t)
  TJTAVING deduced, (p. 500 of your last volume,) by a new
         method, the laws of the propagation of plane and sphe
 rical waves in elastic media, I will now, with your permission,
 show how the formulae may be extended to the roost simple*
 cases which are known to occur in the undulatory theory of
 tation.of waves not spherical emanating from a center of agi-^
 light,
     (1.) It will be remembered that in my paper at p. 270 of the
 last volume, the sums X were considered as comprised in three
 classes, when it appeared that those of the first class, com
 posed of odd products of the differences, vanish, in conse
 quence of the first supposition there made respecting the
 arrangement of the molecules. The sums also of the second
 class, composed of even products involving odd powers of the '
 differences, were neglected ; because the terms of these sums
 must be about half of them positive and half negative, and
 consequently the sums themselves very small in comparison
 with those of the third class, which last, being composed oik
 even powers of the differences, have their terms all positive^ lo
    (2.) greater
 much             radiusthe
           If the than    of intervals
                              the sphere
                                       between  the molecules,
                                         of influence             the >
                                                        be not very
 suras may or may not be sensibly the same for different direc
 tions of the coordinates, according as the intervals are the
 same or different for the different directions. Suppose,1 for
 example, every eight adjacent molecules to be at the comers
 of a rectangular parallelopiped ; suppose fig. 1 to be a secre
 tion of the medium, the dots denoting the molecules in their

                     Undulatdry Theory of Light.                    42!
places of equilibrium ; and suppose the circle to be a section
of the sphere of the influence of the molecule which occupies
its centre ; then, the intervals between                  Fig. 1.
the molecules being greater in the ho
rizontal than in the vertical direction,              "
it is manifest that the sums in general              *
will vary according to the directions of
the coordinates, and that, when the                  •
planes of the coordinates are parallel               '.
to the planes which form the paral-
lelopipeds, the sums of the second class
will have for every positive term an equal negative term, and
consequently that these sums will vanish.
    If the molecules of the aether and those of a transparent
body form a compound vibrating medium, and if the obser
vations just made be regarded as having reference only to the
molecules of the body, the consequences will still be the same.
 (See paper at p. 270 of vol. viii.)
    (8.) Since no light can be discovered to arise from the dis
placements £ *, we will neglect them, and then the equations
(S.) of the paper at p. 7 of vol. viii. become
 SI*' ' '         f                                               1    I
        m «s|$(r)A, + *(r)(AyA, + A*AO Ay},
         = mZ (<U+2666>(r) A; + *(r)(AyA, + AzAO A*}-
Putting
                          di) .                A.r*
                A ? = -/Af + ji. —— + &c.
                   '      ax           ax*      2
and substituting these values in the previous equations, it is
obvious that the principal sum of the second class (art 1 ) is
2 . <Jr (r) A x3 Ay A z. Now y and z may be taken in any di
rections which are perpendicular to and to one another ;
and if the directions be so chosen as to make this sum vanish,
we may neglect the other sums of this class, and then the sub
stitution will transform the equations into the second and third
of the equations (2.) at p. 272, and the velocities of the waves
will be determined by the formula? previously deduced in the
paper at p. 500.
   (4.) Suppose then x,,y,,zp lobe rectangular coordinates,
and the axis of x, to be fixed in the medium ; suppose the plane
of x und y to coincide with this axis; and suppose the mole
cules to be so arranged that the turning of the coordinates
round it would not sensibly affect the values of the sums, fa4~
                 • Airy's Math. Tracts, p. 340, art. 101.

422                Mr. Tovey's Resemches in the
this case 'the sum 3E.it (r) Ax'AyAz (art. 8) will vanish:
for let the plane of x and y pass through the molecule m and
divide its sphere of influence into two hemispheres; then,
since the arrangement of the molecules will, by the supposi
tion, be sensibly the same in both, it follows that the terms of
this sum will be half of them positive and half negative, and
will destroy each other.
      (5.) If we denote the length of the waves            - , by
                                                  k   kl  kB
X, A,,X(; and their velocities ~,                   by p, vn vu;
                                   k     kH     kt
the equations (3.) of the paper at p. 500, give
                 vsssJ(1—* • 4^" +&c-)>
     (6.) Since our object is only to ascertain the forms of the
wave-surfaces, we will, for the present, neglect the terms in
these equations which depend upon the lengths of the waves,
and suppose v, = st , vtt = s„ ; then, by the formula; at p. 27 1 ,
we have
               »*= ^2. ($(r) + |(r)Ay)Ax«,
               »„!=y2.($(r)+^(r)ASs)Ai'.
      Now, let the axis of s coincide with that of z, , and let 8
be the angle formed by the axes of x and x,; then, when
x, y, z, and x,,^, ,        have the same origin, and are coor
dinates of the same molecule, we have, by the principles of
 analytical geometry,
                      x = x/ cos 8 — yt sin 8 ,
                      y = x, sin 8 + cos 8 ,
 ¦¦                   2 = 2,;
 ^d consequently,
                      Ax = A x, cos 9 — Ayt sin 8 ,
                      A y = A x, sin 0 + Ay, cos 8 ,
                      4)f = A«r
      The last equations give
 ' Ax* = A x(* cos* 8 + Ayf sin4 8 — 2 A x, Ay, sin 8 cos8 ,
  ¦ ¦ A ss* = A z » ;
and if we substitute these values in the second of the equa
 tions (3.), we have

                   Undulatory Theory of Light.                 42$
   "// = J | ^ i 2 . (<p {> ) + * (r) A is/) A j « + sin' fl I
               .($(r)+Hr)A2») Ay/
      — m sin 9 cos 8 2 .   (r) +4> (r) A *(«) A x, A^ .
The third sum in this equation must be zero in con' equence
of the supposed arrangement of the molecules round the axis
of x( , and therefore, if we denote by cf and c(/" the products
of the first and second sums multiplied by —, we have
                  v„ = a/ (c,4 cos9 fl + c* sin' fl) .          (4.)
    (7.) Let C D, D E, (fig. 2,) be elementary portions of a
wave-surface diverging from the centre of agitation O; let
A D, B E, be planes coincid
ing with CD, D E ; and let
 O A, O B, be perpendiculars
to these planes. Then the
velocity with which the wave
is, at C D, transmitted in
the direction perpendicular to
 C D, must be equal to the ve
locity of a plane wave moving
 in the direction of O A ; and
the velocity with which the
 wave is, at D E, transmitted
 in the direction perpendicular to D E, must be the same as
 that of a plane wave moving in the direction of O B. Conse
 quently, if we conceive an indefinite number of plane waves,
 which, at the commencement of the time I, all pass through the
 centre of agitation O, the wave surface will be that touched
 by all these plane waves at any instant.
    (8.) Now let a number of planes like A D and BE, all per
pendicular to the plane of the angle xtOyn be so drawn
 that their perpendicular distances from (), the origin of the
 coordinates, may be proportional to the values of vtl given by
 the equation (4.); where 9 is the angle which the perpendi
cular x drawn from O to any plane wave makes with the
 axis Ox,. Then the curve in the plane of x, Oj/, touched
 by all these planes will, by the property of the equation (4.),
 bean ellipse, the axes of which are proportional to c, andc(( .
     (9.) The phenomena of chemistry show that molecular
 attractions and repulsions vary rapidly at particular distances
 of the molecules from each other. Suppose then the forces
 m f(r), of the paper at p. 7, to vary rapidly at particular values
 off.     The differential coefficients        muy, in consequence^

  *2*              Mr. Tovey's Researches in the
  become, for these values, so large as to make the parts of the
  sums X which contain them so much greater than the other
  parts, that the latter may be neglected. Accordingly we will
  assume this to be the case ; and then the first of the equations
  (3.) becomes
                 c«=4 E.*(r)A/A*».
     This equation, being symmetrical with respect to * and y,
  gives for v, the same value whether x coincides with Ox, or
  with 0_y, (fig. 2). We shall therefore assume that v, is sen
 sibly the same for all values of i. And then if we put ¦
              -|- 2 . (<U+2666> (r) + * (r) Ay«) A x* = c»
 we have                       v, = c.                         (5.)
     (10.) Now conceive a number of plane waves, perpendi
 cular to the plane of .x^Oy,, (fig. 2,) all of which, at the
 commencement of the time t, pass through the centre. O ; and,
 since v, is the same for all values of 9, conceive the velocities
 of these waves to be all equal; then their distances from the
 centre O will constantly be equal, and the curve, in the plane
 of j^O^, touched by all of them at any instant will be a
 circle.
     (11.) If the system of coordinate planes be turned on the
 axis of xf the circle and ellipse (art. 10 and 8) will describe
 a sphere and spheroid. And since this turning of the coor
 dinates will not, by the supposition (art 4), sensibly affect the
 values of the sums, and consequently not alter those of p, and
 vlfl it follows that the agitation at the centre O will in ge
 neral produce two sets of waves; of which one set will 09
 spheroidal, and the cither spherical : the vibrations in the
 spheroidal waves being perpendicular to the axis of xn and
 the vibrations in the spherical waves perpendicular to those
 in the spheroidal.
    (12.) From the supposed arrangement of the molecules
round the axis of x, it follows (art. b' and 9,) that c = c( ,
and consequently that when 0 is zero we have v, = va . Hence
by limiting our view to a spherical and spheroidal wave, both
of which emanate from the centre of agitation at the same
instant, we perceive that they will constantly coincide along
the axis of x/ . And when 0 is a right angle we have vlt = cllt
which shows that the spherical wave will include, or be in
cluded by, the spheroidal wave, accordingly as c is greater or
less than cu.
    By referring to Professor Airy's Mathematical Tracts,
p. 346—350, it will be seen that the results obtained in this
and the preceding article are sufficient to explain the prin-

                            Vndulatory Theory of Light. .                              „vA^
 clpal optica] phenomena presented by what are, called iiniaxal
'crystals. The Professor, following, as\T suppose, the method
 of M. Fresnel, has deduced results similar to these, except
 th'af, \>y his reasoning, the direction of vibration in the sphe
rical waves is ihe same as we have found it to be in the sphe
 roidal, and the converse. But I apprehend that the 104-th
 and HJth articles of his valuable tract on this subject are in
 consistent with each other; and that the latter, on which the
 question depends, is erroneous.
       I perceive, from the British Association's Report on Physical
  Optics, that the investigations of M. Cauchy give, for the di
 rection of vibration, the same result as mine; but it appears
  that his investigations are not founded so immediately as
  mine upon the physical constitution of the medium.
( (13.) The deductions of the last two articles rest upofU,(jbe
  supposition (art. 6.) that v. = s,, vH = su; but by the equa
  tions («.),
 *« ;               *„ = V\/( 1 ~ tV- • tt + &c') ;
  hencethis
  But            is easily
              these             effected;
                       deductions        require
                                              for we       may suppose the;
                                                     a corresponding              vpfijujions
                                                                              modification.
  directions
 4>t     tue sumsofssthe  , s,9coordinates,
                                 , $,* , s'3 , s/ato, s*,"
                                                        be ,in&c.
                                                                general    small upon
                                                                    depending,             .tjae
                                                                                    fractions.
 fit the sums themselves.                     Hence, in the last equations, we
  may regard —~ , —^- as constant, and (paper at p. 270 bf
  vol. viii.,) equal one to the other; and thus, if we pui
  tn3 = A, we have, instead of the values of v, and vn found an
   articles 9 and 6,
                                                                                       ¦U m
                                                                                       ¦»)
                                                                                        ""(*)
  ;            - s/(c; cos' J + c„« sin2 «) . ^/(l «j A                    A +'Sjflj
         It appears by these equations that the values of »/flrid l^»
  end the ratio of one of them to the other, depend, in*soit(e
   firmed byupon
  measure,                  X„ \(, the
                     experieuce.          Seelengths
                                                Airy'sof      the waves.
                                                            Tracts,   p. 354.This" , is Ciiti-
         (1*.) It is well known that light moves through glass, m
    its ordinary state, with the same velocity in all "directions;
             . ,.- Series.
         Third      . •           » 9. :..
                             . Vol.       No. .56. Dec. .      1836.
                                                                - •          , 3£':-•
                                                                                 B4
     • '             i; ;. ! i :» U                   .• .<      ¦ f 5 : ••'-!}« if 3fft b.ie

426                  Mr. Tovey's Researches in the
and that the velocity is not affected by any change in the di
rection of the vibrations : consequently the sums s4, a,3, Sea
must, for this medium, be the same whatever be the directions
of the coordinates. But it is found, by experiment, that if
glass be expanded or contracted in one direction only, it ex
hibits the same optical phenomena as an uniaxal crystal ; the
optical axis lying in the direction of the expansion or contrac
tion. (Airy's Tracts, p. 403, art. 178.) Now, it is manifest
that since the sums s9 , s9 , &c. are originally the same for all
directions of the coordinates, these sums must, in the altered
state of the glass, be still such that their values will not be
affected by turning the coordinates upon an axis taken in the
direction of the expansion or contraction ; and consequently
this experiment affords a verification of our formulae.
    (15.) Whatever be the arrangement of the molecules, we
  -UJW by
have,            equations
            the\*iir
         wi-r                                                of article
                     <!!••* ¦¦ (3.) and the assumption• :;\-:;:r^        (9.),
                                                                    n't ,1&D[1)
                    »»« £z.*(r) A** Ay*,
provided (art. 3.) 2.         directions of y and
                         the$(r)Ax3AyAz                z are so taken that
                                                   at 0.
     Let xj,y(, Zj be rectangular coordinates having fixed
directions, and the same origin as x, y , z; let the axis of x
coincide with that of */ ; and let 9/ be the angle between yf
and y : then
                    A x = Ax/,
                    A y — Ay/ cos 9/ — A %} sin 4/ ,
                    A z = Ay sin 4/ 4- A z/ cos If.
     By substituting these values and, for the sake of abridge
 ment, putting
                   2.<Hr) Ax'fAy'* = «r,
                    S.*(r) A*'* A^A**, = <r»,
we have
vf = — v cos9 if +              </ sin* 9/ — m tr" sin 4/ cos 9 \ ,
 »/(4 == -g- cr sin* 9/ +       <r' cos9 9/ + « <r" sin 4/ cos 9/ ,
:S «4 (r) A*9 Ay Az = <<r-<r') sin9/ cos 9/ +,cr" (cos9 9/-sin9 4/. .

                       Uiidulatory Theory qf Light.                  427
   From these equations we find                               ¦
so that when
         (ir-V) sin «/ cos 1/ +       (cos1 »/ - sin9 1/) = 0,
the sum X . \J> (r) Ax* Ay A z is zero as required, while, of the
expressions for p(* and vt* , one is a maximum and the other
a minimum. The last equation is always possible; for since
            z      sin 9.6'
sin 9/ cos »/ =        2~~S ant^ cos? V ~~ s'n* '/» = cos * 'l gives
                                     2cr"
                      tan 2 «/ =
                                    <r'-<r '
   (16.) It has been observed (art. 1,) that the sums composed
of even products involving odd powers of the differences
must, in general, be very small compared with the sums com
posed of products of the same degree in which the powers of
the differences are all even. Let it then be supposed that
J , y' , z* are rectangular coordinates of which the axes are
fixed in the medium ; and that the arrangement of the mole
cules, with respect to these axes, is such that the sums of
Wrrtch the terms involve odd powers of the differences A x1 j
Ay1, Ad , are either zero (art. 21,) or insensibly small. Let
the axis of x, coincide with that of x* ; and let v be the angle
between t/ and y, ; then
                  A xt = Ax* ,
                  Ayt = At/ cosi' — A z1 sin 6r ,
                  A «, = Ay sin i'+ A z/ cos **;
and consequently, when we omit the terms involving the odd
powers of the differences A x' , Ay1 , A z7 , we have
          A x* A z* = A r" Ay"1 sin* «' + A ** A z» cos» V.
    For the reasons mentioned in article (9.) we leave out of
 the expression for vn3 (art. 6.) the function <J> (r), and then
 »,» = cos1 fl . ~-Z . $r (/) A */ Ax; + sin9 0 . ^-I . J> (r) A z « A y,*
               — sin i cos 4 . m S . tl/ (r) A z* Ay, A x, .
    Now, when the coordinates               yt, zt are turned on the
 common axis of x, and x1 , the sum X . ^ (r) A zf Ay* must
 be of the same value, whether y, coincide with y or a'; we
 will therefore suppose it to be sensibly the same for all values
 of f: when, again, we change the coordinates x,,yl,zl,
 for x1 , y , &J, the last sum in the equation will be composed
 of terms involving odd powers of A x1 , and will therefore, by
                                  3E2

428         Mr. Tovey on the Undulatoty Theory ofLight.
tbe supposition, be insensible; hence we shnll have, by sub
stitutiiig for A x* Az' its value previously found,
                    m
              ' 8 . ^- Z . * (r) (A x" Ay* sin8 9' + Ax"A z'2 cos8 *)
                       + sin- 9. 9-2.4»(r)As'IAyj;
or,        i>„9 = c2 cos1 sin« 9' + c72 cos* 8 cos3 9/ + c"* sin1 9 ;
if, for the sake of abridgement, we put
 in S.^(r)Aj"Ay = c\ 772                      (;•) A/1 A,s" =         ,
                                       2
                      -2.^(,-)Ay8A^ = c'8.
    ( 1 7.) Let O •r' I fig. 3,) be the common axis of*' and x( ; O//,
Oz>, oy,,o<,'Ox, o^/.Oz,
the axes of y , 2' , y, , z, , x, _y , z ;
y Oy, = 9' , and x7 O x = 9. Now
Ox being, by the supposition of
art. 6, in the plane of atOy,, we
will suppose Oy to be also in the
same plane. Then y. O y = x7 O x
 » 9 , cos x' 0,y = sin 9, cosy
 = cos 9, cos 9' , cos z' Oy = cos 9
sin 9' ; and thus, by the last expres
sion for pu8 , we arrive at
        n* = c* cos8 z'Oy + c" cos*y Oy + c"8 cos
    In deducing this equation we have supposed Ox*, Ox,
Oy, to be in the same plane; but we take for granted that
the value of w"2 would not be sensibly affected by turning the
coordinates upon the axis of y; because
v*z—~'^t- 2 . $ (r) A xa A z9, and this sum, being symmetri-
cal with respect to x and z, retains the same value when x
and z are interchanged. Hence it follows that the equation
is true in general, and, consequently, that if we change the
angles z1 Oy, ]f Oy, x Oy, for z' O s, y O z, x* O z, it gires
also the value of vj*.
     (18.) It will be remembered that vu is the velocity of waves
 moving in the direction of O x, and consisting of vibrations
ia the direction of O z ; and that 1/ is the velocity of waves
moving in the same direction, and consisting of vibrations in
the direction of Oy. The directions of Oy and O s, which
determine those of the vibrations must (art. 15.) be so taken

                  Prof. Berzelius on Meteoric Stones.                  429
at right angles to each other and to O x, that of the expres
sions for v* and vf(% one shall be a maximum, the other a
minimum.
    If the last expression for vt*t and the observations subse
quently made, be compared with the expression in art 119,
and the observations in articles 120 and 121 of Professor
Airy's Tract before quoted, it will be perceived that we have
now deduced the fundamental laws of M. Fresnel's theory of
refraction for biaxal crystals. But the direction of vibration
is, as we have previously found in the case of uniaxal crystals,
perpendicular to that which this ingenious philosopher sup
posed. The consequences of these laws have, as it appears
from the British Association's Report on Physical Optics, been
so ably traced and verified by Sir William Rowan Hamilton
and others, that I deem it unnecessary to pursue this part of
the theory any further.
                      I am, Gentlemen, yours, &c,
    Evesham, June 28, 1836.                             John TovEY.
     P.S. In my last paper, vol. viii., p. 501, line 2 from the
bottom,yb;- 1 read£ ; p. 502, 1. 8 from the bottom, dele comma
after (i; p. .505, 1. 11, /or — read             .
     In the valuable paper from M. Cauchy in your last [June]
 Number, I have noticed the following errors. Vol. viii. p. 461,
formula (2. ), for au+bv+c to read a ux + b vx + c w, ; and line
 5 from bottom, for w read it. P. 462, formula (7.), for e, in the
denominator read tin .           P. 463, 1. 1 3, prefix of; and line 3
 from the bottom,^/- 0 read a. P. 464, line 1 4, for ut read vt ;
and 1. 15, for we read We. P. 465, 1. 12, for 19 read 16;
and I. 28, for aw read au. P. 466, 1. 13,for C read /3. P. 467,
lines 1 and 3, for = v, in every place, read = 0 ; and line 10
dele the first w.
                    —                                         .i
   LXXX. On Meteoric Stones. By Professor Berzelius.*
 r I ^HE author commences this interesting memoir by consi-
        dering which of the conjectures respecting the formation of
 meteoric stones is the most probable. That which refers these
 bodies to eruptions of the volcanos of our earth cannot be
 supported, on account of the distance of the places where they
 have fallen from any volcano, and also from the different con
 stitution of volcanic products and meteorites ; neither can
     • From the Journal de Pharmttcic for February 1836: communicated by
 .1. D. Smith, Esq., being n translation of an extract, by M. Vallct, from a
 memoir in Poggendorfs Annateii der Pkysik mid C/iemic, vol. xxxiiLp. 1.

4-30             Prof. Berzelius on Meteoric Stones.
the opinion of their formation from either the common, or
even the accidental constituents of the atmosphere be admitted.
Anaxagoras imagined that a stone which fell in his time in
/Egos Potamos came from another world. This, which is
probably a correct opinion, is supported by the researches of
our own age. Olbers in a paper on the fall of a meteorite
whicli occurred at Sienna in Italy, on the 16th of July 1794*,
suggested, in 1795, the possibility of these bodies being pro
jected from the moon, but it appeared to him much more
likely that they came from Vesuvius. Laplace likewise adopted
this opinion in 1802. That part of the moon which is turned
towards us is covered with elevations, and it is found that
there are many mountains which precisely resemble in their
external appearance those volcanos of our earth which have
craters ; these mountains are of such magnitude that the in
terior of their craters may be seen with good telescopes ; and
it can be readily perceived that one half of the interior is il
luminated by the sun, and the other is in the shade, whilst the
circular opening of the crater is extremely distinct. It may
then be supposed that these mountains owe their form to the
 same cause as terrestrial volcanos, viz. to eruptions; but if
 the force which produces lunar eruptions is as considerable as
 the projectile force of our volcanos, the bodies thrown out
 ought to be projected much further from the moon than
 the earth ; for, 1st, the mass of the moon is to that of
 the earth only as 1 'i5 to 1 00, and its weight is in the same
 ratio; 2ndly, the moon has no atmosphere, or at most one so
 highly rarefied that when the fixed stars are eclipsed by the
 moon, no refraction of the rays of light can be perceived : con
 sequently the projection occurs in vacuo, and without that
 mechanical resistance to projected bodies which is caused by
 the atmosphere of the earth, in which they soon become qui
 escent; 3rdly, if a body is projected towards the earth from the
 moon the attraction of the earth for it continually increases,
 whilst that of the moon diminishes more and more; 4thly, the
 limit of equilibrium between the earth and the moon is much
 nearer the latter than the former.                                ,. ,,
     Many circumstances connected with the composition of me
 teoric stones agree with what we know respecting the moon.
  Some of these bodies contain metallic iron, which when ex
 posed to air and moisture is by degrees converted into
  hydrated peroxide of iron, and this is the case with the
  minerals of the crust of our globe under such circumstances ;
  therefore in their primitive situation they are without atmo-
    * [The full at Sienna in I70i was of a number of meteoric stonet.-*-
  E.W.B.1

                Prof. Bevzelius on Meteoric Stones.                    431
spheric air, or even possibly without either air or mois
ture.
   Astronomical researches have not as yet discovered in the
moon any traces of water large enough to be distinguished by
good glasses, and M. Berzelius considers that water has not
been met with chemically combined in meteoric siones. We
shall see hereafter that the greater number of meteoric stones
resemble each other so much in their composition that they
may be considered to come from the same mountain, that is,
from the central culminating point of that side of the moon
which is always turned towards the earth. A small number
only present a different appearance, and it is therefore pro
bable that these proceed from mountains situated on other
parts of the moon.
    Nevertheless meteoric stones may have their origin in an
other planet. Olbers considers that the asteroids between Mars
and Jupiter may be fragments arising from the destruction of
 a larger planet, an idea which has induced the search for
 more of these fragments, and the discovery of one of them
 by Olbers himself. If such a catastrophe has occurred, which
 seems established by the great angle that the course of Pallas
 makes with that of the other planets, an immense number of
 small fragments would be projected in such directions that
 their course around the sun being diminished, they would then
 during their revolution come within the sphere of attraction
 of other planets, and fall on them. From these preliminary
 considerations on the origin of meteoric stones, M. Berzelius
 proceeds to the chemical examination of many of them.
  Unable in this place to notice the processes which he em
 ployed in his analyses, we confine ourselves to the results at
  which he has arrived, and the conclusions which he has
 drawn from them.
     I. Tlie Meteorite of Blanslo.—This stone, which induced
  M. Berzelius to undertake this work, fell at a quarter past six
 on the evening of the 2.5th of November 1833, in the neigh
  bourhood of Blansko in Moravia. As usual it produced a
  very brilliant light, and its flight was preceded by noise re
  sembling thunder. M. Reichcnbach, who witnessed the phte-
  nomenon, could only collect a few fragments ; the principal
  mass has not 3*et been discovered, the surrounding country
  being thickly wooded*.
     It resembles those meteoric stones which are most com
  monly met with, and may therefore be ranked with those of
  Benares, L'Aigle, Berlongville, &c. One portion is magnetic,
  the other is not so; this latter part is but partially soluble in
  acids: that which was dissolved gives in one hundred parts:
              • [Sec Loncl. and Eilitib. Phil. Mag., vol. vi. p. 150.]

432           Prof. Berzelius on Meteoric Stones.
           Silica                                33 OS*
           Magnesia                              36' 143
           Protoxide of iron                     26 935
           Protoxide of manganese                 0 465
           Oxide of nickel mixed with tin )
              andI copper                   J>    0-465
          Alumina                                 0-329
           Soda                                   0 857
           Potash                                 0-4:29
           Loss                                   1-273
                                                100-000
   The insoluble part of the non-magnetic portion having
been analysed, part by carbonate of barytes and part by car
bonate of soda, affords results which slightly differ:
                                   Carb. Barytes. Carb. Soda.
                                      57*145         57-012
                                      21-843         24956
                                       3-106           1-437
                                       8-592          8-362
        Protoxide of manganese ..      0-724          0-557
        Oxide of nickel mixed )
          with tin and copper J. 0-021
                                       5-590          4-792
                                       0 931
        Chromium and iron mix- -        1-533
                                       o-oio
                                                       1-306
                                       0-505           1-579
                                     100-000        100-000"
   The small globules which are commonly met with in me
teoric stones, which Howard had already observed, and en
deavoured to analyse, were not attracted by the magnet. On
examining these globules M. Berzelius found, as had also
Howard, that they were not a different description of mineral
from the meteorite itself (or that they do not differ from the
meteorite in which they occur).
   The magnetic portion, or the meteoric iron, consisted of,
             Iron                             93-816
             Nickel                            5*053
              Cobalt                             -347
             Tin and copper                      *460
             Sulphur                             -324
              Phosphorus, a trace
                                             100-000
   The meteorite of Blansko may be considered in a minera-
logicnl point of view as composed of,

                    Prof. Berzelius on Meteoric Stones.                  433
     An alloy of iron and nickel, containing cobalt, tin,
       copper, sulphur, and phosphorus                                17*15
     Of a silicate of magnesia and protoxide of iron, in
       which the silica contains as much oxygen as the
       bases, with a little sulphuret of iron                         42*67
    Of silicate ofmagnesia and protoxide of iron, mixed
       with silicates of potash, soda, lime, and alumina,
       in which the silica contains twice as much oxy
       gen as the bases                                               39-43
    Of chrome and iron mixed with tin-stone                              *75
    It can hardly be doubted that the relative quantities of the
 constituent parts of this mixture vary in different fragments of
 the stone*.
    Meteoric Stone ofChanlonnay. —This stone fell at two o'clock
 in the morning of the 5th of August 1812, not far from Chan-
 tonnay, in the department of La Vendee : a fragment was
 sent to M. Berzelius by the late M. Lucas, a French minera
 logist. It is not affected by the magnet, and, like the non
 magnetic portion of the Blansko meteorite, contains in 100
parts, 51*12 parts soluble in acids, and 48\88 parts insoluble
in these agents. The portion dissolved contained :
             Silica                                       32-607
             Magnesia                                     34*357
             Protoxide of iron                            28*801
             Protoxide of manganese                          *82I
             Oxide of nickel combined with 1                 '&56
                oxide of copper and tin              j         ° '
             Potash and soda                                 *977
             Loss                                           1*971
                                                               —       i >'
                                                        100*
    The portion insoluble in acids is composed of
             Silica                                       56*252
             Magnesia                                     20*396
             Lime                                          3*106
             Protoxide of iron                             9*723
             Protoxide of manganese                          *690
    >        Oxide of nickel with oxide ofT                   ,00
                tin and¦ copper                     Jr       'loo
             Alumina                                       6 025
             Soda                                           1-000
             Potash                                          *512
             Chrome and iron                                1"100
             Loss                                           1070
                                                        1 00*
   • In this abstract no notice is taken of the protoxide of manganese men
tioned in the analyses of the non-magnetic portion.—J. D. S.
    Third Series. Vol.9. No. 56. Dec. 1836.                     3 F

434             Prof. Berzelius on Meteoric Stones.
    M. Berzelius is convinced by later researches, that in this
last analysis the quantity of the alloy of chromium and iron
ought to be increased to 1 *7 per cent., and it also contains about
one tenth per cent, of oxide of tin.
    Meteorite of Loutolox.—This stone fell on the 1 3th of De
cember 1813, near the village ofLontalax in Finland. It has
been described by Nordenskicild, who presented a fragment of
it to M. Berzelius. The magnetic portion is composed ofdeut-
oxide of iron [oxideferroso-ferrique) ; the remainder affords
by analysis :
                                   In the whole     In 100 parts of the
                                     quantity.        soluble portion.
         Silica                        42-5              37-411
         Magnesia                      34-4              32*922
         Protoxide of iron             32-5              28 610
         Protoxide of manganese           -9                *793
         Alumina                          "3                "264
         Oxides of copper and tin, a trace.
         Potash and soda             a trace.
         Insoluble                       7"9
                                      121-5            100-
    From this analysis it may be concluded, that the portion
soluble in acids is a silicate of magnesia and protoxide of iron,
probably in reciprocally variable proportions, but in which
the silica contains as much oxygen as the bases. The mineral
here analysed gives plainly enough the formula f S + 2 M S;
nevertheless there is reason to suppose that the atomic pro
portion is accidental, and that meteoric olivine contains these
isomorphous silicates in variable proportions. The insoluble
part, which is equal to 6*37 per cent, of the weight of the stone,
afforded about one per cent, of the alloy of chromium and
iron, mixed with oxide of tin, magnesia, lime, protoxide of
iron, alumina, and protoxide of manganese, in proportions
which appear to indicate that the insoluble portion of this
   Meteoric
stone        Stone
       has the  sameofcomposition
                       Alais.—Thisas stone,
                                       the preceding   meteorites.
                                               which fell near Alais
in France on the 15th of March 1806, at half-past five in the
afternoon, differs from all the others : it resembles indurated
clay and falls to pieces in water, emitting an argillaceous
odour. M. Thenard who first examined it, found, besides
the general constituents of meteoric stones, some carbon ; this
fact was afterwards confirmed by Vauquelin. A small speci
men sent to M. Berzelius by M. Lucas, has afforded to this
skilful chemist the opportunity of examining it. One portion
(12 per cent.) is attracted by the magnet, which he found was
composed of a minute quantity of metallic iron, a little sulphu-

               Prof. Berzelius on Meteoric Stones.            435
 ret of iron, but chiefly of the deutoxide of iron {oxideferroso-
Jerrique).      This stone when treated with water afforded
 some organic matter, and 10 per cent, of ft salt which con
 tained no iron, being a mixture of the sulphates of nickel,
 magnesia, soda, potash, and lime, with a trace of sulphate of
 ammonia. The meteorite deprived of its soluble constituents
 and dried at 212° Fahr., was heated to redness in a small di
 stillatory apparatus, and the disengaged gas passed into an in
 verted flask filled with lime-water. This operation afforded,
            Black residue                        88- 146
            Gray-brown sublimate                    *944
            Carbonic acid                         4-328
            Water                                 6 582
    138*2 parts of the black residue gave by analysis,
            Silica                                43'15
            Magnesia                              30*70
            Lime                                     *32
            Protoxide of iron                     40*11
            Oxide of nickel                         1*90
            Protoxide of manganese                   *36
            Alumina                                3*25
            Chromium and iron                        '87
            Oxide of tin mixed with copper          1*10
            Insoluble carbonaceous residue        12*00
            Loss                                   4*44
                                                138*20
   The insoluble carbonaceous residue was composed of
            Carbon                                2*586
            Chromium mixed with oxide of tin *525
            Magnesia                               -500
            Protoxide of iron                     2*660
            Oxide of nickel                        *550
            Alumina                                *250
            Oxide of tin                           *200
            Silica      ,                         4*620
   It contained no lime : the magnesia was mixed with a trace
of protoxide of manganese, and the oxide of nickel widi a trace
of cobalt. It is therefore evident that the Alais meteorite is
not of the same nature as the foregoing ones. Neither can it
be considered as merely a lump of earth. The presence of
metallic iron and its sulphuret, and of the oxides of nickel,
cobalt, tin, copper, and chromium, which occur in it, proves
that this earth has been formed from the usual meteoric mass,
which was in this place chiefly composed of meteoric olivine.
                              3F 2

436             Prof. Berzelius an Meteoric Stones.
So that there can be no doubt that this stone, in spite of the
meteoric stones.
difference           The carbon
             of its external appearance,
                                 here occurs
                                         is but a meteorite
                                             in the            com
                                                    state of awhich
in all probability had i               the same situation as other
 bination, which, when decomposed by heat, affords carbonic
acid, either by itself or accompanied by water, and leaves a
carbonaceous residue. In the first case the carbon is com
bined only with oxygen, so as to form a body resembling mel-
litic acid, but in the latter it is in combination with oxygen
and hydrogen. However, there is no other substance known
which is not converted into carbon, carbonic acid, and water.
    It will be perceived by the preceding analyses that the results
of M. Berzelius differ a little from those of M. Thenard.
    Iron and Olivine of Pallas. —This celebrated meteoric mass
which Pallas made known in Europe, was discovered lying on
the peak ofa schistus mountain in Siberia, between Krasnojarsk
and Abekansk. Pallas estimated its weight at 1600 pounds: it
was chiefly composed of a skeleton of iron resembling a well-
 risen loaf, the cavities of which are round and close to one an
 other ; these are filled with the glassy and greenish olivine,
              Iron                              88-042
              Nickel                            10732
              Cobalt                               -455
              Magnesium                            *050
              Manganese                            '132
              Tin and copper                       '066
              Carbon                               '043
              Sulphur                             a trace
              Insoluble residue                    *480
                                               100-000
   This insoluble residue is an extremely interesting part of
the meteoric iron, it being precisely the same combination of
phosphorus and iron that M. Berzelius has already analysed
and described in his Researches on the Meteoric Iron of Bo-
humiliz ; it is composed of
              Iron .                             48-67
             Nickel                              18-33
              Magnesium                            9-66
             Phosphorus                          18-47
             Loss                               100-00
                                                   4-87

               Prof. Berzelius on Meteoric Stones,             437
   M. Berzelius lias also found that the iron of Pallas dissolved
with heat in an acid slightly diluted, it left, after the solution
had become strongly saturated with a neutral salt of iron, a
skeleton, of the form of the iron, black, very light and porous,
100 parts of which are composed of
           Iron                                    571 8
           Nickel                                  34-00
           Magnesium                                4*52
           Tin and copper                           3-75
           Carbon                                     '5.5
                                                  100-00
with a slight trace of phosphorus. The presence of magne
sium proves that this metal in combination with iron and
nickel is less soluble than iron itself.
   The olivine of Paltashas been examined by Walmsted and
by Stromeyer: the first has found that the composition of this
mineral may be exactly indicated by the formula y- ^ ^ S.
The latter, who had met with nickel in other olivines, found,
contrary to all conjecture, that the olivine of Pallas contains
none, although Howard had already stated it to contain about
one per cent, of oxide of nickel.
   The results of M.Walmsted have been verified by M. Ber
zelius, which is seen on comparing the analyses of these
chemists :
                                  Walmsted.         Berzelius.
        Silica                      40-83            40*86
        Magnesia                    47-7S             47-35
        Protoxide of iron           11-53             11-72
        Protoxide of manganese       0'29              0-43
        Oxide of tin                                     -17
                                   100-39           100-53
   Two terrestrial olivines, one, that of Boscovich in Bohemia,
the other, occurring in masses of lava in the department of
Puy-de-Dome, have been subsequently examined by M. Ber
zelius, comparatively with the meteoric olivine of Pallas, and
have afforded him, like all the meteoric stones previously
examined, oxide of tin mixed with oxide of copper in a quan
tity equivalent to about 0-2 per cent, of the whole mass.
   Meteoric Iron of Elbogen.—This meteorite, of the flight of
which no account exists, but which appears to have fallen to
wards the end of the fourteenth or at the commencement of

438              Prof. Berzelius on Meteoric Stones.
the fifteenth century, is now preserved at Vienna. M. Ber
zelius states that the iron of Elbogen is composed of,
            Iron                                          88-231
            Nickel                                         8-517
            Cobalt                                          -762
            Magnesium                                       -279
            Metallic phosphurets                           2-211
             Sulphur and manganese, traces              •
                                                       100-000
   The nickel contains tin and copper. The insoluble metallic
phosphurets altogether resemble those ofthe iron of Pallas and
Bohumiliz: but it is to those of the latter that they approach the
closest in the proportion of the principal constituents ; these are
                Iron                                   68-1 1
                Nickel and magnesium                   17'72
                Phosphorus                             14*17
The metallic phosphurets of the Bohumiliz iron are composed
of iron 65*977, nickel 15-008, phosphorus 14-023, silica 2*037,
and carbon 1*422.
   These researches show that meteoric stones are the mixed
matrices of many minerals in variable proportions. These mi
nerals are as follows :
    1st. Native Iron.—This sometimes forms the principal mass
of the meteoric stone ; but not one of these has fallen, that
we know of, since 1802*. Those meteoric stones in which
iron is the. chief constituent do not fly to pieces in their fall, and
consequently the largest meteorites are composed ofit : the iron
is sometimes in a compact mass, sometimes in rounded por
tions, large or small ; generally it is full of cavities containing a
gangue. The iron is mixed with other metals, especially with
nickel, of which the quantity does not appear to be constant;
it also contains small quantities of cobalt, magnesium, man
ganese, tin, copper, sulphur, carbon, and sometimes a trace of
phosphorus.
   2nd. Sulphurct of Iron.—This is not the magnetic pyrites,
but probably a sulphuret of iron containing an equivalent of
each constituent. This accounts for its feeble magnetic po
larity, as well as the great facility with which acids decompose
it, disengaging hydrosulphuric acid gas. It is intimately
mixed with the mass of the meteoric stones : it probably con
tributes to their dusky colour, and is not readily attracted by
the magnet.
   • [There is an error here, either in the original or in the French trans
lation : the last Tall of meteoric iron known took place at Agram in the
year 1751.—K.W.B.]

                  Prof. Berzelius on Meteoric Stones.            439
     3rd. MagneticOre of Iron.—Although the iron in meteoric
stones is principally either in the metallic state, or at the mini
mum of oxidation, nevertheless it is certainly found in the
state of deutoxide ( oxideferro&o-ferrique) in the meteorites
of Loutolox and Alais : the magnetic portion of the first is
wholly composed of it, and in great part, that of the second.
     4th. Meteoric Olivine.—This constitutes about half of that
which remains after the separation of the magnetic portion; it
is decomposed by acids, leaving a siliceous residue. Its fer
                                                         ial 1
mula is exactly the same as common olivine, i. e.            J- S, in
which M and f vary in their relative proportions: it contains
as isomorphous substitutes small quantities of the silicates of
oxide of nickel and protoxide of manganese, as well as a por
tion of oxide of tin, like terrestrial olivine: it is worthy of
remark that it scarcely ever contains lime.
     5th. Silicates of magnesia, lime, protoxide of iron, prot
oxide of manganese, alumina, potash, and soda, insoluble in
acids, in which the oxygen of the silica is double that of the
bases : these probably constitute another mineral, analogous
toMpyroxene,
        1                                         {*¦
   C •S5; and another, analogous to leucite, ^ >S* + 3AS2.
   f                                              K.
     The black crust that covers the surface of meteoric stones
 is owing to the fusibility of their silicates : these also contri
 bute to the fusion of the olivine, which by itself is infusible.
     That which deserves particular attention is, that if meteoric
 stones were formed of terrestrial olivine and pyroxene, their
 colour would be green, or even black, in consequence of
 the higher degree of oxidation of the iron : this is a sufficient
 proof that the fused black crust has not been formed in the ter
 restrial atmosphere.
      6th. Alloy of Chromium and Iron.—It is very remarkable
 that this mineral so constantly accompanies meteoric stones,
 considering that it always occurs in such very small quantity.
 The preceding experiments show that it separates from the
 meteorites without alteration, yet it is always partially decom
 posed, when it must be sought tor in the separated oxide ofiron.
      7lh. Ore of Tin.—The tin of meteoric stones partly pro
 ceeds from the native iron they contain, and partly from a small
 portion of oxide of tin which is disseminated through the chro-
 miron, and which on analysis dissolves or remains undissolved
  with the latter body. The oxide of tin is mixed with copper.
      M. Berzelius considers that a more profound study of meteo-

  44-0            Prof. Berzelius on Meteoric Sloties.
  rites in the point of view from whence he has set out would
  undoubtedly make known a much larger proportion of their
  principal constituents.
     If we consider meteoric stones as mineralogicnl specimens,
 and compare them with those of our earth, we shall find essen
 tial differences, even putting out of the question the existence
 of the native iron. The abundance of magnesia which is
 in all the chief constituent, the poverty in silica, and the
 small proportion of the silicates of alumina and of the alkalies,
 distinguish the meteoric minerals. On this earth it is just the
 contrary : here silica is the predominant substance, and the
 silicates of alumina and the alkalies form everywhere its prin
 cipal constituents. Magnesia is rare.
     The fineness of grain and feeble cohesion of meteoric stones
 would lead one to suppose that they are projected in a fused
 state, and consequently resemble the products of terrestrial
 volcanos, yet this does not appear to be the case. If we
 carefully examine the texture of a large fragment of a mete
 oric stone, it will be found to be split, and the fissures filled
 with another kind of mineral, for the most part of a deeper
 colour, which indicates a slower and calmer formation. If
 olivine is found amongst the products of terrestrial volcanos,
 and rarely in other minerals, it is no proof that it must always
 be a volcanic product. It is infusible, and is found inclosed
 in volcanic minerals, because it could not be fused with them.
 On the contrary, in meteoric stones it is so uniformly mixed
 with the other constituents, that its presence in these is evi
 dently owing to another cause which does not exist in lava
 and basalt.
    The Alais meteorite proves that in their original situation
rocks are altered by the influence of some geognostic ac
 cident, and are converted into a kind of earth, and that even
 this mass, resembling olivine and mixed with native iron, con
stitutes the rock from which it is broken. The presence, in
this earth, of salts soluble in water would seem to prove that
this phenomenon had occurred either without the presence of
water, or in water which contained such large quantities of
these salts that they remained after desiccation. The car
bonized substance that this earth contains, in a state of mix
ture, would not authorize the conclusion that in its original
habitat, this earthy substance was of an organic nature. This
property of the earth appears, more than any other circum
stance, to show that these meteoric stones have not been pro
jected in a state of fusion and afterwards cooled, for under
suchThe   preceding remarks
       circumstances  such a formation
                              apply to could
                                        the majority
                                              not have     meteoric
                                                       of occurred.

                Prof. Berzelius on Meteoric Stones.              441
stones, which may be regarded as having their origin in the
same locality; but three of them afford a composition so essen
tially different from that of the others, that it may be said with
certainty that they do not come from the same spot, but ori
ginate in another globe, or perhaps from another part of that
globe to which we refer the remainder. These three, however,
resemble each other so much that we may assign them a
common origin. These are the stones which fell at Stannern
in Moravia, and at Jonzac and Juvenas in France. The first
was examined by Moser and then by Klaproth ; the other
two by Laugier. They differ from others in not containing
native iron, but constitute an agglomeration of evidently sepa
rable minerals, as well as in that the particles of the mixture are
of a very small size, and that silicate of magnesia enters into
their composition in but very small proportion. They contain,
on the contrary, besides a little sulphuret of iron, silicates of
lime, alumina, and protoxide of iron, and also some chromium.
The proportion between the oxygen of the silica and that of
the bases is such that the former is more considerable than
the latter, but, however, without being double. About a third
of their mass (not including the silica) is, according to the
analysis made by Laugier of the meteorite ofJuvenas, soluble in
acids; from which it maybe supposed that in the soluble portion
the silica and bases contain an equal portion of oxygen, but
that in the insoluble part the oxygen of the former is double
that of the latter, as in the meteorites already described.
G. Rose has carefully examined this species of meteoric stones,
and has rendered it probable that they are mixtures of labra-
dor and pyroxene, with a little magnetic pyrites free from
nickel, which however, according to his researches, is not at
tracted by the magnet.
   The following analyses by Klaproth and Laugier show the
differences which distinguish these three from other meteoric
stones :
                             Stannern.      Jonzac.       Juv&ias.
                               48-2.5        4600          40-0
      Magnesia       . . .      2-00          1-60            •8
                                9-50          7-50           9-2
      Protoxide of iron        23-00         32-40         23-5
      Alumina . . . . 14-50                   6-00          10-4
      Oxide of manganese                      2-80           6-5
       Potash     ....           ••¦            • ¦•          •2
      Oxide of copper. .         • •¦           • at           1
       Oxide of chromium                      1-00           1-0
       Sulphur . . . . 2-75                  15-0            O'S
    Third Seiies. Vol. 9. No. 56. Dec. 1836.             5 G

                           [  442    ]
LXXXI. On a new Method qfpreparing Iodous Acid. By
   Lewis Thompson, Esq., Member of the Royal College of
  Surgeons.
  To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
      Gentlemen,
I SEND you a new method of preparing iodic acid ; it is
    cheaper and safer than the process of Sir HumphryDavy,
and affords a purer acid than the plan pursued by Gay-Lussac.
I say purer, because from some experiments which I have
lately made, and intend to repeat more carefully, 1 am led to
conclude with Sir Humphry Davy, that the acid of Gay-
Lussac is sulpho-iodic acid.
                Processfor preparing Iodic Acid.
   Put one atom or 126 grains of iodine into a proper bottle
with 24 ounces of water, and pass chlorine, previously washed
in cold water, through the mixture until it shall have become
colourless; set the solution aside for an hour; then heat it to
212° Fahr., to disengage the uncombined chlorine, and add
2| atoms or 295 grains of recently precipitated oxide of silver ;
boil the whole for ten minutes, filter, and evaporate carefully
to dryness : the product is pure anhydrous iodic acid.
   It will be at once perceived by the above process that there
is no such acid as the chlorindic, the acid so called being in
fact merely a chloride of iodine, which when dissolved in
water is converted into muriatic and iodic acids, with a vari
able quantity of iodine. How this mistake can have passed
so long unnoticed is to me a matter of surprise ; at the same
time I must observe that I have not been able to unite chlo
rine and iodine in the proportions necessary to form these
acids without the intervention of water; there is always an ex
cess of iodine: but I have no doubt that this may be effected
in a sufficiently reduced temperature. In the last experiment
which I made on this subject 50 grains of iodine combined
with 41*5 cubic inches or about 30 grains of chlorine: the
substance thus formed when put into a large quantity of
water, and exposed for some days to the sunshine, deposited
8 grains of iodine and became of a pale yellow colour.
   That the muriatic and iodic acids exist ready formed in the
solution I am confident, not only from the taste and smell,
but because I have obtained free muriatic acid from it by
distillation, although when this is continued until the solution
becomes a good deal concentrated, these acids react upon
each other and produce chlorine and iodine.

            On a Paradox in the Calculus of Functions.               443
    As the iodate of ammonia is not noticed in any work with
which I am acquainted, I think it right to observe here that
it is a highly crystalline granular powder, possessed of but
little solubility: it may be prepared by saturating the solution
of the muriatic and iodic acids with pure ammonia, when it will
fall down, the muriate remaining dissolved. I find that iodic
acid is decomposed by sulphocyanic acid and the sulpho-
cyanates of potash and soda; and also that saliva, in conse
quence probably of the sulpho-cyanate of potash it contains,
decomposes iodic acid, and produces with it and starch a blue
precipitate not to be distinguished from that produced under
similar circumstances by morphia. The importance of this
discovery in a medico-legal point of view is considerable, since
iodic acid is now very Imuch       relied upon yours,
                             am, Gentlemen,             &c.for morphia.
                                                as a test
    Roebuck Place, Great Dover Road,             Lewis Thompson,
               Southwark.                              M.R.C.S.
LXXXII. Explanation of a remarkable Paradox in the Cal
    culus ofFunctions, noticed by Mr. Babbage. By John T.
     Graves, Esq., M.A., of the Inner Temple.
                 [Continued from p. 341, and concluded.]
 JJAVING thus proved that
              Z        _!        V
                   cos                           /
   e VZl <U+2713> ?          o+ *V +          = I*-?--1*,                 (15.)
 we have seen in what manner it follows that
          i vy + x2 + v'^r                    cosf1        ;/
 is an c-log of x.      q. e. d.
     Let I' vV* + ** +              v z* cos-1
                                    —p=        o+ vy t==+ z2. (which
                                                                 v
 I call the 0th <?-log of x of the 0th order) be denoted by
 / (y + V — 1 z) or Ix. It is plain that when x is real and
 positive, / x resolves itself in point of quantity (as it ought to
 do, if our notation be consistent) into the arithmetical e-log
 of x. Following the same notation,
            / /4-rsi ~ S -1 ~7=, cos" 1 -, ? , a                    (16«)
              vy1 + z*                v a*    o+ vy* + z1
                                  3G2

444     Mr. Graves's Explanation of a remarkable Paradox
may be denoted by l-^, since it may be similarly proved
to    be     an e-log of — , and since it is the same indivi-
                     °       x
dual function of — that I x is of x. That it is the same indi-
                      x
vidualfunction (so far as such a phrase can be considered ap
plicable), or in other words, that it has a better right than any
other logarithm of — to be considered the logarithm of —
corresponding to / x, will appear on substituting in I x the re
spective constituents of —   x for those of x, that is to savJ y9 2—.
                                                                   + z*
for y and               f°r z> f°r by sucn substitution the expres
sion which I denote by / -i- will be obtained.
   Observing that in / — the constituent (see (16.))
           1
  lvyT*=~lv? +                           find
                       l— =-lx.                                   (17.)
   Let I v a* + ir = v and —7=3     z cos,,_i. , y „ = z, and
               *           *       V 2s    04- V y+ z*
let / / 0 be denoted by the notation P 0, then, by what precedes,
we have
          I {y+ V^l x ) or P x = /
                   .        z"     _,       y                     (18.)
we have also I ( —y" — V — \ z") or P —
                                                                  (19.)
but it is easy to see that
              coso+ <Hb^ - T - c< s^tf                            (20-)
   Hence ?j = P- -)- V — \                                         (21.)

      in the Calculus of Functions, noticed by Mr. Babbage.       445
           z                     Z                              ___
since          evidently =            .  But V'-Uor —           — in
 (one or other of which values v — 1 — — % must possess at
any time) is an c-Iog of — 1, for
     <"o_          =cos(+ tt) + v"-l sin (+ t) = - 1.            (22.)
     Hence, if z be positive, or, .r being real, if we choose or have
reason to consider the infinitesimal or zero z positive, and if
             Pz
\J/ x =       ~ 1 *, I say that we shall have c \J> ~ =      x, what
ever be c ; it being understood that corresponding powers are
                                              _P x
to be compared in the expressions c^"1"'aiidc.cv'"1*.
For crj/ — =c.c^-1* =c                        =c V-i «¦ .(23.)
             x
but by equation (21.) since z is now supposed positive,
                 I'^r+'S^*              Px
               c                  =c        = \J/x.              (24.)
     On the other hand, if z be negative, or so considered, and
             Pi
                                                           1
»J/ j? =        1 *, we shall no longer have tyx = cty         but if,
                                                      - Pi
z being negative or so considered, x = c — ' "» we may
prove in similar manner that equation (1.) will subsist what
ever be c.
     We have thus therefore obtained two correlated and mutu
ally complemental examples, both possessing, to a certain ex
tent, the property of satisfying (1.), and both of them included
                           — log log X
in the generic form clog^ — i\ mentioned by Mr. Babbage
as derived from the process of Laplace, but in neither case
does equation (1.) hold good for all values of z, positive
or negative, nor even for all real values of x, without
an annexed supposition relating to those real values. Thus
we see matters so arranged, with most curious delicacy,
 that we are never at liberty to suppose \J/—            = ctyx (a

 446     Mr. Graves's Explanation ofa remarkable Paradox
 supposition which it is necessary to make if we would prove'
ca = 1), without making \J» itself change the form it had when
 ij/ x was equal to c 4/     in other words, (1.) and (2.) are es
sentially non-simultaneous equations in the illustrative in
stances before us, for the z of x, of whatever sign it be or be
 considered to be, though such z be infinitesimal or zero, as in
 the case of x real, is always or must always be considered to
                                                             Px
 be of a different sign from the z of — . When \|/ x = c v'_ '
equation (1.) will not be satisfied for all real quantitative va
lues of x, unless zero be considered positive, nor again when
         - Pr
ij/ x—c */~l'ri unless zero be considered negative. Vice versd
 with respect to equation (2.). One supposition excludes the
 other : zero may be considered either positive or negative, but
not both together. Hence, even in the case of x real, where
 the solutions would appear on first view to be concurrent, they
are, in truth, alternative. We are bound to consider x the
 same in state as well as quantity on both sides of the equa
 tions (1.) and (2.), and here obscurity arises from the symbols
 of algebra not expressing to the eye a difference of state be
 tween reals having the same quantity. Such difference of
 state in things denoted by algebraic symbols is in most cases
 immaterial, unless no quantity remain in either of their con
 stituents; but we know that it is of importance in the case of
 vanishing fractions, and we perceive that it may become so in
 certain other fine circumstances, such as those which we have
just discussed.
      We have shown therefore by a particular example (or ra
 ther by two correlated examples) that the paradox noticed by
 Mr. Babbage is only a remarkably subtle instance of the fol
 lowing general proposition which is not d priori improbable.
 Though we may prove it to be impossible to find one Jixed
form 4», such that the equation \J/ x = F | a* (F and a being
 given functions) shall hold good simultaneously in different
cases where particular values of x are assumed (the term
 " value" including state as well as quantity), we are not there
 fore to despair of finding distinct forms of 4/, absolute or al
ternative, which for certain values of x, within appropriate
limits, shall severally satisfy the equation tyx = Flax, Such
 a partial form of x and the corresponding partial form of
 F\J/ a x taken with it may be likened to two curves which co

       ill the Calculus ofFunctions, noticed by Mr. Babbage.        447
  incitle for a certain continuous space and divaricate in the
   rest of their course.
      Those parts of this paper in which infinitesimals have been
  spoken of in the more popular language of mathematics,
  may advantageously be translated into the more rigid phrase
  ology of limits. Various distinct continuities may terminate
  in the same quantity as a limit, as, for example, a line may
  be looked upon as having moved through any of the in
  finite number of planes of which it may be the boundary, and
  it is easy to conceive that there are properties of such a line,
   which (all things else remaining the same) vary with the plane
   in which its motion is deemed to have taken place ; but it is,
   I believe, a novelty in algebra, to present an instance of a
  given individual function of a positive or negative quantity,
  which varies accordingly as the functional subject is regarded
  as the limit of this or that kind of imaginary quantity.
     Professor De Morgan, in the place before cited, (p. 335.) men-
           /l - ,r\ logc
 tions lj— x)lo&^~ as a ^orm ^ * not °^v'ous'y disconti
 nuous that appears to satisfy equation (1.) independently of c.
 We mayassumethatalwaysontheoppositesidesof thatequation
 ,        C, . is intended to denote the same quantity, and that in the
 log(-l)
                               log'-                1. lo«c
                   (\ -gy°g( - ¦)           /_LZYog(_1)
 expressions \j + x)                  and c I       j I        corre-
                                                ~*~ x
 sponding powers are to be compared. With respect to this
 instance I shall only add that it would not be difficult to show
by reasoning similar to that which I have already employed in
this paper, that no definite case included in the indeterminate
                             log i
expression ^ — - J                   can be other than a partial or
alternative solution for \J/ x, unless c3 = 1 ; for let — x
                                                               1 +x
 = y + V — 1 z, then it may be proved by my exponential
theorems that the equation
                          log c               1      log c
                                              X
if, being individualized, it hold good for g of one sign posi-

 318    Mr. Graves's Explanation ofa remarkable Paradox
 tive or negative, cannot hold good for s of an opposite sign,
 unless c = —. c
   Inner Temple, July 1836.
    P.S. It is not out of place to mention, that I am gratified
 with the view which Professor De Morgan has taken in the
 last Number of this Magazine (October 1836, vol. ix. p. 252,)
 of my researches on logarithms, and that I agree with him in
 considering my results rather upon the whole as extensions
 or (as I should say) completions, than as corrections of what
 had before been accomplished. He has also properly noticed
 an oversight I committed in not observing the distinction he
 drew in his Calculus of Functions, with reference to the possi
 bility of obtaining the most general solution, between func
 tional equations where there are and where there are not in
 dependent variables. I may be permitted, however, to assent
 to his remarks on some other points with some qualifications,
 which may seem over-nice and pedantic, but are required by
 the delicacy of the subject, and I wish to prefix some expla
nation relative to the actual progress or improvement which
I consider this branch of science to have received from my
researches. The deficiencies in the ordinary theory which I
have endeavoured to supply are the following : first, I found no
formula which assigned even one value of a', much less all of
them, when a and x were imaginary ; secondly, I considered
that as —2 was a value of 4i, \ would be admitted to be, or
at least deserved to be reckoned a logarithm of —2 to the
base 4-, and yet in no formula which I had met with for the
4-logs of —2 was any such quantity as £ included; thirdly,
I observed generally great laxity, not to say inaccuracy, in
the use of ambiguous exponential expressions, and saw
equations employed without apparent restriction where,
perhaps, the two sides had but one value in common.
For instance, the equation e1 + v/_ 1 2»»t= e is not correct
though    restricting
without every  quantity      meaning
                       theincluded   in the
                                         of formula   1 + </ side,
                                             the left-hand         for
                                                             — 1 2mic
is an f-log off, ex + V—i 2 m v has an infinite number of real
values besides c for any given m, except m = 0. Hence, I
scruple to call e i + v'— l * ¦» * merely a general algebraic form
of e, and think it necessary to devise a notation to characterize
that particular value of c1 + ,/_l2m'r which is equal to e.
                                        1 + V-l 2 m t
The still more general form e                           Mas> equally

      in the Calculus of Functions, noticed by Mr. Babbage.     4+9
  with e'+ V— 1 2 • r, one of its values equal to and is M<? moi<
 general exponentialform that possesses this property ; a pro
 perty which seems to me, even according to ordinary accep
 tation, to confer on every quantity included in the formula
  I+V, — 1S«» a right           , appellation
                       . , to the       ...      .
                                               e-\oa of. e. TTHere
 let me remark that I cannot conceive how any difference in re
 sults can be obtained from operating correctly on two strictly
 equivalent algebraic forms such as cos 0 and cos {2 in ± 9).
 It is true that one may suggest what we have to recollect with
 respect to the other, and it is true that in the treatment of
 such forms there are many specious fallacies to be guarded
 against. Thus, it would not be correct to reason as though
 cos {c(2 i is + $)} were the same function of cos (2 i it + 0)
 that cos(cfl) is of cos 0, if 0 denote a particular individual
 value of cos-' cosfl. On account of the preceding considera
 tions, among others, instead of obtaining my formula for x,
 the general logarithm ofy, by the method stateil by Professor
 De Morgan as substantially the same as mine, viz. by setting
out at once with the unelementary definition e             1 *¦»»>
 = e ly+V— i 2 re » t should prefer building, as I have done,
on received principles of analogy, which, 1 think, would na
turally entitle tyy to the name of an e-log ofy, if any value
of a1*9 were equal to y, especially if we found that ^y pos
sessed the property \p y + \J/«/v = fyyy. I do not meet in books
any explicit exclusion of ^ from the name of logarithm of — 10
to the base 100 on the ground that —10 is not what is called
the arithmetical value of 100', and, in legal phrase, I sub
mit that the onus of making out their case lies on those who
advocate such an exclusion. It would refuse the name of
logarithm to any function whatever ofy, where y and the base
a were not real and positive, or would require some definition
of what is meant by the arithmetical value of a? for all values
of a and x, as well imaginary as real. Now, for some values
of a, it may be matter of arbitrary decision to determine
which one of a certain pair of values of a* is to be considered
as corresponding to that which is the arithmetical value of a*,
when a and x are real and positive.       Is */~\ or ^ —¦ the
                                 i,
arithmetical value of ( — l)5? For some values of a and x,
a* has more than one real positive value, and for some,
again, a1 has a single real positive value corresponding to
    Third Scries. Vol. 9. No. 56. Dec. 1836.            3 H

450 Dr. Inglis^Mi the Electrical Conducting Power ofIodine.
what would be in general an imaginary value of a1, if a and x
were real and positive. But 1 have already occupied too
much space, and need not labour these arguments, for Pro
fessor De Morgan does not materially differ from me here.
He seems to regard the ordinary theory as an edifice com
plete in itself, but is content to receive my results as an ex
tension which may prove useful, whereas I regard them rather
as the erection of a wing, required for symmetry, if not for use.
LX X X 1 1 1 . On the Conducting Power ofIodinefor Electricity.
                      By James Inglis, M.D.*
       [Addressed to the Chemical Section of the British Association.]
 I T may not, perhaps, have escaped the notice ofsome of the
 *- members of this Section, that in extracts from a Prize Essay
 of mine, published some months ago, in the Philosophical Ma
 gazine, I stated that I had found iodine to be a conductor of
 electricity. Nor may the experiments of Mr. Solly tending to
 prove the contrary have passed by unobserved. Nevertheless,
 being satisfied in my own mind what I had published was correct,
 1 determined at the earliest opportunity to resume the investiga
 tion, and instead of answering that gentleman directly through
 the medium of the Philosophical Magazine, I thought it might
 be better to lay before you the result, in as much as I shall by
 experiment prove m)' former statement, and then furnish you
 with that portion of iodine which you have seen conduct, that
 you may for yourselves judge of its purity.
     In Mr, Solly's first paper, no mention is made of experi
 ments performed with fused iodine ; but his attention being
 drawn to the subject by a note of mine, he published a second,
  in which he throws a doubt on the purity of the iodine I had
  used, saying that it contained " most probably the iodide of
 iron, which is not unfrequently present in the iodine of the
  shops." (Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag., No. 4-8. p. 401.)
      The iodine I used was obtained from the manufactory of
  Mr. Whitelaw of Glasgow, where no iron vessel is ever em
  ployed, and in which, in its veriest impurity, no iron can be
  detected. Here, for instance, is one tube containing an
  aqueous solution of ioduret of iron ; a second, an aqueous
  solution of the iodine to be tested ; and a third having in it a
  solution of the ferrocyanate of potassa. Now, on adding
  u small portion of this last solution to the one containing iron,
  immediately the blue ferrocyanate of the peroxide of iron re
  sults. But no such effect is produced when the test is added
     * Read before the Chemical Section of the British Association at Bristol,
  Aug. 26, 183fi: and now communicated by the Author.

  Dr. Inglis on the Electrical Conducting Power ofIodine. 45\
to the solution of iodine ; it remains the same as before admix
ture. Add, however, but a single drop of the solution of the
ioduret of iron and the blue colour instantly appears. But sup
posing that a small portion of the ioduret by some chance
happened to be present, we know that from its great affinity
for water it could be removed by washing; I therefore washed
several times, and thoroughly dried, the iodine with blotting-
paper; and lastly, thrice sublimed it; so that now I presume
it is as pure as possible.
   Of this iodine thus prepared, I put a portion into a tube
with a platinum wire hermetically sealed into one extremity;
and introducing a second wire at the other till one end ap
proached the former to within about the fourth of an inch,
I hermetically sealed this extremity also : so that we have
here a closed tube containing dry pure iodine, with two se
parate platinum wires communicating together only through
the medium of the iodine.
   Three galvanic troughs, containing each 30 pairs of plates,
were charged, (but 20 pairs, or fewer, as in the trough now
to be used, are sufficient,) and one of the platinum wires fixed
to the positive pole, whilst the other was placed in a glass of
acidulated water. On forming the galvanic circle, no effect
was produced, either by the decomposition of water, or by
sensation on the tongue : nor was there any difference on re
versing the poles.
   The iodine being now liquefied by the flame of a spirit-lamp,
and the tube attached to the negative pole, the platinum
wire was placed as before in water ; and on completing the
circle by a copper wire from the positive, instantly bubbles of
gas appeared and were evolved at the platinum wire, whilst
none appeared at the copper, being positive. The order be
ing reversed, globules of gas appeared at both wires, showing
clearly that decomposition had been effected.
   Again, if the platinum wire be placed on the tongue, and
the copper wire be taken hold of with the hand, instantly the
galvanic sensation is felt.
   The heat being removed, the power ofconduction gradually
dies away; so that in seven minutes it is incapable of
transmitting even sufficient electricity to be perceived by the
tongue. When therefore I stated in a note attached to Mr.
Solly's paper, that iodine when cold and concrete still con
ducted, I was in error, being led to say so from recollection
only. But my general statement that iodine is a conductor, is,
I hope, satisfactorily shown to be borne out this day by ex
periment.
   Dr. Gumming considered that the conduction might be
                                   3 H2

+52 The Rev. J. W. MacGauley on some remarkable Results
explained by the fact made known by Mr. Faraday, that air
when heated becomes a conductor. But that could not apply
here, for in the first place, it is not air at all that is the me
dium of conduction, it is liquid iodine; and in the second, on
melting the iodine and inverting the tube the conduction is
suspended.
    Dr. Apjohn now suggested that the iodine at the tempera
ture required for its liquefaction might act on the platinum,
and that an ioduret of platinum thus formed would conduct.
    But iodine does not act on platinum at 225° Fahr., and
225° is the point at which iodine fuses.
    This I stated at the time the objection was made, and since
my return I have accurately weighed a piece of platinum wire,
and allowed iodine to act on it for half an hour, at and above
the point of fusion ; when on weighing again, the platinum
wire was found to have lost nothing ; so that Dr. Apjohn's
objection thus loses its weight, no ioduret having been
formed.
    The conducting power of iodine, atmospheric air, and
 some other substances when heated, and their non-conducting
when cold, adds, I think, an argument in favour of that theory
which considers electricity to be but an action of matter ; and
heat and electricity to be but modifications of each other.
   Castle Douglas, Oct. 3, 1836.                   James Inglis.
LXXXIV. An Account and Explanation of some remarkable
    Results obtained during a Course of Electro- Magnetic Expe
    riments. By the Rev. J. W. MacGauley*.
"I T is impossible not to remark that the electro-magnetic he-
¦* lix seems to increase the power of a given battery, for the
brilliancy of the spark increases with the magnitude of the ap
paratus. I expected that such an intensity might be given by
a very powerful electro-magnet, as that a small galvanic ar
 rangement and a single circle might be made to communicate
a considerable shock. I coiled nearly 2000 feet of copper wire,
in ten helices, upon a bar of soft iron, during the experiments
 I was making preparatory to the construction of a large and
greatly improved machine on the principle which I exhibited
last year (1835) to the British Association, and which is now
 nearly completed : from this magnet I obtained a powerful
shock.
    It is not necessary to detail a great variety of arrangements
adopted and results obtained ; among others I came to the fol
lowing conclusions:
   " Read before the Royal Dublin Society on June 14th; and now com
municated by the Author.

                of Electro- magnetic Exper iments.            453
   1st. That the spark am! shock obtained from an electro
magnet, on breaking battery communication, are not the spark
and shock of the battery nor of the electro-magnet, but, most
probably, the electricity induced on the wire of the helix by
the electricity of the battery, or, if it be true that a current
passes along the wire, ihe electricity intercepted in its passage
from the copper to the zinc.
   2nd. That the spark and shock do not depend, except
within certain limits, on the size of the battery.
   3rd. That they confirm what I ventured to assert at the last
meeting of the British Association (1835) on the nature of mag
netism.
   4th. That the real power of the battery is not increased but
diminished by the electro-magnetic, or rather, electro-galvanic
helix.
   1st. The spark and shock (the latter of which I do not re
collect to have seen remarked before,) obtained with an elec
tro-magnet on breaking battery communication, are not the
spark or shock of the battery, for neither one nor the other
can exist until after battery communication is actually broken.
Again, if they arise from the battery, to receive the shock it
would be necessary to form a part of the communication be
tween the copper and zinc. This, however, is not required ;
it is necessary only to form a part of the communication be
 tween the extremities of the helix, or between one extremity
 of the helix and either the copper or zinc of the battery.
 Neither does the shock or spark arise from the influence of
 the bar of soft iron inclosed in the helix : on the contrary, the
 retention of magnetism in the bars, either from the nature of
its iron or the action of a keeper, will proportionably diminish
 the effect ; and I have no doubt that if a large portion of mag
 netism were retained in a powerful electro-magnet by the
 keeper, and the keeper were torn off with violence from
 the magnet, a shock and spark would be perceived at the mo
 ment of disruption, which, together with those obtained when
 battery communication was broken, would form a spark and
 shock exactly equal to what were obtained had there been no
 retention of magnetism by the keepers when battery commu
 nication was interrupted.
    Of the apparatus submitted to the Society for the purpose
 of demonstrating the facts contained in this paper by experi
 ment, the part to which it was desired more particularly to di
 rect attention consisted of 588 feet of copper wire, No. 13,
 coiled in seven helices of 84 feet each, on a thin brass tube, 5\
 inches in length, £ internal diameter, having discs of brass,
 4 inches in diameter, attached to its extremities. The tube

<U+2666>54 The Rev. J. W. MacGauley on some remarkable Results
and discs were intended merely as a convenient means of coil
ing the wire and submitting bars of iron or of steel to the ac
tion of the helix. The corresponding extremities of the coils
were soldered to two thick pieces of copper wire, which were
made to dip respectively into two cups of mercury, forming a
connexion between the poles and a calorimotor 1 foot square,
double cell, charged with 400 drachms of water and 12 of
muriatic acid. Wires lead from the same cups of mercury to
vessels containing a solution of common salt, into which the
hands are dipped for the purpose of obtaining a shock when
battery connexion is broken. Though the wire, for conve
nience, is coiled upon brass, it is immaterial how it is ar
ranged. I have thrown it into a heap, and believe the effect
was equally powerful.
   The spark and shock must be produced after battery com
munication is broken, because while it exists, every electrical
effect must be prevented by the helix, as it affords a good con
ducting communication between the copper and zinc of the
battery. Inclosing a bar of soft iron in the helix diminishes
the effect.
   2nd. The size of the battery, only within certain limits, af
fects the spark and shock. In constructing a galvanic helix,
or a system of such helices, it is evident that the length of
the wire must be limited, on account of its imperfect con
ducting power. We must therefore, to produce a consider
able effect, multiply the helices : on the other hand, if the bat
tery be very small, a minute subdivision of its electricity among
so many wires may render the portions in each insufficient for
any considerable disturbance of electrical equilibrium. The
number of the coils and their lengths must therefore be regu
lated by the size ofthe battery and the conducting power ofthe
wire.
   3rd. Those properties of the electro-galvanic helix are
strongly confirmatory of the theory I ventured to advance be
fore the British Association on the nature of magnetism:
" That its existence does not depend on the continuance of
electrical currents ; that continued electrical currents are not
the consequence of magnetization ; and that magnetism is mere
electrical excitement." For if electrical currents were essen
tially connected with magnetism, and if we can obtain a shock
and spark — the acknowledged indications of a current by a
simple helix — how much more should we obtain these indica
tions when both causes are simultaneously in action, either of
which, of itself, were sufficient for their production ! Yet the
existence of magnetism within the helix proportionably injures
its effect. Magnetism is merely induced electricity, for it is

                of Electro-magnetic Experiments.             455
produced by the action of an excited helix. The action of an
excited body is the production of an opposite excitement on
any body in its proximity, which induction increases its own
capacity for electricity. Supposing magnetized substances to
be merely modified instances of this seemingly universal law,
all their properties may easily be explained.
   4th. The power of the buttery is not increased, but dimi
nished, by the helix; for, after passing through one helix, its
power of exciting another is lessened, nor will it affect a gal
vanometer so much. If it were increased, judging by the spark
and shock, and supposing these to arise from such increase, it
ought to have acquired an intensity which would easily carry
it through any length of wire.
   When 400 drachms of water and 12 of muriatic acid were
used, the effect was transitory ; but the spark was very brilliant
with the helix alone, less brilliant with a magnet having 12 feet
more wire than the helix, less still with a smaller magnet.
The shock with the helix was stronger than with the larger
magnet ; but when 400 drachms of water, 8 of sulphuric acid,
and ± of nitric acid were used, the spark from the helix re
mained the most brilliant, but the shock from the magnet be
 came stronger than from the helix. To get a shock at a maxi
 mum from the helix, contact must be rapidly broken ; from
 the magnet, slowly. The magnet had 600 feet of wire coiled
 in three helices; the helix 588 feet in seven coils. The shock
 was considerably increased when two persons dipped their
 hands into the vessels containing the solution of salt ; at the
 same time each received a greater shock than when only one
 person formed the communication.
    If the mercury be not clean, or if some of the battery charge
 be found upon its surface, neither shock nor spark will be ob
 tained, because as soon as the wire leaves the mercury, con
 tact for the battery, as its electricity is of very low tension,
 ceases; but the other fluid will conduct away the electricity,
 from whence arise the shock and spark. If one extremity of
 the helix, or one wire of the battery, be lifted out of the mer
 cury in contact with the wire leading from the same cup to the
 solution of salt, no shock will be felt.
    A very cheap, permanent, and convenient apparatus, on the
 same principle cs that submitted to the Society, may be con
 structed ; one which would bear to the galvanic battery of a
 single circle the same relation as the Leyden jar to the elec
 trical machine. Like the Leyden jar, it may be made a ma
 gazine of power, ready to be exerted on any object the expe
 rimenter may desire; but it is not frail and perishable, does
 not demand much care nor attention, docs not depend on the

                       On the Art of' Glass-Painting.
 state of the atmosphere for its efficiency, nor require almost
 any expense to produce or continue its actions.
    To construct it, however, on a large scale, a considerable
 quantity of wire, covered with an insulating substance, is re
quired. The covering of the wire is at present, I believe, ex
pensive, but a machine I constructed for ihe purpose, which
leaves nothing to the care or skill of the operator, almost no
thing to his labour, and which may be applied to many branches
of manufacture, has changed what would otherwise be trouble
some and laborious into the work of a few moments. Some
judgement may be formed of the rapidity of its execution when
I mention that very lately I covered with it 20,000 feet of
wire of various diameters ; and of the exactness with which it
covers it, by the nearly 1 300 feet employed in the apparatus
submitted to the Society.
   79, Marlborough Street, Dublin, June 16,1836.
             LXXXV.By On          the Art of Glass-Painting.
                              A CoitKKSPONDENT.        ..               ,i lair
  \ S the accounts to be found in various works respecting this
       curious art are by no means satisfactory or complete, I
have thought that a few observations on the subject, com
prising a concise account of the processes employed, both in
ancient and modern times, might be deemed of sufficient in
terest to obtain a place in the Lond. and Edinb. Philosophical
 Magazine.
    It is a singular fact, that the art of glass-painting, prac
tised with such success during former ages from one end of
 Europe to the other, should gradually have fallen into such
disuse, that in the beginning of the last century it came to
be generally considered as a lost art*. In the course of the
eighteenth century, however, the art again began to attract
   " [Our Correspondent will doubtless be glad to learn that a very able and
interesting work on Glass-Painting has lately been published at Rouen,
entitled, " Essai Hi/torir/ue et Descriptif mr la Pcinture sur Verve ancienne
et moderne, et nir les Vilraux les pita rcmartpjablei de quelqttet monument
 Francois et etrangers; suivi de la biographic del plut riiibret Pcintret*
 Verrien: Par E. H. L uiglois, du Pont-de-l'Arche, orne de Planches des-
siuees et gravces par Mademoiselle Espcrance Langlois, 183:2." The beau
tiful and curious windows of the churches of St. Godurd, the Cathedral,
St. Otien, St. Patrice, and St. Vincent in Rouen have been copied by Ma
demoiselle Langlois with great spirit, skill and faithfulness.
    M. Langlois disproves the notion (" l'aveugle prejuge"j, that the art had
been lost, p. 193; and states that this error was more unacci untable in
England, where, according to one of the niemoirs'of M. AI. Brongniart, a
number of the finest windows were painted from 1616 to 1/00, and by
Jervis Forrest up to 1785.—R. T.J

                     On the Art of Glass-Painting.                    457
attention, and many attempts were made to revive it. It was
soon found by modern artists, that by employing the pro
cesses always in use among enamel-painters, the works of the
old painters on glass might in most respects be successfully
imitated ; but they were totally unable to produce any imita
tion whatever of that glowing red which sheds such incom
parable brilliancy over the ancient windows that still adorn
so many of our churches*. For this splendid colour they
possessed no substitute, until a property, peculiar to silver
alone among all the metals, was discovered, which will pre
sently be described. The art of enamelling on glass differs
little from the well-known art of enamelling on other sub
stances. The colouring materials (which are exclusively me
tallic) are prepared by being ground up with a Jlux, that is,
a very fusible glass, composed of silex, flint-glass, lead, and
borax : the colour with its flux is then mixed with volatile oil,
and laid on with the brush. The pane of glass thus ena
melled is then exposed to a dull red heat, just sufficient to
soften and unite together the particles of the flux, by which
means the colour is perfectly fixed on the glass. Treated in
this way, gold yields a purple, gold and silver mixed a rose-
colour, iron a brick-red, cobalt a bluet; mixtures of iron,
copper and manganese, brown and black. Copper, whicli
yields the green in common enamel-painting, is not found to
produce a fine colour when applied in the same way to glass,
and viewed by transmitted light; for a green therefore re
course is often had to glass coloured blue on one side and
yellow on the other. To obtain a yellow, silver is employed,
 which, either in the metallic or in any other form, possesses
the singular property of imparting a transparent stain, when
exposed to a low red heat in contact with glass. This stain
is either yellow, orange, or red, according to circumstances.
 For this purpose on flux is used : the prepared silver is merely
ground up with ochre or clay, and applied in a thick layer
 upon the glass. When removed from the furnace the silver
is found not at all adhering to the glass ; it is easily scraped
off, leaving a transparent stain, which penetrates to a certain
depth. IF a large proportion of ochre has been employed,
the stain is yellow; if a small proportion, it is orange-coloured ;
and by repeated exposure to the fire, without any additional
  * In 1774 the French Academy published Le Vieil's treatise on Glass-
painting. He possessed no colour approaching to red, except the brick-
red or rather rust-coloured enamel subsequently mentioned in the text, de
rived from iron.
  f It appears by^a boast of Suger, abbot of St. Denis, which has been
preserved, that the ancient glass-painters pretended to employ sapphires
among their materials ; hence, perhaps, the origin of the term Zaffrit,
under which the oxide of cobalt is still known in commerce.
   Third Series. Vol. 9. No. 56. Dec. 1836.                  3 I

                      On the Art of Glass-Painting.
colouring matter, the orange may be converted into red. This
conversion of orange into red is, I believe, a matter of much
nicety, in which experience only can ensure success. Till
 within a few years this was the only bright red in use among
 modern glass-painters; and though the best specimens cer
 tainly produce a fine effect, yet it will seldom bear comparison
 with the red employed in such profusion by the old artists*.
     Besides the enamels and stains above described, artists,
 whenever the subject will allow of it, make use of panes co
 loured throughout their substance in the glass-house melting-
pot, because the perfect transparency of such glass gives a
 brilliancy ofeffect, which enamel-colouring, always more or less
 opake, cannot equal. It was to a glass of this kind that the
 old glass-painters owed their splendid red. This in fact is
 the only point in which the modern and ancient processes
 differ, and this is the only part of the art which was ever
 really lost. Instead of blowing plates of solid red, the old
    * [The barbarous devastations to which the productions of this beautiful
 art have been subjected are deeply to be regretted. It appears from the
interesting " Account of Durham Cathedral ** lately published by the Rev.
 James Raine, that there was much fine stained glass in the fifteen windows
 of the Nine Altars which
                             " shed their many-coloured light
                Through the rich robes of eremites and saints;"
until the year 1795, when "their richly painted glass and mullions were
swept away, and the present plain windows inserted in their place. The
glass lay for a long time afterwards in baskets on the floor; and when
the greater part of it had been purloined the remainder was lucked up
 in the Galilee." And in 1802 a beautiful ancient structure, the ("treat
 Vestry, " was, for no apparent reason, demolished, and the richly painted
glass which decorated its windows was either destroyed by the workmen
 or afterwards purloined." The exquisite Galilee itself had been con
 demned, but was saved by a htippy chance.
    The destruction of these
                          "storied windows, richly dight,
                     Casting a dim religious light,
 has not then been the work of the calumniated coteniporaries of our divine
poet, but of the successive Deans and dignitaries of the Church. And if
Painting and Architecture have to complain of such devastation in our ca
thedrals, the treatment of the sister art has been still more deplorable.
The ample funds with which the Choirs were endowed, as distinct corpora
tions established for the cultivation of the highest species of sacred music,
nnd its employment in divine worship, having been misappropriated by pri
vate cupidity, no longer does
                          " the peBling organ blow
                      To thefull-voiced quire below,"
but to perhaps a third of the complement prescribed by the statutes, and
those often too ill paid and inefficient to realize the poet's beautiful de
scription. As for"service high," in many cathedrals it is quite out of the ques
tion, asveryfew of the minor canons, are musicians and the choirs, instead of
being " full-voiced," are reduced to the lowest number by which the skeleton
or outline of the cathedral service can be exhibited. But bad as these
things are, the proposed changes, in the hands of ignorance and barbarism,
may yet be for the worse, and the choirs, having been now brought to the

                      On the Art of Glass-Painting.                     459
glass-makers used to Jlash a thin layer of red over a sub
stratum of plain glass. Their process must have been to melt
side by side in the glass-house a pot of plain and a pot of red
glass: then the workman, by clipping his rod first into the
plain and then into the red glass pot, obtained a lump of plain
glass covered with a coating of red, which, by dexterous ma
nagement in blowing and whirling, he extended into a plate,
exhibiting on its surface a very thin stratum of the desired
 colour*. In this state the glass came into the hands of the glass-
 painter, and answered most of his purposes, except when the
 subject required the representation of white or other colours
 on a red ground : in this case it became necessary to employ
a machine like the lapidary's wheel, partially to grind away
 the coloured surface till the white substratum appeared.
    The material employed by the old glass-makers to tinge
their glass red was the protoxide of copper, but on the dis
continuance of the art of glass-painting the dependent manu
facture of red glass of course ceased, and all knowledge of the
art became so entirely extinct, that the notion generally pre
 vailed that the colour in question was derived from gold f.
It is not a little remarkable that the knowledge of the cop
per-red should have been so entirely lost, though printed re
ceipts have always existed detailing the whole process. Bat-
tista Porta (born about 1540) gives a receipt in his Magia
Naturalis, noticing at the same time the difficulty of success.
Several receipts are found in the compilations of Neri, Merret
and Kunckel, from whence they have been copied into our
Encyclopaedias*. None of these receipts however state to what
purposes the red glass was applied, nor do they make any
mention of theflashing. The difficulty of the art consists in
the proneness of the copper to pass from the state of prot-
lowest ebb, finally extinguished. With regard toour national and ecclesks-
tical monuments, we would hope that these may no longer be left at the
mercy of chapters and churchwardens, but put under the protection of men
of taste and ofprofessional skill empowered to watch over their preservation
and to administer the funds devoted to the purpose.—R. T.]
   * That such was the method in use, an attentive examination of old
specimens affords sufficient evidence. One piece that 1 possess exhibits
large bubbles in the midst of the red stratum ; another consists ofa stratum
of red inclosed between two colourless strata : both circumstances plainly
point out the only means by which such an iirrangement could be produced.
   t In 1 793, the French government actually collected a quantity of old
red glass, with the view of extracting the gold by which it was supposed
to be coloured ! Le Vieil was himself u glass-painter employed in the
repair of ancient windows, and the descendant of glass-painters, yet so
little was he aware of the true nature of the glass, that he even fancied
he could detect the marks of the brush with which he imagined the red
stratum had been laid on !
   X [M. Langlois names the following writers :" Neri en 1612, Hamlicquer
de Blancourt en 1667, Kunckel en 1679, La Vieil en 1774, et plusieurs
                                     3 I2                            ¦¦¦»>¦

460                   On the Art of Glass-Painting.
oxide into that of peroxide, in whicii latter state it tinges glass
green. In order to preserve it in the state of protoxide, these
receipts prescribe various deoxygenating substances to be
stirred into the melted glass, such as smiths' clinkers, tartar,
soot, rotten wood, and cinnabar.
     One curious circumstance deserves to be noticed, which is,
that glass containing copper when removed from the melting-
pot sometimes only exhibits a faint greenish tinge, yet in this
state nothing more than simple exposure to a gentle heat is
requisite to throw out a brilliant red. This change of colour
is very remarkable, as it is obvious that no change of oxy
genation can possibly take place during the recuisson.
     The art of tinging glass by protoxide of copper and flashing
it on crown-glass, has of late years been revived by the
Tyne Company in England, at Choisy in France*, and in
 Suabia in Germany, and in 1827 the Academy of Arts at
 Berlin gave a premium for an imperfect receipt. To what
 extent modern glass-painters make use of these new glasses
 I am ignorant ; the specimens that I have seen were so strongly
 coloured as to be in parts almost opake, but this is a defect
 which might no doubt be easily remedied t-
     I shall now conclude these observations by a few notices
 respecting glass tinged by fusion with gold, which, though
 never brought into general use among glass-painters, has
 I know been employed in one or two instances, flashed both
 on crown- and on flint-glass. Mot long after the time when
 the art of making the copper-red glass was lost, Kunckel ap
 pears to have discovered that gold melted with flint-glass was
 capable of imparting to it a beautiful ruby colour. As he
 derived much profit from the invention, he kept his method
 secret, and his successors have done the same to the present
day. The art, however, has been practised ever since for the
purpose of imitating precious stones, &c, and the glass used
 to be sold at Birmingham for a high price under the name of
Jew's glass. The rose-coloured scent-bottles, &c, now com
 monly made are composed of plain glass flashed or coated
autres ecrivains a diverses epoques, decrivaient ces proce'des." (p. 192.)
 He fixes the restoration of the art in France at about the year 1800, when
 Brongniart, who had the direction of the Sevres porcelain manufacture,
 worked with Meraud at the preparation of verifiable colours, p. 194.
 Among modern artists he particularly mentions Dihl, Schilt, Mortelegue,
 Robert, Leclair, Collins, and Willement.— R. T.]
    • Bulletin de laSociele a?Encouragement pour VIndustrie Nationale, 1826.
    f Though it is difficult to produce the copper-glass uniformly coloured,
 it is easy to obtain streaks and patches of a fine transparent red. For this
purpose it is sufficient to fuse together 100 parts of crown-glass with one of
oxide of copper, putting a lump of tin into the bottom of the crucible.
 Metallic iron employed in the same way us the tin throws out a bright
 scarlet, but perfectly opakc.

                    On the Art of Glass-Painting.                     461
with a very thin layer of the glass in question. I have myself
made numerous experiments on this subject, and have been
completely, and at last uniformly, successful, in producing
glass of a fine crimson colour. One cause why so many per
sons have failed in the same attempt*, I suspect is that they
have used too large a proportion of gold ; for it is a fact, that
an additional dose of gold, beyond a certain point, far from
deepening the colour, actually destroys it altogether. An
other cause probably is, that they have not employed a suffi
cient degree of heat in the fusion. I have found that a de
gree of heat, which I judged sufficient to melt cast-iron, is
not strong enough to injure the colour. It would appear,
that in order to receive the colour, it is necessary that the
glass should contain a proportion either of lead, or of some
other metallic glass. I have found bismuth, zinc, and anti
mony to answer the purpose, but have in vain attempted to
impart any tinge of this colour to crown-glass alone.
   Glass containing gold exhibits the same singular change of
colour on being exposed to a gentle heat, as has been already
noticed with respect to glass containing copper. The former
when taken from the crucible is generally of a pale rose-colour,
but sometimes colourless as water, and does not assume its
ruby colour till it has been exposed to a low red-heat, either
under a muffle or in the lamp. Great care must be taken in
this operation, for a slight excess of fire destroys the colour,
leaving the glass of a dingy brown, but with a blue transpa
rency like that of gold-leaf. These changes of colour have
 been vaguely attributed to change of oxygenation in the gold ;
but it is obviously impossible that mere exposure to a gentle
heat can effect any chemical change in the interior of a solid
mass of glass, which has already undergone a heat far more
intense. In fact I have found that metallic gold gives the red
colour as well as the oxide, and it appears scarcely to admit
of a doubt, that in a metal so easily reduced, the whole of the
oxygen must be expelled long before the glass has reached its
melting point. It has long been known that silver yields its
colour to glass while in the metallic state, and everything
leads one to suppose that the case is the same as to gold.
    There is still one other substance by means of which I find
it is possible to give a red colour to glass, and that is a com
pound of tin, chromic acid, and lime ; but my triuls do not
lead me to suppose that glass thus coloured will ever be
brought into use.
   • Dr. Lewis states that he once produced a potfull of glare of beautiful
colour, yet was never able to succeed a second time, though he took in
finite pains, and tried a multitude of experiments with that tiew.— Com
merce of Arts, p. 177-

                               [   46$    ]
 LXXXVI. Observations on some of the Fossils of the London
     Clay, and in particular those Organic Remains which have
    been recently discovered in the Tunnel for the London and
     Birmingham Railroad. By Nath. Thomas Wethekell,
    Esq., F.G.S., M.R.C.S., 8fc*
 ~C*ROM the number of railroads now in progress in dif-
       ferent parts of this country, and the necessary excavations
 required in the making of them, there probably never was a
 time more favourable to the researches of the geologist than
 the present; and it is sincerely to be hoped that no spot will
 remain untouched, the examination of which holds out a pro
 spect of adding to our knowledge of the strata of the earth.
 It is my intention in the following memoir to notice more par
 ticularly those remains of the London clay which I have re
 cently collected from that portion of the London and Bir
 mingham railroad which passes in the immediate neigh
 bourhood of Chalk Farm. I shall, however, occasionally ad
 vert to discoveries made in other parts of this important and
 highly interesting formation, which, having closely examined
 it in different places, I find contains many minute and exceed
 ingly curious fossils, well worthy the attention of the naturalist.
 Before proceeding to a detail of the organic remains, it may
be as well to give a short sketch of the relative position and
appearance of the clay here, although there may be no per
 ceptible difference from other places where this stratum has
been exposed. Immediately beneath the vegetable mould is
a thin bed of diluvium, containing a few bones of animals ; and
below this is the London clay, which may be easily traced
along the line of road, from Chalk Farm to a field in front
of Mornington-place, Hanipstead road. This portion pre
sents to the eye a reddish or yellowish brown colour, with oc
casional patches of blue. It is of a loose texture, and contains
septaria, casts of shells, selenite, and decomposing masses of
sulphuret of iron. In the tunnel, about GO feet below the most
elevated part of the surface, the clay assumes a. dark bluish
brown colour, and is much more compact, although here and
there mixed with sand. The greater part of the organic re
mains are procured from the depth of from 30 to 60 feet, and
very few have been seen in the septaria. A few days since
I observed at the top of Park-street, Camden Town, where
the men were working at the depth of 10 or 12 feet, a layer
of masses of septaria horizontally disposed ; this is of common
occurrence, and the septaria are sometimes of a very large
   • Read before the Camden Literary and Scientific Institution, April 26»
] 836, and communicated by the Council of that Institution.

          Mr. Wetherell on the Fossils of the London Clay.             463
  size. The fossil copal*, or Highgnte resin, so abundant at
  the Highgate Archway, occurs here but rarely. Fossil fruits
  analogous to those of Sheppey, crabs, lobsters, sharks' teeth,
  scales and vertebrae of fish, and the remains of a Trionyx, or
  marine turtle, have been found. If three divisions of the for
  mation were made, I should consider the following fossils as
  characteristic of each division, viz. Upper, Murex coronatus,
  Modiola elegans, Cardium nitens and Pectunculus dccussatus,
  as at the Highgate Archway. Middle, Pholadomya margari-
  tacea, Cardium semigranulatum, Nautilus regalis, Nautilus
  centralis, and Terebratula striatula, in the Regent's Park.
  Lower, Axinus angulalus, Pentacrinites subbasattiformisf, as
  found at Islington and in the cliffs between Heme Bay and
  Whitstable, which are capped with diluvium resting on the
  London clay. In enumerating the characteristic shells of
  each division, I have principally selected those which are
 most abundant in it, and which are either very rare, or not
 found at all in the other divisions. For example, the Nau
 tilus centralis, Nautilus regalis, and Cardium semigranulatum
 are only found in the middle division. The Axinus angulatusis
 very common in the lower, exceedingly rare in the middle, and
 doesnot occur in the upper division. And lastly, the Pectunculus
 decussatus and Cardium nitens abound in the upper, and are
 very scarce in the middle. In making a collection of fossil
 shells I have endeavoured to procure them at several periods
 of growth : this is the more desirable, since it is well known
 that many shells vary so much at different stages of growth,
 as to appear to be of several species, when they in reality be
 long only to one. That there are considerable difficulties in
 the way of accomplishing this object I admit, but the result
 whenever it can be done, is most satisfactory. The following
is a classed list, including all those (railroad) shells figures
of which will be found in the first six volumes of Sowerby's
 Mineral Conchology. Several of the localities are also taken
from the same work. Among the unfigured shells are the
following genera : Phasianella, Tornatella, Eulima, Cerithium,
Pleurotoma, Pyrula, Voluta\, &c.
                 Abbreviations of the Names of Places.
    Ha. Highgate Archway.               f. Finchley.     hw. Well at
   * Phillips's Elementary Introduction to Mineralogy, last edition, 1823,
p. 375.
   t Miller's Natural History of Crinoidea, p. 140.
   X Note by Mr. J. De Carle Sowerby.—One species of Voltita naerly re
sembles Voluta Lamberti, differing from it however in having a longer
spire and in being more oval. I propose to name it Voluta Wetherettii, as
a just tribute to the author ofthis paper.

    464-            Mr. Wetherell on some of the Fossils
    Lower Henth, Ilampstead.                    h. Hornsey.             sh. Sheppey.
    sou. Southend. Bit. Brentford, k. Richmond, boo. Bog-
    nor rocks.        ab. Alum Bay, Isle of Wight.                               bb. Bog-
    well Bay, Isle of Thanet.                 fol. Folkestone.               bc. Barton
    Cliff'.     chl. Well at Colney Hatch-lane, near Muswell
    Hill.      wch. White Conduit House Tunnel, Islington.
    vr. Vauxhall-road.              hb. Cliff between Heme Bay and
    Whitstable. bh. Brackenhurst, Hampshire.                                ch. Child's
    Hill. rp. Regent's Park.                    sv. Sussex. hp. Hyde Park,
    jp. St. James's Park.                    stu. Stubbington, Hampshire.
    Hon. Hordwell. fr. France, ham. Hamsey. horn. Horn-
    ingsham. d. Dax. gr. Grignon. ls. Site of the Old Post
    Office, Lombard- street, City.                 hamp. Hampshire.                  bbs.
    Bracklesham Bay, Sussex. lyn. Lyndhurst. nor. Nor
    mandy.
        The following abbreviations are introduced in order to
    point out those shells which are rare and those which are
    common at the railroad.
        n. Rare. vr. Very rare. c. Common, vc. Very common.
                                 CONCHIFERA.
                                 Order I. Dimyaria.
                                                                                          Rare or
                                1 Tab.
                             Vol.             Fig.             Other Localities.        Common
                                   102    1,2.4-8      HA. F. HW. II. SH. SOD.             VC.
Pholadomya margaritacea'       3 297      1,2,3       HW. BR. R. BOG. AB. BB. FOL.           C.
                                3 209     3            HA.                                   C.
                                6 557     1            BC. HA. F.
                                4 316                  HA. HW. CHL. SH.                      R.
                                4 315                  HW. H. WCH. VR. HB.                 VR.
                                2 155     1,2          HW. BH.                             VR.
                                1 14                   HA. CH. F. HW. SH.                  VR.
Cardium semigranulatum"'. . 2 144                      BC. WCH. RP. SU.                      C.
                                3 295     4            WCH. SH.                            VR.
Pectunculus decussatus          1 27       1           HA. CH. F. HW. SH. BOG.             VR.
                                6 554     4            HW. SH. SOU. HP. JP. FOL.            VC.
                                6 554     2            HA. CH. F. HW.                        c.
                                 1 8                   HA. CH. F. HW.                       VR.
                                4 313
                             Order   II.  2Monomyaria. HA. BOG. HW. H.                  1    R-
                                1  2                  HA. F. HW. SH.                          C.
                                3  204                 STU.                                 VR.
                                5  489 1,2             HOR. FR.                              R.
                                5  425                 BC. BOG. HA. HW.                      R.
                              Order III. Brachiopoda.
Terebratula striatulad . . .        536 I 3,5        1 SOU. SH. HAM. HORN. D. HW. 1           c
                              1 1 19 1 3                HA. CH. F. HW. BOO.             1

                               Vol.
                                of the London Clay.                                        4G5
                                    MOLLUSCA.
                               Order I. Gasteropoda.
                                                                                       Hare or
                                                                                    Common
                                     Tab.       Fig.             Others..
Bulla constricta                5 464        2          BC.                                C.
Bulla attemmta                       464     3          ha. aa.                      He
                                ; 5
Natica glaucinoides6 ..         5 479        4       } H.A. CH. F. HW. CHL. H. SH.       vc.
Vernietus bo<;noriensisf     '  6 596         1-3       HA. HW. CHL. SH. BOG.         ' Vc.
Deiitalium nitens               1 70         1,2       HA. HW.                       "VR.
Dentalium incra-ssattim          1 79        3,4        HA. HW. B.                         c.
Solarium patulum                 1 11                   HA. F. HW. CHL. H. F.             C.
Trochus extensus                3 278        2,3        HA. 911.                           c.
Fusus errans                    4 400                  BC. HOR STU.                       R.
        bifasciattis            3 228                   HA. SH.                            C.
 —— tuberosus                   3 229        1          HA.                              VR.
        interruptus             3 304                  BC.                               vc.
        trilineatus             1 35                   HA. BR. SH.                        R.
        regularis          j    2 187                  HA. SH. BC.                        R.
                                5 423        ?}
        coniferus               2 187        1         HA.                                R.
         porrectis              3 274        8,9       HA. HOR.                          VII.
Pyrula nexilis                  4 331                  HA.BC. GR. LS. F. HW.              c.
        Greenwoodii             5 498                  HA. HAMP.                          c.
Triton argutus                  4 344                  BC. BBS.8                          R.
Murex cristatus                 3 230        1,2       HA. SH.                            R.
Rostellaria lucida              1 91         1-3       HA. WCH. CH. HW. CHL. SH.         VC.
                                4 349        1-5 \                                        R.
—— Sowerbyi . . . . i           6 558       lower 3 J HA. SH. BOG.
Cassis striata                  1 6                    HA.SH.                       •>.*»:. 1
        carinata"               1 6                    HA. F. HW. H. SH.
Cancellaria laeviuscula ....    4 361        1         HA. BC. LYN. NOR. CH. F. HW.       R.
Auricula turgida                2 163        4         HA. F.                           VR.
Acteon (Tornatella) simula-                                                         JJ A
   tus                          2 163 5-8              HA. SH. BC. F. HW. H.        •:'! Ht /.I\
          elongatus             5 460 3                HA. F.
Cypraa oviforuiis1              1 4                    HA. SH.
Conus concinnus                 3 302 2                HA. BC. SH.
                             Order IV. Cephalopoda.
                                       Septa concave.
Nautilus imperialis                  1                 HA. BR. SH. BOG.                   C.
 ¦          centralis               1                  R.                                VC.
            regalis . .             ;s.-.,5            HP. WCH.                           S.
            ziczac . .              l                  HA. SH.                          VR.
                                          NOTES.
       * A specimen of Pholadomyn margaritacea and also one of Kucula amy-
    gdaloides have been found in the gauTt at Folkestone by that indefatigable
    friend to science J. S. Bowcrbank, Esq. I have much pleasure in slating
    that our knowledge of the organic remains of the London clay (particularly
    those of Sheppev) will ere long be most materially increased by the praise
         Third Series. Vol.9. No. 56. Dec. t83G.                         3 K

4-SG             Mr. Wetherell on some of the. Fossils
worthy exertions of that gentleman. The great pains he has taken in col
lecting and arranging specimens can only be duly appreciated by those who
have undertaken a similar ta-.k ; and the splendid series of fossils in his col
lection, principally appertaining to the tertiary and secondary rocks, are
well worthy the attention of the geologist.
   b Also found in the lias. See Sowerby's Index to the first six volumes
of the Mineral Conchology of Great Britain, page 242.
   c This shell is also figured by Brocchi, in his Conchologia Fossile sub-
apennina, torn. ii. tavola xiii. fig. 14. He has given the name of Venus cypria,
although he considers that it very nearly approaches the form of a Cardium.
It is evident that the specimen in his possession did not exhibit the hinge.
   d Gault to London clay. See Soiverby's Index to the first six volumes of
the Min. Con., p. 245.
   e Also in the crag. See Sowerby's Index, p. 246.
   f Mantell's Geol. of S.E. of England, page 367. Hist. Suss., vol. iii. pi. 1 .
f.3. Geol. Suss., 272.
   g Mantell's Geol. of S.E. of England, page 366.
   11 Also found at Stubbington. Webster, Geol. Trans., first series, vol. ii.
page 204, On the strata over the chalk in the S.E. part of England.
   1 Webster, Geol. Trans., first series, vol. ii. page 204. In a list of the
organic remains in the lower marine formation above the chalk in England,
Cyprtra Pediculus is marked as having been met with at Highgate and Stub
bington. Only one species has been found at Highgate ; it is therefore very
probable that the one referred to is the same, although the specific name
is different. Stubbington may therefore be considered an additional lo
cality for this beautiful shell.
     Fifty-five species are enumerated in the above list, besides
 which I have (from the railroad) forty species which have as
yet not been figured as British shells, independently of a few,
which are extremely minute, of the order Cephalopoda (Fora-
 minifera), consisting of Spiiolina, Orbulites, Nummulites, &c,
 making altogether above one hundred species. A part of the un-
 figured shells having also been found in digging a well at Lower
 Heath, Hampstead, plates of them, with descriptions, will be
 given in the Geological Transactions, to illustrate a paper
 read before the Geological Society on the 4th of June, 1834*;
 the remainder will appear in some of the early numbers of
 the continuation of Sowerby's Mineral Conchology. I have
 several examples of the Nautilus regalis, which present a very
 singular marking. A number of serrated lines may be seen
 in the outer lamina of the shell, running across it, and gene
 rally two or three parallel to each other. Although they pass
 some depth into the substance of the outer lamina, they do
 not, as far as I have hitherto observed, extend to the inner
 one. The great zeal which Mr. J. DeC. Sowerby has always
 evinced in the advancement of science has induced me to give
 his name to a new species of Nautilus which 1 have discovered
 at the railroad. This distinguished naturalist, on more than
      • Proceedings of the Geological Society of London, vol. ii. page 93.

                          of the London Clay.                           467
one occasion, has most kindly and readily afforded me infor
 mation on subjects connected with my scientific pursuits. In
my cabinet are two Nautili, brought from the Isle of Sheppey
by J. S. Bowerbank, Esq., which appear to belong to the new
species, but Mr. Sowerby, having examined them, considers that
they are not sufficiently perfect to state that they do so with
certainty. It was in the year 1838 that I first discovered the
minute cephalopodous Mollusca in some masses of clay which
I had brought from a well on Hampstead Heath. This led
me to a further examination of the clay in other spots, when
 I again met with them in the clay and on the surface of some
pieces of iron pyrites. Of one species I found several attached
to the whorls of Vermetus bognoriensis. Another species has
several spines projecting from different parts of the outer
surface, which I have not seen in any of the Grignon shells.
The President of the Geological Society, in his Anniversary
Address *, mentions that Mr. Lonsdale, in arranging the col
lection of the Society, had found " that our common white
chalk, especially the upper portion of it, taken from different
parts of England (Portsmouth and Brighton among others),
is full of minute Corals, Foraminifera, and valves of a small
entomostracous animal, resembling the Cytherina of Lamarck.
 From a pound of chalk he has procured, in some cases, at least
a thousand of these fossil bodies. They appear to the eye like
white grains of chalk, but when examined by the lens, are seen
to be fossils in a beautiful state of preservation."
    Edward Charlesworth, Esq., F.G.S., in an able paper on the
Crag Formation, published intheLonilonand Edinburgh Philo
sophical Magazine for August 1835, gives an extract of a letter
received from Searles Wood, Esq., of Hasketon, near Wood-
bridge, in which it is stated that his cabinet contains fifty species
of minute cephalopodous Mollusca of the order Foraminifera,
D'Orbigny, which belong to the lower division of the crag.
    Among the donations to the museum of the Geological
Society in 1835, is the following: Spirolinitesf in chalk flints
from Stoke near Chichester, presented by the Marquis of
Northampton, F.G.S.
    The shells of the most rare occurrence (at the railroad)
are Phasianella, Tornatella, Cyprtea oviformis, Cardium ni-
tens, Pectunculus deenssatus, and Conus concinnns. The most
abundant, are Rostellaria lucida, Fusus interruptusl, and Na-
tica glaucinoides.
 . • Address to the Geological Society, delivered at the Anniversary, on
the 19th of February 1836, by Charles Lyell, Jun., Esq , President. ' Pro
ceedings of the Geological Society of London, p. 365.
   t Proceedings ofthe Geological Society of London, vol. ii. p. 34L. .
   J A well-known Barton shell.
                                  3 K2

46S      Mr. Wetherell on the Fossils of the London Clay.
    In the year 1829 I met with (on breaking some masses of
septarium, which I had brought from Child's Hill, north-west
ot'Hampstead,) the remains of a species of Ophiura in a very
good state of preservation ; and as the remains of Ophiura
had never before been noticed as occurring in the London
clay, I considered the discovery of sufficient importance to
make it the subject of a communication read before the Geo
logical Society on January the 9th, 1833*. I have since seen
a fine specimen from Harwich, which is in the cabinet of
Edward Charlesworth, Esq. ; there is likewise one in the col
lection of J. S. Bowerbank, Esq., recently obtained from the
Isle of Sheppey.
    The following list may be useful, as it contains a few more
of the organic remains (from the railroad): I have also added
some other localities.
                              Crustacea.
Cancer Leachii. Highgate Archway and Isle of Sheppey.
Astacttsf. Do., Isle of Sheppey, and Hampstead well.
                              liadiaria.
Pentagonasta. Hampstead well and Isle of Sheppey.
PentacrinitesX subbasaltiformis. Hampstead well, Mr. War
      ner's well at Hornsey, and the cliffs between Heme Bay,
      and Whitstable.
Turbinolia. Sheppey. Zoophyte.
                                Reptilia.
TrioTiy.v§.    Sheppey and Harwich.
    In the above pages, I have as much as possible avoided
technicalities, wishing to give a plain statement of those facts
which have come more immediately under my own observa
tion ; and as other collections have been made from this rich
   • Proceedings of the Geological Society of London, vol. i. p. 416.
   f Two species, one of which appears to be the same as Aitacus cata-
clyimi in the British Museum, the locality of which is not marked.
   t The London clay portion of the cliffs between Heme Bay and Whit
stable belongs to the lower division of the stratum. About three years
since I brought away several dozen of stems of Pentacrinites, which are
very common there. At the railroad the Pentacrinite is extremely rare.
The remains I possess from there, consist of some stems, parts of the auxi
liary side arms, tentacula, and a few bones of the pelvis.
   £ A splendid fossil Turtle found in the Harwich cement-stone is in the
British Museum. It is from the collection of Edward Charlesworth, Esq.,
and a very excellent and correct engraving of it has been made by Stan-
didgc and Lemon of Comhill.

          Mr. Rainey's Reply to Dr. Ritchie's Remarks.       469
deposit, I trust more information in a short time will be laid
before the members of the Camden Literary and Scientific
Institution.
   Highgate, April 23, 1836.
LXXXVII. Reply to Dr. Ritchie's Remarks on Mr. Rainey's
    Theory of Magnetic Reaction. By G. Rainey, Member of
    the Royal College of Surgeons*
T^R. RITCHIE, in his reply to my last letter, appears to
        have attached a meaning to my explanation totally dif
ferent to that which it was intended to convey. Dr. Ritchie
asserts that I take for granted " that a piece
of soft iron B, placed in the direction of one
side of the horse-shoe magnet A, will have a
magnetic power represented by b, induced in
its remote extremity, while the power of the
pole S still retains its inducing power." As N
I cannot suppose that Dr. Ritchie has so far a_
intentionally mistaken my meaning as to at- r-                2«
tribute to me the adoption of a postulate at ^
variance with common sense, I must suppose                     B
this mistake to have originated in some verbal
obscurity, or want of perspicuity in my
phraseology. As I have failed so far in making my meaning
intelligible, and being allowed the indulgence of a second trial,
I will endeavour to be more explicit, as I am particularly
anxious that nothing like technical disputation should prolong
this controversy. Dr. Ritchie says " that S cannot induce a
power on a piece of soft iron, without having its own power
diminished by an equal quantity." This is a fact which I am
most ready to admit, and which I never doubted ; and accord
ing to this fact, when the contiguous end of B has received
all the magnetism S is capable of inducing, the magnetism at
this end will be represented by b, which is equal to a in its
inducing power, though of an opposite kind.
    When magnetism is induced in ferruginous matter by the
contact of either pole of a permanent magnet, the remote ex
tremity instantly assumes a magnetic state, opposite in kind
to the contiguous one, and consequently similar to the mag
netism of the inducing pole. Now, as the one magnetism
always induces that of a dissimilar kind, the magnetism of
the remote end of B may be considered to result immediately
from the induction which has been produced upon the conti-
                      * Communicated by the Author.

470       Mr. Rainey's Reply to Dr. Ritchie's Remarks
guous one by the permanent magnet, and not from the per
manent magnet itself.
   As the magnetism, then, at one extremity of B may be
considered as immediately resulting from the induction on the
other, it is highly probable that the inducing power of both
is equal. This appears evident from the following experi
ment. Apply a piece of soft iron to either pole of magnet
and ascertain the weight it will sustain ; then apply another
piece to the remote end of the former one, and it will be found
to sustain nearly the same weight. This experiment will be
influenced somewhat by the form and size of the pieces of iron,
by the state of the surfaces in contact, and by any condition
of the metal which could interfere with the free and equable
distribution of magnetism throughout its substance. It is
only when every obstacle to free induction vanishes that the
magnetism of the keeper B will be correctly represented by
a + b. Now, admitting that under these circumstances (a + b)
is a correct expression for the magnetism of the keeper, when
it is in contact with the S pole, the same expression would be
correct if it were applied to the N pole; and as there is no
known limit at which soft iron ceases to allow of further in
duction by an increase of the inducing power, we must admit
that the magnetism of the armature when under the inducing
influence of both poles, will be double that which it had when
exposed to the action of one pole only, and consequently re
presented by 2 (a + b). This will account for the fact of the
attraction of the keeper when in contact with both poles of a
horse-shoe magnet, at the same time so very far exceeding
that which it has for the two poles when applied separately.
   Dr. Ritchie asserts that it is impossible for the lifter by its
reaction to increase the power of an electro-magnet, because
the lifter, having obtained all its magnetism from the electro
magnet, cannot give back more than it has received. Now,
the following experiment will prove beyond all doubt that the
lifter can increase the power of the electro-magnet; con
sequently by the converse of Dr. Ritchie's reasoning it may
be inferred that the keeper can be made to possess a
higher magnetic state than the electro-magnet to which it
applied, which is perfectly consistent with the above reasoning.
 Heat a common horse-shoe magnet to whiteness, for the pur
 pose of totally destroying its magnetism and rendering it more
easy of induction. Pass a piece of insulated copper wire
 around it, in the manner of an ordinary electro-magnet, and
let this magnet be exposed to the action of a galvanic battery,
 when it will be found to have acquired a small quantity of
 magnetism. Keep up the galvanic action until the magnet

               on the Tlicory of Magnetic Reaction.             471
ceases to allow of any further induction from this source.
Now apply a very hard steel lifter to both poles, keeping up
the same galvanic current, and the magnet will be found to
have gained a considerable increase of permanent magnetism.
After ihe magnet thus operated upon ceases to indicate any
further increase of its magnetism, apply a lifter composed of
very soft iron of precisely the same dimensions as the former
one, the galvanic action being continued, and the magnet will
be found to have acquired a still higher charge of permanent
magnetism. Now as the induction from the galvanic current
was the same in each stage of this experiment, and the effect
produced varied according as the condition of the keeper was
more or less favourable for induction, the increase of perma
nent magnetism would appear to depend upon the reaction of
the keeper, which, by the converse of Dr. Ritchie's reasoning,
must then possess a higher state of magnetism than the magnet
to which it is applied.
    The experiment proposed by Dr. Ritchie would certainly
set this matter at rest provided it answered ; but in case it does
not, it will not in the least invalidate these facts concerning
magnetic reaction : less conclusive evidence gained from ex
periment and reasoning is not to be totally abandoned because
perfectly decisive experiments are unattainable. I believe the
 experiment proposed by Dr. Ritchie will not succeed, in con
 sequence of the keeper, under the circumstances he has named
 not possessing an inducing power sufficient to overcome the re
 sistance which steel furnishes to magnetic induction. It is well
 known that magnetism having once been induced in a piece of
 steel and partially destroyed by heat or the action ofsimilar poles
 of another magnet, maybe in some measure restored by there-
 action of the keeper. This is probably owing to the particles
 of iron having acquired a tendency to resume their former
 state when the exciting cause is applied. This would be an
 instance of induction just as much as if the steel had never
  been magnetized, for the addition of magnetism is just as
  necessary to restore that which has been lost as to impart it
  in the first instance. Dr. Ritchie says that if the explanation
  which I have given be admitted, it will completely overthrow
  the Newtonian law of the perfect equality of action and reac
  tion. I had always considered this law as applicable only to
  mechanical forces, and not extending in the least to these
  physical phenomena, the acting cause of which is altogether
  unknown. Suppose a number of pieces of steel properly tem
  pered, and tor convenience made into the form of the common
  horse-shoe magnet, and one of these magnetized to saturation;
  now by this one let all the others be magnetized, and after

472 The Ret. Professor Callan on a new Galvanic Battery.
wartlslet them be put together, and the process of magnetizing
be performed repeatedly upon each by the rest; and it will be
found that each magnet possesses nearly, if not quite as much
magnetism as the one employed in the first instance, that is, as
the prime motor itself. This fact can scarcely be doubted,
although it is at variance with the Newtonian law of the per
fect equality of action and reaction as applied to mechanical
forces, as no force can be supposed capable of generating
under the same circumstances a force greater than itself.
   Again, suppose we consider caloric as a moving force; what
relation is there between that which is required to ignite a
quantity of gunpowder and the caloric developed by its com
bustion? Several similar instances might be adduced of the
inapplicability of the Newtonian law to the explanation of
obscure physical facts.
                                                                  ii
LXXXVIN. On a new Galvanic Battery. By the Rev.
   N.J. Callan, Professor ofNatural Philosophy in the College
   of Maynooth.*
   The following paper describes a new galvanic battery, con
     sisting of 20 zinc and as many double copper plates, the
      whole of which may, by substituting one mercury trough
     for another, be made to act as a single pair of plates, or
     as 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, or 20 voltaic circles; and which is
      capable of producing, by the aid of an electro-magnet, a
     voltaic current equal in intensity to that of a battery con
     taining 1 000 pairs of zinc and copper plates,
TTNDER my directions, and on a plan suggested by me,
       a very large galvanic battery has been lately constructed '
for the College of Maynooth. This battery consists of 20 zinc
plates, each two feet long and two feet broad, and of as many
copper cells, each sufficiently large to contain one of the zinc
plates. To each zinc plate is soldered a copper wire about half
an inch thick and six inches long. The wire projects from the
plate'in a direction nearly parallel to the sides, and nearly per
pendicular to the edge of the plate, which is vertical when the
plate is in its copper cell. At two inches from its extremity the
wire is bent so as to form nearly a right angle at the bend,
and so that these two inches are parallel to the vertical edge
of the plate. A wire of the same thickness, and about two
inches shorter, is soldered to each of the copper cells : it is
bent in the same way as the wires belonging to the zinc plates.
                    • Communicated by the Author.

      The Rev. N. J. Callan on a new Galvanic Battery.                473
Figures 1 and 2 represent a zinc plate and a
copper cell along with the wires soldered to
them. The 20 copper cells are put into
a wooden box about 3^ feet long, 2 feet 2
inches deep, and nearly S feet wide, and
are separated from each other by partitions
of wood. The 20 zinc plates are let down
into the copper cells, and are lifted up, at               Fig. 2.
pleasure,
vent        by means
      the contact   of of
                        thea zinc
                             windlass.     To pre-
                                   plates with   the y
copper cells, each zinc plate is covered with
a woven net of hemp. When the 20 copper,
cells are in the wooden box, and the 20 zinc
plates in the copper cells, the wires soldered
from
to     copper
   theone  of the
                cells
                   sides
                      project
                         of the   box,£and
                               about            inchextremities descend
                                         of antheir
nearly 2 inches below the upper edge of the same side : but
the wires soldered to the zinc plates project nearly 2 inches
from the same side of the box, and their extremities descend
as low as the extremities of the wires belonging to the copper
cells. Thus, if A B (fig. 3.) in the exterior surface of one of
                                 Fig. S.
    A                                                              B
       e,
      z.
the sides of the box be parallel to the upper edge of the same
side, and nearly 2 inches below it, then the row of points c c
will represent the extremities of the wires belonging to the
copper cells, and the row of points z x? will represent the ex
tremities of the wires soldered to the zinc plates.
   The acid solution is poured into the copper cells, which are
water-tight, and is let out, without lifting the cells, by means
of a cock at the bottom of each cell. The cells are barely
 wide enough to allow the free ascent and descent of the zinc
plates. About 30 gallons of fluid are required to charge the
 whole battery. Both sides of each zinc plate are exposed to
the action of the acid mixture, and are within about a quarter
of an inch of an equal and parallel surface of copper. Hence
 the ucting surface in each plate is 8 square feet, and the acting
 surface of zinc as well as of copper in the whole battery is 160
 square feet.
    By eight mercury troughs, metallic communications may be
 formed between the 20 zinc plates and the copper cells, so as
 to make the whole act as a single pair of plates, each containing
      square
 160Third  Series.
               feet Vol.9.
                     of surface;
                              No. 56.       2 voltaic
                                    or asDec.   1836. circles, 3inL which

 474     The Rev. N. J. Callan 011 a new Galvanic Battery.
 the zinc of each circle would contain 80 square feet ; or as 3
 circles, two of which would contain 56 square feet of zinc, and
 the third of which would contain 48 square feet ; or as 4 circles,
 in each of which there would be 40 square feet of zinc; or as
  5, in each of which there would be 32 square feet of zinc ;
 or as 6 circles, four of which would each contain 24 square
 feet, and two of which would each contain 32 square feet of zinc ;
 or as 10 circles, in each of which there would be 16 square
 feet of zinc ; or as 20 circles, each of which would contain 8
 square feet of zinc.
     The mercury troughs are made by cutting holes for con
 taining mercury in a piece of wood 3^ feet long, 3^ inches
 broad, and 2 inches thick. The mercury trough by which
 all the zinc and copper plates are made to act as a single pair,
 contains two parallel grooves, each nearly 3£ feet long, £ of an
 inch wide, and an inch deep. One of the grooves receives
 all the wires of the zinc plates, and the other receives all the
 wires of the copper cells. Hence when mercury is poured
 into the two grooves, all the zinc plates are in metallic commu
 nication with each other, and act as one plnte ; and all the cop
 pers likewise act as one copper plate. This trough is repre
 sented in fig. 4. ; the letter z shows the groove for the wires of
                                Fig. 4.
 the zinc plates, and c the groove for the wires zof the copper
 cells. In the second mercury trough there are four grooves,
 each ofwhich receives 10 wires. There is a communication be
 tween one of the grooves containing the wires of ten copper
 cells, and that which receives the wires of the zinc plates im
 mersed in the remaining 10 cells. Fig. 5. represents this
¦ .- ¦ r                           ij^=-                  A
 1' 'I            c                       c
trough. The third trough contains 6 grooves ; the fourth, 8 ;
the fifth, 10; the sixth, 12; and the seventh and eighth each
contain 20. Except the trough by which the battery is made
to act as 20 voltaic circles, the rest are made like the trough
 represented in fig. 5. When the battery acts as 20 cir
cles, the wire of each zinc plate, and the wire of the next

      The Rev. N. J. Callan on a nno Galvanic Battery.          475
                               mercury
copper cell, are in the same Fig-   6. hole.     Fig. 6. represents
        xzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzxzxx
          e c e e c c cccccccccccccc
the upper surface of the trough by which all the zinc and copper
plates are made to act as 20 circles.
   From the preceding description of our battery, it is evident
that the whole 20 zinc plates anil copper cells may, by substi
tuting one mercury trough for another, be made to act as a single
pair, or as 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, or 20 voltaic circles, and thus be
made to supply the place of the calorimotor and of the battery
hitherto used for electro-magnetic experiments.
   So enormous is the quantity of electricity circulated by this
battery when all the zinc and copper plates act as a single circle,
that, on one occasion, after having acted without interruption
for more than an hour, it rendered powerfully magnetic an elec
tro-magnet on which were coiled 39 thick copper wires, each
about 35 feet long, while the mercury in which the wires of the
zinc plates were immersed, was connected by 6 copper wires,
each} ofan inch thick and about 6 inches long, with the mercury
in communication with the wires of the copper cells. On the
fifth day it was tried : after having been in action without in
terruption for more than two hours, this battery melted very
rapidly platina wire 7'^th of an inch thick, and deflagrated in a
most brilliant manner copper and iron wire about Tljth of an
inch thick.
   By this battery, with the aid of an electro-magnet, a current
of electricity may be produced which will equal in intensity
that of a battery containing 1000 voltaic circles. It is well
known that when the connexion between the helix of an elec
tro-magnet and the voltaic battery is broken, a current of elec
tricity is, at the moment ofbreaking the connexion, made to flow
through the helix; and that when the helix is long, that cur
rent is capable of giving a shock to any person who holds in
each hand a copper cylinder in conducting communication with
the ends of the helix. By experiments on the best means of
obtaining the shock from the electro-magnet, 1 have found that
the shock increases, within certain limits, with the length and
thinness ofthe bar of soft iron, and with the length of the heliacal
coil, as far perhaps as 200 feet, and in proportion, or nearly in
proportion, to the number of plates in the voltaic battery from
which the current of electricity is passed through the helix.
The shock docs not increase in proportion to the number
                               3 L 2

476     The Rev. N. J. Callan on a new Galvanic Batteiy.
of plates unless they are large. The electro-magnet which
I first used was a straight bar of soft iron, about 2 feet long,
and an inch thick. On this bar were coiled two copper wires,
each about 200 feet long. The voltaic battery consisted of 14
pairs of zinc and of as many double             plates : each plate
was about 7 inches square. The end of the first coil and the be
ginning of the second were immersed into the same cup of mer
cury, the voltaic current was passed through the first coil only,
and the shock was taken by making a communication with the
beginning of ihefirst coiland with theendof the second. When
the current of electricity was passed through the helix from
one pair of plates, the shock received on breaking contact with
 the battery was equal to that of a battery containing 20 pairs of
plates. When two pairs of plates were used, the shock ap
 peared to be doubled ; with three voltaic circles, it appeared to
be trebled; and with every increase in the number of voltaic
 circles, there appeared to be a proportional increase of the
shock. With the 14 pairs of plates the shock was so strong
 that a person who took it, from an electro-magnet on which
therewerefour coils of wire, felt the effects of it for several days.
 With a battery of 4-inch plates the shock increased with the
number of plates, but not so rapidly as when large plates were
used. I am inclined to think that with a battery of 4-inch
 plates, the shock increases but little when the number of plates
 exceeds a hundred. I could not induce any one to take the
shock from the electro-magnet when a greater number than 16
of our large plates were used. With 1 6 of them the shock was
exceedingly strong, although the acid mixture employed in
charging the battery was very weak ; and, from experience, I
know that the electro-magnetic effects of a battery depend very
much on the strength of the charge.
    From all the experiments which I have made on the mag
neto-electric shock, I think I may fairly conclude, that, if 2000
feet of wire were coiled on a bar of soft iron 6 feet long nnd
an inch thick, a shock might be obtained with the aid of a
single pair of plates, which would equal that of a battery of
 100 voltaic circles. Hence, since the shock increases in pro
portion to, or, at least, very rapidly with the number of plates,
when they are large, the shock given by such an electro-magnet
magnetized by our battery of 20 pairs of plates, should nearly
equal, or perhaps exceed that of a battery of 1000 voltaic cir
cles. Hence, by our battery of 20 pairs of plates, an electric
current of the highest intensity may be produced. This bat
tery then supplies the place of all the various kinds of galvanic
batteries.
   The shock given by the electro-magnet may be obtained

       The Rev. N. J. Callan on a neiv Galvanic Battery.          477
as often as the connexion of the helix with the battery is bro
ken. Now I huve devised a small instrument by which com
munication with the battery may be broken and renewed 3000
or 4000 times in a minute. Thus 3000 or 4000 shocks may
be received, and 3000 or 4000 electric currents of the highest
intensity may, in the space of one minute, be passed through
water, charcoal, metallic wires, or any other body. It should
be remembered that the voltaic current from the battery should
not be passed through more than 200 feet of the heliacal coil,
and that the shock should be taken from the whole length of
the helix.
    When a voltaic current passes through a very long wire
from a single pair of plates, the wire will give a shock at the
moment of breaking contact with the battery. I have found
that this as well as the shock from the electro-magnet in
creases with the number of plates.
    I have made a great variety of experiments on electro
magnets. My object in these experiments was to ascertain
four things : first, on what the quantity of attraction depends ;
secondly, on what the distance at which that attraction is
exerted depends ; thirdly, on what the shock depends ; and
 fourthly, whether by a voltaic current from a large battery, a
permanent magnet could be made, which would induce on soft
 iron magnetism equal to that which is given to an electro
 magnet by a battery containing 20 large plates, or 300 four-
 inch plates. In these experiments I employed three different
 voltaic batteries, and electro-magnets of various forms. I used
 the large battery already described; a small battery of 14
 pairs of plates, in which each zinc plate was seven inches
 square; and a Wollaston battery, containing 280 pairs of four-
 inch plates. Some of my electro-magnets were straight, and
 others of the horse-shoe form, and one was a square: the iron
 bars varied in length from 20 inches to six feet, and in thick
 ness from two inches to half an inch. On one of these were
 coiled 39 copper wires, on another four, on a third three, and
 on others there was only one wire.
     From the results of these experiments, I have deduced the
 following conclusions: First, that the quantity of attraction
 increases with the Jength of the bar of soft iron, at least as
 far as six feet, and with the thinness till it becomes about an inch ;
 and that it increases nearly in proportion to the number of
  plates (when they are large) in the battery by which the electro
  magnet is magnetized. When the plates are only four inches
  square the attraction increases, but slowly when the number
  exceeds 100. Secondly, that the distance at which attraction
  is exerted, increases also with the length and thickness of the

478     The Rev. N. J. Callan on a new Galvanic Battery.
iron bar, and with the number of plates when they are large ;
but with small plates the increase is very gradual when their
number exceeds a hundred. With twenty of our large plates,
an iron bar, nearly 3\ lbs. weight, was attracted to a horse-shoe
electro-magnet through the distance of an inch, and with ten
plates the same bar was attracted to the same magnet, only
through the distance of about half an inch. Again, with the
twenty plates, the attraction of the same magnet for a sewing-
needle was sensible at the distance of 15 inches, and with ten
plates the attraction was sensible at the distance of 10 inches.
Thirdly, that the shock from the electro-magnet increases
within certain limits with the length and thinness of the iron
bar, and nearly in proportion to the number of plates when
they are large.
    When the voltaic current was sent from a battery of 280
four-inch plates, through the heliacal wire coiled round a steel
bar about 20 inches long and an inch thick, the steel became
almost as strongly magnetic as if it were iron ; and when the
connexion with the battery was broken, the steel did not retain
 more than about         of its magnetism.
    In a paper published in the last (August) number of the
Philosophical Magazine, Dr. Ritchie says that the use of
the electro-magnet in the apparatus for continued rotation was
 long since abandoned, because it was incapable of inducing
 magnetism in an iron bar at a distance. Now he will find
 that, if instead of a single copper and zinc plate, a battery of
 20pairsof largeplates,or of 200 small ones be used, the electro
 magnet will have a greater power of inducing magnetism at
a distance than any permanent magnet.
    The advantages of the battery I have described are, first,
that it supplies the place of all the various kinds of voltaic
batteries, of the battery for producing a large quantity of
electricity of low intensity, of the battery for exciting a large
quantity of electricity of the intensity necessary for the rapid
fusion and deflagration of metallic wires, and of the battery for
producing an electric current of high intensity ; and secondly,
that it enables a person to compare the power of the very
6ame zinc and copper plates acting as a single pair, with their
power when they act as 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, or 20 voltaic circles.
                                        Nicholas Callan.
     Maynooth College, August 23, 1836.

                            [  479    ]
LXXXIX. Observations on certain Liquids obtained from
   Caoutchouc by Distillation. By John Dalton, D.C.L.,
   F.R.S., 8fc*
                                  Manchester, November 10, 1836.
T^\R. GREGORY having published in the last number of the
*-* Philosophical Magazine (p. 321.) some interesting experi
ments and observations on the liquid obtained by the distilla
tion of caoutchouc, 1 have thought it would be acceptable to
that gentleman, as well as to the public, to be made acquainted
with the results I obtained from the same subject about two
years and a half since, more especially as my experiments
chiefly tend to establish additional properties to those de
duced in Dr. Gregory's essay. For this purpose I send the
Editors a copy of my paper read before the Literary and Phi
losophical Society of Manchester, on the 17th of October,
1834, which has not been published. I think it is obvious
from what follows that most or all the varieties of vegetable
combustible products of the oily character must be constituted
of central atoms of carbon, oxygen, or carbonic oxide, along
with a number of atoms of binolefiant gas, placed alternately
around the central atom ; and that the repeated distillation of
them, at first with a greater and Ihen with a less heat, gra
dually attenuates the compound atom, till at last it becomes
one or two atoms of binolefiant gas slightly adhering to the less
volatile parts of the oil, so that the gas, when not under suf
ficient restraint, expands into the atmosphere at the ordinary
temperature.
            Observations, fyc. Read October 17, 1834.
    The article caoutchouc is too generally known to require
 a particular description ; it may suffice to observe that it is
 obtained from the milky juice of certain trees in South Ame
 rica, which juice is procured by incisions made in the bark of
 the trees. When the watery part of the juice, which consti
 tutes more than half its weight, is evaporated, there remains a
 solid elastic substance, which is the caoutchouc. The proper
 ties and peculiarities of this singular substance have been
 mostly described in books of chemistry and other works, and
 therefore need not here be enumerated. Some new charac
 teristics, however, seem lately to have been discovered by sub
jecting the article to repeated distillation, and it is upon those
 that we are about to make a few observations.
    Most if not all vegetable products are liable to be decom
 posed by heat. They are mostly resolved into solid, liquid,
 and elastic substances, according, in some degree, to the
 temperature. The instance of the destructive distillation of
                     * Communicated by the Author.

<U+2666>80         Dr. Dalton's Observations on certain Liquids
wood may be taken for an example : bv this process we find a
solid body resolved into another solid body, charcoal ; into
various liquids, as water, acetic acid, and pyroxylic spirit ;
into gases, as carbonic acid, carburetted hydrogen, carbonic
oxide, and hydrogen. Caoutchouc is highly combustible:
when we burn a slip of it, the flame is white and brilliant ; and
if we extinguish the flame suddenly, the heated extremity is
soft and nearly fluid ; hence it would appear that this substance
is reducible to a fluid before decomposition, and in that state
might probably be distilled like the fat oils ; but, like these,
the products of the first, second, and future distillations would
be successively more volatile, and require a lower temperature
for their distillation. This it seems has been found to be the
fact.
    Having been favoured by an unknown friend with four phials
of liquids obtained from caoutchouc by successive distillations
(as I apprehend), i found
       the 1st, a deep-coloured liquid, marked sp.gr '86;
           2nd, a slightly coloured liquid, marked ... "837;
           3rd, a colourless liquid, marked                 *752;
           4th, a colourless liquid, marked                 '680 ;
all of which specific gravities I found very nearly correct.
The last, I believe, is lighter than any other known liquid, ex
cept perhaps the one mentioned by Dr. Faraday,—see Phil.
Trans. 182B, page 452.
    The 1st liquid I did not find the boiling-point of, but it is
higher than any of the following:
                the 2nd boils at about 290° or 300° ;
                    3rd                140°;
                    4th                107° or 108°.
    By letting a small portion of the 4th liquor through the
mercury in a barometer tube, I find the force of its vapour in
vacuo is very nearly the same as that of sulphuric aether. The
other three liquors I did not expose in the same way, because
 it is obvious, from their boiling-points, that their elasticities in
 vacuo must be much inferior to that of the 4th.
    In order to form some estimate of the relative evaporation
of the four liquids, I poured out small portions of the several
liquids into glass cups, and dipped the bulb of a thermometer
into the liquids, withdrawing it immediately to notice the re
duction of temperature by the evaporation. The thermometer
being at the temperature of the room, 69°, it was cooled
    15°  by four or five successive dips into the liquor No. 4,
      8° by dips into                                      No. 3,
    l£°  by dips into                                      No. 2,
      2* by dips into                                      No. 1,

              obtainedjrom Caoutchouc      Distillation.        481
 By this we learn that tlje evaporating from No. 4 is exceed
 ingly more than that from any of the others.
    The most remarkable circumstance relating to this evapo
 ration from liquor No. 4 remains to be noticed : it is one that
 distinguishes it from the vapour of every other liquid that I
 have yet examined. The vapours from aether, alcohol, sul-
 phuret of carbon, &c, are rapidly absorbed by water, in the
 same manner as are muriatic acid and ammoniacal gases ;
 but the vapour from caoutchouc liquor highly rectified as
 No. 4, may be passed through water repeatedly without any
 sensible diminution or alteration of its quantity ; at least the
 action is not more than on defiant gas. The way to charge a
 quantity of air with vapour of any kind is to fill a phial with
 mercury, let in the proposed air till the phial is half full, then
inverting it carefully, drop in a little of the liquid to be eva
porated, and immediately after again invert the phial over
mercury in the trough. The vapour then expands the air,
and in a short time the maximum of expansion is produced.
The mixture of air and vapour may then be used for any pur
pose over mercury. In the case of asther, however, a mercu
rial apparatus is not absolutely necessary; in a narrow tube
aether may be turned up through water, and, if sufficient to
form a thin stratum over the surface of the water in the tube,
the aether vapour will rise into the air, and be defended from
the water by the stratum of the liquid : in this way the mixture
of air and vapour may be confined in repose for a month.
   In regard to the vapour from caoutchouc liquor No. 4, no
such precaution is necessary. I take a graduated jar of 4 or 5
inches diameter ; and having filled it with water, I let in 60
cubic inches of air, and turn the cock so as to confine it. I
then put 20 or 30 water grain measures of the liquor into a
tube and turn it into the water in the jar, through which it
ascends to the surface and instantly spreads over it a thin film
of an oily appearance. This film by degrees almost disap
pears ; at the same time the air gradually expands, and in about
twenty minutes acquires its full expansion, becoming about 90
inches in a temperature between 60° and 70°. It will remain
for days in this state, and there will be no change of volume
unless there be a change of pressure or temperature of the
atmosphere.
   This permanency of the vapour over the water affords an
admirable facility for finding its specific gravity. Let 60 cu
bic inches of common air be expanded by vapour, suppose to
90 ; then, exhausting a flask and letting in a given number of
inches of the mixture and weighing it, we shall have data to
find the weight of the vapour, knowing previously that of
   Third Series. Vol. 9. No. 57. Suppl. Dec. 1836.        3 M

482       Dr. Dalton's Observations on certain Liquids
common air. By two careful trials, I found by the above
process the specific gravity of the vapour from the highest
rectified caoutchouc liquor to be 2 07, common air being 1,
and no allowance being made for aqueous vapour in a tempe
rature between 60° and 70°. By another experiment the spe
cific gravity of the vapour came out nearly 2.
   Another advantage is possessed by this vapour which others
have not, namely, that when a given weight or measure of the
liquor is passed through water, we are enabled to ascertain how
much of it is actually converted into vapour. Thus, to 60
cubic inches of common air I added 25 measures of the liquor,
'680 specific gravity :
      in 47 minutes the air and vapour became 76  70 inches
         27                                       80
and then remained stationary.
   Now, by calculating the weight of the 20 inches of vapour,
and comparing it with the weight of the 25 measures of liquor,
we find the ratio nearly as 3 to 4 ; so that only three fourths of
this highly rectified liquor is vaporized in such circumstances,
and the rest forms a delicate and partial smearing of oil over
the surface of the water. This shows that a higher degree of
rectification of the liquor is attainable.
   These four liquors, as might be expected, are all very com
bustible ; a lighted taper presented to them ignites them in
stantly. They all burn with a white flame and great smoke.
No. 4 leaves no residue ; the others leave traces of carbon
and moisture. The smallest electric spark lights Nos. 4
and 3.
   The vapour also is highly inflammable, and when mixed
with oxygen gas may be exploded in Volta's eudiometer. A
mixture containing 1 measure of vapour requires 6 of oxygen,
and produces 4 measures of carbonic acid ; it would appear
therefore to be constituted of 2 atoms of olefiant gas combined,
and possessing the space of I atom of said gas nearly.
   Chlorine gas acts upon the vapour much the same as on
olefiant. In one instance they seemed to combine in equal
volumes, but in another more chlorine was taken up. I did
not pursue this inquiry.
   Chloride of lime solution seems to have no effect upon the
vapour.
   Though the vapour is not absorbed by water in an eminent
degree, yef I find that water takes up one eighth of its volume
of the vapour, which is the same proportion as olefiant gas and
phosphuretted hydrogen are absorbed. It may be expelled

              obtainedfrom Caoutchouc by Distillation,         483
again by another gas, but not in the full proportion, as would
seem from one or two trials.
   It may be remembered that I read an essay on oil gas be
fore the Society in 1820, which, with some additions, was pub
lished in the fourth volume (new series) of the Society's Me
moirs, 1824. In that essay it was made to appear that the por
tion of gas usually found both in oil and coal gas, denominated
olefiant gas on account of its combination with chlorine, was
not the same as the gas from alcohol by sulphuric acid. The
former is much more dense and requires more oxygen to burn
it than the latter. For want of a more definite term I called
it superolefiant. It was shown to be more absorbable by water
than the other ingredients of oil gas (page 80) ; and it was
conjectured (page 81) that the new gas might consist of a gas
having two atoms of olefiant in one, or united, and possessing
a greater specific gravity than the common olefiant. I have
now no doubt that my superolefiant is the same as the vapour
we have been considering. They are both obtained from olea
ginous substances and from coal by heat ; they agree in their
action on chlorine, and in their absorbability by water, and,
for aught that appears, in their specific gravity and in their
products by combustion.
    In 1825 Dr. Faraday published an essay in the Phil. Trans,
of the Royal Society, in which he noticed some new products
obtained during the decomposition of oil by heat, one of which
he calls " a new carburet of hydrogen." This appears to have
every characteristic of the vapour we have been describing.
 See p. 452.
   The fat oils and the resinous body caoutchouc are composed
chiefly of carbon and hydrogen ; indeed, we may say of olefiant
gas, or rather perhaps binolcfiant gas, for those gases have
their elements nearly in the same proportion as the oils and
resins. It is a remarkable characteristic of these last bodies
that they can sustain a high heat without volatilization in their
ordinary state ; but if subject to the temperature necessary for
distillation, and this distillation be repeated, they become more
and more volatile, till at length a liquid is obtained, the compo
nent atoms of which are a combination of 2 atoms of olefiant
gas-
    May it not be presumed then that the original constitutions
of such combustible bodies are charcoal or water, holding in
 combination numerous atoms of binolcfiant gas, and that these
 combinations become less numerous as they are more loosened
 by heat and repeated distillations ?
                                 3 M2

                                 [   *84    ]
XC. On Voltaic Electricity, and on the effects of a Battery
  charged with Sulphate of Copper. By Mr. W. De la Rue*.
THHE greatest effect being always produced in those voltaic
        arrangements where the chemical agent exerted an ac
tion on only one of the metals constituting the battery, it oc
curred to me to use a saturated and perfectly neutral solution
of the electro-negative metal, provided the other was capable of
effecting its decomposition. I therefore trieil the effect ofa sa
turated solution of sulphate ofcopperf in an elementary voltaic
battery of the ordinary construction. The zinc plate was four
inches by two, the copper completely surrounding it : with this
1 was enabled to produce ignition of half an inch of platina
wire one thirtieth of an inch in diameter, and continue it as
long as the zinc plate lasted, which, being very thin, was dis
solved in a couple of hours. The effects of this battery were
considerably greater than those of one made of platina and
zinc of the same dimensions, this being immersed in diluted
nitric acid.
   I afterwards constructed a battery with three four-inch zinc
plates connected together; these were immersed in a copper
trough with two partitions, so that the zinc should be opposed
on both its surfaces to a plate of copper : with this battery one
inch of fine iron wire was kept ignited for four hours. The
zinc plate is always partially covered with a coating of copper,
•which, however, is not detrimental to thepower ofthe battery :
the copper plate is also covered with a coating of metallic
copper, which is continually being deposited; and so perfect is
the sheet of copper thus formed, that, on being stripped off",
it has the polish and even a counterpart of every scratch of
the plate on which it is deposited. Besides this, the voltaic
influence decomposes the water; the oxygen, uniting with a
portion of the copper and hydrogen, being set at liberty. This
may be readily shown by soldering at one end a piece of copper
   • Communicated by the Author.
   f Daniell uses sulphate of copper, but not as the exciting agent.
   [Professor Daniel l's object was to obtain a voltaic combination constant
in its effects while the connexion is completed, and totally inactive when
the circuit is interrupted. Sulphate of copper, used as an exciting agent,
he found unsuited for this purpose, and therefore relinquished this employ
ment of it in his battery. That it did not escape Prof. D.'s attention, the
following passage from his paper on Voltaic Combinations, in the first
part of the Phil. Trans, for 1836, page 117, will show: "Upon adding
sulphate of copper, in any considerable quantity, to the liquid in the cells,
notwithstanding the amalgamation ofthe zinc, there was local action enough
upon that metal to disengage hydrogen, which, in however small a quan
tity, was sufficient to commence the precipitation of the copper upon it.
Single circles were thus immediately formed by the two metals, and local
action increased to such a degree as speedily to cover the zinc with reduced
copper." See also page 109 - Edit.]

           Mr. W. De la Rue on Voltaic Electricity.                485
and a piece of zinc, coiling the two to form a small calorimotor,
which is to be put into a glass jar filled with a solution of sulphate
of copper, and inverted in a vessel of the same ; metallic copper
and its oxide will precipitate, and hydrogen gas fill the jar.
   Seeing the effects so continuous in a simple battery, 1 tried
a Cruickshank's, of one hundred pairs, each plate exposing to
the action of the fluid a surface of twenty-five square inches.
This was charged with a saturated cold solution of sulphate of
copper, to each three gallons of which I added twoounce mea
sures of nitric acid, for the purpose of cleaning the plates and
freeing them from oxide; for half an hour the action was so
feeble that I was on the point of emptying the trough, but I
soon after noticed that the effect was rapidly increasing ; I was
then induced to proceed. The batteries attained their maxi
mum of power in three quarters of an hour after charging.
   Charcoal points were vividly and continuously ignited, the
arc passing through a space of three eighths of an inch; this
experiment was beautifully varied by dipping the charcoal in
nitrate of strontian, the arc then being of a crimson colour.
   Steel points of wire, a quarter of an inch thick, were then
tried; the arc passed through an equal space; the steel ra
pidly fused, was deflagrated, and by the scintillations pro
duced a beautiful effect.
   Copper points treated in a like manner produced a green
arc, and were rapidly destroyed.
   Brass produced a blueish white arc; and the more fusible
metals, such as bismuth and tin, produced likewise an arc, but
the metal was soon carried from one point to the other and
established a perfect contact.
   A piece of platina wire, one eighth of an inch thick, was ra
pidly fused, by keeping it at a short distance from a disc of
   A
   Thick
      heap
copper,     of
         sotin-foil
             as metallic
                 to allow
                     was deflagrated.
                          leaves
                           the arcwas
                                    to pass from
                                       burned     it torapidity.
                                               with      the disc.
   Very thick zinc-foil was rapidly consumed. A bunch of
needles burned rapidly in mercury ; the end of a file was defla
grated in the same manner.
   Extraordinary as was the power of deflagrating metals, the
effect of igniting was comparatively small ; not more than an
inch of iron wire could be ignited, though, if only twelve pairs
of Wollaston's four-inch plates were used, charged with the
same solution, two and a half inches could be kept ignited for
some time.
   The battery was then tried in decomposing common caustic
potash, which it did with facility; the combustion of the po
tassium evolved, vividly igniting the thick platinum wire used
for the negative pole. These experiments occupied about two

  436 On a Voltaic Battery charged wile Sulphate of Copper.
 hours. The charcoal points were then again tried ; and if
 there were any alteration the power of the battery had in
 creased. Batteries charged in this manner will continue in un
 abated action for upwards of three hours ; in fact until there
 no longer remains any copper in the solution. It is worthy of
 notice, that after the batteries have been in action some time,
 a large portion of the sulphate of copper is expended, and re
 placed by sulphate of zinc, yet the action continues the same.
 This naturally suggests using a saturated solution of any neu
 tral salt, common salt for example, and adding merely as much
 of the solution of copper as will serve for the time required.
 It is not unlikely that the effect would be more continuous than
 with a solution of copper only. I intend trying this, as I am
 still pursuing my inquiries on this subject, the object of which
 is to simplify as much as possible the voltaic battery.
     At the Marylebone Institution, on Monday, September 12,
when a lecture was delivered on this subject by Mr. Hemming,
the President, the power used was the hundred pairs of Cruick-
shank's arrangement before alluded to, and one hundred and
thirty-two pairs of Wollaston's four-inch plates, making iu all
two hundred and thirty-two pairs.
     The batteries I charged before the commencement of the
lecture, and they were not used till an hour afterwards ; the
effects were very striking. The arc from the charcoal points
passed through a space of three quarters of an inch, and the
effect continued unabated for as long a time as could be spared
for this experiment; soda was rapidly decomposed, and the so
dium brilliantly deflagrated : all the other experiments before
cited were repeated on a much grander scale. The lecture
 being concluded two hours and a quarter after charging the
batteries, the charcoal points were again ignited to light up the
spacious theatre, the gas having been extinguished. The shock
was very powerful, even when taken with the hands dry*.
     Fifty pairs of four-inch plates on Cruickshank's plan suffice
for all the above experiments, except the decomposition of the
fixed alkalies.
    * [As similar experiments to those here detailed have been performed
with batteries of no extraordinary dimensions, charged in the usual way, it
would have been more satisfactory had the author informed us of the size
and number of the plates requisite to produce the same effects when sul
phate of copper was not employed. VVe refer our readers who are inter
ested in the philosophical investigation of this subject to an admirable
Essay by Dr. Marianini of Venice, of which an abridgement will be found in
the Annates de Ckimie ct dc Physique, vol. xxxiii. p. 113. In his investiga
tion of the various causes which influence the energy of the pile, he has
been led to examine the effect of different liquid solutions, and gives a
table of the relative advantages of forty- nine acids and salts, one part of
each being dissolved in one hundred of distilled water. —Edit.]

          M. Boussingault on the Constitution of Bitumens.             487
    Water was decomposed with extraordinary rapidity by a bat
tery of this description, and also muriatic acid, the chlorine of
which bleached a solutionof sulphateof indigo in a few seconds.
    Its effects on the animal system, as exhibited by Mr. Hem
ming to the audience, were almost terrific. A rabbit recently
killed, an eel, and frogs were thrown into more violent mus
cular action than I had ever previously witnessed *.
    The tension of electricity seems to be greatly increased by
this mode of charging the voltaic battery.
   Bnnhill Row, Sept. 15, 1836.
XC1. On the Constitution ofBitumens. By M. Boussingault.
M BOUSSINGAULT remarks, that bitumens, so abundantly met
        • with on the surface of the earth, and the uses of which seem
continually to increase, have hitherto been but slightly examined, so
that, if we except the researches of M. de Saussure on the naphtha of
Amiano, we are still nearly ignorant of the particular nature of these
substances.
    It has always been admitted that the great combustibility of bitu
mens is owing to their being chiefly composed of carbon and hydrogen,
and the water which some varieties afford by dry distillation favours
the idea that they are not always free from oxygen. In this memoir
 the author shows that they do not owe their fluidity to naphtha. The
 bitumen of Bechelbronn, which M. Boussingault has principally stu
 died, is viscid and of a dark brown colour. From its uses it has been
 called mineral fat, it being advantageously used instead of organic
 fatty substances to diminish the friction of machines, &c. Alcohol
 at 40° acts on bitumen, particularly when heated, and acquires a yel
 low tint. Sulphuric aether readily dissolves it. Heated in a retort to
 212°Fahr. nothing distils : this proves that it contains no naphtha.
    By distilling the bituminous sand with water, M. Boussingault has
obtained a volatile oily principle, which he calls petrolene, consider
 ing it to be the volatile principle of petroleum : it possesses the fol
lowing properties :
    Petrolene is of a pale yellow colour, of a slight taste, and possesses
 an odour resembling bitumen ; at the temperature of 70° Fahr. its
 specific gravity is 0-891 ; at 18° Fahr. it does not lose its fluidity ; it
 stains paper like the essential oils, burns with much smoke, boils at
 536° Fahr. ; alcohol dissolves a small quantity of it, but it is much
 more soluble in aether. It is composed of
                             Carbon, .. S8\>
                             Hydrogen, . . 11-5
 so that it is a carburet of hydrogen isomeric with the essential oils of
    • [That a battery of two hundred and thirty-two pairs of four- and five-
 inch plates, or even of a hundred pairs, should violently convulse rabbits,
 eels and frogs, is by no means an extraordinary result. The really terrific
 experiments made by Dr. Ure on the murderer Clydesdale, at Glasgow,
 were performed with a voltaic battery consisting of 270 pairs of four-inch
 plates, charged with dilute nitro-sulphuric acid.—Edit.]
     |- From VInitilut, Sept. 21, 1836.

  48s      M. Boussingault on the ConstittUion of Bitumens.
  turpentine, citron, and copaiva. Its vapour, calculated by Dumas'
  process, is equal to 9*415, which is double that of the essential oil of
  turpentine. Supposing that 4 vols, of vapour constitute 1 eq. of pe-
  trolene, its composition will be
                     Hydrogen .... SO
                     Carbon                eqs. =
                                        64 eqs.    = 48064 —544
 ' - Besides petrolene, there exists in this bitumen a black substance?
  which remains after the separation of the petrolene : this is the solid
  principle of bituman. It is very brilliant, of a conchoidal fracture,
 «iid is heavier than water ; at about 570° Fahr. it becomes soft and
  elastic ; it decomposes before it fuses, and burns like the resins, leav
  ing a large quantity of coke. The author hits called this substance
 Asphaltene, from its forming the base of the minerals which mineralo*-
 cured describe
 'gists           under bitumen
          by submitting  the namepurified
                                    of asphalt.
                                           by aether   to a prolonged
                                                    Asphaltene        heat
                                                                 may be   pro*of
 about 470° Fahr. It is insoluble in alcohol, but aether, the fixed oils,
 and oil of turpentine dissolve it. It is composed of
                           Carbon               75 3                   '¦        I
                           Hydrogen               9*9
                           Oxygen               148 — 100*               ¦ ¦•->(•
  and may be represented by the formula C'° H34 O1, or by C*" H64 O6,
  which indicates that asphaltene results from the oxidation of petro
  lene.
     The bitumen of Bechelbronn purified by aether may then be consi
  dered as n mixture of petrolene and asphaltene, at least this is the re
 sult of analysis. It contains
                          Carbon                87 0
                           Hydrogen             1 1 -2
                           Oxygen                 18— 1 00-
' It would then appear that the viscid bitumens are mixtures, probably
in various proportions, of two substances, which may be separated,
 and each of which has a definite composition. One of these principle*
 (asphaltene), solid and fixed, resembles asphalt; the other (petrolene ),
 liquid, oily, and volatile, approaches, in some of its properties, to some
 Varieties of petroleum. From this it will be seen that the consistence
 of bitumens depends on the predominance of one or the other of
  these principles in the mixture.
     The analogy existing between asphaltene and asphalt has induced
 the author to examine whether their respective composition is the
 same. In consequence of this he analysed the asphalt of CoxitRmbo,
 which may be taken as a type of the species. This asphalt has' a
 conchoidal fracture, and is of a brilliant lustre ; its density is I -68' )
 it is dissolved by petrolene and the fixed oils with much greater diffi
 culty than artificial asphaltene. Except this difference, which may
 arise from the cohesion of the particles of the native asphalt, the cha
 racters of these two substances are identical. It decomposes before
 it fuses, and burns, leaving 0"0 16 of a slightly ferruginous ash. ft
consists of                Carbon               75-0
                          Hydrogen                9'5
                          Oxygen                15-5—100.                    *•'
     ftole.—This analysis would indicate the elementary composition o(
 native asphalt, and the artificial asphalt obtained br M. Boussingault,
 to be the same.

                                [   489    3
                    Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                          GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
May II.        A PAPER was read " On the Silurian and other Rocks
   1836.            of the Dudley and Wolverhampton Coal-field, fol
lowed by a Sketch proving the Lickey Quartz Rock to be of the same
age as the Caradoc Sandstone," by Roderick Impey Murchison, Esq.,
F.G.S., V P.R.S.
    In previous memoirs the author has shown that the coal-field extend
ing from Dudley into the adjacent parts of Staffordshire is surrounded
and overlaid by the lower member of the new red sandstone ; and on
this occasion, laying before the Society an Ordnance map, geologi
cally coloured, he gave, 1st, A general sketch of the structure of the
coal-field in descending order -. 2ndly, Detailed accounts of the Si
lurian rocks which protrude through the coal measures or lie beneath
them : 3rdly, A sketch of the quartz rocks of the Lickey : 4thly, A
description of the trap rocks : othly, General remarks upon the dis
locations of the stratified deposits, and the dependence of these phe
 nomena upon the intrusion of trap rocks.
    I. Coal measures.— In most parts of the productive coal-field the
coal measures are covered by a considerable quantity of detritus, the
greater part of which has been derived from the breaking up of the
new red sandstone which once overspread this tract, with which are
mixed, especially in the northern part of the field, a few boulders of
northern origin and some from the surrounding region.
    General and detailed sections are then given of the regular succes
sion of the carboniferous strata ; for the greater part of which in the
neighbourhood of Dudley, and for much valuable information, Mr.
Murchison expresses great obligation to Mr. Downing; the best
sections of the Wolverhampton field having been afforded by Mr. J.
 Barker. The principal points of novelty consist in drawing n clear
distinction between the upper or thicker measures, which contain the
 10-yard coal, generally known as the Dudley coal, and the underlying
carbonaceous strata, or ironstone measures. The latter, rising from
beneath the 10-yard coal, range to the N.N.E. from Wednesbury
and Bilston, in a long tract between the parallels of Walsall and Wol
 verhampton, extending to Cannock Chase. At the southern end of
the field, emerging from beneath the 10-yard coal, they occupy the
district between Stourbridge and Hales Owen, containing the well-
known " fire clay;" though some of the most valuable of the Wol
verhampton iron-stones, beneath those called the " New Mine," are
here wanting, viz. the " Gubbins," and " Blue Flats." This poverty
in the lower coal measures extends over all the district south of Dud
ley. In the northern and southern ends of the district these lower
measures represent the whole carboniferous system ; and in various
 natural sections near the Hagley and Clent Hills, the author has de
     Thirdthem,
 tected          in very
            Series. Vol. feeble
                         9. No.bands,
                                57. Supplement.  Dec. 1836.
                                       passing upwards          3 N
                                                       and conformably

490                         Geological Society.
into the lower new red sandstone. Besides the open works formerly
alluded to by him in previous memoirs, Mr. M. now states, that his for
mer conjectures respecting the passage of the 10-yard coal beneath the
new red sandstone which flanks it on the east and west have been ve
rified by the efforts of the Earl of Dartmouth, who, after sinking to a
depth of lo 1 yards through strata of the lower new red sandstone, has
very recently succeeded by further borings, carried down to the depth
of 290 yards, in discovering the 1-foot, '2-foot, and "Brooch" coal
seams, which overlie the 10-yard coal throughout the Dudley field.
These operations have taken place at Christchurch, one mile beyond
the superficial boundary of the coal-field.
    Besides the plants so common in all carboniferous tracts, the author
has observed the presence of animal organic remains. Unios of several
species are abundant; and in the northern or lower part of the field
he has extracted fragments of fishes, which have been named by Pro
fessor Agassiz,
                           Megalichthys Hibbertii,
                           M. Sauroides,
                           Diptodus gibbus ;
together with scales, coprolites, &c, proving an identity between the
animals deposited in these coal measures and those of Edinburgh, de
scribed by Dr. Hibbert. The same species, it will be recollected, have
been pointed out by Sir Philip Egerton as occurring in the N. Stafford
shire coal-field, and one of them has been observed by Mr. Prestwich
in the coal-field of Coalbrook Dale. Mr. Murchison, however, re
marks that he has not yet observed any marine remains in these coal
measures similar to those of Coalbrook Dale ; and nothing yet found
can invalidate the inference that the coal of Dudley and Wolverhamp
ton may have been accumulated exclusively in fresh water. .
    b. Silurian rocks.—The mountain or carboniferous limestone and
the old red sandstone, which in so many other parts of England form
the support of coal tracts, being wanting, this field reposes directly
on rocks which Mr. Murchison proves to consist of the two upper
members of the Silurian system, viz. " the Ludlow rocks" and " Wen-
lock limestone."* As, however, these rocks rise up irregularly, like
separate islands, through the surrounding coal measures, and not in
 their regular order of superposition, so it was obviously impracticable
to have determined their relative age by any local evidences; and hence
 no attempts could have been made to distinguish the younger from the
older deposits, until the structure and organic remains of the different
members of the Silurian system, had been fairly worked out in other
districts, where these types were fully and clearly displayed in their
regular order.
    2. Ludlow rocks.—These rocks appear at the surface in three de
 tached points in this coal-field, viz. Sedgeley, Turner's Hill, and the
 Hayes. At Sedgeley they are thrown up in an elongated ellipse, very
    * There is one spot, however, within the author's knowledge where the
•wderground works reached a thick mass of red shale or marl benetith the
coal-field ; but the works having been long abandoned, no correct know
ledge of these red rocks can be now obtained.

                            Geological Society.                      491
much resembling u large inverted ship, of which Sedgeley Beacon,
fi30 feet above the sea, may be considered as the keel. The upper
Ludlow rock, though not thick, is plainly marked by containing the
Leplana lata, the Serpula giganlea, Sec, and by overlying a limestone
which is in every respect identical wiih that of Aymcstrey or the middle
member ot the Ludlow rocks, presenting the same lithological struc
ture, i. e. a dull argillaceous grey limestone, which among other well-
known shells, such as the Terebratula Wilsoni and the Lingula, con
tains also the beautiful Pentamerus Knighlii so entirely peculiar to this
stratum. As at Ludlow and Aymestrev, this limestone of Sedgeley,
known here as the " black limestone, ' forms an excellent cement
under water.
   Turner's Hill, a small elevation between Gornals and Himley, is
composed of Ludlow rocks; and the Hayes is a narrow short tongue
of the same, with a central band of limestone, which rises at a high
angle from beneath the coal measures, on the main road from Stour
bridge to Hales Owen, a portion of the lower Ludlow rock being also
well exposed.
   2a. " Wenlock limestone."—This limestone formation is much more
largely developed than that of the Luiilow rocks, constituting several
ellipsoidal masses near the town of Dudley, which have been long
worked, and extensively known among collectors, from the number
and beauty of their organic remains. Hence the rock has been usually
termed the " Dudley limestone." As, however, it was impossible to
have ascertained in this district the relative age of these rocks, their
different members being independently in contact with the coal mea
sures, the nomenclature of the Silurian system already selected is ad
hered to, because in Shropshire theWenlock limestone, in its fullest
standard, rises out regularly from beneatli the Ludlow rocks, and the
latter passing beneath the old red sandstone and carboniferous lime
stone (both of which are wanting at Dudley) complete the proofs re
quired. The author therefore entreats geologists not to employ the
term Dudley limestone except as the synonym of Wenlock, with which
he proceeds to show its lithological and geological identity. This
limestone is described in detail at the Castle Hill, Wren's Nest, and
Hurst Hill, in all of which it forms ellipsoidal elevated masses, flOO to
650 feet high, protruding through the coal measures in lines paral
lel to similarly shaped masses of Ludlow rock at Sedgeley; &c, i.e.
trending from 10° E. of N. to 10° W. of S. Two strong bands of
limestone occur in these hills, overlaid and separated from each other
by shale, charged with numerous small concretions of impure lime
stone, the " bavin" of the workmen. The limestone having been quar
ried out from these bands which have been raised up from a common
centre, and disposed with a qu&quaversal dip at high angles, it is evi
dent that the hills themselves would ere now have been demolished,
had they been composed throughout of calcareous masses of equal
purity; but the "bavin" or refuse composes the framework of these
perforated hills, and preserves their outline. The Wenlock shale, or
underlying part of the formation, constitutes the nucleus of the
Wren's Nest, the largest and most perfect of these ellipsoids, and
of this the author gives a detailed plan. These ellipsoids usually
                                   3 N 2

   492                         Geological Society.
   feather off at one extremity with a broken-down margin, and thns
   complete their resemblance in physical features to ancient craters of
   eruption *. The greatest superficial extent of the Wenlock formation
''!lHr"'m- the neighbourhood of Walsall, where it rises both in dome-
   shaped masses and in rectilinear ridges, running from S.S.W. to
 ' 'N.N.E. parallel to the axis of the Wolverhampton coal-field, of which
   one of these ridges forms the eastern boundary, the limestone
   plunging beneath the coal-field at a rapid angle. The other ridge is
   continuous with the new red sandstone of the Bar-beacon, and is
   known as the Hay Head lime. In the Dudley or 10-yard coal tract
   few works have yet proceeded downwards beneath the lower coals,
   and hence the subjacent Silurian rocks are liule known to the miners.
   A remarkable and accidental discovery of a mass of limestone took
   place recently near Dudley Port, on the rise side of a great fault, which
   bounds the downcasts of the coal, called " Dudley Trough." Having
   worked out the coal on the upcast side, a shaft was sunk in and upon
   the southern side of this fault, when at a depth of 208 yards, and about
    100 yards below the exhausted coal strata, a mass of limestone was
   met with, which proved to be near 7 yards thick, and of very good
   crystalline quality. Being found to extend in a form more or less ho
   rizontal, extensive works were promptly opened in it for the extrac
   tion of a rock so precious in the heart of the coal-field. When the
   author visited it, a considerable cavity had been formed, in which no
' trace of moisture was discernible, whilst it was known that copious
   streams of water were flowing in the coal measures overhead. He
   accounts for this mass of limestone being hermetically excluded from
   the percolation of water, by the impervious nature of the Silurian shale
   Which separates the coal measures from the limestone, and by the shafts
   being sunk in the fault itself, which, like other lines of fissure, is filled
   Hp with clay and other materials, so closely compacted as to form com
   plete dams to water. At the north-western edge of the subterranean
   excavation the fault was stripped, and the materials of which it 'is
   composed having thinned out, the limestone was found in contact with
   a bed of coal, the edges of which appeared bent, both the coal and
   the limestone having a slickensides polish. By boring through the
   limestone a second calcareous stratum was found, thus completing the
   proofs of identity between this underground mass and that which rises
   to the surface in the hills of Dudley Castle and the Wren's Nest.
       In the northern or Wolverhampton field, where the whole of the
   coal measures, even to beneath the lowest beds of ironstone, (the blue
  Jlats,) are traversed by shafts not exceeding 120 yards in depth, the
   field has been proved at several points to rest on shale and impure
   limestone, the equivalents of the Ludlow and Wenlock formations.
   For lists of the fossils in this group of Upper Silurian rocks the author
   refers to previous memoirs, announcing that more perfect lists will
   shortly be laid before the public in his large work upon the Silurian
   system.
      * See account of Valley of Woolhope for similar phainomena on a larger
   wale, and with a greater number of concentric and enveloping formations.
   —Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. iv. p. 372.

                             Geological Society.
   3. Liekey Quartz rock, Caradoc sandstone, (Lower Silurian rocks.)
Dr. Bucklund first called the attention of geologists to the Lickey
quartz rock* j and, showing that it had been one of the principal ma
gazines of the quartz pebbles in the new red sandstone and diluvium
of the southern counties, he further compared it with certain rocks in
situ in the neighbourhood of the Wrekin. The Rev. J. Yates has
also clearly described the lithological structure of this rock, and has
briefly touched upon some of its fossils t. Mr. Murchison undertakes to
prove the true geological position of these rocks. He shows that they
lie in the direct prolongation of the Silurian rocks of Dudley, and that,
being partially flanked and covered by thin patches of coal, they
emerge through a surrounding area of the lower new red sandstone
and calcareous red conglomerate (described in previous memoirs).
Unlike, however, the succession in the Dudley field, there are here
no traces of the Ludlow rock and Aymestrey limestone. Nor are
there masses of any size of the Wenlock limestone, but shreds only
of the shale or lower part of this formation with some of its well-
recognised fossils, (Colmers.)
   The lower Silurian rocks rise from beneath the Wenlock shale in
thin courses of bastard limestone, alternating with red and green
courses of sandstone and shale, the equivalents of those bands, which
at various places in Shropshire, and at Woolhope in Herefordshire, con
stitute the top of the formation of Caradoc sandstones. Like these, they
are here underlaid by flaglike sandstones, sometimes rather more ar
gillaceous and approaching to clay slate, the whole passing down into
siliceous sandstones, both thick and thin bedded. In the latter are
casts of several fossils of the Caradoc formation, such as Pentameri of
two species, and corals peculiar to it. These fossilliferous strata are
well exposed on the eastern side of the hills by recent cuttings, where
the new road from Bromsgrove to Birmingham traverses the ridge.
The ridge itself, however, consists essentially of quartz rock, which
the author shows is nothing more than altered Caradoc sandstone,
precisely analogous to that which he has on former occasions pointed
out on the flanks of Caer Caradoc, the Wrekin, Stiper stones, &c. In
those districts the passage from a fossiliferous sandstone to a pure
quartz rock has been accounted for by the latter being in absolute
contact with eruptive masses of igneous origin ; and here it is sug
gested that the same cause may have operated, though the contact is
not visible, because the line of quartz rock is precisely upon the pro
longation of the trappean axis of the Rowley Hills, whilst the southern
end of the parallel outburst of the Clent Hills, is but little distant.
Notwithstanding their highly altered condition, it is shown that all
the quartz rocks throughout this ridge of low hills are uniformly stra
tified, the dip being either to the E.N.E. or W.S.W., i. e. at right
angles to the direction ; and the parallelopipedal fragments into which
the rock breaks are shown to be produced by fissures more or less at
right angles to the planes of stratification ; these fissures being so
   • Transactions Geol. Soc, 1st Series, vol. v. p. 50/.            .. .
   t Transactions Geol. Soc, 2nd Series, vol. ii. p. 137.—[Also Phil. Mag-,
First Series, vol. Ixv. p. 297.]

49+                         Geological Society,
numerous where the mass is much altered, as almost to obscure the
true lamina? of deposit.
   4. Trap.—The composition and characters of the trap rocks and
basaltic masses of the Rowley Hills are first described, together with
the manner in which they are supposed to rise through and cut off
the coal upon their flanks. Rocks of similar origin occur at various
detached points to the west of Dudley, of which Barrow Hill is the
principal, affording the most convincing proofs of the volcanic mass
having burst through the carboniferous strata, since the latter are not
only highly disturbed and broken, but fragments of coal and coal mea
sures, in highly-altered conditions, are found twisted up upon the sides,
and even mixed with the trap itself. In the Wolverhampton or north
ern coal-field, the chief vent of eruption is at Pouk Hill, two miles west
of Walsall, where the greenstone is arranged in fan-shaped columns.
After pointing out distinct evidences of the intrusion of similar rocks
at Bentley Forge and the Birch Hills, in some of the old open works
near which the trap is seen to overlie the coal, the author gives vari
ous sections of subterranean works, which prove the existence of
greenstone, in bands more or less horizontal. As these bands of trap
have jagged edges, are of limited extent, of exceeding irregularity
in thickness, and often produce great alteration upon the inclosing
carbonaceous masses, the author has no hesitation in expressing his
belief that they are not true beds, but simply wedges of injected matter
which have issued from central foci, and have been intruded laterally
amid the coal strata; an opinion formerly expressed by Mr. A. Aikin
in an able memoir*.
   Although these later.il masses of greenstone in the Wolverhampton
field are of origin posterior to the accumulation of coal strata, the
author does not deny that the tufaceous conglomerates of Hales Owen,
which have a strong analogy in composition to a certain class of vol
canic grits described in former memoirs, may have been formed con
temporaneously with the carboniferous deposits.
   The trap of the Clent Hills is then briefly described, and is shown
to be identical with that of the Abberley Hills, also mentioned in pre
vious memoirs.
  5. Principal lines ofdislocation.—The whole of this carboniferous tract
has been upcast through a cover of new red sandstone, the lower mem
bers of which are frequently found to have been dislocated conform
ably with the inferior carbonaceous masses, proving (iis formerly ex
pressed by Mr. Murchison) that some of the greatest of these move
ments took place subsequently to the deposit of the red sandstone. In
describing the faults along the boundary of the new red sandstone, he
directs particular attention to that of Wolverhampton, where the coal
measures dip slightly inwards from the line of fissure, along which they
are conterminous with the overlying strata, a fact perhaps without
parallel in this or the adjacent coal-fields (including Coalbrook Dale),
the usual phenomena being that, however disrupted, the carbonaceous
or upcast strata always incline outwards, as if they would pass even
tually beneath the lower new red sandstone on their flanks. This
           * Transactioni Geol. Soc, 1st Series, vol. iii. p. 851.

                          Geological Society.                         495
exception is supposed to have been caused by the upheaving of a
subjacent mass of Silurian or trap rocks close to the edge of the line
of fault.
   Having next described the effect of the great longitudinal faults
produced by the upcast of the VVenlock limestone of Walsall, he shows
that the subterranean mass at Dudley Port (p. 492), is upon the same
parallel, i. e. from N.E. to S.W., if not directly on the same line of fis
sure. This line of eruption is strongly marked on both edges of the
northern half of the coal-field extending to Cannock Chase.
   Another great axis of elevation which affects the Dudley field, di
verges at a considerable angle from the former. It is prominently
marked by the line of the Rowley Hills, and after concealment for a
certain distance beneath the red sandstone to the S. of Hales Owen,
reappears in the ridge of the Lickey quartz rock. The lofty trappean
ridge of the Clent Hills is parallel to this last-mentioned axis. It
is further pointed out as remarkable that at the angle formed by the
confluence of these divergent lines of elevation, the Silurian or fun
damental rocks of the tract are raised in inflated ellipsoidal forms from
common centres, the strata having a quaquaversal dip, in one case
completing the outlines of a very perfect valley of elevation. The
author infers that such curvatures are exactly what might be ex
pected at the point of greatest flexure in the axis of the coal-field,
where the volcanic matter, unable to find issue, has produced these
inflated masses. There are numberless faults in this coal-field to
which no reference is made, it being stated that much additional labour
is required to give a complete history of them ; but attention is called
to the Birch Hill, Lanesfield, and Bairow Hill faults, which are the
principal transverse faults, and which the author conceives may be ex
plained upon the principles of the theory of Mr. Hopkins, or as cross
fractures which have resulted from elevation of the coal-field en masse.
   The memoir concludes with referring to the importance of one of
the problems to which the author has been directing public attention
during the last few years, viz. the probable extension of carboniferous
tracts of the central counties beneath the surrounding new red sand
stone; and he rejoices that the deductions which necessarily follow
from his observations in this and the adjacent coal-fields, have recently
been so ably supported by the masterly observations of Mr. Prestwich
upon Coalbrook Dale, with whose opinions he entirely coincides.
   The quantity therefore of unwrought coal beneath the new red sand
 stone of Shropshire, Worcestershire, Staffordshire, &c. though pre
viously omitted in statistical data, must form an element in all calcu
lations concerning the probable duration of the carboniferous wealth
 of the empire.
    May 2o.— A paper was first read "On the part of Devonshire be
 tween the Ex and Berry Head and the Coast and Dartmoor j" by
 Robert Alfred Cloyne Austen, Esq., F.G.S.
   The formations of which the district consists are transition rocks,
 new red sandstone, greensand, and trap.
   The transition rocks are sometimes arenaceous, more often slaty, and
 contain beds of limestone rich in organic remains. The only portion

 +96                       Geological Socie/t/.
of the system considered by the author as undescribed is a conglo
merate, 1 00 feet thick, which occurs at the Park nt Ugbrook. It is com
posed of rounded quartz pebbles and fragments of clay slate, united
by a siliceous cement. It alternates in the upper part with beds of
clay slate, and is older than any of the limestones of the country. These
transition formations are traversed by numerous faults, the strata being
thrown into the wildest confusion. In some places beds of trap are
regularly interposed without producing any effect upon the adjacent
strata ; but in other localities dykes intersect the sedimentary deposits,
and have produced great alterations both in their structure and dip.
   The new red sandstone consists in the lower part offine-grained fissile
sandstone, and a coarse conglomerate, formed out of the surround
ing older formations, including partially rounded fragments uf slate,
limestone, porphyry, greenstone, &c. This formation is also much
disturbed by faults, some of which, the author thinks, are contemjK)-
raneous with the deposition of the sandstone, as they appear to affect
the lower and not the upper beds in the same section.
   The elevation of the greensand of the Haldons, Mr. Austen thinks,
was due to the action of a subjacent mass of trap, portions of which '
are visible at the extremities of the hills : and he is of opinion that the
preservation of these insulated patches of greenstone has been owing
to their having been raised above the level of the waters which denu-
 dated the surrounding districts.
   In conclusion the author briefly reviews the geological phenomena
which this part of Devonshire presents, and infers from them, that du- '
ring the transition epoch there were submarine volcanic irruptions, as '
shown by the interstralified trap; that the number of organic remains
in the limestone prove that the ocean teemed, in parts, with life : that '
the new red conglomerate was due to the breaking up of the transition '
formations : that there were irruptions of trap at later periods, as proved
by the dykes in the new red sandstone; and that Dartmoor was ele
vated after the deposition of the greensand, as the first traces of gra
nitic debris are found in the Bovey deposit.
   A notice was next read on the supposed existence of the Lias forma
tion in Africa, by Roderick Impey Murchison, Esq., F.G.S.
   Mr. Leach, of Milford Haven, a short time since presented to the
Society some organic remains, stated to have been obtained by Com
modore Sir Charles Bullen on the west coast of Africa. As these 6f-'J ''¦
ganic remains agree exactly with fossils of common occurrence nt Lyme
Regis, it was
specting         ; but Mr. Leach
           themconjectured   that some
                                    has mistake
                                         been subsequently     occurred f**'-'
                                                 might have informed     by
Sir Charles Bullen that they were collected by himself and officers at
West Buy, Fernando Po, Accra, andSierra Leone, and that they occur '
in abundance.
   Mr. Murchison also announced in this notice, that Sir John Herschel
has discovered Trilobites in a rock which occurs to the north of the
Cape of Good Hope.
   A paper was then read, entitled '* A Notice on Maria Island, on the
east coast of Van Diemen's Land, (S. lat. 42° 44' E., long. 148° a",)
by George Frankland, Esq., Surveyor-General of the Colony ; and

                              GeologicalSociety'.                                 497
communicated to the Society by Robert W. Hay Esq., Under Secre
tary of State for the Colonies.
    Maria Island is composed, for the greater part, of trap; but ;
strata of freestone well calculated for building purposes frequently
occur, and at the northern point of the island is a perpendicular',cjiuv,j
from
some
Onoysters,
of     200
        at eastern
      the  the
             tomuscles,
                 500
                 height
                      feetof
                          and
                     coast,  600
                              near
                               other
                            high, composed
                                   feet
                                    Cape
                                      shells,
                                           Mistaken,
                                        above  of
                                                theadark
                                               in     levelgrey
                                                     state are
                                                             of great
                                                                numerous
                                                                 the
                                                                 limestone,
                                                                     sea,
                                                                      preservation.
                                                                            caverns,
                                                                           the   root ,0, ",
                                                                              formed
of which are studded with stalactites. Mr. Frankland states that Van
Diemen's Land in every part furnishes strong evidence of the ocean,,
having once occupied a much higher level than at present. The payer .;t
also contains much valuable information respecting the natural pro
ductions of the island.
   A letter was next read on the geology of the country included in the, 7
S.VV. quarter of the Daventry, or 55th sheet of the Ordnance Survey, ,
bv J. Kobison Wright, Esq., F.G.S., and addressed to Capt. Mudtre.,
R.E., F.G.S.                                                                 . .,..„ ...„
   The surface contained in this quarter sheet is about 168 square
miles, including the towns ot Southam and Kineton, and the field of
the battle of Edge Hill. The formations of which the district consists
are the new red sandstone, the lias, and the interior oolite. r . ,
   .A notice on the occurrence of marine shells in a bed of gravel at
Narley Bank, Cheshire, by Sir Philip Grey Egerton, Bart., M.P.,. /•
 F.G.S., was then read.                                                          „, •
   'In' proceeding from the valley of the Weaver, at the point where
is crossed by the Liverpool and Birmingham Railway, towards Dela.-.,,
mere Forest, are two acclivities, each about 60 feet high, and distant,,
about a mile and a half from each other. Narley Bank is situated «p,.<t
the summit of the second ridge, and the gravel-pit is in the face, of ithe^tj
northern declivity, about 157 feet above low-water mark at Weston. y
 Point, and six miles from it. The gravel differs from the common
 gravel of the country by the prevalence of calcareous matter and the
small proportion of fine sand j but agrees with the gravel at the Wtl>*;i)
lington, described in a former paper*. This resemblance induced the
 author to search for shells, and he found, at a second visit to the pit, .
 several imperfect fragments of apparently recent marine shells.
    In conclusion, Sir Philip Egerton states that he has always found a
 marked
 cent       distinction,
        shells  and that in which
                               Cheshire,
                                   does not   ; and he
                                           between           gravelfrom
                                                        theinfers,        the formet
                                                                     containing       re,- u
 being occasionally covered, as at the Willington, by a thick deposit "
 of sand and gravel, that it was accumulated before the occurrence «f7.'
 of the
 the       drift, to which he ascribes the origin of the common detritus
      lastcounty.                                                              ;/' if/ n i
    A paper was afterwards read, entitled " Accompanying remarks to '
 a section of the Upper Lias and Marlstone of Yorkshire, showing the
 limited vertical range of the species of Ammonites and other Testacea,
 with their value as geologicul tests," by Louis Hunter, Esq., and
 communicated ,by John Forbes Royle, Esq., F.G.S. - .-'-J                          ¦¦>'¦} yd
                 • Lond. and Edinb Phil. Mag., vol. vii. p. 326.
     Third Series. Vol. 9. No. 57. Supplement Dec. 1836.                      3O

 498                      Geological Society.
    The portion of the coast to which this paper immediately refers is
 called the Ensington Height, situated between' Whitby and Redcar,
 and presents the following details :
 INFERIOR OOLITIC.
    Upper Lias Shale.
          Shale                                              35 feet
           Hard or cement stone bed                          25
          Shale, containing nodules of ironstone             90
          Jet rock                                    20 to 30
          Hard compact sandy shale                           30
                                                    about         200
    Marlstone.
          Thin seams of shale, alternating with hard iron
             stone bands, a foot thick                       25
          Sandy shale, with beds of dogger                   63 ?
          Alternating beds of calcareous sandstone and
             sandy shale                                     40
          Shaly sandstone, passing gradually into the lower
             lias shale                                      30 ?
                                                                  160
   Lower Lias Shale                                               150
   The beds of shale superior to the jet rock are characterized by the
presence of Nucula ovum, Orbicula reflexa, Plagiosloma pectinoide,
Ammonites communis, A. heleropliyllus, A. fimbriatus, A. Walcottii,
A. subcarinatus, A. angulatus, A. crassus, A.fibulatus, A. subarmalus,
A.Lythensis, A. Boulbiensis, A.annulatus, Nautilus astacoides, and
 Relenmites elongatus. The species gradually decrease in abundance
on approaching the jet rock, and the specimens which do occur in
that stratum are stated to be smaller than in the higher beds. The
jet rock contains a peculiar suite of Ammonites, viz. A. elegant, A. sig-
nifer, A. elegantulus, A. exaratus, A. Mulgravius, A. concavus, and
A. ovatus. It is also distinguished by containing the remains of the
gavial-snouted crocodile. With respect to the relative abundance of
the fossils, Mr. Hunter observes that where they occur in the greatest
number they are smallest in size.
   The beds situated between the jet rock and the marlstone are very
poor in fossils.
   The marlstone series is distinguished not only by a change in the
species, but in the preponderance of bivalves and the comparative ra
rity of Ammonites ; the characteristic fossils being Avicula cygnipes,
A. inaquivalvis, Pecten subUevis, P. eequivalvis, Pullastra antiuua, se
veral species of Terebratula, Cardium truncatum, Modiola scalprum.
The species of Ammonites are few, A. vittatus occurring about the
centre of the series, and A. maculatus at the junction with the lower
lias shale.
   In conclusion, Mr. Hunter states that the difference between the
distribution assigned to the fossils by himself and other authors may
be owing to the prevalent practice of collecting fossils from subsided
masses, nnd not from undisturbed portions of the cliffs.

                           Geological Society.                        499
    A letter was, lastly, read from Robert Fitch, Esq., of Norwich, to
 Edward Churlesworth, Esq., F.G.S., on the discovery of the Tooth of a
 Mastodon in the crag at Thorpe, near Norwich.
   The pit in which the tooth was found is stated to present the fol
lowing section :
       Top. Alluvium                                        5 feet
               Gravel                                       6
               Brick-earth, sand, and gravel               14
               Crag                                         5
               Large chalk flints, mixed with crag shells,
                 principally Pectens
               Chalk
   It was in the bed of large chalk flints that Mr. Fitch found the
tooth ; and he adds that Thorpe adjoins the parish of Whitlingham,
in which Mr. William Smith discovered the tooth figured in his " Strata
Identified."
   June 8.— A paper was first read, entitled," Notice respecting a piece
 of Wood partly petrified by Carbonate of Lime ; with some remarks
on Fossil Woods, which it has suggested." Bv Charles Stokes, Esq.,
 F.G.S.
   Mr. Stokes lately received from Germany, with a collection of fossil
woods, a piece of recent wood, stated to have been found in an ancient
Roman aqueduct, in the principality of Lippe, in the Biickeberg, in
which some parts are petrified by carbonate of lime, while the remainder
of the wood, though in some degree decayed, is not at all mineralized.
This fact has afforded an explanation of the peculiarities of some other
instances of fossil wood, in which different parts of the specimen pre
sent different appearances. Two other instances are particularly de
scribed : one of silicified wood from Antigua, and one of a calcareous
petrifaction from Allen Bank in Berwickshire. In both these cases
it is inferred by the author, that the process of petrifaction com
menced simultaneously at a number of separate points, and that it
was suspended when only parts of the wood had been petrified. The
unchanged parts would then be liable to decay; and in the specimen
from Antigua the process has been renewed after this remaining part
had decayed in a considerable degree, when that also became silici
fied. In the calcareous petrifaction from Allen Bank (which is de
scribed and figured by Mr. Witham, in his work on the structure
Of fossil vegetables), the parts which had not been petrified at the time
the process was interrupted, have been entirely destroyed by the de
cay which thin ensued, and the intermediate spaces have been tilled
up by the crystallization of carbonate of lime, without the removal of
the petrified portions from the positions in which they grew and in
which they had become mineralized.
   In the specimen from the Roman aqueduct the petrified portions
run in separate columns through the wood, as if conducted down
wards by the vessels or woody fibres. In that from Allen Bank the
separate portions are spherical in form and independent of each other j
and in that from Antigua they are independent, and though nearlv
spherical not regularly so. Hence the author infers that a different
explanation must be sought for the manner in which the solution of
                                    3O 2

                            Geological Hackly.
^mineral matter was supplied in the first instance from that of the
 two last.
    The paper notices also the fossil wood from Lough Neagh and
 Bonn, in which aome small parts preserve their texture, although re
 maining still unchanged in the midst of the petrified mass.
    The author concludes with a short notice of the different conditions
 in which the structure of wood is preserved in different specimens,
 and considers that the condition of the woud has not any influence on
 the process of petrifaction.
    A paper was next read, entitled, " Further notice on certain pecu
 liarities of Structure in the Cervical Region oi the Ichthyosaurus,"
 by Sir Philip Grey Egerton, Bart., M.P., V.P.G.S.
    In a former communication* Sir Philip Egerton gave an account
 pf the cervical vertebrae of the Ichthyosaurus, and announced the dis
 covery that the atlas and axis are firmly united and strengthened be
 low by an accessory articulating bone. In this paper he shows, that
 the union of the two vertebrae is perfect at all periods of the animal's
 growth, and apparently in all the species of the genus hitherto dis
 covered, having observed it in vertebra; varying in size from hulf an
 inch to seven inches and a half in diameter. Externally there is a
 strong line of demarcation between the two bones, but internally the
 cancelli appear to pass from one to the other. The atlas, indepen
 dently of the union of the two vertebrae, is distinguished by the
 form of the anterior cavity for the reception of the basilar process of
 the occipital bone ; by the outer margin being rounded instead of
 sharp, and by the triangular facet on the inferior part of the circum
 ference for the reception of the accessory bone : the axis, indepen
 dently also of its union with the atlas, differs from the other vertebrae, by
 the facet on the under surface for the reception of the accessory bone:
 «nd the third vertebra is also distinguished from the remaining bones
 of the neck by a facet for the articulation of a very small accessory
 bone. The intervertebral cavities of the 4th and 5th cervical verte
 brae, the author states, are less than in the vertebras of the dorsal and
 caudal regions, and the anterior cavity is considerably smoother than
 the posterior one of the same vertebra:.
    Sir Philip Egerton states that the spinal column does not, as de
 scribed by other authors, decrease in diameter from the middle dorsal
 vertebra to the atlas, but that the minimum diameter is attained about
 the fifth cervical vertebra, from which point to the occipital bone the
 increase in size is very rapid, the atlas being fully one fifth more in
 diameter than the above-mentioned bone.
    in the former memoir Sir Philip Egerton described only one acces
 sory bone in the cervical region of the Ichthyosaurus ; but in this paper
 he proves that there are three, and proposes to designate them by the
 name of subvertebrnl wedge-bones. One of them is supplementary
 to the atlantal socket, another is common to the atlas and axis, and
 the third, which agrees in form with the second, but is much smaller,
 articulates on the under surface of the third vertebra.
    The author, tiien, in conclusion, enlarges upon the admirable
              • Lonrl. und Edinb. l'hil. Mag., vol. vii. p. 414.

                           Geologictii Society.                      501
adaptation of the structure of the Ichthyosaurus to the habits of the
animal.
   A communication was afterwards made " On the coal fields on the
north -we> tern coast of Cumberland, &c, &c. : " by the Rev. Pro
fessor Sedgwick, MA., F.R.S., F.G.S., and Williamson Peile, Esq.,
of Whitehaven, F.G.S.
   In a former paper* the authors described the range of the carboni
ferous limestone from the neighbourhood of Kirkby Stephen to
Egremont; and showed that the formation admitted of two divi
sions : the lower representing the scar limestone of the Yorkshire
sections, the upper (also like the Yorkshire sections) exhibiting
alternations of limestone, sandstone, and shale, w.th thin seams of
coal. They commenced with a short notice of rocks and sections
made through this upper division, which in its range towards the
western coast of Cumberland, appears gradually to thin off, and lose
its importance. They then proceeded to describe in more detail,
and with many illustrative sections, a still higher coal field ; which
is on the same parallel with the great Northumberland and Durham
coal-fields, and in the quantity of carboniferous beds subordinate to
it, is in no resptct inferior to them.
   This field is bounded by the red sandstone of St. Bees Head ; by
the carboniferous limestone, in a part of its range above described ;
 by the sea coast between St. Bees Head and Maryport; and by the
new red sandstone in its range from Maryport to Chalk Beck near
 ltosley. The whole system appears to thin off near Rosley, and is
succeeded by some sterile, alternating, masses of red shale and sand
stone, to which the miners, though improperly, have given the name
of the " great red metal dyke.'' To the east of this series of red beds
the rich upper coal-field never appears to have extended. From
 many borings and workings near Whitehaven, it is inferred that the
 upper division of this carboniferous limestone, as well as the millstone
grit, have almost disappeared ; and that the coal measures arc
 brought nearly into immediate contact with the lower division of the
 limestone. In some places the whole limestone has thinned off, and
 the coal measures seem to rest almost immediately on the Skiddaw
slate.
    The authors commence their details, in the present paper, with an
account of the Whitehaven coal-field, which they separate into three
 divisions: the southern, or How-Gill colliery ; the middle, or Town
field bounded by a great downcast dyke towards the north ; and the
 northern, or Whin-Gill colliery, bounded by an anticlinal line which
enters the sea near l'arton. The strata found in these several parts
of the field are described by the help of the sinkings and borings of
 Croft Pit, and by o.lier sinkings in various parts of the field down to
the liiiKStone. A comparison is then made between this series of
strata and those exhibited in corresponding sections of the Harring
ton and Workington fields; and it is shown that the wliole scries
 inay he conveniently separated into two divisions : the upper, con
 taining two principal bauds of co:il, called the " Uuiintnk Bund," and
                  * Proceedings Gent. Soc., vol. ii. p. 198.

. 502                           Geological Society.
    Whitehaven " Main Band"; the lower, containing many thin seam*
    of coal, but only one bund which has been much worked nearWbite-
   haven. They then proceed to describe the most remarkable workings
   in the several divisions of the Whitehaven field; the new field to be
   approached by the Parton tunnel ; and the extension of the " Main
   and Bannock band" to the hills S.E. of Dissington; but these de
   tails, as well as an account of the works attempted in a small trian
   gular field bordering the sea to the north of Parton, are necessarily
   passed over in this abstract.
       They then describe the Harrington coal-field, bounded to the
   north and south by two enormous faults ; between which the coun
    try is occupied by the lower division of' the coal measures. It is
   impossible in an abstract to describe the complicated faults that
   everywhere intersect this field. and by which the limestone is in two
   instances brought up to the surface. The coal beds, worked within
   it, are five in number, and are described, in descending order, un
   der the following names : (I.) Metal Band ; (2.) Two-feet Band ;
   (.'<.) Yard Band; (4.) Four-feet Band ; (5.) Yendale Band. Bybelp
   of a transverse section to CastJerigg, this field is connected with the
   upper division of the coal measures; in as much as pits have been
   sunk near that place, through the great beds of the upper division,
  down to the twofeet band ; thus giving a consistency and unity to
  all the sections.
       The authors next describe the Workington field, bounded to the
  south by the great fault which brings in the lower division of the
   Harrington field ; and to the east and west by the sea and the turn
  pike road. The river Derwent was formerly regarded as its north
  ern boundary ; but the main band unfortunately thins out a little to
  the south of Workington, and thereby contracts the extension ofthe
  valuable part of this field. Nearly all the beds worked in this field
  belong to the upper division ; and their general agreement with the
  Whitehaven bands of coal is proved by detailed sections ; especially
  from the sinkings at Henry Pit near the mouth of the Derwent.
  The principalfaults traversing this district, the outcrops of the prin
  cipal bands of coal, and the extension of the works under the sea
  are described in some detail. Several other small divisions of the
  great field are then noticed: viz. the Starmire, Keekhill-Side,
  Brownrigg, Branthwaite-Edge, Uillgaron,and Graysouthern fields ;
  after which the authors proceed to describe the phenomena on the
  north side of the Derwent.
       To the north of the Derwent, there is near the sea-coast a sterile
  region, partly occupied by the lower red sandstone, and partly by
  the upper division of the coal measures, in which the main coal is
  wanting ; a fact connected with the thinning off of the main band
  to the south of Workington. In a very extensive field, commencing
  a little to the N. of the village of Beaton, and extending over Brough-
, ton Moor, andfrom thence to Dearham, two beds of coal (known by
  the names of the "ten-quarter band" and the "kernel and metal band")
  have been very extensively worked, and are identified with the " ban
  nock-band" and " main-band" of Whitehaven and Workington.
  The relations of the several parts of this extensive tract of country

                          Zoological Society.                        503
are exhibited in detailed sections, of which it is very difficult to
convey a notion in a mere abstract ; and the works carried on
within them are, with very limited exceptions, referred to the
upper division of the Whitehaven field.
    The coal bands exhibited in the works near Gillerux, Aspatria,
Plumland, and Weary Hall are then described ; and detailed sections
are given ofthe works in the Bolton field, —generally regarded as the
north-eastern limit. There is, however, an unexplored tract to the
east of a great fault which forms the northern limit of the Bolton
 field ; and, in the neighbourhood of Rosley, a seven-feet coal; un
 doubtedly a member of the upper division) was formerly worked)
though to a very small extent, in consequence of the complicated
 dislocations which intersect the district.
     Having described, in the above order, the several portions of the
 great coal-field, and noticed some of its peculiarities of mineral struc
 ture, the authors endeavour to ascertain the limits of certain outlying
 masses of the fewer red sandstone, of the magnesian conglomerate, and
 of the new red sandstone. From the facts stated, it appears that the
 coal measures pass, in some instances, in regular ascending order,
 into the lower red sandstone. In other instances, however, the coal
 measures appear to have undergone considerable movements of ele
 vation before the existence of the lower red sandstone ; in as much
 as the position of the two formations is discordant. Again, though
 the lower red sandstone forms the natural and immediate basis of
 the magnesian limestone and conglomerates, yet there are several
  places, within the south-western limits of the country described,
  where the conglomerates appear to have been deposited in hollows
  and inequalities presented by the wtiterworn beds on which they
  rest unconformably. From which facts it seems to follow, that the
  formations described in this paper have undergone, during their de
  velopment, two considerable movements, affecting the position ofthe
  component strata : 1st, a partial movement of the coal measures,
  anterior to the deposition of the lower red sandstone ; 2ndly , a par
  tial movement, both of the coal measures and the lower red sand
  stone, anterior to the formation of the magnesian conglomerates.
     This being the last evening of the Session, the Society adjourned,
  at its close, to Wednesday, November the 2nd.
                          ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
     May 10.—The following Note by the Rev. H. Dugmorewas read.
      "Lieut. Col. Mason, of Neeton Hall (four miles from Swaffharn),
  has had a Sea Eagle, Halieeetus albicilla, Sav., in confinement for the
  last sixteen years. About a month since, it dropped an egg, which
  is now in my collection. The egg is perfectly white, and not quite
  so large as that of a Goose : the shell is rather harder."
      A letter was read from Capt. Green of Buckden, Huntingdonshire,
  descriptive of a very fine specimen of the bam-door Hen in his pos
   session, which has assumed the Cock plumage : the change took place
   about three years ago. The bird has since been presented to the
   Society by the writer.

504                          Zoological Society.
   Mr. Owen read the following Notes on the Anatomy of the Wom
bat, Phascolomys Wombat, Pe>.
   " The anatomy of the Wombat having already engaged the atten
tion of Cuvier ('Lecous d'Anat. Comparee, passim) and Home (Phil.
Trans, vol. xcviii. 1808, p. 304,) but little remains to be added on
that subject.
   " The individual lately dissected at the Museum of the Zoological
Society had lived at the Gardens upwards of five years. The one
which was dissected by Sir Everard Home in 1808 was brought from
one of the islands in Bass's Straits, and lived as a domestic pet in
the house of Mr. Clift for two years. This animal measured two feet
two inches in length, and weighed about 201bs.: it was a male. The
Society's specimen was a female, and weighed, when in full health
in October 1833, 59llbs.
   " On removing the integuments of the abdomen, much subcuta
neous fat, of the lard kind, was observed.
   " The muscles of the abdomen presented the same arrangement as
in other Marsupinta ; the internal pillars of the external abdominal
rings being formed by the marsupial bones, round which a broad cre-
master, emerging from each ring, wound inwards and upwards to ter
minate by spreading over the mammary gland.
   " The digestive organs in the abdominal cavity presented a de
velopment corresponding generally to that which characterizes the
same parts in the phytiphagous Rodents.
   " The stomach precisely corresponded with the description and
figure given by Home; but the occurrence of cardiac glands in the
Dormouse and Beaver renders a similar structure in this Marsupial,
in which the Rodent type of dentition exists, less extraordinary than
it might otherwise appear. The duodenum commenced by a large
pyriform dilatation, similar to that in the Capybara and Spotted Paca ;
beyond this part it presented a diameter of an inch ; the small intes
tines then gradually widened to a diameter of l-J- inch, and as gra
dually diminished again to the diameter of an inch : their entire
length was 1 1 feet 3 inches.
   *' The ileum entered obliquely the wide sacculated colon, the bulging
commencement of which represented a short and wide caecum ; and
from the angle between this part and the ileum, a cylindrical vermi
form process 2 inches long, and 3 lines wide, was continued.
   " The colon continued to be puckered up by two wide longitudinal
bands into large sacculi, which could be traced becoming less and less
distinct along an extent of the gut measuring five feet 2 inches. Cu
vier observes that the large intestines were hardly more voluminous
than the small*; in our specimen the eo/on'measured 2+ inches in
diameter, being more than double that of the ileum. But a more im
portant difference was observed in the presence of a second excum
at the distance from the first above mentioned. This consisted of a
pyramidal pouch projecting 3 inches from the side of the gut, and
communicating freely with the same at its base : its parietes were
      " Dana
que• les      le Phascolome,
         petits."             les grosintestins
                   I.econs d'Anat.                 sontguere plus volumineux
                                    Comp., nouv.need.

                              Zoological Society.
 thinner than those of the rest of the large intestine ; it wrw situated
 below the pyloric end of the stomach, had only a partial investment
 of peritoneum, and adhered by a cellular medium to the duodenum and
pancreas. Below this second cacum, or lateral dilatation, the colon
 formed a large sacculus, and was then disposed in a series of smaller
 sacculi, which at length disappeared at a distance of 6 feet from the
 second cecum ; the rest of the large intestine, 3 feet in length, was
 of simple structure, and of smaller diameter, viz. 1-j inches.
     " The internal surface of the small intestines presented some slight
 transverse corrugations ; that of the colon was smooth, except below
 the.second c<ecum, where the lining membrane was corrugated irre
 gularly; and a small patch of glands was here observable.
     V The rectum terminated, as in other Marsupials, immediately be
 hind the urethro-sexual aperture, and within a common outlet, both
 the excretory orifices being embraced by a common cutaneous
 sphincter.
     " The liver was more completely separated into lobes than in the
 specimen dissected by Cuvier. Home is silent as to the structure
 of the liver ; his observations respecting the digestive organs are li
 mited to the peculiarities of the stomach. In our specimen the liver
 was divided by an extensive longitudinal fissure into two lobes, the
 right of which was again deeply subdivided into two, the gall-bladder
 being lodged in this second fissure : the gall-bladder was of on oval
 form, 2^ inches in length.
     " The pancreas and spleen were both well developed, and had each
 the descending
supial    animals. process which characterizes these parts in the Mar-'1
     " The parotid glands were very thin, situated upon, and partly on.'
 the inner side of, the posterior portion of the lower jaw ; they mea
 sured each 1-t inch in length, and 4 inch in breadth ; the duct passed
 directly upwards and outwards till it reached the orifice of the sterno-
cleido-mastoideus ; here it was buried in the cellular substance anterior
to that muscle, then turned over the ramttsof the jaw, and continued-
 tered
 its     the mouth
      course  over thejust
                        masseter,
                           anteriorwhere     was slightly
                                    to theitedge            tortuous ; itThe
                                                  of the buccinator.      en-;
 submaxillary glands were each about the size of a walnut; their
 ducts terminated, as usual, on each side of the frtenum lingua.             -1
     " The heart of the Wombat presented the usual peculiarities oc
 curring in this part of the Marsupial organization; viz. 1st, the two
 appendages of the right auricle, one passing in front and the other
 behind the ascending aorta ; 2ndly, the absence of the annulus and
fossa ovalis; and 3rdly, the absence of the terminal orifice of the co
 ronary vein which empties itself into the cava superior sinistra just
before the wide termination of the latter vein in the auricle by the;
 side of the cava inferior. The right auriculo-ventricular opening is.
 widely open, and is guarded by an irregular narrow membranous
 valve, the outer portion of which is attached to the tendons of three
 cornea
 the       columnee
       third,       ; two of
               and arise,  as which
                               in theare
                                      Kangaroo,  from
                                         of a large            compared
                                                    sizetheas septum      the ,
                                                                     nearwith
 angle where this is joined to the pariotes of the ventricle. The mus-
     Third Scries. Vol, 9. No. 57. Supplement. Dec. 183G.            3 P

506                        Zoological Society.
cuiar walls are continued obliquely upwards in a conical form to the
origin of the pulmonary artery, somewhat resembling a bulbus arte
riosus. This peculiarity is still more marked in the Kangaroo. The
right ventricle descends nearer to the apex of the heart in the Wom
bat than in the Kangaroo, and the form of the heart is longer and
narrower. The left auricle is smaller and more muscular than the
right ; the valve between it and the ventricle is, as usual, broader
and stronger, and its free margin is attached to the tendons of two
thick columna carnea, having the usual origins distinct from the
septum, leaving that part of the inner surface of the ventricle smooth
for the passage of the blood to the aorta. The pulmonary veins ter
minate by two trunks in the left auricle.
   " The lungs consisted of one lobe on the left side, and one on the
right, with the lobulus medius ; which was a small strip extended be
tween the heart and diaphragm.
   '* The thyroid glands were elongated bodies of a dark colour, reach
ing from the thyroid cartilage to the seventh tracheal ring on each
side.
   " The kidneys were each 2-J inches long, and 2 inches broad, and
of a somewhat compressed oval figure ; the tubuli terminated on a
single obtuse mammilla.
   " The specimen dissected by Cuvier being, like that examined by
Home, a male, the female organs of the Wombat are only known by
the description appended to the paper of the latter author, which
relates to an impregnated individual. I found no part of the struc
ture which supports the view taken by Sir Everard Home relative to
the passage of the fecundating fluid to the uterus ; the only natural
communication between those cavities and the urethro-sexual canal
being by the two lateral vaginal canals. The female organs consist,
as in the Opossum, of two ovaries, two Fallopian tubes, two uteri,
each opening by a separate os tinea into a distinct vagina ; the vagina:
having no intercommunication, but terminating in the common pass
age of Tyson, or urethro-sexual canal.
   " The urethro-sexual canal is 14- inch in length; its inner sur
face is disposed in thick folds. The two anterior ones commencing
united together form a semilunar fold above the urethral aperture ;
these folds are deeply intersected with oblique ruga, the margins of
which are villous, the villi becoming longer and finer as they approach
the orifices of the true vagina. These commence + an inch above
the urethral orifice : their parietes are very thick for the extent of
one inch, and the lining membrane of this part is disposed in minute
longitudinal ruga; ; it is then disposed in larger, coarser, and villous
ruga, similar to those of the first vagina, beneath which membrane
several small vesicles were developed. Each of the true vaginte hav
ing ascended with an outward curve for 2 inches, receives the os tinea;
of its respective side,, which is very projecting, and divided by deep
fissures into numerous processes, resembling a short tassel. The va
gina then descend to the upper part of the urethro-sexual canal, form
ing each a deep and large cul de sac, the inner surface of which is
characterized by irregular villous ruga, and the whole is highly vas

                           Zoological Society.                      507
cular. The culs de sac are separate as in the Opossum, and do not
communicate as in the Kangaroo.
   " The uteri are each 2 inches long, and -J of an inch in diameter,
somewhat flattened, pyriform, and giving off the oviducts from the
inner or mesial part of their fundus. For the extent of an inch, the
lining membrane presents a series of small but well-defined longitu
dinal rugte, beyond which it assumes a fine texture, like velvet. The
peritoneal covering of the uterus is reflected from it upon the ovarian
ligament, the oviduct and the numerous vessels passing to the uterus
on the outer side of this ligament, the duplicature or broad liga
ment containing which parts is 1-J- inch in breadth, and attached by
its outer margin to the lumbar region of the abdomen as high as the
kidney : just below this gland it is reflected upon the ovary, forming
a large capsule for that part, and for the expanded extremity of the
Fallopian tube, which presents an extraordinary development of fringe
like processes.
   " The ovary presents the most distinct racemose structure which
I have ever observed in the class Mammalia, consisting of about
thirty ovisacs, of which the largest is half an inch, the smallest half
a line in diameter ; the whole ovary being of on oblong irregular
figure     inch by 1 inch in dimensions. The mouth of the ovarian
capsule is about 1 inch in width, the length of the Fallopian tube
3 inches."
   Some Notes by Mr. George Bennett, Corr. Memb. Z.S., were
read. They were transmitted from Sidney, New South Wales, in a
Letter addressed to the Secretary, and bearing date October 25,
1835. They related to the habits of the Spermaceti Whale, and of
the large species of Grampus known by the name of the Killer.
   May 24.—A letter addressed to the Secretary by J. B. Harvey,
Esq., Corr. Memb. Z.S., and dated Teignmouth, May 18, 183G, was
read. It referred to a collection of various marine productions of
the south coast of Devonshire, which accompanied it, and which
were presented to the Society by the writer. These were exhibited.
   Among them was a specimen of Capros Aper, La Cdp., captured
in Mr. Harvey's neighbourhood : and with the view of illustrating
the colours of this species, he forwarded with it a painting made from
the fish while yet recent. This also was exhibited.
   With the collection were several specimens of a Tubularia, nearly
related to Tub. indivisa, of which Mr. Harvey furnished a detailed
description, accompanied by numerous figures. The description was
read, and the figures were exhibited.
   Mr. Harvey first observed the Tubularia in question at the steam
bridge on the river Dart, where it grows in clusters between the
links of the chain over which this floating bridge is propelled. The
specimens obtained by him in this locality were necessarily injured
in the hurried manner of taking them off during the rapid motion
of the bridge ; but as they were immediately placed in sea-water
most of them have survived the force used in separating them, and
he has thus been enabled to observe them for a week or ten days,
during which he has carefully studied their form and structure. His
                                 3 P2

508                        Zoological Society.
drawings arc intended to illustrate many of the different position*
of the polype in various conditions as to growth, expansion, &c.
   " This animal," Mr. Harvey remarks, " is evidently a Tabu/aria.
It is something like Tub. indivisa figured by Ellis, Plate XVI. no. 2.
fig. c, but differs in several particulars. The tube of Ellis's Tubu
laria is jointed ; the head has a lateral groove or opening ; and the
central projection (which is an elongation of the membrane covering
the body) is much larger and higher, and is not surmounted by a
row of slight long feelers. This Tubularia (for which, as a distinc
tion, I submit the term Tub. gracilis,) has the tube hollow through
out and single ; the body has no lateral groove ; the central process
has a row of fine long feelers near its termiination, and placed round
the orifice : their office is to direct the food to the mouth. On the
circumference of the cup is a row of very long flexible feelers, having
much freedom of motion, and between each two of them is a smaller
red feeler ; from the circumference to the origin of the central pro
cess are two or three confused rows of alternate white and red short
papilla?, giving the animal much the appearance of a flower.
    "The powers of contraction and dilatation very much resemble
those of the Caryophyllia, which I have still alive, and which I have
kept for two years. Upon the slightest touch all the feelers are in
stantly contracted ; but the shaking of the water does not at all in
commode them. I kept several clusters in the same bowl with my
 Caryophyllia ; but I found that, every time they came near it, (either
by being touched or by shaking the vessel) they were devoured : I
therefore, now keep them by themselves, but I fear that I shall not
be successful in preserving them, as the river tide cannot be imitated
 in confinement.
    " The locality of this polype is very confined. The Dart floating
bridge is propelled upoa two chains, about 6 feet distant from one
 another, and stretching across the river. On the western chain not
 a cluster could be seen, but on the eastern one there were upwards
 of a hundred groups of them, in spite of the immense friction to
 which they were exposed. They are only found within 100 feet of
 the northern shore at low water. I have since observed the same
 animals growing on the links over which the floating bridge at De-
 vonport runs, and there they do not occupy a space exceeding 150
 feet.
    " The most singular circumstance attending the growth of this
 animal, and which I discovered entirely by accident, remains to be
mentioned. After I had kept the clusters in a large bowl for two
 days, I observed the animals to droop and look unhealthy. On the
third day the heads were all thrown off, and lying on the bottom of
 the vessel ; all the pink colouring matter was deposited in the form
 of a cloud, and when it had stood quietly for two days, it became
 a very fine powder. Thinking that the tubes were dead I was going
to throw them away, but I happened to be under the necessity of
quitting home for two days, and on my return I found a thin trans
parent film being protruded from the top of every tube ; I then
changed the water every day, and in three days time every tube had

                            Zoological Society.                       509
a small body reproduced upon it. The only difference that I can dis
cover in the structure of the young from the old heads, consists in
the new ones wanting the small red papilla, and in the absence of
all colour in the animal."
    The skin was exhibited of a species of Cynictis, Og., which had
recently been presented to the Society by Captain P. L. Strachan,
by whom it was obtained at Sierra Leone. The exhibition was ac
companied by a description of the animal by Mr. Martin, which was
read.
    Mr. Martin regards the animal as especially interesting on ac
count of its presenting the second instance of the new form among
the Viverridee which was described by Mr. Ogilby at the Meeting
of the Society on April 9, 1833, under the generic appellation of
Cynictis, -and of which a detailed description and figure has since
been published in the Transactions, vol. i. p. 29. It agrees with that
genus, which is intermediate between Herpestes and Ryzoena, in its
general form ; in the number of the toes with which its feet are fur
nished ; and in the number nnd form of its teeth, as far as they are
preserved in the specimen exhibited, which, however, is that of a
young individual. The points of the teeth are consequently in it
unworn and acute : while in the specimen of Cyn. Steedmanni de
scribed by Mr. Ogilby, which was evidently an aged individual, the
teeth were much worn down. The only other differences which
exist between the teeth of the new species and those of Cyn. Steed
manni consist in the presence, in the outermost incisor in the upper
jaw of the former, of a minute but decided internal tubercle, which
is not found in the corresponding tooth of Cyn. Steedmanni ; and in
 the inner lobe of the carnassier of the upper jaw being acute and
 conical, instead of blunt : the teeth behind this, in both jaws, are
wanting in the specimen of the new species. The feet of the new
species differ from those of Cyn. Steedmanni by their comparatively
 shorter claws ; and by having a naked line extending along the un
 der surface of the tarsus from the pad to the heel, the whole of the
 under surface of the tarsus being covered in Cyn. Steedmanni with
 hair.
    The new species may be thus characterized :
     Cynictis melanubus. Cyn. saturate rufus nigro punctulatus, ad
       latera pallidior; guld sordide flavescenti-brunned ; artubus interni
       abdomineque sordidi flavescenti-rufis ; caudd apicem versus late
       nigrd, ad apicem floccosd.
     Long, corporis cum capite, 12 unc; caudee, pilis inclusis, 11 ; ca
 pitis, 2 unc. 1 lin.
     In addition to the distinctive characters which have been noticed
  above, it may be remarked that Cyn. melanurvs differs from Cyn.
 Steedmanni in the greater smoothness, shortness, and glossiness of
 the fur ; in the less bushy character of the tail ; in the dark tint of
 the head, back, and limbs ; in the dusky colour of the throat ; and
  in the black tip of the tail, the corresponding portion of this organ,
  in Cyn. Steedmanni being white.
     Mr. Ogilby remarked, that the animal described by Mr. Martin

510                       Zoological Society.
might probably be identical with the one noticed by Bosnian under
the name of Kokeboe ; but added, that the notice given of it by that
traveller was not sufficiently precise to admit of it8 being determined
with certainty.
   A specimen was exhibited of the Chironectes Yapock, Desm., on
which Mr. Ogilby remarked as follows.
   " I am indebted to Mr. Natterer for the opportunity of examining
this rare and curious animal, of which he brought various specimens
from Brazil. That now exhibited is a male, and possesses the same
anomaly in the generative organs which characterizes the rest of the
Marsupials. I have not seen the female, but Mr. Natterer informs
me that the abdominal pouch is complete. The species is found in
all the smaller streams of Brazil, and appears to extend from the
southern confines of that empire, to the shores of the Gulf of Hon
duras ; Buffon's specimen came from Cayenne, and a skin was re
cently obtained by Mr. W. Brown Scott, labelled ' Demerara Otter.'
Both this and Mr. Natterer's specimen agree with the figure and
description of Buffon, except that they are of a larger size, and in
stead of a grey mark over each eye, have a complete band of that
colour extending entirely across the forehead. In Mr. Natterer's
specimen the terminal half-inch of the tail only is white ; in Mr.
Scott's, on the contrary, the last 4 inches are of this colour : the
tail is exactly of the same length as the body; it measured 10 inches
in the former specimen and 12 in the latter, but Mr. Natterer in
forms me that he has other specimens which measure 14 or 15 inches
in length.
   "The teeth of this animal are altogether different from those of
the Opossums (Didelphis); and I am at a loss to reconcile my own
observations with those of M. F. Cuvier upon this subject, as given
in ' Les Dents des Mammiferes ' p. 73, unless by supposing that
there must have been some mistake about the skull referred by
M. Cuvier to the Yapock. For my own part, I could not be deceived
in this matter, as the skull which I examined had never been ex
tracted from the specimen. The incisors and canines are of the same
form and number as in the true Opossums, the two middle incisors
above being rather longer than the lateral, those below broader and
a little separate. The molars are live on each side, two false and
three real, both in the upper and under jaws. The first false molar
is rather small and in contact with the canine, both above and be
low : the second is half as large again, and both are of a triangular
form, with apparently two roots. The three real molars are of the
normal form of these teeth among the Opossums. The first of the
upper jaw is longer than it is broad, and has four sharp elevated
tubercles with a low heel projecting backwards; the second resem
bles it in general form, but is larger and broader ; the third is small
and resembles the tuberculous molars of the true Carnivora. In the
lower jaw the three real molars do not materially differ in point of
size. They sre narrower than those of the upper, have their tuber
cles arranged in a single longitudinal series, a single large one in the
centre, and a smaller on each side.

                          Zoological Society.                        511
   " The Yapock has very large cheek-pouches which extend far
back into the mouth, and of which the opening is very apparent.
This circumstance, hitherto unobserved by zoologists, throws con
siderable light upon the habits of this rare animal, which thus ap
pears, like the Ornithorhynchus, to feed upon freshwater Crustacea,
and the larvee of insects, spawn of fishes, &c. which it probably stows
away in its capacious cheek-pouches. For 2 inches at the root the
tail is covered with the same description of fine close fur as the body ;
from this part it tapers gradually to the point and is covered with
small scales, arranged in regular spiral rows, and interspersed with
bristly hairs, particularly on the under surface, a fact perfectly con
clusive against the generally received opinion of this organ being
prehensile in the Chironectes. Indeed, the tail so perfectly resem
bles that of the Hydromys chrysogaster, even to the white tip, that
it would be impossible to distinguish these organs if separated from
the respective animals. The useless appendage of a prehensile tail
to an aquatic animal, must consequently be henceforth discarded
from the history of the Chironectes, and the animal allowed to take
its place among conterminous genera, not as a compound of anoma
lous and contradictory characters, but as a regular component link
in the scale of existence. That its habits are purely aquatic, and
that it has not the power of ascending trees, is further proved by
the structure of the extremities. The hind feet are broad like those
of the Beaver ; the toes, including the thumb, united by a membrane,
and, with the exception of the thumb, provided with small falcular
claws ; the thumb, as in all the other Didelphidous Pedimana, is
without a claw. The fore-fingers are separate, very long and slen
der, (the middle and ring-fingers the longest of all,) and the last
joint expanded and flattened as in the Geckos. The thumb is
placed rather behind the general line of the other fingers, and seems
at first sight to be opposable : it perfectly resembles those of the
American Monkeys*. The claws are very small and weak ; they do
not extend beyond the points of the fingers, nor even so far, and
are absolutely useless either for climbing or burrowing. Consider
ably behind the others, on the outside of the wrist, there is a
lengthened tubercle resembling a sixth finger, but much shorter
than the others and without any bone. What purpose this unique
organ may serve in the economy of the animal's life, it is impossible
to conjecture, but the long slender fingers arc probably used to pick
out the food which it carries in the cheek-pouches."—W. O.
  June 14.—Specimens wereexhibited of various Birds from Northern
Africa, which had recently been presented to the Society by Sir
Thomas Reade, Corr. Memb. Z.S. They included the Anas mar-
morata, Temm., on which Mr. Gould remarked that in the form of
the bill it approached nearly to the Pin-tailed Duck, Anas acuta,
Linn., although it is altogether destitute of the elongation of the
middle tail-feathers which occurs in that bird ; the crested Duck ; the
Gadtvall; the Garganey ; the Ruff, and the black-tailed Godwit, in
   * See Mr. Ogilby's remarks on the supposed antagonism of the thumb in
the American Monkeys, present volume, p. 322.

512                       Zoological Society.
their winter dress ; the Golden Oriole ; and other species : all of
which were severally brought under the notice of the Meeting by Mr.
Gould, at the request of the Chairman.
   Mr. Gould subsequently exhibited specimens of various Birds
which he had recently received from M. Temminck : including a
new species of Ptarmigan from Siberia ; and a Trogon from the In
dian Islands, nearly allied in almost every particular to the Trog.
erythrocephala of the Himalaya, but having the wing fully an inch
shorter, with a tail bearing a relative proportion.
   The Secretary announced the arrival in the Menagerie, since the
last Meeting of the Society, of the four Giraffes, the capture of
which was described by M. Thibaut in a letter read at the Meeting
on February 9, 1 836, and translated in the present volume, at p. 1 44.
   He also directed the attention of the Members to a specimen of
Temminck's Horned Pheasant, Tragopon Temminckii, Gray, which had
recently been added to the Menagerie by the liberality of J. R.
Reeves, Esq., of Canton : to a pair of the Serin Finch, Fringilla
Serinus, Linn., brought from Italy for the Society, and presented to
it by Mr. Willimott ; and to a monstrous variety of the Indian Tor
toise, Testudo Indica, Linn., which had also been lately added to the
Menagerie, and which is remarkable for the great irregularity of the
surface of its shell, each of the plates being raised into high conical
eminences.
   A paper was read by Mr. Martin *' On the Osteology of the Sea
Otter, Enhydra marina, Flem." It is founded on a perfect skeleton
of the animal contained in the collection made by that energetic
traveller the late David Douglas, and acquired, subsequently to his
decease, by the Society. This skeleton was exhibited.
   Mr. Martin refers in the first instance to the dentary characters
of this remarkable animal, which were correctly described and
figured by Home in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' for 1796 ; and
then adverts to some erroneous statements which have since been
made respecting its molar teeth by various authors, including
Cuvier, who appear to have possessed no opportunities of examining
specimens. In the course of his communication he describes in
detail the number and form of the teeth, which consist of six in
cisors in the upper jaw and of four in the lower, the outer one
on each side in either series being larger than the others and as
suming, in the upper jaw, somewhat of the form of the canines ;
of a strong canine on each side of the incisors in either jaw ; and of
four molars on either side in the upper, and five in the lower jaw, of
which two in the upper and three in the lower are false and suc
cessively increase in size towards the true molars, the latter being
large, broad teeth, with flattened crowns somewhat depressed in the
middle : in the upper jaw the hindermost of the true molars is much
larger than the other, while in the lower it is comparatively small.
   The total length of the skeleton is 3 feet 2 inches ; of which the
skull measures 5 inches, and the tail, 10.
   The general form of the skull nearly resembles that of the Common
Otter, Lutra vulgaris, Storr ; but it is proportionally broader, and is

                           Zoological Society.                     513
more convex on its lateral parietes, in this respect approaching to
many of the Seals : the nasal bones form a broad plane, and do not
gradually decline, like those of the Common Otter, towards the nasal
opening ; they are also shorter in proportion than in that species :
the breadth of the nasal opening is greater than its depth, propor
tions which are reversed in the Common Otter : the post-orbital space
is less contracted : on the base of the skull the space between the
pterygoid processes is more considerable : and the whole contour of
the cranium is not only broader but deeper also. The lower jaw
maintains the same general tendency to greater compactness, and is
stouter and shorter than in the Common Otter.
   Detailed admeasurements are given by Mr. Martin of the skull of
an individual more advanced in age than the one whose skeleton is
preserved, and in which the entire length of the cranium is 5 inches;
the greatest breadth, being across the occipital ridge behind the
auditory foramen, nearly 4 inches, the breadth between the zygo
mata being the same ; the depth from the point of union of the in
ter-parietal with the occipital ridge to the foramen magnum, 1%; the
distance from the foramen magnum to the bony palate, 2 1 ; and the
length of the bony palate, 2±.
   The chest is rather wide in form, but much compressed ; being 6
inches across at the sixth rib, while its greatest depth from the ver
tebral column to the sternum is 2-J- inches. The direction of the
ribs is obliquely backwards, and they are rather slender : their num
ber is thirteen, (not fourteen, as is stated by Home.) the last five
being false and attached by very long cartilages to the cartilages of
the true ribs.
   The lumbar vertebra are six in number.
   The anterior extremities are short and small. The scapula is 3
inches in length and 2 in its greatest breadth : its spine is feeble
and but slightly elevated. The humerus is 3 inches in length ; and
is stouter and less laterally compressed than that of a common Otter
of the same longitudinal dimensions. The ulna and radius are stout,
and are separated from each other by a greater interval than in the
common Otter. The paws are remarkable for their diminutive size.
In the common Otter, from the extremity of the radius to the nail of
the last phalanx of the third finger the measurement is 3 inches ; in
the Enhydra it is. 2£.
   The pelvis is long and narrow, measuring from the crest of the
ilium to the tuber ischii 6 inches : in the common Otter, the measure
ment is but 4. The iliac bones are remarkably thick and solid, and
turn out from the spinal column. The distance from the centre of
the acetabulum to the crest of the ilium is 3 inches ; the breadth of
the ilium 1+.
   It is in the posterior limbs that the great power of the Enhydra
appears to be developed. The os femoris is short but very thick,
and its trochanter is bold and prominent : the trochanter minor is
small. The head of the femur is globular, and is destitute of the
ligamenlum teres, as in the Seals : in the Otter this ligament exists
as usual. The length of the thigh bone from the great trochanter
   Third Series. Vol. 9. No. 57. Supplement. Dec. 1836. 3 Q

51 i                         Zoological Society.
to the condyles is 3+ inches. Both the tibia and fibula are large
and of great comparative length : in the common Otter, they do not
exceed the femur ; but here they exceed it by more than an inch,
the measurement being 4\ inches.
      It is in the hind paws or paddles, Mr. Martin remarks, that the
greatest difference exists between the Otter and the Enhydra. They
are here admirably constructed as organs of aquatic progression.
Their length from the os calcis to the last phalanx of the outer toe
is 7-4- inches; and as the toes are long and connected by intervening
webs they form broad efficient oars. The toes graduate regularly
from the inner toe, which is the shortest, to the outer or fifth toe,
which is the longest. The metatarsal bone of the inner toe measures
 1-}- inch, the toe analogous to the thumb and composed of only two
phalanges measures the same—the other toes have three phalanges
as usual ; the metatarsal bone of the fifth toe measures 2^- inches ;
the toe itself 3 inches. The breadth of the foot, measured obliquely
across from the end of the metatarsal bone of the first toe to that
of the fifth is 2 inches.
     The nails of the fore paws are small and sharp ; those of the pad
dles are blunt, but curved.
     The os penis is a stout bone 34 inches in length.
     Mr. Martin concluded by remarking that as the hinder extremi
ties are placed far backwards, and when stretched out in the act of
swimming exceed the tail, this organ will appear placed between
them, almost as much as it is in the Seals ; between which animals
and the Otters the Enhydra forms, in his estimation, a palpable link
of union, approximating, in some portion of its osseous structure,
even more to the former than to the latter.
     Mr. Martin added that it was his intention, with the view of ren
dering his communication more complete, to review the osteology
of the Enhydra in detailed comparison with that of the common
 Otter and of the Seal.
     A drawing was exhibited of a Saurian Reptile of the family Scin-
cida and of the genus Tiliqua, Gray, which forms part of the Museum
of the Army Medical Department at Chatham, and which is regard
ed by Mr. Burton, Staff-Surgeon, in charge of the Museum, as
hitherto undescribed.
     It was accompanied by the subjoined character and description by
Mr. Burton.
     Tiliqua Fernandi. Til. auribus profundis, latis, margine antico
         simplici ; squamis dorsalibus valde tri-carinatis : suprH pallide
         brunnea strigis saturatioribus ornata, infrd. albescens ; lateribus
         brunneo variis alboque maculatis ; guld brunneo lineatd.
     Long, corporis capitisque 6 unc. ; capitis collique, 2\ ; cauda, ?
     Hab. apud Fernando Po.
     *' There are eight rows of hexagonal imbricated scales on the back
and tail, and two additional rows between the fore and hind legs ;
the lateral scales are irregular in form and size. Submental scales
large, in three transverse rows ; the first containing a single scale, the
second a pair, the third a pair with an intermediate rudimentary

                           Zoological Society.                       515
one. Subcervical and ventral scales in eight rows ; subcaudal in
five rows, of which the middle row is the larger. There is a single
row of anal scales, curved upwards. Scales of the upper surface of
the body 3-keeled, of the lower smooth. A semicircular series of five
plates over each orbit separated by a long narrow frontal : five occi
pital plates, the posterior ones largest : nasal, post-nasal, and labial
plates varied in form and size.
    *' Head, back, tail and upper surface of the extremities reddish
brown, a blackish line intersecting each row of scales ; sides lighter,
marked by a series of irregular blackish streaks ; belly and under
surface of tail a brownish white ; throat alternated longitudinally with
light and dark-brown lines ; submental scales whitish, bordered with
a broad dark-brown edge.
   " A single row of blunt teeth on the margin of the jaws.
   " Body of nearly uniform shape from the commissure of the lips
to the tail."
   June 28.—A note addressed to Colonel Sykesby Lieut. Henning,
R.N., was read. It noticed the capture of an Albatross by a hook ;
and stated that the bird, while so attached, was fastened on by an
other of the same species, but whether with the intention of endea
vouring to release it, or with the view of taking advantage of its help
less condition, the writer did not attempt to determine.
   Some observations were read by Mr. Gray *' On the genus Mos-
chus of Linnaeus, with descriptions of two new species."
   The only character, Mr. Gray remarks, by which this genus, as
established by Linnaeus and others, differs from the genus Cervus,
consists in the absence of horns j for the elongated canines are com
mon to it and most of the Indian species of Cervus, especially the
Cerv. Muntjac. The character of the fur, the degree of hairiness or
nakedness of the metatarsus, and the presence or absence of the
musk-bag in the male, offer, however, good characters for the sub
division of the group into three very distinct sections or subgenera.
   The first of these divisions, for which Mr. Gray would retain the
name of Moschus, comprehends only the Thibet Musk, Moschus mos-
chiferus, Linn. In common with the Deer and Antelopes it has the
hinder and outer side of the metatarsus covered with close erect hair;
like many of the Deer also, its fur is quill -like and brittle ; it has,
moreover, a throat entirely clothed with hair ; and the males are
provided on the middle of the abdomen with a large pouch secreting
musk. Its young, like those of most of the Deer, are spotted, while
the adult animal is plain-coloured.
   The division to which Mr. Gray in the year 1821, in a paper in
the Medical Repository, gave the name of Meminna, also consists of
but a single species, the Moschus Meminna, Linn. In this group the
hinder edge of the metatarsus is covered with hair, but there is on
its outer side, a little below the hock, a rather large smooth naked
prominence, which is flesh-coloured during life ; the fur is rather
soft, spotted and varied with white, which becomes less conspicuous
in the older specimens, but does not appear ever to be entirely lost;
the throat is entirely covered with hair ; and there is no musk-bag
                                  3 Q2

 516                          Zoological Society.
in either sex. The false hoofs are distinct, although denied to the
 animal both by Linnaeus and Buffon.
   The third and last subdivision is characterized by Mr. Gray, under
the name of Tragulus, as having the hinder edge of the metatarsus
nearly bald and slightly callous, a character which distinguishes them
at once from all other Ruminants ; the fur is soft, and adpressed like
that of Meminna, but not spotted even when young ; the throat is
provided with a somewhat naked, concave, subglandular, callous disk,
placed between the rami of the lower jaw, from which a band ex
tends to the fore part of the chin ; and they have no musk-bag.
Like all the other species of the Linnean genus Moschus, they have
false hoofs ; and most of them have the edges of the lower jaw,
three diverging bands on the chest, and the under surface of the
body more or less purely white. The species of this division scarcely
differ in colour in the various stages of their growth ; the young
fawn resembling the adult in every particular except in size.
    In this division, the synonymy of which is extremely confused,
Mr. Gray reckons four species, two of which he describes as new,
arranging and characterizing them as follows :
   Moschus Javanicus. Mosch. ferrugineus nigro variegatus ; collo
       saturate brunneo griseo nebulato ; menti margine, strigis pec-
       toralibus tribus postice latioribus, pectore, abdomine, femoribus
       interne, cauddque subtils, albis ; pedibus, capitis lateribus, prym-
       ndque nitide fulvis ; occipite nigrescenti. Long. corp. capitisque
       simul poll. 24 ; metatarsi 4-J- poll.
   Moschus Javanicus, Grnel., Syst. Nat. 1. p. 174. ex Pallasio.
   Moschus
   Tragulus
   Cervus
Raffles   in Javanicus,
             Linn.
               Indicus,
               Javanicus,
                    Trans,Osbeck,
                             xiii.
                         Gmel.,
                             Pall.,p.
                                   Syst.
                                     Iter,
                                     Spic.
                                       261Nat.  Benn.,
                                                273.
                                           p.?Zool.
                                                  I. p.
                                                     xii.Zool.
                                                         172.
                                                          p. 18.Gard., p. 41.
                                                                  in notd.
   Moschus
   ChotainBeta,
   Hab.        Napu,
             Insu'.is
                   RouJava
                       F.
                        de Cuv.
                             et Sumatra.
                            Ramon,Mamm.Cab. t.Madr. t. 9.
   This species, Mr. Gray states, is at once known by its larger size,
pale colour, and the white of the entire under surface of the body,
with the exception of the two longitudinal dusky stripes which sepa
rate the three white stripes of the chest from each other, and of a
simple narrow pale band across the chest.
   2. Moschus Kanchil. Mosch. fulvus, nigrescenti variegatus; nu-
       chd strigd latd nigrd longitudinali; guld, colli corporisque lateribus,
      pallide flavescentibus, pilis nigro-apiculatis ; antipedibus nitidi
      fulvis ; menti marginibus, strigis tribus pectoralibus, pectore,
       abdomine, femoribus postice, cauddque subtils, albis; pectore ab-
       domineque strigd longitudinali, in illo saturatiore, in hoc palli-
       diore. Long, capitis corporisque simul poll. 20 ; metatarsi 3-j-
      poll.
   Moschus Kanchil, Raffles in Linn. Trans, xiii. p. 262.
   Le Chevrotain adulte, Buffon, Hist. Nat. torn. xii. p. 344.
   Le Chevrotain de Java, Buffon, Hist. Nat. Suppl. torn. vi. p. 219.
/. 30.

                            Zoological Society.                         517
   Javan Musk, Shaw,Zool. t. 173, ex tab. Btiffon.
   Hab. in Java.
   This species Mr. Gray states to be easily distinguishable from the
former by its smaller size ; darker colour; the strength and distinct
ness of its nuchal streak ; the width of the band across its chest,
which is besides continued backwards into a narrow streak ; and the
yellow band along the middle of the belly. These characters are
common to two specimens of different ages in the collection of the
British Museum. The lateral white streaks on the fore part of the
chest are linear, the median one subtriangular, being narrow in front
and widening backwards. The two dark streaks by which they are
separated are linear, of the same colour with the sides of the neck,
and do not unite together in front.
   3. Moschus fulviventer. Mosch. fulvus, mgrescenti variegatus ;
      nuchd strigd longitudinali lata nigrd ; guld, colli lateribus, anti-
     pedibusque rufescenti-fulvis; lateribus subtilsquefiavescenti-fttlvis;
      menti marginibus, strigis tribus pectoralibus, strigd laid utrin-
      que in pectore abdomineque, femoribus interne anticeque, cauddque
      subtiis, albis.
   Le jeune Chevrotain, Buffon, Hist. Nat. xii. p. 342. /. 42, 43.
   Hab. in Insulis Malaicis, et in Peninsula India? Orientalis ?
   Very like the last, but differing from it in the undeT surface being
pale fulvous with four white streaks, and in the lateral streaks on the
chest being isolated anteriorly by means of a narrow transverse band
which separates them from the white of the chin, while the median
one is bounded in front by the union of the two dark streaks.
There is also a small brown spot on each side of the chin just below
the angle of the mouth, which is not found in the other species.
The fawns only a few weeks old do not differ in colour from their
parents. None of the three specimens in the collection of the British
Museum have their habitats accurately marked. Two of them were
from the collection of General Hardwicke, and the third was pre
sented by Mr. Edward Burton of Chatham. Mr. Gray thinks it pro
bable that this may be the animal indicated by Sir Stamford Raffles
under the name of Pelandoc.
   4. Moschus Stanleyajtus. Mosch. rufescenti-fulvus, pilis nigro-
      apiculatis, subtiis minds nitidus ; collo pectoreque nitide fulvis •
      menti marginibus, strigis tribus pectoralibus, pectore, femoribus
      interne anticeque, cauddque subtiis, albis ; syncipite, pedibusque a
      genubus inde saturatioribus; rhinario, strigd utrinque oculos
      ambiente, auriculisque exths et ad margines, nigris.
      minus
   Var.   menti
              conspicuis
                 marginibus
                         ; guldque  albis ;saturatiore.
                             minus paulb    strigis pectoralibus interruptis
   Hab.
   This is immediately distinguishable from all the other species by
the brightness of its colouring, and by the absence of the nuchal
streak, and of the white on the under surface of the body. There
are at present four living specimens in the magnificent collection of
the Earl of Derby at Knowsley; and two others, consisting of a spe
cimen of each of the varieties, in that of the Society, to which they

518                       Zoological Society.
were recently presented by Her Royal Highness the Princess Victo
ria. It is not known from what exact locality any of them were
obtained.
   Mr. Gray discusses the synonymy of the species above charac
terized as belonging to the subgenus Tragulus, especially with re
ference to the descriptions of Buffon, Pallas, Raffles, and M. Frederic
Cuvier. From the imperfect manner in which they are described
and figured, he is unable to identify with any of the foregoing spe
cies, or to separate from them as distinct, the Pelandoc figured in
Marsden's Sumatra, or the Pygmy Musk of Sumatra figured in Mr.
Griffith's edition of Cuvier's ' Animal Kingdom,' on which Fischer
has established his Moschus Griffithii. The Mosch. pygmeeus of Lin
naeus Mr. Gray states to belong to the genus Antilope ; the hinder
part of the tarsus being covered with hair, and the false hoofs very
small and rudimentary, and entirely hidden under the hair of the
feet ; the Mosch. Americanus appears by its spotted livery to be the
fawn of a species of Deer : and the Mosch. delicatulus, or Leverian
Musk of Shaw, is also undoubtedly the fawn of a Deer. It is curious
that Dr. Shaw quotes as a synonym of the last-named species the
figure of Seba, on which alone the Mosch. Americanus is founded,
while at the same time he enumerates the Mosch. Americanus as a
distinct species.
   Mr. Gray also made some observations " On the tufts of hair ob
servable on the posterior legs of the animals of the genus Cervus, as
a character of that group, and a means of subdividing it into natural
sections." These tufts are found on the inside, or on the outside, or
sometimes even on both sides, of the hinder legs of all the Deer
which Mr. Gray has had an opportunity of examining, with the ex
ception of the Munljac, on which he has not been able to detect
them either in the living state or in preserved skins. This circum
stance may, however, have arisen from the fact of the living animal
examined being confined in a cage ; for he has uniformly found them
much more conspicuous in animals which have a wide range than in
such as are confined to small inclosures. Thus the various species of
Deer in the magnificent parks of the Earl of Derby at Knowsley, in
which the Ruminant animals are allowed an extensive range, and
preserved in a state nearly approaching to wildness, exhibit the tufts
in question in a much more ample state of development than such
as are seen in menageries; and one of the Axis Deer at the Gardens
of the Society, which has the run of a small paddock, displays them
much more evidently than another specimen in the Gardens, which
is confined to a stall. This difference of development, Mr. Gray
suggests, may account for the little notice that has hitherto been
taken of them by zoologists, who have only spoken of them inci
dentally, and with reference to one or two species of the group.
They are found at all ages and in both sexes ; and afford, therefore,
a valuable adjunct in the determination of the species of the hornless
females, as well as in distinguishing them from the females of the
genus Antilope, in which no indication of them is to be observed ;
the tufts or scop<e that occur in some of the species of that genus

                          Zoological Society.                         519
being on the fore knees and evidently serving a very different pur
pose.
   They were noticed in the American Deer by Buffon, who speaks
of them as surrounding " un lichen noirdtre long de neuf lignes, fort
(troit, entoure par des poils blancs et longs, qui paroissoient former
aussi une sorte de brosse;" and according to M. F. Cuvier, who ob
served them in the Wapiti, they surround a narrow long horny sub
stance, which is the appearance of the part in the dry state; but
Col. Hamilton Smith, in his description of the same species,
takes a different view of the structure with which they are connect
ed, which he states to be " a gland imbedded in hair secreting an
unctuous fluid." That the tufts really cover a glandular apparatus
is rendered probable by the circumstance that in the living animal
they generally assume a conical form as though imbued with some
oily secretion; and the specimens preserved in spirit which Mr. Gray
has examined, seem to justify this opinion ; but he has had no op
portunity, since his observations upon the subject were made, of
confirming the fact by anatomical examination. They are generally
of a paler colour than the rest of the hair upon the legs ; and in
 some species, the Cervus Virginianus for instance, they are of a pure
 white which renders them very conspicuous.
    To the existence of these tufts as a generic character common to
all the Deer, Mr. Gray states that, among the species which he has
had an opportunity of examining, he has met with only one excep
tion, that of the Muntjac before mentioned; and he thinks that if this
animal should prove to be really destitute of the appendages in ques
tion, it would afford an additional motive, combined with the perma
 nence of its horns and some other characters, for excluding it from
 the genus Cervus. But these tufts have also another value, that of
 affording by the differences in their number and position three ob
 vious sectional divisions, which have an evident advantage over those
 derived from the form of the horns and other characters of a sexual
 and temporary nature, in being permanent at all ages and common
 to both sexes. These sections Mr. Gray arranges as follows :
    The first has a pencil of hairs seated on the outer side of the hinder
 part of the metatarsus, about one third of the distance from the
 calcaneum towards the hoofs. This section includes Cerv. Elaphus,
 Canadensis, Axis, porcinus, Hippelaphus, Dama and its varieties, and
 niger, as well as the Stag in the Museum of the Society, called the
 greater Muntjac, Cerv. Tunjuc, Vig. and Horsf., in the Catalogue
 for 1829, p. 17, No. 303, which Mr. Gray believes to be a species
 of the Rusan group of Col. H. Smith with deformed horns. In
  Cerv. Canadensis, and perhaps also in some other species, Mr. Gray
 states that there is a large pad of close erect hairs on the hinder
 edge of the metatarsus, commencing with this tuft.
     In the second section there exist two tufts of hair, one seated on
 the outer side of the hinder part of the metatarsus, about two thirds
 of the distance from the calcaneum to the hoof ; and the other on the
  inner side of the hock or heel. This structure occurs in the Virgi
  nian Deer, Cerv. Virginianus, and in its variety Cerv. Mexicanus, as

520                          Zoological Society.
well as iu an allied species of which the female exirts in the So
nian Deer;
ciety's        and theThe
          Museum.       external
                            internal
                                   is also
                                        pencil        very distinctinineon
                                             veryisconspicuous             sequence
                                                                         the   Virgin
of the whiteness of the hairs composing it. Lord Derby's game
keeper, however, stated to Mr. Gray that there are two varieties of
this species in Knowsley park, in one of which this tuft is much
more conspicuous than in the other.                           ;                   »<••.!.
   The third section comprehends those species which have a very
distinct tuft on the inside of the hock, but none on the outer side of
the metatarsus. Mr. Gray has observed this structure in two living
specimens of a species from Demerara in the menagerie of Lord
Derby, which agrees best with Cerv. ru/us, Desm. ; in another South
American species, allied to the former but apparently differ&nfc,
which was presented to the Society in 1828 by Sir Philip Egertoa,
and is now in its Museum; and in a very young spotted Fatcu ( almost
a foetus) preserved in spirits in the collection of the British Museum*
He suspects that the Brockets of South America may have the same
character ; and thinks he could observe the internal tufts on the spe
cimen of the Rein Deer in the Society's Museum, but no traoe.o/
the external, the entire hinder edge of the metatarsus being covered
with a uniform very thick coat of hair.                                 ,r , .
   FromMr.
seum,           examination
            an Gray           of the
                     is of opinion   thatskin
                                           it will
                                               of the    Elk inenter
                                                     probably          British
                                                                   the into       Mur
                                                                             a fourth
section ; in as much as it appears to have very distinct tufts on -fhp
tarsus side
inner    about   one hock,
              of the        anditsothers
                     third of      lengthalsofrom     the heel,
                                                 on the             in the
                                                           outerasside      firstW^fc-
                                                                       of the      sec
tion ; onbutaccount
tain,                existence
              of the of the age ofand
                                    thestate
                                          latterof tufts  he is by no ¦means
                                                    the specimen.                 cerr
                                                                            .u.-jiiuj
   July 1 2.—Mr. Waterhouse, (Curator of tire Society's .Mm-ciim.) »t
the request of the Chairman, read a Paper, entitled " Description ui
a new genus of Mammiferous Animals from New Holland, which will
probably be found to belong to the Marsupial type."
   The skin on which this description was founded had been L ot to
Mr. Waterhouse, for the purpose of describing, by Lieut. Dale, of
Liverpool, who procured it whilst on an exploring party in the inte
rior of the Swan River Settlement, about 90 miles to the S.E. of thp
mouth of that river. Two specimens were seen ; both of which tppk
to hollow trees on being pursued, and one of them was unfortunately
burned to death in the attempt to dislodge it from its retreat. Thp
country abounded with decayed trees and ant-hills; and Mr. W.aler-
house is of opinion, from this circumstance and from some peculiari
ties in the structure of the animal, that it lives chiefly, if not whplly,
upon ants, for which reason he proposes for it the generic name qf
                                MyBMECOBIUS.
   Dentes incisores j!, canini J-^, pseudo-molares               molares ^~ =46.
   Pedes antici 5-dactyli, digitis tribus intermediis longioribus ; po3-
tici 4-dactyli, digitis duobus intermediis internum superantibus; ex-
terno brevissimo; unguibus longis acutis suhfalcularibus. Scelides
antipedibus longiores. Caput clongatum ; rhinario producto ; nurf-
culis mediocribus acutis. Corpus gracile. Cauda mediocris.

                           Zoological Society.                      521
    Mr. Waterhouse details at length the peculiarities of the denti
tion and other structural characters of the animal under considera
tion, and particularly notices the statement of Lieut. Dale that, when
it was killed, the tongue was protruded from the mouth to the ex
tent of two inches beyond the tip of the nose, its breadth being
three sixteenths of an inch; which circumstance, combined with fie
dentition of the animal, confirms him in the belief that it feeds upon
ants. With respect to its immediate affinities he confesses himself
at a loss. In skinning the specimen, the part where the pouch
would be placed in a marsupial animal, has been so mutilated as to
render it difficult to determine whether or not it possessed one : it
appears, however, to have been a female, and to have two mamma:
and the remains of a pouch. Mr. Waterhouse is of opinion that it
 will prove to be allied to the genus Phascogale ; and there are also,
he states, points of resemblance between it and Tupaia, as well as
with the ground Squirrels, the genus Tatnias of modern authors.
    The species Mr. Waterhouse proposes to name Myrmecobitts fas-
c'utttu : he describes it as follows : " Length from the nose to the
 root of the tail (measuring along the curve of the back) ten inches ;
 of the head, from the tip of the nose to the base of the ear, one inch
 and seven eighths; of the tail six inches and a quarter. The colour
 above is reddish ochre, interspersed with white hairs, the posterior
 half of the body being adorned with alternate black and white trans
 verse fasciae, disposed in a manner somewhat similar to those of Thy-
 lacinus cynocephalus. The under parts of the body are yellowish
 white; the anterior legs of the same colour on their inner sides, and
 of a pale buff colour externally ; and the posterior legs of a pale
 buff colour, with the fore part of the tibiae whitish, and the sole en
 tirely bare. The hairs of the tail are mixed black, white and red
 dish ochre, each of these colours predominating in different parts.
 The reddish hue of the fore part of the body is gradually blended
 into the black, which is the prevailing colour of the posterior half,
 and which is adorned with nine white fasciae ; the first of these
 fasciae (which is indistinct) commencing rather before the middle of
 the body, and being, in common with the second, interrupted on the
 back by the ground colour of the body ; the third, fourth, and last
 extending uninterruptedly from side to side ; and the fifth, sixth,
 seventh and eighth, extending over the back, passing without coming
 into contact, and thus as it were dovetailing, with those of the op
 posite side. The hair on the head is very short and of a brownish
  hue above, (being composed of a mixture of black and reddish-brown
 with a few white hairs); and whitish beneath. The nose and lips
 are blackish ; and there are a few long black hairs springing from
  under the eyes and from the sides of the muzzle. The body is co
  vered with hair of two kinds ; the outer of which is moderately long,
  rather coarse, and compact on the back and fore parts of the body ;
  but over the haunches, and on the under surface, where the pouch
  is situated in the Marsupials, the hair is long. The under fur is
  short, fine and rather scanty. The tail is furnished throughout with
  long hairs."
      Third Series. Vol. 9. No. 57. Supplement. Dec. 1836. 3 R

522                           Roi/al Society.
    In illustration of his paper Mr. Waterhouse exhibited the skin,
together with drawings of the animal, of its skull, and of its dentary
characters.
    Some notes of the dissection of a specimen of the Chilian Bush Rat,
 Octodon Cumingii, Benn., by Mr. Martin, were read, and are given in
No. xliii. of the Society's " Proceedings."
    July 26.—At the request of the Chairman, Mr. Gould exhibited
specimens of two new species of Birds from the Friendly Islands
and New Holland, of which he proposed to form a genus. He
stated them to approximate, in his opinion, in nearly an equal
degree to the genera Lamms, Turdus, and Lamprotornis ; but be
lieved that they might with propriety be arranged among the
 Thrushes. Their characters were given as follows :
                                 Aplonis.
    Rostrum capite paul6 brevius, robustum, subcompressum ; man-
 dibula arcuata, ad apicem emarginata.
    Nares basales, ovales, patulae.
   Ala: breves ; remigibus 2do et 3tio longissimis, lmo et 4to a?quali-
bus.
    Cauda brevis, lata, quadrata vel sub-bifurca.
    Tarsi robusti ; digitis magnis; unguibus magnis curvatis, hallucis
prsecipue valido.
   In both species the feathers of the head are lanceolate ; and the
general plumage above has a slight glossy hue, especially on the
head and back of the neck. The species were characterized as
Aploxis marginata and Aplon. fusca.
                            ROYAL SOCIETY.
   June 2, 1836.—A paper was read, entitled " Note relative to the
supposed origin of the deficient rays in the Solar Spectrum; being an
account of an experiment made at Edinburgh during the Annular
Eclipse of May 15, 1836." By James D. Forbes, Esq., Professor
of Natural Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh.
   The observation that some of the rays of light, artificially produced,
are absorbed by transmission through nitrous acid gas, had suggested
to Sir David Brewster the idea that the dark spaces in the solar pris
matic spectrum may, in like manner, be occasioned by the absorption
of the deficient rays during their passage through thesun'satraosphere*.
It occurred to the author that the annular eclipse of the sun of the
present year would afford him an opportunity of ascertaining whether
any difference in the appearance of the spectrum could be detected
when the light came from different parts of the solar disc, and had
   * See Loud, and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. viii. p. 392. The same expla
nation had been previously suggested by Sir John F. W. Hcrschel ; see his
Essay on Light, Encyc. Melrop., Art. 503 ; also his Treatise on Astronomy,
in the Cabinet Cyclopaedia, p. 212, note; and L. and li. Phil. Mag., vol. iii.
p. 106.— Edit.

                              Royal Society.                         523
 consequently traversed portions of the sun's atmosphere of very dif
 ferent thickness; nnd that accurate observations of this kind would
 put the hypothesis in question to a satisfactory test. The result of the
 experiment was that no such differences could be perceived; thus
 proving, as the author conceives, that the sun's atmosphere is in no
 way concerned with the production of the singular phenomenon of
 the existence of dark lines in the solar spectrum.
    A paper was also read, entitled " On the connexion of the anterior
 columns of the Spinal Cord with the Cerebellum ; illustrated by pre
 parations of these parts in the Human subject, the Horse, and the
 Sheep." By Samuel Solly, Esq., Lecturer on Anatomy and Physi
 ology at St. Thomas's Hospital, M.R.I., Fellow of the Royal Medical
 ana Chirurgical Society, and Member of the Hunterian Society.
 Communicated by P. M. Roget, M.D., Sec. R.S.
    The exact line of demarcation between the tracts of nervous matter,
 subservient to motion and to sensation, which compose the spinal cord,
 has not yet been clearly determined. The proofs which exist of a
 power residing in the cerebellum which regulates and controls the
actions of muscles, would lead us to suppose that the fibres of the
 motor nerves are continuous with those of the cerebellum ; but hi
 therto no observations have been made which prove the existence of
 this connexion ; and it is the object of the author, in this paper, to
 establish, by a more careful examination of the anatomical structure
of this part of the nervous system, such continuity of fibres between
the anterior columns of the spinal cord and the cerebellum. The
corpora pyramidalia have been hitherto considered as formed by the
entire mass of the anterior, or motor columns of the spinal cord; but
 the author shows that not more than one half of the anterior columns
enters into the composition of these bodies : and that another portion ,
which he terms the antcro-laleral column, when traced on each side
in its progress upwards, is found to cross the cord below the corpora
olivaria, forming, after mutual decussation, the surface of the corpora
restiformia ; and ultimately being continuous with the cerebellum.
These fibres are particularly distinct in the medulla oblongata of the
sheep and of the horse. The author conceives that the office of the
antero-luteral columns is to minister to the involuntary, as well as to
the voluntary movements : that the facial nerve arises from both the
voluntary and involuntary tracts ; and that the pneumogastric nerve
Arises both from the involuntary and the sensory tracts.
    June 9.—" Discussion of the Magnetical Observations made by
Captain Back, R.N., during his late Arctic Expedition. By Samuel
Hunter Christie, Esq., M.A., F.R.S.
   The author, having been consulted by Captain Back, previous to
the departure of the latter, in 1833, with the expedition for the relief
of Captain Ross, respecting the nature of the magnetical observa
tions which it might be desirable to make in the regions he was about
to visit, and considering that, with a view to the attainment of the
principal object of the expedition, the greatest economy of time in
making these observations was of the first importance, limited his
suggestions, in the first instance, to the methods proper so be em-
                                 3 R2

  524                           Boyal Society.
  ployed for determining the direction and the dip of the needle, bat
   more especially the latter. Captain Back, immediately on his return,
  placed all his magnetical observations at the disposal of Mr. Christie,
  who having since completed their reduction, gives, in the present
   pttper, the results of his labours.                               : *«¦¦¦,.
      The first part of the paper relates to the observations of the Dip of
  the magnetic needle. With a view to economize as much as possible
   the time consumed in making each observation, the process of invert
   ing the poles of the needle, which is usually resorted to in each in
  stance, was here dispensed with. But in order that the dip may be
   determined independently of this operation, it is necessary not only
   that the position of the centre of gravity of the needle employed should
   be ascertained, but that it should be permanent. In giving an account
  of the observations made to verify this condition, the author com
  mences with those at Fort lleliance, which was the first winter station
   of the expedition ; and where the dip was determined by observations
  ofthe needle, both with direct and also with inverted poles. The author
  then enters upon an investigation of formulae for the determination of
  the dip by means of n needle, in which the value of a certain angle,
   denoted by the symbol y, determining the position of the centre of
  gravity, has been ascertained ; and, conversely, for the determination
  of the value of the same angle, or, which is equivalent to it, the posi
  tion of the centre of gravity of the needle, when the dip at the plnce
  of observation is given. He next inquires whether any tests can be
  applied to the observations under discussion, which may indicate the
  extent of tire errors by which the results deduced from them may be
  affected j and he employs for this purpose the values of the terrestrial
  magnetic intensity furnished by certain equations obtained in the pre
  ceding investigation ; making the proper allowances, first, for the
  needles used being ill adapted to this method of determining the re
  lative intensities ; secondly, for errors of observation in determining
  the times of vibration of the needle ; and thirdly, for disturbing causes
  which might affect the observations. Considerable differences were
  found to exist in the results obtained by the two methods, at New
  York, Montreal, Fort Alexander, Montreal Island, and Fort Ogle ;
  •differences which can be accounted for only by errors in the assumed
  magnitude of the angle y, and which, consequently, indicate the want
  of permanence in that angle. It was necessary, therefore, to inquire
  what changes in the angle y will account for these discrepancies, and
  how far the value of the dip, thus obtained, may be affected by them.
  Pormulae are then deduced by which these changes may be deter
  mined.
      From a comparison of the observed and computed values of the
1 angles involved in these investigations, the author infers that, the dif
  ferences between those of one of these angles are, with a few excep
  tions', contained within the limits of the errors incident to dip obser
  vations : but with respect to the other angle, they in general exceed
  thdse limits. Upon the whole, he concludes that the discrepancies
  Which appear between the values of the terrestrial intensity, as de
  duced from the times of vibration of the needle, and from the observed

                                ftoyal Svciely.                          $25
  angles of inclination to the horizon, are principally attributable to a
  want of absolute permanence in its axis of motion. In the present
  case, the centre of gravity of the needle being nearly coincident with
  the axis, a very minute derangement in that axis would cause a con
  siderable change in the value of the angle y ; so that the existence
  of differences in the values of this angle do not warrant the inference
  that the needle itself received any serious injury during the expedi
  tion ; to which, indeed, from the care taken of it by Captain Back,
  it could not well have been liable.
      The second part of the paper relates to the observations of the va
  riation of the magnetic needle, which are already published in Capt.
  Back's narrative, and which are here introduced for the purpose of
  applying them, in conjunction with the observations of the dip, detailed
  in the preceding part, to a formula deduced from theory, with the view
  of ascertaining how far they may tend to support that theory.
      The third section is devoted to the comparison of the observations
  of the dip and variation of the needle with theoretical results of a
  more general kind. The observations made by Captain Back are pe
   culiarly adapted for verifying the hypotheses on which the theories of
   terrestrial magnetism rest, and that theory, in particular, which as
  sumes the existence of two magnetic poles, symmetrically situated in
   a diameter of the earth, and near to its centre : for, on this hypothesis,
  the poles of verticity and of convergence will coincide ; and the tan-
  cent of the dip will be equal to twice the tangent of the magnetic
   latitude. In no cose has a progress towards the magnetic pole been
  made so directly, and to such an extent, as in the present expedition ;
   whether that point be considered as the point of convergence of mag
   netic meridians, or that at which the direction of the force is vertical.
   It is deducible from the theory that the product of the tangent of the
   dip by the tangent of the polar distance is equal to two : and there
   fore, if the distance of the pole of convergence from two stations be
   determined by means of the observed variations at those stations, we
   may estimate, by the approximation of this product to the number
   two, in each case, the degree of coincidence which exists between
   theory and observation. A table is then given, exhibiting the several
   data on which this comparison is made, and the results deduced from
   them. From an inspection of the numbers in the column which indi
   cate the deviations from theory it appears that there is not, in general,
   that accordance between the observations and the theory which might
   reasonably have been expected ; and that although that theory may
   serve as a first approximation, yet it requires to be considerably mo
   dified to reconcile it with the observations. Hence the author arrives
'¦ it the general conclusion that, unless considerable errors have crept
   into the observations of either the dip or the variation, the theoretical
   pole of verticity does not coincide with the pole of convergence, even
   when the positions of these points are deduced from observations made
   at very limited distances from those poles.
      " On the Safety-valve of the right Ventricle of the Heart in Man ;
   and on the gradations of the same apparatus in Mammalia and Birds."
   By J. W. King, Esq. Communicated by Thomas Bell, Esq., F.R.S.

  526                           Royal Society.
     In this paper additional evidence is given by the author in corrobo
  ration of the principles which he had announced in a former commu
  nication, which was read to the Royal Society in May 1835, on the
  influence of the tricuspid valve of the heart on the circulation of the
  blood*. His object is to demonstrate that the tricuspid valve in man
  occasionally serves the purpose of a safety-valve, being constructed so
  as to allow of the reflux of the blood from the ventricle into the auricle,
 during the varying states of distension to which the right cavities of
 the heart are at times subjected ; that a similar function is maintained
 in the greater number of animals possessing a double circulation, and
 also that in the different orders of these animals the structure of this
  valve is expressly adapted to the production of an effect of this kind,
 in various degrees, corresponding with the respective characters and
 habits of each tribe. He is thus led to conclude that the function
 which the tricuspid valve exercises exhibits, in the extent of its de
 velopment, a regular gradation, when followed throughout the dif
 ferent orders of Mammalia and Birds,- and that it extends even to
 some Reptiles.
     The force with which the circulating blood is impelled by the ge
 neral venous trunks into the heart, and whicli is dependent on the
 action of thearterial system, and the degree of compression arisingfrom
 muscular action, combined with the resistance of the valves of the
 veins, and which is also influenced by occasional accumulations of blood
 from rapid absorption, from impeded respiration, and from cold applied
 to the surface of the body, is shown to be subject to great and sud
 den variations. Any increase taking place in this force tends to pro
 duce distension of the right ventricle of the heart, followed by dis
 turbance in the valvular action of the tricuspid membrane, owing to
 the displacement of its parts, which thus allows of a considerable re
 flux of blood into the auricle. Among the Mammalia, the lowest degree
of this action, corresponding to that of a safety-valve, is found in the
 rodent, the marsupial, and the canine tribes. The next in degree is
 that which occurs in the order of Edentata and the feline genus. The
 Quadrumana occupy the next place in the scale of gradation. The
human conformation exhibits this function in a very conspicuous man
 ner, especially in the adult period ; for at birth, when the right ventricle
 is unyielding, it scarcely exists ; and in various states of disease the tri
cuspid valve acts with too much or with too little efficacy. The Pachy-
dermata and Ruminantia come next in succession. The Seal exhibits
this peculiarity in a still higher degree ; but in no order of Mammalia
does it exist to so great an extent as in the Cetacea, which appear,
indeed, to possess a peculiar additional provision for effectually se
curing the permanent performance of this office, which the author
compares to that of a safety-valve. A similar function, subject to si
milar gradations, is likewise traced in different orders of Birds. It is
but slight in the Gallinacea? ; and rather greater in the preduceous
tribes. In some of the Waders it exists to a considerable extent ; but
is greatest of all in the orders of Passerinae and Scansores. Crocodiles
    * An abstract of this paper will be found in Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag.,
vol. vii. p. 207.

                              Royal Society.                          527
fetid the Ornithorhynchus present some traces of this peculiar provi
sion relatively to the circulation.
    " Some Account of the appearances of the Solar Spots, as seen
from Hereford, on the 15th and I6lli of May, 1836, during and after
the Solar Eclipse." By Henry Luwson, Esq., in a letter to Sit
Henry Ellis, K.G.H., F.R.S., by whom it was communicated to the
Society.
    The spots on the sun's disc, at the period referred to, were ?ery
numerous ; and one of great size, being many thousand miles in dia
meter, in particular attracted attention, from its penumbra presenting
an appearance similar to a sky filled with small flocculent white clouds,
perfectly distinct from one another ; while on two sides were seen
large masses of darker clouds, which seemed as if pouring their sub
stance into the central chasm. The figure of the solar spots did not
undergo any perceptible change of form during the progressive pas-
Sage of the edge of the moon over them.
    " On the Brain of the Negro, compared with that of the European
and oftheAnatomy
sor                and Physiology
           Ourang-Outang."      By Frederick
                                    in the University
                                              Tiedemann,    M.D., Profes-»
                                                      of Heidelberg,  and
Foreign Member of the Royal Society.                                     ;
    It has long been the prevailing opinion among naturalists that the
Negro race is inferior, both in organization and in intellectual powers,
to the European ; and that, in all the points of difference, it exhibits
an approach to the Monkey tribes. The object of the present paper
is to institute a rigid inquiry into the validity of this opinion. The
author has, for this purpose, examined an immense number of brains
of persons of different sexes, of various ages, and belonging to dif
ferent varieties of the human race, both by ascertaining their exact
weight, and also by accurate measurement of the capacity of the ca
vity of the cranium; and has arrived at the following conclusions.
The weight of the brain ofan adult male European varies from 31bs. 3oz.
to 41bs. 1 1 oz. troy weight : that of the female weighs, on an average,
from 4 to 8oz. less than that of the male. The brain usually attains
its full dimensions at the age of seven or eight ; and decreases in size
in old age. At the time of birth, the brain bears a larger proportion
to the size of the body than at any subsequent period of life, being
then as one sixth of the total weight; at two years of age it is one
fourteenth ; at three, one eighteenth ; at fifteen, one twenty-fourth }
and in the adult period, that is, from the age of twenty to that of
seventy, it is generally within the limits of one thirty-fifth and one
forty-fifth. In the case of adults, however, this proportion is much
 regulated by the condition of the body as to corpulence ; being in
 thin persons from one twenty-second to one twenty-seventh, and in
fat persons often only one fiftieth, or even one hundredth of the total
weight of the body. The brain has been found to be particularly large
in some individuals possessed of extraordinary mental capacity. No
perceptible difference exists either in the average weight or the ave
rage size of the brain of the Negro and of the European : and the
nerves are not larger, relatively to the size of the bruin, in the former
than in the latter. In the external form of the brain of the Negro a

528                           Royal Society.
very slight difference only can be traced from that of the European ;
but there is absolutely no difference whatsoever in its internal struc
ture, nor does the Negro brain exhibit any greater resemblance to
that of the ourang-outang than the brain of the European, excepting,
perhaps, in the more symmetrical disposition of its convolutions.
   Many of the results which the author has thus deduced from bis re
searches are at variance with the received opinions relative to the
presumed inferiority of the Negro structure, both in the conformation
and in the relative dimensions of the brain ; and he ascribes the erro
neous notions which have been hitherto entertained on these subjects
chiefly to prejudice created by the circumstance that the facial angle
in the negro is smaller than in the European, and consequently makes,
in this respect, an approach to that of the ape, in which it is still farther
diminished. The author denies that there is any innate difference
in the intellectual faculties of these two varieties of the human race j
and maintains that the apparent inferiority of the Negro is altogether
the result of the demoralizing influence of slavery, and of the long-
continued oppression and cruelty which have been exercised toward*
this unhappy portion of mankind by their more early civilized, and con
sequently more successful competitors for the dominion of the world.
   June 16.—The following papers were read, viz.
    1. " Researches on the Tides ; Sixth Series. On the Results of
an extensive system of Tide Observations, made on the Coasts of
Europe and America, in June 18.35." By the Rev. William Whewell,
F.R.S., Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge.
   The author having, in several previous communications to the Royal
Society, urged the importance of simultaneous tide observations made
at distant places, here gives an account of the steps taken to carry
this plan into effect, in consequence of his representations, both by
the Government in England, and by the other maritime powers of
Europe. He explains, in the present paper, the general character of
the observations thus obtained, the mode employed in reducing them,
and enters at considerable length into a discussion of the immense
mass of information which they supply with respect to the phenomena
of the tides. One of his principal objects was to fix with precision
the form of the Cotidal lines by which the motion of the tide wave is
exhibited. He devotes one section of the paper to an investigation
of the general form of these lines; and another to a nearer approxima
tion to an accurate map of these lines, more especially as they exist
in the German Ocean. The 4th section treats of the height of the
tide in its total range from high to low water ; the 5 th relates to the
diurnal inequality; the 6th to the semimenstrual inequality; and the
7th and last comprises general remarks on the tables which accom
pany the paper.
   2. " On the Tides at the Port of London." By J. W. Lubbock, Esq.,
F.R.S.
    The discussions of tide observations which the author has hitherto
at various times laid before the Society, were instituted with reference
 to the transit of the Moon immediately preceding the time of high-
 water $ from which the laws of the variation in the interval between

                                 Royal Society.                              329
  the moon's transit and *be thne. of high-water have been deduced*
  Bat the discussion of nineteen years' observations- of the tides at titer
  London Docks, which is given in the present paper, has been made
  wijth: reference to the moon's transit two days previously, and proves
  very satisfactorily that the laws to which the phenomena are subject
  accord generally with the views propounded long since by Bernoulli.
  The relations which the author points out between the height of high-
  waxter and the atmospheric pressure as indicated by the barometer are
  particularly interesting and important. The influence of the wind is
 alao considered ; and such corrections indicated as are requisite in
 consequence of the employment by several observers of solar instead
 of.-moan time.
    ¦ 3, " Discussion of the Magnelical Observations made by Captain
 Back, R.N., during his late Arctic Expedition." By Samuel Hunter
  Christie, Esq., M.A., F.H.S. Part 11.
     • •The author proceeds, in this paper, which is a sequel to his former,
 communication (p. 523.), todiscuss the observations made by Captain.
 Back relating to the magnetic intensity, and which were of two kinds ;
 tha first, obtained by noting the times of vibration of a needle in the
 plane of tire magnetic meridian ; the second, by noting the tunes of.
 vibration of three needles suspended horizontally according to the
 method of Hansteen. The results are given in the form of tables.
   ¦« Before deducing results from these observations, the author de
 scribes a scries of experiments instituted with each needle, for the
 purpose of determining the corrections necessary to be applied in,
 Ofldjsrto. reduce the intensities which would result from observations
 nviaerlat different temperatures, to intensities at a standard tempera-,
 tutCj and he gives formulas for these corrections. He then determiucs
 the relative terrestrial magnetic intensities, at the several stations
 wpejre observations were made, from the times of vibration of the dip-.
 pfBg.neeille in the plane of the meridian, applying the corrections .
 wfcch he had obtained for difference of temperature j and gives the
 results in tables. A comparison is instituted between these results
and a formula derived from the hypothesis of two magnetic poles not
ftp; removed from the centre of the earth. The author considers that
this comparison is quite conclusive against the correctness of the for-'
rriulie, aud consequently of the hypothesis itself, if applied to the re
sults deduced from the observations in London, in conjunction with
those in America; but that, in the tract of country comprised by Cnpt.-
Sack's observations from New York to the Arctic Sea, the phenomena
of terrestrial magnetic intensity are very correctly represented by the
formula in question.
  ^Tlie author
servations          horizontal
               withthen proceeds
                               needles,
                                 to determine
                                        applyingthehere, likewise,
                                                     intensity         the oh-.;
                                                               fromto the   re
sults, corrections for the difference in the temperatures at which the :
observations were made. In these results there are great discrepan
cies, which the author attributes to the inapplicability of Hansteen's
method of determining the intensity by the times of vibration of ho
rizontal needles to cases where the dip of the needle is very great,
rather than to errors in the observations themselves, or to a variation in
      Third Series. Vol.9. No. 57. Supplement. Dec. 1836V SS                   : „

                              lioyal Society.
the magnetism of the needles employed. He concludes by a just tri
bute to the zeal which Captain Back has manifested in the cause of
science, by availing himself of every opportunity of making these
tedious observations, during an unknown and perilous navigation.
   4. " On the Powers on which the Functions of Life depend in the more
 perfect Animals, and on the Manner in which these Powers are asso
 ciated in their more complicated results." By A. P. W. Philip, M.D.,
 F.R.S.
   This paper is divisible into three portions. In the first, the author
 considers the functions and seat of each of the powers of the living
animal ; in the second, the nature of each power; and in the third,
 the manner in which they are associated in the more complicated re
 sults which constitute life.
    Of these powers the simplest is the muscular, which consists
 merely in a contractile power residing in the muscular fibre itself:
and various experiments are referred to in proof that it depends ex
clusively on the state of this fibre, and in no degree on that of the
nervous system, which some physiologists have regarded as the real
seat of this power : for, instead of being recruited, it is exhausted by
the action of the nervous system upon it, as it is by other stimulants.
   The next power considered is that of the nervous system, properly
so called, in contradistinction to the sensorial system. The result of
an extensive series of experiments made with a view to establish the
exact line of distinction between these two systems, is that the func
tions of the nervous power are as remarkable for their complexity as
that of the muscular power is for its simplicity. With regard to the
 nervous power it is shown that its functions (all of which are capable
of existing after the sensorial power is withdrawn, and all of which
fail when the nervous power is withdrawn,) are the following : 1. The
excitement of the muscles of voluntary motion in all their actions ;
2. The occasional excitement of the muscles of involuntary motion ;
3. The maintenance of the process by which animal temperature is
maintained ; 4. The maintenance of the various processes of secre
tion ; 5. The maintenance of the processes of assimilation. It further
appears, from several experiments, that the sent of the nervous power
is exclusively in the brain and spinal cord ; not, however, in any par
ticular part, but in the whole extent of these organs, from the upper
most surface of the former to the lowest portion of the latter j with
the exception only that the lower portions of the spinal cord partake
less of this power than the rest. It appears also that the nerves are
only the medium of conveying the influence of the above-mentioned
organs ; and their ganglions and plexuses are only the means of com
bining the power of all the parts of these organs ; such combination
being shown to be necessary to the due excitement of the muscles of
involuntary motion, and for the maintenance of the functions of secre
tion and assimilation.
   The remaining powers of the living animal are the sensorial powers,
and the powers of the living blood. The first of these classes of powers
has its seat, not in the whole brain and spinal cord, as is the case with
the nervous power, properly so called, but in certain parts of them ;

                           lloyal Society.                            531
these parts being, in man, almost wholly confined to the brain j while
in some animals they extend also to a considerable portion of the
spinal cord. The functions of the sensorial powers are those strictly
termed mental, of which sensation and volition are the simplest, and
the onlv powers of this class which are concerned in the maintenance
of life.
   The functions of the living blood are evidently those of supplying
the proper materials, in their requisite condition, (to the preservation
of which the vital powers are essential,) for the action of the nervous
power, properly so called, in the processes of secretion and assimila
tion. The seat of the powers of the blood is in itself; as appears
from its retaining them for a short time after it is separated from the
body.
   These four vital powers, viz. the muscular, the nervous, the sen
sorial, and that of living blood, have no direct dependence on one
another ; for each can, for however short a time, exist independently
of the others : but each has an indirect dependence, more or less re
mote, on all the other three for the maintenance of their organs.
   The author then proceeds to inquire into the nature of these se
veral powers. The sensorial and muscular powers, and the powers of
the living blood, are manifestly peculiar to the living animal, no ana-
 ogous powers being perceptible in inanimate nature. But this ex-
clusiveness does not belong to the nervous power,forexperiment shows
us that when the oxygen and carbon of the blood are combined by its
influence, a substance results which is identical with that produced in
the laboratory of the chemist. An analogy, too strong to be wholly
disregarded, exists therefore between its effects and those of the powers
which operate in inorganic nature. This consideration, as well as
others stated by the author, induced him to make many experiments
to determine how far the other functions of the nervous influence bear
a similar analogy to the operations of inanimate nature; and, in par
ticular, to inquire whether voltaic electricity, applied under the same
circumstances as those under which the nervous influence operates,
and applied after the removal of that influence, and the consequent
cessation of its functions, would produce the same effects. His en
deavours were crowned with complete success ,• all the functions of
the nervous power being capable, as far as he and others could judge,
of being perfectly performed by voltaic electricity. He states that the
results of his experiments on this subject were confirmed by a public
repetition of them both in London and in Paris ; as were likewise
those of another set of experiments suggested by the following rea
soning. If the nervous influence could be made to puss through any
other conductor than the nervous textures to which it belongs in the
living animal, we should have a proof, independent of all other evi
dence, that this influence is not a vital power, properly so called ;
because it must be universally admitted that such a power can exist
only in the texture to which it belongs. In this attempt he was for
some time baffled ; but at length, overcoming the obstacles which had
impeded his efforts, he succeeded: and, having undergone the same
public ordeal as the former, the results arc no longer questioned.
                                 3 S2

532                          Royal Society.
From the whole of these experiments the author thinks himself war
ranted in concluding that the nervous influence is not a vital power,
properly so called ; and that when it is admitted that voltaic electri
city is capable of performing all its functions, the proposition that they
are powers of a different nature would be a contradiction in terms, for
it is only by its properties that any principle of action can be distin
 guished.
    He refers, in confirmation of these inferences, to the recent inves
tigations of Mr. Faraday, from which it appears that electricity is
the agent in all chemical processes ; to the facts which prove that all
the functions of the nervous influence, properly so called, are of a
 chemical nature ; and also to the late experiments of Dr. Davy on
the Torpedo, tending to show that the electric power, j.eculiar to
 electric animals, is a function of the brain, and thus affording direct
 proof that the brain has the power of collecting and applying, even
 according to the dictates of the will, the electric power.
    It farther appears, from the facts referred to in this paper, that,
 whenever we can trace any analogy between the functions of the liv
 ing animal and the operations of inanimate nature, nn agent belong
 ing to the external world is employed ; that these functions are the
 results either of such agents acting on vital parts, or of vital parts
 acting on them ; and that the sensorial functions, on the other hand,
 in which no such analogy can be traced, are the effects of vital parts
 acting on each other, and influencing each other by their vital pro
 perties alone.
     In the concluding part of the paper the author considers the vari
 ous functions of the living animal as forming two systems, in a great
 measure distinct from one another, in each of which all its powers
 are employed, but in very different ways : the object of the one of these
 systems being the maintenance of the body itself; of the other, the
 maintenance of its intercourse with the external world. The manner
 in which the different powers of the living animal are employed in the
 construction of each of these systems is pointed out j and the bonds
  of union which exist between them, and thus form the living body into
  a whole, no part of which can be affected without tending more or less
  to affect every other, are considered. These bonds of union consist
  chiefly in the employment of the same powers in the construction of
 both systems, and in the function of respiration, which so extensively
  influences all other functions both in health and disease, as pointed
 out by the author in his papers on the nature of sleep and death, and
 which differs from all the other vital functions in partaking of the sen
 sorial as well as of all the other powers of the living animal.
     5. " On the Respiration of Insects." By George Newport, Esq.
  Communicated by P. M. Roget, M.D., Sec. R.S.
    Although a multitude of facts has been collected relating to the
 physiology of respiration in insects, attention has seldom been directed
 to the variations exhibited in this function in the different periods of
 the r existence. The author gives an account, in this paper, of the
 anatomical and physiological peculiarities which he has noticed in va
 rious insects, in their three states of larva, pupa, and imago. He

                             Royal Sccicly.
traces nil the several changes which the trachea? and spiracles undergo
during their transformations ; describing particularly the successive
development of the air vesicles in connexion with the power of flight.
The system of muscles, both of inspiration and of expiration, is mi
nutely detailed, and their various modes of action examined. He
next investigates the series of nerves appropriated to the exercise of
the respiratory function, and establishes a distinction in the offices of
these nerves, corresponding to the sources from which they derive
their origin, and presenting remarkable analogies with similar distinc
tions in the nerves of vertebrate animals. The manner in which re
spiration is performed, and the phaenomena presented with regard to
this function under various circumstances, such as submersion, and
confinement in unrespirable or deleterious gases, are next considered.
An account is then given of a series of experiments made with a view
to determine the quantity of oxygen consumed, and of carbonic acid
produced, by the respiration of various kinds of insects in different
states, from which the conclusion is drawn that the quantity of air
deteriorated is governed by several circumstances not necessarily con
 nected with the natural habits of the species. When the insect is in
 its pupa state, and in complete hybernation, its respiration is at its
 minimum of energy : and, on the contrary, it is at its maximum when
the insect is in the imago state, and in the condition of greatest ac
 tivity.
     In the concluding section of the paper the author institutes an in
 quiry into the capabilities which insects possess of supporting life,
 during longer or shorter periods, when immersed in different media;
 and gives n tabular view of the results of numerous experiments which
  he made on this subject. It appears from these observations that the
 order in which these media possess the power of extinguishing vitality
 is the following : viz. hydrogen, water, carbonic acid, nitrous acid
 gas, chlorine, and cyanogen. Some of these agents, however, affect
  respiration much more rapidly than others, which, though their action
  is slower, are eventually more fatal to the insect.
     6. " Demonstration de l'&galite a deux droits de la somme des
  angles d'un triangle quelconque, indcpendainment de la theoric des
  parallelcs, et de In consideration de l'infini." Par M. Paulet, de Ge
  neve. Communicated by P. M. Roget, M.D., Sec. R.S.
     The author demonstrates the equality of the sum of the angles of
  a triangle to two right angles, by the aid of a preliminary theorem,
  of which the following is the enunciation. A straight line forming an
  acute angle with another straight line, will, when sufficiently produced,
  meet any line, perpendicular to the latter, and situated on the side
  of i he acute angle.
      7. " Experimental Researches into the Physiology of the Human
  Voice." By John Bishop, Esq. Communicated by P. M. Roget, M.D.t
   Sec. R.S*
      8. " Du Son ctde l'Electrieite'." Anonymous, with the signature of
   Hemic*. Being a Prize Essay for the Uoyal Medal.
      * Mr. Bishop's paper will be found iu the present volume, at p. 201 cltuj.

53i                          Royul Society.
    This paper contains the account of a great number of facts and
observations, collected from various sources, on the subject of the
relations subsisting between electricity, the production of sound, the
crystallization of bodies, the transmission of heat, the emission of
light, and various atmospheric changes ; from the consideration of
which the general conclusion is drawn that all these phaenomena are
perhaps the results of the undulations of some ponderable material.
    9. " Physiological Remarks on several Muscles of the Upper Ex
tremity." By F. O. Ward, Esq., Medical Student at King's College,
London. Communicated by P. M. lioget, M.D., Sec. R.S.*
    There is a remarkable fold in the tendon of the pectoraiis major
muscle, described by all anatomists, but the purpose of which has
never yet, as the author believes, been explained. The muscle itself
consists of two portions, one smaller and upper, arising from the cla
vicle, and passing downwards and outwards to an insertion in the
humerus at a greater distance from the shoulder-joint than the place
where the tendon of the larger and lower portion of the muscle, which
arises from the steraum and ribs, and has a general direction upwards
and outwards, terminates. Thus the respective portions of tendon
belonging to the two divisions of the muscle are found to cross each
other ; the margin of that proceeding from the lower division passing
behind, and appearing above that which proceeds from the upper fibres
of the muscle. The forces exerted by each portion of the muscle
being thus applied to parts of the bone at different distances from the
fulcrum, act with different mechanical powers ; which the author finds
in e^ery case to correspond exactly with the variations in the effects
required to be produced, under different circumstances, by these mus
cular actions. Those muscular fibres, the tendon of which is inserted
nearest to the centre of motion, and which consequently act by a
shorter lever, are adapted to motions requiring a less force, but a
greater velocity : and such is precisely the mechanical condition of
the lower portion of the pectoralis major, which is employed more
especially in bringing down the arm, when previously raised, as in
striking with the hammer, pickaxe, &c, where velocity is chiefly re
quired, the weight of the instrument held in the hand sufficiently sup
plying the diminution of force. On the contrary, the lever by which
the upper portion of the same muscle is enabled to act being, from
 the more distant insertion of its tendon, of greater length, is calcu
lated to procure force at the expense of velocity, and is therefore pe
culiarly fitted for the performance of those actions by which the arm
 is elevated and weights raised ; these being precisely the actions in
 which such muscles are employed. Adverting, also, to the respective
obliquities in the direction of their action, the author traces the same
express correspondence between the mechanism employed and the
 purpose contemplated. He pursues the same line of argument and
obtains the same results in extending the inquiry to the structure and
 uses of those muscles, such as the coraco-brachialis, and the anterior
 fibres of the deltoid, which cooperate with the upper division of the
 pectoralis major; and the teres major and lutissimus dorsi, which
        * This paper appears at length in our present number, p. 411.

                            Hoyal Society.                          535
combine their fictions with that of the lower division of the pectoral
muscle.
   This diversified adaptation of parts, he observes, forms the chief
characteristic of the mechanism of Nature. Operating with unlimited
means, she yet works with scrupulous economy; in all her structures
no power is-redundanl, nor a single advantage lost: so that, how
ever completely an arrangement may be subservient to one primary
purpose, we find, on renewed examination, an equally accurate ad
justment to various secondary and no less important ends.
   The author then proceeds to inquire into the methods employed
for determining the absolute and relative strength of muscles ; and
proposes, for that purpose, the application of the constant and equable
stream of galvanism afforded by the new battery invented by Mr.
Daniel).
    10. "An Experimental Inquiry into what takes place during the
Vinous, the Acetous, and different Putrefactive Fermentations of
dissolved Vegetable Matter; and an Examination of some of the Pro
ducts." By Robert Rigg, Esq. Communicated by P. M. Roget, M.D.,
Sec. R.S.
   The author describes with great minuteness a long train of experi
ments on the subjects announced in the title of the paper. His first
object of inquiry is into the nature of the changes which take place
during the vinous fermentation ; and the conclusion to which he
arrives is, that in the formation of the products resulting from this
process sugar is not the only vegetable principle which is decom
posed, but that the changes consist in the combination of two equi
valents of carbon, derived from the sugar of the malt, or other vege
table matter, (= 12*24) with two equivalents of hydrogen from water
(= 2*) forming 1 4-2+ parts of olefiant gas; and in the combination
of one equivalent of the carbon from the sugar, & c. (= 6' 12) with two
equivalents of oxygen from water, ( = 16) forming 22- 1 2 parts of car
bonic acid. He thinks that, on this change taking place, the olefiant
gas is held in solution by the water by an affinity which can be over
come, and that the foreign matter which, with the carbon, formed the
sugar, or other vegetable substance, is then at liberty to form new
combinations. He finds that the products resulting from the decom
position exceed the weight of the sugar, or other vegetable matter,
by about 10 per cent, of the former, and from II to 12 per cent, of
the latter, as calculated according to the prevailing theory that sugar,
or vegetable matter, is the only substance decomposed during the
process of vinous fermentation.
    From his analysis of sugar he obtains certain proportions of water
 and of carbonic acid which are different from those given by preceding
 chemists, the carbonic acid being 45 to 45-5 per cent. His analysis
of alcohol gives him 59*7 to 60 per cent, of olefiant gas, the remain
 der being water.
    His experiments on the acetous and putrefactive fermentations are
 numerous and elaborate, and the results, which are nearly the same
 as those of former analyses, are given in a tabular form. He finds
 that in the acetous fermentation 57 parts by weight of olefiant gas,

 53G                          Royal Society.
5 of sugar, or other vegetable matter, and Gl of oxygen from the at
mosphere, combine to form 100 parts of acetic acid, and about 24 of
water; leaving an insoluble substance at liberty to form other com
binations : and thus includes in his account of this process the decom
position of vegetable matter, which is overlooked in the generally re
ceived theory.
    During the putrefactive fermentation of vinous fermented liquors,
when exposed to the atmosphere, the author considers that one equi
valent of carbon from the olefinnt gas (= 6- 1 2) unites with two of
oxygen from the atmosphere (= 16 ) to form 22' 1 2 parts of carbonic
acid : while one equivalent of hydrogen from the olefinnt gas (= l-)
combines with one of atmospheric oxygen (= 8-) to form 9 parts of
water ; a portion of sugar, or other vegetable matter, being also de
composed; and an insoluble substance remaining, which, on exposure
to the air, undergoes further decomposition, and forms products highly
deleterious. The author is not aware that this latter decomposition
has been hitherto noticed.
   During the putrefactive fermentation of acetic acid exposed to the
atmosphere, he regards one equivalent of carbon from acetic acid
 ( = 6" 1 2) as combining with two of atmospheric oxygen (= 16') to
form 22- 12 parts of carbonic acid : the oxygen and hydrogen, with
which the carbon had formed the acetic acid, remain in the state of
water, as they are found by analysis in this substance : a portion of
vegetable matter is also decomposed ; and an insoluble substance left
behind. Other substances are also formed during some of the changes
resulting from exposure to the air.
    During the direct putrefactive fermentation of solutions of sugar,
or other vegetable matters, he finds, that one equivalent of its car
bon (=6*12) unites with two of atmospheric oxygen (= 16-) to
form 22' 12 parts of carbonic acid ; leaving the water and an insoluble
substance to undergo changes as before mentioned. The olefiant gas,
formed during the vinous fermentation, whether the liquor be in the:
state of vinous fluid, weak spirit, strong spirit, or even of alcohol, or
ether, is subject to precisely the same decomposition, under favour
able circumstances for such changes, without any action upon, or re
lation to the water which may happen to be combined with it in each
kind of liquor. This olefiant gas cannot, cither by distillation or other
means, be separated along with any of the water with which it is at
first combined, and again united with the same materials, without
forming a compound different from the original one : and in propor
tion as water is, by any means, removed, we obtain it in a somewhat
different state ; and this happens without reference to a separate and
distinct substance which we may call alcohol, or ether. Thus neither
of these two ill-defined substances ought to be regarded as a separate
and distinct principle ; but the whole scries of bodies, from the weak
est fermented liquor, separated from its vegetable matter, to the most
highly rectified ether, consist only of different combinations of olefiant
gas, the first product of vinous fermentation, and water.
    1 1. "On the Chemical Changes occurring in Seeds during Ger
mination." By the same.

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.              537
     The author infers, from his researches on the subject of his second
 paper, that during the process of germination there is a production
 of alcohol, and that oxygen unites with defiant gas, under the influ
 ence of the radicle and plumula. He accounts for the increase of
 temperature during germination by an alleged difference in the spe
 cific heats of the principles before and after that process has com
 menced ; but the methods he employed for establishing the reality of
 this difference are not detailed.
    The following are the principal conclusions to which the author
 arrives :
     1. Seeds may, by careful desiccation, be deprived of much water
 without injuring their vegetating organs.
    2. Their capacity for absorbing water varies with the temperature
 at which they are kept.
    3. The increase taking place in their volume by the absorption of
 water is influenced by temperature.
    4. On steeping seeds in water at one temperature the vinous fer
 mentation takes place, but at another this process does not occur.
    5. A decomposition takes place in seeds previously to their germi
 nation, and the products are carbonic acid and defiant gas.
    6. The abstraction of carbon from seeds by the oxygen of the at
 mosphere is not, as is generally supposed, the specific action which
 gives rise to germination ; but it rather conduces to putrefaction.
    7. The germination of seeds appears to be an action taking place
 between the olefiant gas, which has been previously formed by a vinous
 fermentation, and the oxygen of the atmosphere; and is effected by
the peculiar operation of the plumula and the rootlets.
    8. This decomposition and combination of the different elements
go on, in well-regulated processes, as long as there is any farinaceous
matter to be decomposed : the food of the plant being at this time
always the oxygen of the atmosphere and the newly-formed olefiant
gas, differing in equivalent combinations, according to the peculiar
constitution of the plant; and thus the foundation is laid for all that
prodigious diversity which characterizes the numberless species of the
vegetable creation.
              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
      ARTIFICIAL PRODUCTION OF CRYSTALLIZED MINERALS.
MUCH interest and inquiry have been excited by the experiments
        of Mr. Crosse on the artificial produclion of crystallized mine
rals in the humid way, by the agency ofelectricity, as announced by
that gentleman at the late meeting of the British Association, and no
ticed in our number for September, at p. 229 of the present volume.
We think it may be useful to recall the attention of our readers to
the results which had previously been obtained by others, both in
the humid and the dry way, in the same line of research, by trans
ferring to our pages the following extract from the Rev. Mr. Whe-
well's " Report on the Recent Progress and Present State of Minera-
    Third Series. Vol.9. No. hi. Supplement. Dee. 183G.          3T

538             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
logy," read to the meeting of the British Association at Oxford in
1832, and published in the first volume of the Reports of the Asso
ciation.
   "The discovery of artificial crystals in the slags of furnaces was
not unimportant to the chemistry of mineralogy. One of the first
and most extraordinary instances was the detection of perfect cry
stals of titanium in the Welsh iron slag, by Dr. Wollaston and Pro
fessor Buckland*. It has appeared by examination that these acci
dental products are more free from any admixture of iron than it
is easy to obtain titanium by the ordinary chemical processes, In.
 1825 Mitscherlich found in the Swedish furnaces bisilicate of iron
(pyroxene,) mica, and other mineral species. About the same
time, Berthier in France obtained in the furnace, by direct syn
 thesis, regulated by the atomic theory, crystals similar to those
found in nature. Professor Miller of Cambridge has examined se
veral slags from the furnaces in Wales, and it appears that the
 crystals in those assume the form of olivine. It is satisfactory thus to
find that the same substances affect the same crystalline form in our
furnaces and laboratories, and in the great laboratory of nature. In
deed nothing can be more likely to help us in obtaining a know
ledge of the chemical laws of crystalline forms, than to have the
power of verifying our conclusions synthetically by forming cry
stals, as well as analytically by destroying them."
    " In the same point of view, the examination of crystals formed
from solutions is of great value to mineralogy ; as, for instance,
the many excellent measures of artificial salts by Mr. Brooke, Mr.
Haidinger, and others. Such crystals may often be obtained in
much greater abundance and perfection than natural crystals, and
especially than natural crystals of similar chemical composition;
and thus they widen very much the field of facts to which our in
quiries lead. In former times the mineralogist, was professedly re
stricted to substances which occur in nature ; but we may venture
to say that a line so arbitrary and accidental cannot be the true
boundary of the science. Wherever crystalline forces act, the crystal -
lographer is called upon to pursue his speculations ; these speculations
 whether we call them mineralogical or not, are such as give interest
 and promise to our study. In this point of view mineralogy possesses
 not only the importance which belongs to its ancient subjects, but
 also an importance of another kind, which belongs to it as a neces
 sary supplement to chemistry ; for it takes into consideration those
 physical characters of chemical compounds (crystallization, specific
 gravity, hardness, fracture, lustre), which belong to them as solid
 bodies, and which indicate the law and intensity of the corpuscular
 forces by which each combination is bound together. The study
 of artificial crystals, therefore, whether obtained in the wet or in
 the dry way, may be recommended as very useful to the minera
 logist."
    " Haldat (Ann. de Chim. Jan. 1831,) has shown a mode of ob
 taining artificial crystals of iron oxide by the decomposition of
    [• Dr. Wollaston's papers on this subject were reprinted from the Phil.
 Trans. in Phil. Mag., First Scries, vol. lxii. p. 18, vol. lxiii. p. 15.]

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.           539
 water ; and these resemble the natural crystals of " fer oligiste"
 from Elba. So Becquerel has obtained the oxides of copper, lead,
 zinc. But by far the most valuable and important of such ex
 periments appear to be those of M. Becquerel on the sulphurets,
 iodurets, and bromurets of metals, which he has obtained by arti
 ficial chemical action in a perfectly crystalline form. The agency
 which he employs is very weak galvanic tension ; and he has suc
 ceeded thus in producing sulphuret of silver in small octohedral
 crystals resembling the native mineral, and sulphuret of copper,
 also closely resembling the native sulphuret. The sulphurets of
 line and iron require additional precautions, but are also obtained
 like to the native species ; and iodurets, bromurets, and seleniurets
 of various metals are procured as crystals by similar processes.
 (Ann. de Chim. Oct. 1829.) These important steps in synthesis
will probably throw a new light upon known analytical results."
    M. Beudant has made a number of interesting experiments on
the subject of another class of causes which modify the forms of
 crystals, and of which the general laws are, if possible, more un
 known and obscure than those which determine different funda
 mental forms to different compounds. He has examined the cir
 cumstances which determine the various modifications which a
given fundamental form undergoes; and has proceeded so far as to
be able to produce at will one or other of certain possible modifi
cations. Thus (Mineralogie, i. 190.) common salt crystallizing in
pure water affected almost always the cubical form ; if it crystal
lized in a solution of boracic acid, it assumed the form of the cube
with truncated angles. Alum in nitric acid had the same form ; in
muriatic acid it was a figure of twenty sides, the octohedron and
dodecahedron combined; the faces of the former being much the
larger. An addition of alumine to the liquor, produced, in addi
tion to the former faces, those of the cube; in pure water this salt
is the simple octohedron. Sulphate of iron has commonly a simple
form ; by adding a few drops of sulphuric acid, more complex forms
are obtained ; and this rule respecting the effect of the addition of
acid appears to be extensively true. The sulphate of iron mixed
with sulphate of copper has its simple form, an oblique rhombic
prism ; the mixture of sulphate of nickel produced the same effect,
out that of zinc an opposite one, the crystals becoming less simple.
It has long been known that common salt mixed with urea, affects
the octohedron instead of its usual form, the cube ; and that in
similar circumstances, sal ammoniac becomes the cube instead of
the octohedron. Alum in a concentrated solution of alumine as
sumes the cubical form ; an octohedral crystal of alum placed in
such a solution soon assumes a cubical form; by being placed again
in a solution adapted to give octohedral crystals it may be made to
assume the octohedron. It is impossible not to be tempted to refer
phenomena similar to these, occurring, as they so often do, in na
tural crystals, to similar circumstances which have prevailed when
the crystals have been forming."
    " Several statements of a curious kind have been made concerning
the recent crystallization of substances which we cannot cause to
                                 3T2

5+0           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
crystallize in our laboratories. Thus (Brewster's Journal, vol. x.)
 Repetti observed quartz in a pasty state and in the act of crystal
 ling. The same kind of occurrence is said to have been observed
 of various other substances, as beryl, opal, heavy spar." Report of
 the First and Second Meetings of the British Association, p. 374-379.
DIRECT DEMONSTRATION OF THE RULE FOR THE MULTIPLICA
                      TION OF NEGATIVE SIGNS.
      To the Editors ofthe Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
      Gentlemen,
    No direct proof, that I am aware of, has ever been given of the
rule for the multiplication of negative signs, although proofs by Euler
and a hundred authors have been given by reductio ad absurdum.
You will oblige me by an insertion of the following direct proof,
especially as 1 have heard it disputed whether a direct demonstra
tion is practicable, and since it will take up but a very small portion
of your admirable periodical. I remain, &c.                  J. O. K.
A direct Demonstration of the Rulefor the Multiplication of Nega
                               tive Signs.
    This rule may be proved by the assistance of the following pro
position :
    The product of a negative quantity into any other quantity is
equal to minus the product of the first quantity without the nega
tive sign, and the other quantity.
    The product ofa negative quantity into any other quantity signifies
that that negative quantity is to be added or subtracted as many
times as there are units in that other quantity, accordingly as this
other quantity is positive or negative, and consequently the result
will be the same as if the negative quantity were positive, and the
negative sign added to the result.
   Let the quantities to be multiplied be —a and + b. Then
          (_fl)x(+6)=-( + «)x (+b) = -ab
and       (-a)x(- b) = — ( + a) x{- b) = -(- ab) = -f ah.
                                                               Q. E. D.
ON THE SOLUBILITY OF CARBONATE OF LIME, ETC. IN HYDRO-
                      CHLORATE OF AMMONIA.
    M. Vogel, in the following notice, which is of the greatest impor
tance in the analysis of many inorganic substances, remarks, that in
analytical researches, particularly in those which are for the purpose
of discovering the elements which enter into the composition of a mi
neral, confidence has hitherto been placed in the statement, that
amongst the bases which are precipitated by the alkalies or their carbo
nates, magnesia was entirely redissolved by the addition of a solution
of hydrochlorate of ammonia, and that this method has been generally
used to separate this substance from other bases, such as lime, alu
mina, &c. &c. It is a well-known fact that hydrochlorate of ammonia
has the property of dissolving with facility many insoluble or diffi

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.                 541
culily soluble bodies ; this is the case with tartrate of lime, chloride
of silver, and the recently precipitated carbonates of nickel and zinc,
&c : but onethntismuch less known is, that recently precipitated car
bonate of lime does not wholly resist the solvent power of this salt,
which is likely to cause error, and lead us to imagine that lime is
magnesia in analyses, particularly when the first occurs only in mi
nute quantities.
    Thus when a solution of sulphate of lime is decomposed by an al
kaline carbonate, the precipitated carbonate of lime easily redissolves
in a solution of hydrochlorate of ammonia. Again, when very dilute
solutions of chloride of calcium and nitrate of lime are decomposed
by an excess of carbonate of potash, so as to leave no traces of lime
in the supernatant liquid, by the addition of a concentrated solution
of this ammoniacal salt the precipitate entirely disappears. These
clear solutions of carbonate of lime in hydrochlorate of ammonia be
come turbid by exposure to the air, and a portion of carbonate of
lime is again deposited ; but there always remains a certain quantity-
dissolved which cannot be precipitated even by boiling the clear solu
tion.
    If precipitated carbonate of lime is washed with a sufficient
quantity of water, it does not dissolve, after a lapse of twenty-four
hours, so easily in the ammoniacal salt as when just precipitated ; and
even if the precipitate is not washed, but suffered to remain in the
 liquid from which it has been precipitated, its solubility in hydro
chlorate of ammonia, although not prevented, is considerably dimi
 nished.
    Even the natural compact varieties of carbonate of lime, and the
 minerals into which it enters, do not completely resist the solvent
 power of this salt of ammonia. Calcareous spar or Carrara marble
 finely powdered, and merely shaken for a few minutes with a solution
 of this salt, affords a solution, which contains, after filtration, a notable
 portion of lime. This solubility of carbonate of lime in hydrochlorate
 of ammonia is, however, very much less than that of carbonate of
 magnesia.
    Carbonate of barytes recently precipitated from a dilute solution of
 the chloride of barium by carbonate of potash, disappears on the addi
 tion of a solution of hydrochlorate of ammonia. This is also partially
 the case when native carbonate of barytes, in powder, is mixed with
 a solution of the ammoniacal salt and then filtered : by evaporation
 of the liquor, a residue is obtained which contains some chloride of
 barium. The solvent power of sal ammoniac is equally exerted on
 recently precipitated carbonate of strontia.
    When carbonate of magnesia has been dried at the temperature of
 boiling water, it becomes much more difficult, and takes a much longer
 time, to dissolve in the ammoniacal solution than when recently preci
 pitated. The concentrated solution of carbonate of magnesia in hy
 drochlorate of ammonia becomes turbid by exposure to air, but does
  not deposit any magnesia by ebullition.
     At first sight it may seem singular that the earthy carbonates be
 fore mentioned should lose their solubility in hydrochlorate of ammonia;
  but this may be explained by admittiug that by repose they acquire

 512           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
a greater degree of cohesion, and approach the crystalline state,
which would naturally diminish their solubility.
    To conclude: the preceding experiments show, 1st, that the solu
bility of an earthy carbonate in hydrochlorate of ammonia will not
authorize us to conclude that the precipitate is magnesia ; 2nd, that
freshly precipitated carbonate of lime, and also both marble and cal
careous spar, are dissolved by this salt ; 3rd, that carbonate of ba-
rytes recently precipitated, and also witherite and carbonate of stron-
tia, are likewise dissolved by this agent; 4th, and lastly, that the so
lution of the above-mentioned earthy carbonates affords, by its de
composition, carbonate of ammonia and a chloride of the base.—
L'lastitut, Sept. 28, 1836, and Jour,fur Prackt. Chimie, No. 7, 1836.
    Note. The importance of the above notice of M. Vogel, in the
analysis of those earthy minerals, in the course of which the earth is
precipitated from a hydrochloric solution by carbonate of ammonia,
has reminded me of some unfinished and hitherto neglected experi
ments which were made in the early part of this year, on the mutual
 action of hydrochlorate of ammonia and the carbonates of lime, ba-
rytes, and strontia ; and as these lead to exactly the same conclusion
as that at which M. Vogel has arrived, viz. the mutual decomposition
of hydrochlorate of ammonia and the earthy carbonates, I am now in
duced to notice them, as they tend to confirm a fact which must so
greatly affect the analysis of many minerals, especially those contain
 ing magnesia.
    One equivalent, or 54 grains, of hydrochlorate of ammonia was dis
solved in a few ounces of distilled water, and to this solution wan added
an equivalent, or 98 grains, of perfectly dry carbonate of barytes,
obtained by precipitating a solution of the chloride of barium by one
of sesquicarbonate of ammonia ; this mixture was then boiled for
about four hours, occasionally renewing the water which had been
evaporated. During the ebullition, particularly at the commencement,
carbonate of ammonia was disengaged, and at the expiration of four
hours a perfectly clear solution was procured, consisting of chloride
of barium and a trace of hydrochlorate of ammonia, but without the
slightest trace of carbonic acid.
    Equivalents of precipitated carbonate of strontia, 74 grains, and
hydrochlorate of ammonia, 54 grains, treated in the same manner,
were boiled for eight hours : long before the expiration ot this time
the vapour had ceased to exhibit the slightest traces of carbonate of
ammonia; the solution filtered left 3'34 grains of carbonate of stiontia
undecomposed ; the solution, consisting of chloride of strontium,
 when boiled with caustic soda, did not afford the slightest indication
 of ammonia ; it is therefore most probable that the whole of the hy
drochlorate of ammonia in this experiment was decomposed.
    Equivalents of carbonate of lime (precipitated) and hydrochlorate
of ammonia, boiled together for eight hours, left '97 grains of carbo
nate of lime, and the solution, when treated with soda, afforded traces
of ammonia.
   These experiments not only confirm M. Vogel's conclusion, but they
also show that, by an elevation of temperature, the mutual decompo
sing power of these bodies is materially increased ; and it must now

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.              543
be a question whether at comparatively low temperatures, 32° of Fahr.,
for instance, this power is, or is not, completely suspended. This
winter, if opportunity offers, a few experiments shall be made to de
termine this point, and their results, if of any interest, noticed.
                                                 J. Dknham Smith.
   METHOD OF DETECTING- SULPHUROUS ACID IN THE HYDRO
                     CHLORIC ACID OF COMMERCE.
   This process is founded on the action that protochloride of tin exerts
on sulphurous acid. Pelletier, sen., noticed {Ann. de Chimie, tome
xii. page 231, 1792,) that when solutions of these substances are
mixed, the salt of tin deoxidizes the sulphurous acid, and affords a
beautiful yellow precipitate, consisting of sulphur and peroxide of tin.
   The mode of proceeding is as follows : Put about half an ounce of
the hydrochloric acid which is to be tested into a glass, and then add
about a quarter of an ounce of the salt of tin, such as is very white
and not altered by exposure to the air : stir these together, and then
add about two or three times its bulk of distilled water, and mix well.
   When the hydrochloric acid does not contain sulphurous acid, no
particular action ensues on the addition of the chloride of tin and the
water ; the salt of tin dissolves, and the solution is merely rendered
slightly turbid by the action of the air.
   But should the hydrochloric acid contain sulphurous acid, it will
be seen, that on the addition of the salt of tin, the acid becomes tur
bid and yellow, and then, on adding the distilled water, the odour of
hydrosulphuric acid will be easily distinguished, the .liquid will be-
become of a brown tint, and deposit a powder of the same colour.
These phatnoniena are so distinct that we cannot hesitate for an in
stant as to the presence or absence of sulphurous acid.
   Sometimes the brown coloui is not developed until after the lapse
of a few minutes, and the larger the proportion of sulphurous acid
the darker is the shade produced. The disengagement of hydrosul
 phuric acid occurs at the time the mixture is diluted with water ; by
standing, the liquor deposits a yellowish brown powder, consisting of
sulphuretand peroxide of tin. The reason of this curious reaction is
easily explained. One portion of the salt of tin is converted into
perchloride at the expense of another portion of this compound, and
the tin set free from this decomposition acts on the sulphurous acid
so as to produce at the same time both peroxide and protosulphuret
of tin. The hydrosulphuric acid which is disengaged immediately
after the addition of the water is owing to the hydrochloric acid acting
on a part of the sulphuret of tin ; chloride of tin is again formed, and
 hydrosulphuric acid gas liberated.
   To obtain the phaenomena described it is necessary to add the salt
of tin to the hydrochloric acid before the addition of the water, for if
we commence by diluting the acid, the addition of the salt does not
produce any discolouration. This test is one of such delicacy and ac
curacy that M. Girardin, the author, assures us that it will detect a one
hundredth part of sulphurous acid in a sample of hydrochloric acid.—
Ann. de Chim. et de Phys., March 1836.

   544                     Meteorological Observations.
                    ON PLATINA. BY J. W. DOBEREINER.
       When native platina is fused with twice its weight of pure zinc,
  this alloy, after cooling, pulverizes ; and put into moderately dilute
  sulphuric acid until the action has ceased, and then heated with very
  dilute nitric acid, assisted by heat, a residue is obtained which, after
  washing with water, consists of undissolved iridium, osmium, and, in
  silver coloured grains, a heavy blackish-grey powder, composed of
  platinum, palladium, iridium, rhodium, and osmium.
      This compound metallic powder possesses the same properties as
  the platina separated from its alloy of potassium or iron, which J.W.
  Dobereiner has examined and frequently described. It absorbs and
  condenses oxygen gas, and is such an oxidizing agent, that it not only
  converts the oxalic and formic acids into carbonic acid, and alcohol
  first into acetal, next into aldehyd, and then into acetic acid, but also
'converts the contained osmium into osmic acid, which sublimes at a
   gentle heat, or can be dissolved out by an alkaline solution. In the
   latter case the oxidizing properties of this metallic powder are still
  increased, and a preparation obtained which not only suddenly ignites
   hydrogen gas, but also the vapours- of pyroxylic spirit and alcohol,
  and detonates when heated on platina foil, a property Descotils pointed
  out fifty-five years ago, but which has not been since noticed.
       This powder is dissolved in aqua regia nearly as easily as gold.
       Muriatic acid destroys its property of absorbing oxygen gas; so that
  it ceases to detonate on heating, or to act metallically (melalylisch,
  byasheating
  or            it with
          Berzelius  callsait,solution
                                catalylisch,)
                                         of a fixed
                                                on thealkali,     former power
                                                        aboveitssubstances        is re
                                                                           : however,   <
  stored.— Poggendorff"'s Annals.
        METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS FOR OCTOBER 1836.
      Chiswick.—Oct. 1, 2. Stormy with rain. 3. Heavy rain: boisterous :
 clear and frosty at night. 4. Frosty : fine. 5. Hazy : very fine. 6. Hazy,
 with rain. 7. Overcast : rain. 8. Dense clouds : rain at night. 9. Clear
 and fine. 10. Heavy rain. 11 — IB. Boisterous. 14. Fine. 15. Showery.
   16— 18. Foggy.        19. Very fine.        20—26. Foggy in the mornings : fine.
  27. Showery : clear and cold. 28. Cloudy and very cold : north-west wind.
  29. Snow.        30. Clear: snow yet remaining on ths ground.              31. Sharp
 frost: fine. The depth of snow on the morning of the 29th was nearly
 three inches ; and during the day there were stormy showers of snow in
 very broad flakes. Notwithstanding the bright sunshine on the following
 day, the snow generally still continued to cover the ground.
     Boston.—Oct. 1. Rain. 2. Cloudy. 3. Rain. 4, 5. Fine. 6. Fine:
 rain p.m. ; 7. Fine. 8. Cloudy. 9. Fine : rain early a.m.                  10. Rain.
  1 1. Stormy : very stormy night : ruin early a.m. 12.Fine. 13, 14. Cloudy.
 IS. Cloudy : rain early a.m.: rain a.m. 16.Fine. 17. Cloudy. ls.Cloudy:
 rain p.m.       19. 20. Fine.         21, 22. Cloudy.        23. Fine.    24. Foggy.
 25. Cloudy. 26. Fine. 27. Stormy : rain early a.m. 28. Fine : ice this
 morning. 29. Snow : snow six inches deep. 30. Fine : hail-storm early
 a.m.      Correspondent
     Our 31.  Fine : great Mr.deal Veall
                                    of snow      thefollowing
                                          addsonthe  ground. note:
     " I am in possession of journals of the weather kept at Boston during
the last twenty years, but do not find such a fall of snow recorded in the
month of October."

        a*
         oby
        pRoyal
MeObtAmade
      the
      seof
        at Society
          rthe osrMr.
           AaSvby                                        tHrnoSCry,nehotI.atAT.in«HA.,cVcoluinm¦tedrjuctnrak,url.
                           gs;nGatrioetcamnor,Irptlds,aeoJ
                  eltTiochmthe                                                                                                  Jew-point.
                                                                                                                                                                    Boston.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10                                                                                                                    04                              273
                                                                                                                                                                                             •05•48      •47 •25 •03                          •57                        . ¦41                      •02 •06            13 •23                                    ..                                   •50
                                                                                                                                                                I(i sw.                                                                 78 14                                                                                                                                                                      632
                                                                                                                                                                                             ¦39 •04 ¦04                                             ¦25 •09 •36 •01 ¦20 •03 ¦02 06                                         01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ¦01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              01               :15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                •42
                                                                                                                                                 Lon:donChRoy. iSoc.sw. 9A.M.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                 752 091                                                       061                                                                                             033 Sum 0363
                                                                                                                                                                                           •125 •294 •380 '* •036                                        •283 •133 ¦080 •097 •17229-853           30051. .                •158                   .                                    •080 •288
                                                                                                                                                                Boft.                          SE. NW. N. caltn calm caln calm NE. NW. NW. NW. NW.                                                          Calm calm calm calm calm calm calm calm calm calm calm NW. calm calm30019calm calm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       w. W. E.
                                                                                                                                                                         11'.M.              s. sw. w. sw. sw. SE. S. 3. S. SW, sw. sw. sw. sw. 8. E. s. w. s. SE. E. sw. w. sw. KW. NW. NW. NW.
                                                                                                                       Wind.                                                                                                                                                                                      E.                                          SW.                               N.
                                                                                                                                             Lon:don Roy.  Soc
                                                                                                                                                                        9A.M.                 se.var.           s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                v awr.                                            sr.var.             sw.var.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         sw. s w. s e. ESE. SE. S E. s. s w. s. sw. E. s w. E. S E. SW. sw. ESE. E. E. S W. SW. S W. sw. WSW. s.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      w. w.
                                                                                                                                                        Boston H     A.M                                                                     56-5
                                                                                                                                                                                            46 47 43 45 46 45 56 51 51-5 55-5 51 53 55 53 47 54 56 56 44 47 48-5 4748 53 52 48 35 34 36 30-5 48-
                                                                                                                                            1Chiswick. Min. 41 41 29 34 36 52 50 40 46 53 41 50 51 49 39 51 52 53 36 36 42 35 39 46 47 47 34 23 27 23 26 23
                                                                                                                    Thermo et r.                                                    Max. 54 54 55 61 63 59 61 61 60 65 60 61 61 60 64 60 57 63 64 55 56 58 59 53 54 54 53 42 37 40 41 65
                                                                                                                                                                           1i" 'if: Max. 55-3 52-5 52-2 533 56-2 57-2 590 56-3 60-6 58-8 58-7 592 58-5 593 570 56-5 61-2 59-4 50-3 52-6 538 55-2 53-2 52-7
                                                                                                                                           LRoy.
                                                                                                                                            Soc.on:don                                                                                              577                                                                                                             51-3 47-7 40-6 342 377 393 53-5
                                                                                                                                                                                            41-5 42-9 434 393 40-4 43-3 48-6 527 473 48-4 53-8 46-9 51-5 51-3 510 46-4 48-2 52-8 544 41-8 44-8 458 404 43
                                                                                                                                                                    CI* Min.                                                                                                                                                                                9 517 487 48-8 37"2 336 32-9 300 453
                                                                                                                                                                    Falir. A9.M 52-3 479 43-8 45-2 446 493 56-6 54-8 517 545 557 52-4 58-7 545 556 48-8 53-4 56-2 576 46-2 49-2 49-3 49-5 49-6 50-9 51-8 40-2 356 35-2 33-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     447                                                         493
                                                                                                                                                      Boston. Hi  A.M                    28-90 28-65  29194 28-940
                                                                                                                                                                                                             28-55     29-457 29-869
                                                                                                                                                                                                             29-430 29622
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2893   2935    2942 28-95 2883 28-85 2873 2846 29-0 28-50 29-10 293429-68 29-65 29-52 29-56 2990 29-81 29852988 29-82 29-67 29-62 29-10 29-45 292329-68 2974 29-28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              29-956 29-525
                                                                                                                                                                                         28-959                                                   374 2937529284 182
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            29374 29                      29- 29194 29093 29-740 29857 30-       170 30-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           193 30-   139 30224 30-396 30-310 30-397 30400 30-340 30209 30010 29700 29710 29495 30014 30-13 28-940
                                                                                                                  Barometer.                                                      Min.
                                                                                                                                                     Chiswick.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      29-354                          29929 29528 29-385 29-433 29376 29394 29-589 29453 29952 30-231 30202 169
                                                                                                                                                                                  Max. 29393                                                                                                                         30- 30426 30-495 30-334 30-413 30-436 30-417 30-280 30-201 30011 29-945 29-865 30-184 30141 30-495
                                                                                                                                            IAijndon Roy. Soc.
                                                                                                                                                                       A9.M. 29356 29247 29008 29-497 29-8-29 29-853 29-511 29-386 29360 29219 29-247 29-606 29-                    140 29-782 30229 30-210 30-174 30241 30-469 30-3 2 30-398 30-408 30-394 30-371 30-   196 29663 29-913 29-473 30-089 29-822
                                                                                                                       D^ys
                                                                                                                       of Month.                                                                     2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     10                                                 9. T.            li.
                                                                                                                                                        1836'. Oct.       '                                                                                                        13.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Th.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Th.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6.                                                                                       Th.20.
                                                                                                                                                                                         s.1.                3. T.
                                                                                                                                                                                                             M.        4 5.  w. F.          7. S. ©            10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M. W.         12. F.          14. S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 15. 1O6. D      . 18. W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M17.T.    19. F.      21. S. 22. O  23. O M24.. T.25. W. 26. T. 27.F.28. S.  29. O  30. M.31.

                         INDEX to VOL. IX.
A. M. H., description of the harvest-        Astronomy :—on the solar eclipse of
   bug, 15.                                     May 15, 1836, 73; aurora borealis,
Acetate of copper, new species of, 395.         44, 73,230; meteors in India, 74;
Acids :—acetic, 78, 1 1 1 ; arsenious, 230 ;    on the latitude of Mr. Snow's ob
   benzoic, 78; carbonic, 12, 77, 78,           servatory at Ashurst, 291; transits
   111, 153,327 ; chlorochlomic, 152;           of the moon and stars observed at
   chloro-chromic, 12; chromic, 152;            Argos, 292; observation of Halley's
   formic, 149; hydriodic, 76; hydro-           comet, 292 ; transit of Mercury over
   bromic, 149; hydrochloric, 78, 151,          the sun's disc, May 5, 1832, 293;
   255; hydrocyanic, 314; hydrofluoric,         Denmark royal medal for cometary
   77, 107, 152; hvdroleic, 153; hydro-         discoveries, 294; Sir J. Herschel"s
   stearic, 1 53 ; liydrosulphuric, 255,        catalogue of double stars observed at
   316; hydroxanthic, 317; hyponi-              Slough, 295 ; ephemeris of Halley's
   trous, 77; iodic, 76; margaric, 153;         comet, 296.
   metamargaric, 153; molybdic, 232;         -¦Ether, action of bromine upon, 149 r
   monohydrated sulpho-carbetheric,             hydrosulphuric and hydroselenic,3 1 8;
   317; muriatic, 12, 232, 233; nitric,         facts relative to, 395.
   12, 53, 77, 113, 122, 259; nitro-         Atomic confusion, 317.
   hydrochloric, 113; oxalic, 78, 155;       Aurora borealis, 73, 230 ; phenomenon
   phosphoric, 75, 154, 261; phospho-           connected with the, 44.
   vinic, 396; sulphocarbic, 313; sul-       Austen (R. A. C.) on the geology of part
   phocetic 1 54 ; sulphocyanic, 443 ; sul-     of Devonshire between the Ex and
   pholeic 153; sulphomargaric, 153;            Berry Head and the coast and Dart
   sulphostearic, 153; sulphovinic, 154,        moor, 495.
   318 ; sulphuric, 12, 78, 87, 152, 153,    Babbage(C), notice of a remarkable
   1 54, 26 1 , 322, 396 ; sulphurous, 543 ;    paradox in the calculus of functions
   tungstic, 232.                               Mr. Graves' explanation of, S34, 443.
Air, compressed, its effects on the hu       Babylon and Babel, on the non-iden
   man body, 147 ; heated, its conduct          tity of, 34.
   ing power for electricity, 176, 452.      Barlow (P.) on gradients on railroads,
Albumen, new combinations of, 109.              380.
Algebraic elimination, theorem of, 28.       Barytes and strontia, hydrates of, 87.
America, North, on the carboniferous         Beke (C. T.) on the Persian Gulf, and
   series of, 124, 407.                         on the non-identity of Bab} Ion and
Ammonia, muriate of, 232 ; hydro-               Babel, 34.
   chlorate of, solubility of carbonate of   Bennett (E. T.) on several rodent ani
   lime in, 540 ; iodate of, 443.               mals, 68 ; remarks on the Indian an
Andrews (Dr.) on the conducting power           telope, 306, 310; on the brush-tailed
   of certain flames and of heated air          kangaroo, 388.
   for electricity, 176.                     Berthier (M.) on the magnetic action
Antelope, Abyssinian, 1 42 ; Indian, 306 ;      of manganese, 65.
   Chiru, 306.                               Berzelius (Prof.) on meteoric stones,
Antimonial copper, 149.                         429.
Apjohn (Dr.) on certain statements re        Bibromide of mercury, 148.
   lative to his hygromctrical researches    Bimana, Quadrumana, and Pcdimtma,
   made by Dr. Hudson, 187.                     on the natural affinities which sub
Argonauta hums, Lam., description of            sist between the, 302.
   the shell and animal of, 301.             Bird (G.) on certain new combinations
Arragonite, artificial crystals of, 230.        of albumen, with an account of some
Arsenious acid, reducing powers of, 230.        curious properties of that substance,
Artificial crystals and minerals, method        109.
   of making, 229, 537.                      Birds, notes on various, 66, 139, 141,
Astronomical Society, 291.                      142, 147, 227, 503, 511, 512, 552.

                                      INDEX.                                         547
Birt (VV. R.), meteorological observa Chimpanzee, dissection of the, 388.
   tions made during the solar eclipse Clrironccles Yapock, Desm., 610.
    of May 1 5, 393.                         Christie (S. H.) on Capt. Back's mag-
Bishop (J.) on the physiology of the             netical observations, 523, 529.
   human voice, 201, 269, 342.               Chromium with fluorine and chlorine,
Bitumens, constitution of, 487.                  combinations of, 151.
Boase (Dr.) on Mr. Hopkins's "Re Chronometers, glass a substitute for
   searches in Physical Geology," 4 ;            metal balance-springs in, 381.
    Mr. Hopkins's reply to, 171, 366.        Clarke (E. M.), description of his mag
Bonnet (G.) on the reducing powers of            netic electrical machine, 262.
   arsenious acid, 230.                      Coal, in Coalbrook Dale, 383 ; at Dud
Botany, 17, 371, 372.                           ley and Wolverhampton, 383 ; in the
Brain of the ne»ro, on the, 527.                 United States, 124; on the coast of
Brewster (Sir D.) on the optical pro            Cumberland, 501.
   perties of chabasie, 170.                 Coalbrook Dale, geology of, 382.
British Association, 228, 312; list of the Colour, dependent on molecular ar
   council appointed at Bristol, 312;           rangement, 2 ; changes of colour in
   reports undertaken for the next meet         iodide of mercury, 2.
   ing, 312; grants for the advancement Comet, Halley's, 292; ephemeris of,
   of particular branches of science, 312.      296; Denmark royal medal for coinet-
Broderip (W. J.) on the genus Mitra,            ary discoveries, 291.
   Lam., 136.                                Conchology, 32, 1 36, 224, 244, 350, 390,
Bromine, its action upon sether, 149.           498.
Calcareous spar, artificial, 230.            Coordinates, on the relativesignsof,249.
Callan (Rev. N. J.) on a new galvanic Copper, antimonial, 149 ; acetate of,
   battery, 472.                                new species of, 395; sulphates of cop
Cambridge Philosophical Society, 71.            per and iron, action of oxalic acid on
Caoutchouc, volatile liquid from, 321,           155.
   479.                                      Cornwall, geology of, 7.
Carbohydrogen, new combinations of, Cowries, hitherto undescribed, 138.
   77.                                       Craig (Rev. E.J on microscopic chemis
Carbonate of lime, its solubility in hy-        try, 10.
   drochlorate of ammonia, 540.              Crattchia tcabra. Leach, 298.
Carboniferous series of N. America, on Crosse (A.) on the production of arti
   the, 124, 407.                              ficial crystals and minerals, 229.
Cathedrals, destruction of painted glass Crystallization, remarkable changes in
   in, 458.                                     the character of, 13; on the water
Cathedral choirs, neglect and decay of,         of crystallization of soda-alum, 26.
   458.                                      Crystals, artificial, 229,537; optical phe
Cautley (Capt.) on the Sivatherium gi-          nomena of certain, 288.
  ganteum, 193.                              Cumberland, on the coal-fields of, 501.
Cavy, new species of, 69.                    Cuming (Mr.) description of the shells
Cephalopoda, new or rare, 298.                  in his collection, 136.
Cervus, new species of, 39 1 ; remarks Dalton (Dr.) on certain liquids obtained
   on the genus, 518.                           from caoutchouc, 479.
Chabasie, optical properties of, 1 66, 1 70. Daniell (Prof.) on voltaic combinations,
Chciropoda, proposed name for all mam           376.
   mals possessed of hands, 306.             Davidsonite, a new metal in, 156, 256.
Chemical action, modes for examining Decrepitation, on, 316.
   under the microscope the phseno- De la Rue (W.) on voltaic electricity,
   mena of, 10.                                 484.
       electricity, 53.                      Derbyshire, on the limestone and grit
       flames, on the spectra of, 3.            stone district of, 173.
   advancement
       science, grants   of money for the Devonshire, geology of part of, 495.
                   of, 314.
                                             Dew-point, on the, 187, 398.
Chemistry, microscopic, on, 2, 10.           Diamond, probability ofbeing made, 230.
Children (J. G.), notice respecting Dr. Diffraction, experiments on, 403.
   Ehrenberg's collections of dried In- Disjota, on the Rev. J. H. Pratt's de
  ftuoria, and other microscopic ob             monstration of a proposition in the
  jects, 90.                                    Mecanique Cilestc, 84,

548                                      INDEX.
Dispersion of light, on the formula for Forbes (Prof.) on the supposed origin
   the, 116.                                     of the deficient rays in the solar
Divergence of plants, 1 7.                        spectrum, 522.
Doebereiner (M.) on several new com            Fossils: — genera Pseudammonilcs and
   binations of platinum, a 14, 544.              Ichlhyotiagonites, 32 ; Sivatherium gi-
Dog, want of sagacity in a, 67.                  ganteum, 193, 277; fossil remains,
Donium, a new metal, 156; experi                  244, 35C, 354, 386, 490, 498 ; fossil
   ments on, 255.                                 wood, 499 ; of the London clay, 462.
Dufresnoy (M.), analysis of plomb- Fox (R. W.) on the change in the che
   gomme, 75.                                     mical character of minerals induced
Eclipse, solar, of May 15, 1836, 73.              by galvanism, 228 ; on the formation
Egerton (Sir P. G.) on the peculiari              of mineral veins, 387.
    ties of structure in the cervical re Fractions, vanishing, theory of, 18, 92,
   gion of the ichthyosaurus, 500.                209.
Ehrenberg (Dr.), uotice of his collec Functions, calculus of, on a paradox
    tions of dried Infusoria, and other           in, SS4, 443.
    microscopic objects, 90; new disco         Galvanism :—spectra of galvanic flames,
   very in palaeontology, 1 58, 392.              3 ; galvanic pile, its application to
Electricity :— on the conducting power            chemical substances under the mi
    ofcertain flames and of heated air for,       croscope, 1 3 ; difference between gal
    176; difference between mechanical            vanic and mechanical electricity, 212;
    and galvanic, 212; M. Nobili's dis            change in the chemical character of
    coveries in, 234; electro-pulsations          minerals by, 228 ; new galvanic bat
    and electro-momentum, 132; voltaic,           tery, 472. '
    due to chemical action, and not to Garner (It.) on the anatomy of the la-
    contact, 60 ; on the construction of          lamellibranchiate conchiferous ani
    voltaic batteries, 283 ; new electro          mals, 224.
    chemical phenomena, 53; electro            Gaseous interference, on, 324.
    magnet, its feeble attraction for small Gastricjuiceofdogs, composition of, 1 48.
    particles of iron, 72, 220, 287 ; elec Glass-painting, on the art of, 456.
    tro-magnet and permanent magnet, Geological Soeiety, 382, 489.
    certain differences between, 81 ; con      Geology :— Mr. Hopkins's Researches
    ducting power of iodine for, 450 ; re         in Physical Geology, 4, 171, 366 ;
    markable results of electro-magnetic          fossil genera Pseudammonites and Jch-
    experiments, 452 , voltaic, 484.               thyosiagonites, 32 ; carboniferous sc
 Entomology:—harvest-bug, 15; Aphro-              ries ot North America, 124, 407;
    phora Goudoti, 139 ; lulus Seychclla-         geology of Manchester, 157 ; Mr.
    rum, Desj., 1 40 ; respiration of in           Hopkins's reply to Dr. Boase, 171 ;
    sects, 532.                                    the Sivatherium giganieum, 193,277;
 Equations of the fifth degree, 28.                on the limestones found in the vici
 Ethal, on, 154.                                   nity of Manchester, 24 1, 348 ; grants
 Ettrick (\V.) on the solar eclipse of             cf money for the advancement of
     May 15, 1836, and on the aurora bo-           geology, 312; on the beds immedi
    realis of April 22, 73.                        ately above the chalk near London,
 Falconer (Dr.) on the Sivather'uim gi-            356 ; geology ofCoalbrook Dale, 382 ;
    ganteum, 193, 277.                             formation of mineral veins, 387 ; on
 Faraday (Prof.) on a peculiar voltaic             the silurian and other rocks of the
     condition of iron, 57, 1 22.                  Dudley and Wolverhampton coal
 Fermentation, vinous, acetous, and pu             field, 489 ; on the part of Devonshire
     trefactive, 535.                              between the Ex and Berry Head and
 Fish, notes on various species of, 67,            the coast and Dartmoor, 495; a no
     139, 140, 352, 391, 490, 507 ; mode           tice on Maria Island, 496 ; on the
     of preservation peculiarly adapted            occurrence of marine shells in a bed
 Flames,
     for travellers
            chemical,overspectra
                           land, 391.
                                 of, 3 ; galva     of gravel at Narley Bank, 497 ; on
                                                   the upper lias and marlstone of York
     nic, spectra of, 4 ; conducting power         shire, 497; tooth of a mastodon,
  Fluorine,
     of flameson,
                for 107,
                    electricity,
                           149; fluorine
                                  176.     and     499 ; remarks on fossil woods, 499 ;
                                                   peculiarities of structure in the cer
     chlorine, combinations of chromium            vical region of the ichthyosaurus,
     with, 151.                                    500 ; on the coal-fields on the N.W.

                                              INDEX.                                             549
Gergonne's
  coast
  fossils of the Cumberland,
                     London
                 Annates         clay,   ; on thet Humboldt (Baron) on advancing the
                                    501 462.
                             de Mathen.atiques,
                                                        knowledge of terrestrial magnetism,
   a theorem from, 100.                                 42. of potash, crystallized, 151 ; of
                                                     Hydrate
   during, 536.chemical changes in seed
Germination,                                            barytes and strontia,
                                                     Hydrochloric                  87. of detect
                                                                        acid, method
Giraffe,
   144, 512.
          account of the capture of the,                ing sulphurous and
                                                     Hydrosulphuric               hydroselenic
                                                                            acid in,  543.         a-
Gold, on the iodides, 266.                              thers, 318. 67,
                                                     Hygrometrical
                                                     Ichthyology,            139, 140,187,352,
                                                                         researches,         398.391,
   in
   Society,
Gould   (J.),collection
       the      66,
                descriptions
                     142, 227,
                             of of522.
                                  the  Zoological
                                     various  birds
   crystallization
Graham       (Prof. T.)       on the water
                       of soda-alum,      26. of        490, 507. peculiarities of structure
                                                     Ichthyosaurus,
                                                        in the cervical region of^ 500.
Graves (J. T.),explanation of a remark               IrhtAyosiagonet, on the fossil genus, 32.
   functions,
   able paradox   334, 443.
                         in the calculus of          Infusoria, collections of dried, 90; tri-
                                                        poli wholly composed of infusorial
Gravitation,
  the law of,simple333, 370.
                           method of proving            exuviae, 158, 392.
                                                     Inglis (Dr.) on the conducting power of
Gregory
Gray
   515;(Mr.)
   518.
   with    remarks
          descriptions
            (Dr.)on     the
                        a volatile
                    on on  ofthe
                               genus
                               two   new
                                       liquid
                                   genus Motchus,
                                           Cervus,
                                               pro
                                           species,  Insects,
                                                        iodinerespiration
                                                                 for electricity,
                                                     Interference,    gaseous,of,324
                                                                                  532.
                                                                                    450.
                                                                                      ; interference
                                                        of light, 401. ,
                                                     Iodide, of lead, remarkable property of,
   cured from caoutchouc by destruc                     405; of meYcury, microscopical ex
Halley's
Hamilton      (Prof.292
   tive distillation,
           comet,       Sir
                         321.
                           ; ephemeris     of, 296.
                              W. R.), theorem           amination of, I ; iodides of gold,
                                                        266. microscopic history of, 13; its
                                                     Iodine,
Hare
   ing
   connected
       (Dr.)
        equationsonwithofthe
                     the   difference
                          the  question
                                fifth degree,   28.
                                          between
                                           of solv-     action on organic salifiable bases, 76 ;
                                                     Iridium,
                                                        electrical
                                                     Iodous   acid,
                                                                 osmium,
                                                                     conducting
                                                                     methodand     preparing,
                                                                                    power of, 442.
                                                                               of platinum,     450.
                                                                                               some
   mechanical and galvanic electricity,
                                                        triple
                                                     Iron,      combinations
                                                             action              of, 2S2.
                                                                     of nitric acid    upon, 53,57,
Harvest-bug,
Heat,
Heart,
   213.has
Henry    (Dr.
         safety-valve
              it W.
                 weight
                   description
                      C),?of  396.
                               the,of525.
                                      the, 15.
                            experiments      on ga
                                                        122,
                                                     Iron        copper,
                                                            and259;         sulphates
                                                                      periodide         of, action of
                                                                                  of, 79.
                                                        oxalic
                                                     Ivory        on such
                                                             (J.)action        155.
                                                                          on,functions    as can be
   seous interference,
Hermann       (R.) on some324.   triple combina
                                                        expressed by serieses of periodic
   tions of chloride of osmium, iridium,                terms,
                                                     J. J.,       method of taking deep sound
                                                            new161.
   and platinum, with chloride of po
   tassium and muriate ofammonia,2S2.                    O. H.,
                                                     J. ings  in the   ocean,
                                                                  direct        185.
                                                                           demonstration      of the
Heron (Sir R.), notes on the kangaroo,
   67 ; on the want of sagacity in a dog,               rule for the multiplication of nega
   67 ; on the breeding of curassows,                   tive signs,
                                                     Johnson           H.) on the divergence of
                                                                 (Dr.540.
   double
    121. stars,
Herschel      (Sir J.295.
                        F. W.), catalogue of            plants, (Prof.)
                                                     Johnston     17.      on the cause of certain
Hodgson (B. H.) on the Scolopacidee of                  optical properties of cbabasie, 166;
   Nipal, 143 ; on a new species of Cer-             King
                                                        on (J.
                                                             the W.)
                                                     Kangaroo,         on on
                                                                 iodides
                                                                   notes   thegold,
                                                                           of  the,  206.388. of the
                                                                                     67,
                                                                                safety-valve
   mu, 391.
Holland (P. W.) on the question, has
Hopkins's
   heat weight?Researches
                       396. in Physical Geo             heart,
                                                     King        525.P. P.), notes on several ro
                                                            (Capt.
Human
Hudson
   logy, 4,body,
               171,effects
           (Dr.),   reply        compressed398.
                     366. toofDr.Apjohn,         air    dent animals from the Straits of Ma-
                                                        galhaens, 68.
                                                     Knox (G. J., and the Rev. T.) on fluo
   on, 147.
Human      voice, physiology of the, 20),               rine, 107.
                                                     Lamellibranchiate         conchifcrous ani
    269, 342.                                           mals, anatomy of the, 224.

                                       INDEX.
Laplace's analytical theory for the at      Meteorological observations, 79, 159,
   traction of spheroids, 161.                239, 319, 399,544.
Lardner (Dr.) on the theory of railways, Meteorological table:—for May, 80 j
   377.                                       June, 160; July, 240; August, 320;
   May 15
Lawson    (HO      the527.
             andon16,   solar spots as seen   Sept., 400; Oct., 545.
                                            Meteors observed in India, 74.
   405.iodide of, remarkable property of, Methylene, new combinations of, 77.
Lead,
                                            Microscope, polarizing, 288.
Life, on the powers on which its func       Microscopic chemistry, on, 2, 10.
   tions depend, 530.                             objects, dried, 90.
Light, on the formula for the dispersion Mineral veins, 8, 387; method of imi
   of, 116; experiments on the interfe        tating, 229.
   rence of, 401 ; undulatory theory of, Mineralogy:—antimonial copper, 149;
   420.                                       (ionium,a new metal, 1 56, 255; change
Locomotive engines upon railway?, 135.        in the chemical character of minerals
Logarithms of unity, 252.                     induced by galvanism, 228 ; artificial
Loligo, a small nondescript, 299.             crystals and minerals, 229, 537 ; com
Lubbock (J. W.) on a property of the          position of plagionite, 232; new
   Parabola, 100; on the tides at the         mode of analysis of closely aggregated
     ort of Londun, 528.                      minerals, 76.
M. F. Aurora borealis of Aug. 10, 230. Mitchell (Dr.) on the beds immediately
MacGauley (Rev. J. W.) on some re             above the chalk near Loudon, 356.
   markable results of electro-magnetic Miirantc, observations on the different
   experiments, 452.                          species of, 137.
   of the, 104.
Magnetic    Pole, South, cm the position Monkeys, some remarks on, 303.
                                            Morgan (A. De) on the relative signs of
Magnetism :—magnetic stations, esta           coordinates, 249.
   blishment of, 45; terrestrial, on ad     Moschut, Linn., two new species,
   vancing the knowledge of, 42 ; mag         515.
   netic action of manganese, 65 ; mag      Mullins (F. W.) on an improved mag
   netic reaction, 220, 287, 469; on          neto-electrical machine, 120; on the
   Capt. Back's magnetical observations,      construction of voltaic batteries, 382.
   523, 529.                                Mnrchison (R. 1.) on the fossil genera
Magneto-electrical machine, improved,         Ptcudammonitet and Ichthyosiagonitet
    120, 180, 222, 262, 360,452.              of the Solenhofen limestone, 32; on
Magnets, attractive power of, 72, 220.        the silurian and other rocks of the
Manchester, geology of the vicinity of,       Dudley and Wolverhampton coal
    157, 241, 348.                            field, 489.
Manganese, magnetic action of, 65.          Mymiecobitu, a new genus of mammi-
Martin (Mr.) on the osteology of the          f'erous animals, 520.
   sea otter, 512.                          Negro, on the brain of the, 527.
Mathematics:—vanishing fractions, 18, Newport (G.) on the respiration of
   92, 209; algebraic elimination, 28;        insects, 532.
   a property of the parabola, 100; on Nitric 'acid, its action upon iron, 53,
   such functions as can be expressed          259."
   by serieses ofperiodic terms, 161 ; on Nixon (J.), heights ofWhernside, Great
   the relative signs of coordinates, 249;     Whernside, Rumbles Moor, Pendles
   method of proving the law of gravi          Hill, and Boulsworth, 96.
   tation, 333, 370; remarkable para Nobili (M.), notice of the life and con
   dox in the calculus of functions, 334,      tributions to science of, 234.
    443; logarithms, 252, 348; multipli     Ocean, new method of taking deep
   cation of negative signs, 540.             soundings in the, 185.
Matteucci (M.), notice of the late M. Octopus, nondescript species of, 301.
    Nobili, 234.                            Ogilby ( Mr.), remarks on several Mar-
Medical science, grants of money for          iupialia, 70 ; on the opposable power
   the advancement of, 314.                   of the thumb in certain mammals,
Mercury, bibromide of, 148; iodide of,        and on the natural affinities which
   optical properties of, 1 ; native, lo       subsist between the Bimana, Quadru-
   cality of, 155.                             mana and Pcdimana, 302 ; remarks on
 Meteoric stones, on, 429.                     the Chironcctci Yapock, 510.

                                          I N D  E X.                                 551
 Oil, volatile, 155; of caoutchouc, 321,         Refraction, 166, 170.
    479.                                         Respiration of insects, 532.
 Oils, action of sulphuric acid on, 153.         Reviews :—Pambour's Treatise on Lo
    opticalscience,
 Optical            facts relating
              properties           to, 1 ,401
                          of chauasie,    1 66 ;    comotive Engines upon Ra'dways, 135;
                                                    The Botanist, 371; Gaudichaud's
    288. phenomena ofcertain crystals,
    optical                                          Vegetable Physiology, 372.
                                                 Rigg (R.) experiments on the vinous,
 Organic remains, 349,386,490, 496,462.             acetous, and putrefactive fermenta
 Ornithology, 66, 138, 139, 141, 142,               tion, 535.
     143, 147,227, 503,511, 512.                 Ritchie (Dr.), on certain differences
 Osmium, iridium, and platinum, some                between the permanent and the
    triple combinations of, 232.                    electro-magnet, 81; on certain im
 Otter, osteology of the, 512.                      provements in the magneto-elec
 Owen (R.) on some new or rare Cepha                tric machine, 223 ; on Mr. Rainey's
    lopoda, 298 ; notes on the morbid ap            theory of magnetic reaction, 287.
    pearances observed in dissecting the Rive (Prof.), notice of M. JS'ohili,
    chimpanzee, 388 ; on the anatomy                234.
    of the wombat, 504.                          Rocks, on the jointed structure of, 6,
 Oxalic acid, its action on the sulphates            172; carboniferous, of North Ame
    of iron and copper, 155.                        rica, 127 ; Silurian, 489.
 Painting on glass, on the art of, 456.          Rodent animals, notes on several, G8.
 Palaeontology, new discovery in, 1 58,392. Royal Institution, 71.
 Parabola, on a property of the, 100.            Royal Society, 376, 522.
 Pelletier (M.)on the action of iodine Rudge ( E.) on the position of the south
    on organic salifiable bases, 76.                magnetic pole, 104.
Periodide of iron, 79.                           Ruppell (Dr.) on the fossil genera Pseu
Persian Gulf, former extent of, 34.                 dammonites and Ichthyosiagoniles of
Philip (Dr.W.) on the powers on which               the Solenhofen limestone, 32 ; on a
    the functions oflife depend, 430.               new species ofsword-fish, 67 ; on the
Phillips ;Prof.)on the geology of Man               existence of canine teeth in an Abys
    chester, 157.                                   sinian antelope, 141.
Physiology, of the voice, 201, 269, 342 ; Saurian reptile, description of a, 514.
   on the motion of the arm, 411 ; ve Saxton (J.) on his magneto-electrical
   getable, 372 ; of respiration in in              machine, 360.
   sects, 533.                                   Schoenbein (Prof.) on the action of
Plagionite, composition of, 232.                    nitric acid upon iron, 53, 259.
Plants, on the divergence of, 17 ; deve Scotopacidcc of Nips'il, notice of, 143.
   lopment and growth of the stems and Sedgwick (Prof.) on the coal-fields on
   leaves of, 372.                                 the N. W. coast of Cumberland, 501.
Platina, on, 544; new combinations of, Sivatherium giganteum, 193, 277.
   232, 314.                                     Smith (J. D.) on the hydrates of barytes
Plombgomme, analysis of, 75.                        and strontia, 87 ; on the supposed
Polarizing microscope, 288.                        new metal donium, 255; on the so
Potash, crystallized hydrate of, 151.              lubility of carbonate of lime in hy-
Potassium, chloride of, 232.                       drochlorate of ammonia, 540.
Powell (Prof.) on the formula for the Snipes of Nipal, several kinds of, 143.
   dispersion of light, 116.                     Soda-alum, on the water of crystalliza
Pratt (Rev. J. H.), demonstration of a             tion of, 26.        •
   proposition in the Micanujuc Ce Solar eclipse of May 15, 1836, 73 ;
   leste, remarks on, 84 ; reply to, 254.          meteorological observations made
Prestwich (J.), on the geology of Coal-            during the, 393.
   brook Dale, 382.                              Solly (S.) on the connexion of the an
Priestley, Fuseli's portrait of, 398.              terior columns of the spinal cord with
Prunus padut, volatile oil of, 1 55.               the cerebellum, 523.
Pseudammonites, fossil genus, 32.                Soundings in the ocean, new method of
Pyroxylic spirit, 77.                              taking, 1 85.
Railways, on, 377, 380; locomotive en Spectra, prismatic, on, 3 ; spectra of
   gines upon, 135.                                chemical flames, 3; spectra of gal
Rainey (Gr.) on the feeble attraction of           vanic flames, 4 ; on the supposed
   the electro-magnet for small particles          origin of the deficient rays in the
   of iron, 72, 220; reply to Dr. Ritchie,          solar spectrum, 522.
   469,                                          Squire (r.J on the periodide of iron, 79.

552                                  INDEX.
Stephenson (J.), meteors observed in          tides, 528 ; on the artificial produc
   India in 1832, 74.                         tion of minerals, 537.
Strontia and barytes, hydrates of, 87.     Williamson (\V. C.) on the limestones
Stokes (C.) on a piece of wood partly        in vicinity of Manchester, 241, 348.
   petrified by carbonate of lime, with Wombat, anatomy of the, 504.
   remarks on fossil woods, 499.           VVoolhou>e (\V. S. B.) on the theory
Sturgeon (VV.1 on electro-pulsations and     of vanishing fractions, in reply to
   electro-momentum, 132.                     Prof. Young, 18, 209.
Sulphates of iron and copper, action of Yarrell (W.) on a mode of preserving
   oxalic acid on, 155.                      fish peculiarly adapted for travellers
Sulphuric acid, its action on oils, 153.     over land, 391.
Sulphurous acid, its detection in hydro Yorkshire, on the upper lias and marl-
   chloric acid, 543.                        stone of, 497.
Swainson (\V.) on the genus Mitra, 136. Young (Prof.) on the theory of vanish
Talbot (H. F.), facts relating to optical    ing fractions, in reply to Mr. Wool-
   science, 1, 401 ; on the optical phe      house, 92 ; simple method of proving
   nomena of certain crystals, 288.          the law of gravitation, 333, 370.
Taylor (R. C.) on the carboniferous se Zach (Baron/, portrait of.
   ries of the United States, 407.         Zoological Society, 66, 136, 224, 298,
Thibaut (M), some particulars relative       388, 503.
   to the giraffe, 144.                    Zoology :—notes on various birds, 66,
Thompson (L.), method of preparing            139, 141, 142, 147, S27 ; notes on
   iodous add, 442.                          various species of fish, 67, 139, 140,
Tides, results of extensive observations,    352, 391 ; on the kangaroo, 67, 388 ;
   528 ; at the Port of London, 528.         want of sagacity in a dog, 67 ; notes
Tiedemami (Dr.) on the brain of the          on several rodent animals, 68 ; re
   negro, 527.                               marks on several Martupialia, 70 ;
Tovey (J.) on the undulatory theory of       notes on the different specie* t>f Mi-
   light, 420.                               trance, 137 ; undescribed cowries,
Trigonometrical measurements, 96.            138; on the breeding of curassows,
Tripoli, composed wholly of infusorial       141 ; notice of the Abyssinian ante
   exuviae, 158, 392.                        lope, 141; on the Scolopaddee of
TubuUtria, on several specimens of, 507.     Nipal, 143; snipe of Nipal, 143; no
Undulatory theory, 401, 420.                 tice of the giraffe, 144, 512; ana
Veins, mineral, 8, 387; method of imi        tomy of the lamellibranchiate con-
   tating, 229.                              chiferous animals, 224 ; new or rare
Voice, physiology of the, 201, 269, 342.     Cephalopoda, 298 j new species of
Volatile oil, 155; from caoutchouc, 321.     Loligo, 299 ; on the opposable power
Voltaic batteries, use of caoutchouc for     of the thumb in certain mammals,
   insulation in, 120; construction of,      302 ; on the natural affinities which
   283 ; employed in producing artificial    subsist between the Bimana, Quadru-
   crystals and minerals, 229.               mana, and Pedimana, 302 ; notice of
       combinations, on, 376; peculiar       the Indian antelope, S06; the Chiru
   voltaic condition of iron, 5:1, 122;      antelope, 311 ; dissection of the
   voltaic electricity due to chemical       chimpanzee, 388 ; new species of
   action, and not to contact, 60 ; vol      Cervus, 391 ; anatomy of the wom
   taic electricity, 484.                    bat, 504 ; notice of a Ttibidaria, 507 ;
Ward (F. O.), physiological remarks on       a new species of Cyniclis, 509 ; re
   the motion of the arm, 411, 534.          marks on the Chironecles l'apoci;
Waterhouse ( Mr.) on a new genus of          510; osteology of the sea otter, 512,
   mammiferous animals, 5-0.                 description of a saurian reptile, 514;
Weaver (T.) on the carboniferous series      on the genus Moschm of Linnaeus,
  of North America, 124.                     and two new species, 515; on the
Wetherell (N. T.) on the fossils of the      genus Cervus, 518; new genus of
  London clay, 462.                          mammiferous animals from New Hol
Whewell (Rev. W.) researches on the          land, 520.
                        END OF THE NINTH VOLUME.
           rniNTr.D by iucjiard tavlob, red lion court, ileet street.





/

