This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com

Science
of
Journal
Magazine
Philosophical
Dublin
and
Edinburgh
London,
The






                                      THE
            LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
PHILOSOPHICAL                                      MAGAZINE
                                      AND                       *f//*t~
        JOURNAL                        OF        SCIENCE.
                                 CONDUCTED BY
    SIR ROBERT KANE, LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.A. F.C.S.
    SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, Knt. LL.D, F.R.S. &c.
                                        AND
    WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
     "Nec aranearum sane textus ideo melior quia ex se fila gignunt, nee nnater
  Tflior quia ex alienia libamus ut apes." Just. Lips. Polil. lib. i. cap. 1 . Not.
                     VOL. XIIL— FIFTH SERIES,
                        JANUARY—JUNE 1882.
                                  LONDON:
    TAYLOR AND FRANCIS, EED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
gOLO BY LONGMANS, GREEK, READER, AND DYER ; KENT AND CO. ; SIMPKIN, MARSHALL,
      AJD CO. ; AND WU1TTAKER AND CO. ;—AND BY ADAM AND CHARLES BLACK,
           AND THOMAS CLARK, EDINBURGH; BMITI1 AND SON, GLASGOW;—
                 HODGES, POSTER, AND CO., DUBLIN;—rCTNAM, NEW
                         YORK;—AND ASHER AND CO., BERLIN.

   " Meditationis est perscrutari occulta ; contemplationis est admirari
perspicua        Admiratio generat quajstionem, qurestio investigationeni,
investigatio inventionem."—Hugo de S. Victore.
            —" Cur spirent venti, cur terra dehiscat,
             Cur mare turgescat, pelago cur tantus amaror,
            Cur caput obscura Phoebus ferrugine condat,
            Quid toties diros cogat flagrare cometas,
            Quid pariat nubes, veniant cur fulmina ccelo,
             Quo micet igne Iris, superos quis conciat orbes
             Tam vario motu."
                                                J. B. IHnelli ad Mazonium.

             CONTENTS OF VOL. XIII.
                         (FIFTH SERIES).
            NtJMBEE LXXVIIL—JANUARY 1882.
                                                                 Page
Prof. E. Edlund on the Electrical Resistance of Vacuum ....         1
Mr. L. "Wright on some Spiral Figures observable in Crystals,
   illustrating the Relation of their Optic Axes. (Plate I.) . .   20
Mr. T. Bayley on the Connexion between the Atomic Weight
   and the Chemical and Physical Properties of Elements.
   (Plate II.)                                                     26
Dr. E. L. Nichols on the Electrical Resistance and the Coeffi
   cient of Expansion of Incandescent Platinum                     38
Sir James Cockle on New Transformations of Ordinals ....           44
M. C. Cellerier on the Distribution of the Molecular Velocities
  in Gases                                                         47
Prof. S. P. Thompson on the Beats of Mistuned Consonances . .      68
Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
      Mr. T. Gray on the Elasticity- and Strength-constants
        of Japanese Rocks                                          70
     Mr. J. D. Kendall on the Glacial Deposits of West Cum
        berland                                                    71
On the Determination of the Illuminating-power of the Simple
   Radiations, by MM. A. CroTa and Lagarde                         72
The Photodynamic Paraboloid, by Pliny Earle Chase, LL.D.           74
On the Action of Cold upon the Galvanic Arc, by D. Tommasi.        75
On the Variations of the Resistance of Electrical Machines
  with their Velocity, by M. E. Lacoine                            76
               NTJMBEE LXXIX.—FEBRUARY.
Mr. C. V. Boys on Integrating and other Apparatus for the
   Measurement of Mechanical and Electrical Forces. (Plates
   HI., IV.)                                                       77
Mr. H. Barfield on the Experimental Comparison of Coeffi
   cients of Induction                                             95
Mr. J. LeConte on Sound-Shadows in Water                           98
Dr. T. Carnelley on Chemical Symmetry, or the Influence of
   Atomic Arrangement on the Physical Properties of Com
   pounds                                                         112

iv            CONTENTS OP VOL. XIII.     FIFTH SERIES.
                                                               Page
 Mr. E. H. M. Bosanquet on the Beats of Mistimed Conso
   nances                                                      131
Prof. B. Clausius on the Theoretic Determination of Vapour-
   pressure and the Volumes of Vapour and Liquid               132
 Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
      Bev. W. Downes on the Zones of the Blackdown Beds
         and their Correlation with those at Haldon            142
      Dr. C. Callaway on the Torridon Sandstone in relation
         to the Ordovician Bocks of the Northern Highlands;
         and on the Precambrian (Archaean) Bocks of Shropshire  143
      Mr. J. A. Phillips on the Bed Sands of the Arabian
         Desert                                                 144
      Mr. E. E. Berry's Analyses of five Bocks from the Charn-
         wood-Forest District                                   145
      Mr. T. M. Beade on the Chalk-Masses or Boulders in
         cluded in the Contorted Drift of Cromer, their Origin
         and Mode of Transport                                 145
      Prof. E. Hull on the two Types of Cambrian Beds of the
         British Isles (the Caledonian and Hiberno-Cambrian),
         and the Conditions under which they were respectively
         deposited                                              145
      Prof. E. Hull on the Devono-Silurian Formation            146
 On the Luminous Intensities of the Badiations emitted by
   Incandescent Platinum, by Prof. J. Violle                    147
 An Application of Accidental Images (second note), by J.
   Plateau                                                      149
 On some Consequences of Gauss's Principle in Electrostatics,
   by M. Croullebois                                           151
                   NTTMBEE LXXX.—MAECH.
Dr. J. Kerr's Electro-optic Experiments on various Liquids . . 153
 Messrs. Mills and Bicket's Besearches on Chemical Equiva
   lence.—I. Manganous and Niekelous Sulphates                 169
Messrs. Mills and Hunt's Besearches on Chemical Equiva
   lence.—II. Niekelous and Cadmic Sulphates                   177
Dr. T. Carnelley on Chemical Symmetry, or the Influence of
   Atomic Arrangement on the Physical Properties of Com
   pounds                                                      180
Mr. C. V. Boys on Apparatus for Calculating Efficiency.
   (Plate V.)                                                  193
Prof. E. Edlund on the Electrical Besistance of Gases          200
Captain W. de W. Abney on the Violet Phosphorescence in
   Calcium Sulphide                                            212
Notices respecting New Books :—
     MM. Mascart and Joubert's Lecons sur l'£lectricite et le
        Magnetisme                                             214

                CONTENTS OF VOL. XIII.—FIFTH SERIES.                   V
                                                                   Page
        Professors King and Rowney's Old Chapter of the Geo
          logical Eecord with a New Interpretation, or Rock
          Metamorphism (especially the Methylosed kind), and its
          resultant Imitations of Organisms                         217
        Journal and Proceedings of the Royal Society of New
          South Wales                                               222
  On the Formation of Peroxide of Hydrogen during Combus
    tion, by Alois Schuller                                         222
  On the Law of Radiation, by J. Violle                             225
  On Wheatstone's Bridge, by K. F. Slotte                           227
  On the Combination of Carbonic Acid and Water, by S.
    Wroblewski                                                      228
                    NUMBER LXXXI.—APRIL.
  Mr. J. B. Hannay's Examination of Vacua. (Plate VI.)              229
  Mr. A. A. Michelson on Interference Phenomena in a new
    Form of Refractometer                                           236
  Dr. J. Hopkinson on the Refractive Index and Specific Induc
    tive Capacity of Transparent Insulating Media                   242
  Mr. C. V. Boys on Water-pipes that do not burst with Frost        244
  Dr. J. Kerr's Electro-optic Experiments on various Liquids . .    248
  Prof. S. P. Thompson on the Electric Resistance of Carbon
     under Pressure                                                 262
  Dr. C. R. A. Wright on the Determination of Chemical Affinity
     in terms of Electromotive Force.—Part V                        265
  Notices respecting New Books :—
        Captain A. Cunningham's Roorkee Hydraulic Experiments       299
        Mr. W. F. Stanley's Experimental Researches into the
          Properties and Motions of Fluids, with Theoretical
          Deductions therefrom                                      300  .
V Note on Mr. J. J. Thomson's Investigation of the Electromag
     netic Action of a moving Electrified Sphere, by George
     Francis Fitzgerald, Fellow of Trinity College, Dublin, &c . .  302
  On a Vibratory Motion at the Origin of a Jet of a Vapour,
     by M. Th. Vautier                                              306
  On the Compressibility of Gases, by M. E. Sarrau                  306
                     NUMBER LXXXIL—MAT.
  Mr. W. Le Conte Stevens on Physiological Perspective. (Plate
     VIII. figs. 1-5.)                                              309
  Mr. W. Le Conte Stevens on an Adjustable and Reversible
     Stereoscope. (Plate VIII. figs. 6 & 7.)                        322

Vi             CONTENTS OF VOL. XIII.    FIFTH SERIES.
                                                               Page
Messrs. C. F. Cross and E. J. Bevan on Pseudo-Carbons .... 325
Prof. Piazzi Smyth on the Constitution of the Lines forming
   the Low-Temperature Spectrum of Oxygen                       330
Mr. J. Macfarlane Gray on Regnault's Determination of the
   Specific Heat of Steam                                      337
Lord Rayleigh's Acoustical Observations.—IV                    340
Mr. Shelford Bidwell on the Effect of Temperature on the
   Electrical Resistance of Mixtures of Sulphur and Carbon . . 347
Dr. William Spottiswoode on a Separator and a Shunt for alter
   nate Currents of High Tension. (Plate IX.)                  353
Sir James Cockle on Transformation                             357
Messrs. W. Chandler Roberts and T. Wrightson on the Fluid
   Density of certain Metals. (Plate VII.)                     360
Notices respecting New Books :—
      Prof. Brauns s Geology of the Environs of Tokio          367
     Messrs. Burnside and Panton's Theory of Equations ; with
         an Introduction to the Theory of Binary Algebraic
        Forms                                                  368
      The Rev. T. W. Webb's Celestial Objects for Common
        Telescopes                                             368
Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
      Messrs. E. W. Binney and J. W. Kirkby on the Upper
        Beds of the Fifeshire Coal- Measures                   369
     Mr. D. Mackintosh on Additional Discoveries of High-
        level Marine Drifts in North Wales, with Remarks on
        Driftless Areas                                        370
     Mr. H. Keeping on some Sections of Lincolnshire Neo-
        comian                                                 371
     Mr. C. T. Clough on the Geology of the Cheviot Hills
        (English side)                                         371
     Mr. J. A. Phillips on certain Inclusions in Granite .... 372
     Mr. J. S. Gardner on the Geology of Madeira               372
     Mr. T. F. Jamieson on the Red Clay of the Aberdeenshire
        Coast, and the Direction of the Ice-movement in that
        quarter                                                372
     Prof. J. D. Dana on the Geological Age of the Taconic
        System                                                 373
     Prof. T. G. Bonney on some Nodular Felsites in the Bala
        Group of North Wales                                   374
     Mr. J. E. Marr on the Cambrian (Sedgw.) and Silurian
        Rocks of Scandinavia                                   374
On the Dimensions of a Magnetic Pole in the Electrostatic
  System of Units, by Prof. J. D. Everett                      376
On the Electrolysis of Distilled Water, by D. Tommasi .... 377
A little Illusion, by J. Plateau                               379

              CONTENTS OF VOL. XIII.     FIFTH SERIES.              vii
                  NUMBER LXXXni.—JUNE.
                                                                  Page
Prof. R. Clausius on the different Systems of Measures for
   Electric and Magnetic Quantities                               381
Mr. S. H. Freeman on the Question of Electrification by Eva
   poration                                                       398
Prof. Silvanus P. Thompson on the Function of the two Ears
   in the Perception of Space                                     406
Mr. S. H. Burbury on a Theorem on the Dissipation of Energy. 417
Mr. J. J. Hood on Retardation of Chemical Action                  419
Prof. J. A. Ewing on the supposed Helical Path of the Elec
   tric Current in longitudinally Magnetized Conductors .... 423
Mr. J. J. Thomson on the Dimensions of a Magnetic Pole in
   the Electrostatic System of Units                              427
Prof. J. Larmor on the Electrostatic Dimensions of a Magnetic
   Pole                                                           429
Prof. J. D. Everett on the Dimensions of a Magnetic Pole in
    the Electrostatic System of Units. (Second Article.) .... 431
Prof. J. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on Radiant
   Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound                    435
 Notices respecting Ne«v Books :—
       Kant's Critique of Pure Reason                              4C2
       Mr. R. P. Wright's Lessons on Form                         466
 On the Liquefaction of Ozone, by P. Hautefeuille and J.
    Chappuis                                                      467
 On the Action of Telephonic Currents upon the Galvanometer,
    by M. de Chardonnet                                            468
              NUMBER LXXXIV.—SUPPLEMENT.
 Prof. H. A. Rowland on the Results accomplished in the Ma
    nufacture and Theory of Gratings for Optical purposes . .      469
 Mr. L. Fletcher's Crystallographic Notes. (Plate X.)              474
 Prof. J. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on Radiant
    Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound                    480
 Mr. W. G. Lettsom on Rhabdophane, a new Mineral                   527
 Mr. W. G. Lettsom on the Dichroism of two European Anda-
    lusites                                                        529
 Mr. C. K. Wead on the Dimensions of a Magnetic Pole in the
    Electrostatic System of Units                                  530
 Notices respecting New Books :—
       Dr. R. Wormell's Magnetism and Electricity                  534
       The Calendar of the Departments of Law, Science, and
          Literature of the Tokio Dai-Gaku (University of Tokio),
          1880-81                                                  535
  On the Effects produced in a Vacuum by the Current of the
    Gramme Machines, by MM. Jamin and G. Maneuvrier . .            536
 On the Employment of Rotating Disks for the Study of
    Coloured Sensations—the Relative Intensity of Colours, by
    A. Rosenstiehl                                                 538

                          ERRATUM IX VOL. XI.
               Page Hi, for E. H. Nichols read E. L. Nichols.
                           ERRATA IN VOL. XII.
Page 870, second line from bottom, for maximum velocity read maximum
            rate of change of velocity
  — 371, second line from top,/<w kinetic energy read acceleration
                         ERRATA LN VOL. XIII.
 Page 45, end of art. 45, for -fes read —e2
                                                          8 JT
                                                  ~1 read 2*
  — 46,1 art. 60,' line 6,1 end of numerator for 2™       —
  — 46, art. 52, line 4, for (13) read /"(D)3z+aJF(D)22=0 . (14)
  — 46, art. 52, line 5, for (13) read (14).
                                                 o       ec
  — 135, last line of text, in equation (7), for g read ^
                                  PLATES.
       I. Illustrative of Mr. L. Wright's Paper on some Spiral Figures
           observable in Crystals, illustrating the Relation of their Optic
           Axes.
     II. Illustrative of Mr. T. Bayley's Paper on the Connexion between
           the Atomic Weight and the Chemical and Physical Properties
           of Elements.
III., IV. Illustrative of Mr. C. Vernon Boys's Paper on Integrating and
           other Apparatus for the Measurement of Mechanical and Elec
           trical Forces.
     V. Illustrative of Mr. C. Vernon Boys's Paper on Apparatus for
           Calculating Efficiency.
    VT. Illustrative of Mr. J. B. Hannay's Paper on Examination of
           Vacua.
   VII. Illustrative of Messrs. Roberts and Wrightson's Paper on the
           Fluid Density of certain Minerals.
  VIII. Illustrative of Mr. W. Le Conte Stevens's Papers on Physiolo
           gical Perspective, and on an Adjustable and Reversible Stereo
           scope.
     IX. Illustrative of Dr. W. Spottiswoode's Paper on a Separator and a
           Shunt for alternate Currents of High Tension.
      X. Illustrative of Mr. L. Fletcher's Crystallographic Notes.

Vol. 13.                     JANUARY 1882.                                    No. 78.
           Publislied the First Day of every Month.—Price 2s. 6d.
             ¦UN J 8 ig&2                                            If^ffi
                                        THE
               LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
   PHILOSOPHICAL                                     MAGAZINE,
                                        AND
                JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
      Being a Continuation of Tilloch's 'Philosophical Magazine,'
        Nicholson's 'Journal,' and Thomson's 'Annals of Philosophy.'
                                    CONDUCTED BY
          SIR ROBERT KANE, LL.D. F.RS. M.RI.A. P.C.S.
          SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, Knt. LL.D. F.RS. &c.
                                         AND
          WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
                             FIFTH          SERIES.                 v<&^\
                         N° 78.—JANUARY 1882.
                              WITH TWO PLATES.
    Illustrative of Mr. L. Weight's Paper on some Spiral Figures observable
      in Crystals, illustrating the Kelation of their Optic Axes, and Mr. T.
       Barley's on the Connexion between the Atomic Weight and the Che
       mical and Physical Properties of Elements.
                                   LONDON:
         MINTED BY TAYI.OB AND FBANCIS, BED HON COUET, FLEET STREET,
   Sold by Longmans, Green, Reader and Dyer ; Sent and Co. ; Simpkin, Marshall and
     Co. ; and Whittaker and Co. ;—and by A. and C. Black, and Thomas Clark, Edin
     burgh ; Smith and Son, Glasgow :—Hodges, FoBter and Co., Dublin :—Putnam,
     New York :—and Asher and Co., Berlin.

                      Now ready, Price Crf., post-free 7d.,
       TAYLOR'S CALENDAR OF MEETINGS
                                        OF
             THE SCIENTIFIC BODIES OF LONDON
                                FOR 1881-82.
            Tayloe and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                        THE GEOLOGICAL RECORD
     Describes or notices works on Geology, Mineralogy, and Palaeontology.
   Volume for 1874, price 15*. ; for 1876, 16*. ; for 1876, 16*. ; for 1877, 16*.
Price to Subscribers 10*. Qd. per volume.
   Subscribers' names and remittances should be sent to the publishers, Messrs.
Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, London, E.C.
                              New Edition, price 1*.
             TABLE OF CORRECTIONS FOR TEMPERATURE
to Reduce Observations to 32° Fahrenheit for Barometers, with Brass Scales
         extending from the Cistern to the top of the Mercurial Column.
                       By JAMES GLAISHER, F.R.S.
            Taylob and Fbancis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                    TAYLOR'S SCIENTIFIC MEMOIRS.
   Paet 6, containing the following important papers—M. Melloni on the
Polarization of Heat, C. F. Gauss on the General Theory of Terrestrial Mag
netism, W. Webee on the Bifilar Magnetometer, Dr. Schleiden on Phylo
genesis, having been reprinted, a few complete Sets are now on sale, price £'6 10*.
            Taylob and Fbancis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
            THE LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science.
  A Journal devoted to Physics, Astronomy, Mechanics, Chemistry, Mineralogy,
                 and the Allied Sciences. Monthly, price 2*. (id.
    Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following prices :—
    A set of the First Series, from 1/98 to 1826 (wanting a few plates), in 68
 volumes. Price .£15.
    The Second Series, from IS"? to 1832, in 1 1 volumes. Price £2 4s.
    The TAird Series, in 37 volumes, from 1832 to 1850.       „ £6.
            Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
    The Annals and Magazine of Natural History.
        Including Zoology, Botany, and Geology.—Monthly, price 2s. 6d.
    Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following prices :—
      The First Series, in 20 volumes, from 1838 to 184/. Price .£10.
      The Second Series, in 20 volumes, from 1848 to 1857. „ .£10.
      The Third Series, in 20 volumes, from 1858 to 1867.      „ .£12.
           Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                         [ADVERTISEMENTS continued'on 3rd page of Cover.

                                 THE
          LONDON, EDINBURGH, ano DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL                            MAGAZINE
                                 AND
       JOURNAL                   OF      SCIENCE.
                       [FIFTH SERIES.]
                       JANUAB Y 1882.
I. On the Electrical Resistance of Vacuum. By E. Edlund,
    Professor of Physics at the Swedish Royal Academy of
    Sciences*.
                                  § I-
 IT lias been generally assumed that a vacuum presents a
       total absence of electric conductivity ; and there are
 experiments dating from long ago which seem to favour
the truth of this opinion. A multitude of researches have
been made from time to time, with the view of discover
 ing the real state of the question. This last is, indeed, of the
 greatest importance in several respects. The heavenly bodies
 are separated from one another by space in which, as far as we
 know, no other matter exists but the luminiferous ajther. It
 is a fact generally known at the present time that the solar
 spots exert a sensible influence upon the aurora borealis and
 the magnetic condition of the earth, or that all these pheno
mena derive their origin from a common cosmic cause. Now,
if the space between the celestial bodies were perfectly non
 conducting, it would be difficult to conceive the possibility of
a direct correlation between those phenomena; indeed it would
hardly be possible that an appreciable action of electrical in
 duction should assert itself at so great a distance. And it is
quite as impossible to see, in the correlation observed, a secon
dary action of the insignificant modification of the thermal
   * Translated from a copv, communicated by the Author, of a memoir
presented to the Swedish lioyal Academy of Sciences on the '2!)rd of April
1881, Kongliga Svenska Vetentkaps-Akademiens Handlingar, Baudot xix.
no. 2.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 78. Jan. 1882.                   B

2                 Prof. E. Edlund on the Electrical
radiation which could be produced by the variable number and
size of the sun-spots. It is henceforth difficult to doubt that
the aurora? boreales .owe their production to electric currents
passing through the terrestrial atmosphere ; but there has
sometimes been observed an auroral light originating at a
height so considerable above the earth's surface that the tenuity
of the air at that altitude must far exceed that which it is pos
sible to produce by means of the best apparatus of our labora
tories. This auroral light shows that the rarefied air of those
high regions must necessarily be conductive, seeing that it
transmits electric currents, although the experiments of our
laboratories lead to the admission that air of corresponding
density is a nonconductor of electricity*. The question
whether electricity needs or does not need any ordinaiy pon
derable matter in order to propagate itself from one place to
another has been much discussed, and is of great importance
when viewed from the standpoint of theory. If a satisfactory
answer could be made to it, the question of the electrical
resistance of vacuum would also, of course, be found solved.
It is, unfortunately, impossible to produce an absolute vacuum,
so as to solve the said question by a simple experiment ;
   * Warren De La Hue and H.W.Miiller could not, with a battery of 11,000
elements, make the current pass through hydrogen of which the pressure
was 0-000055 millimetre of mercury. According to the calculations, this
pressure corresponds to the atmospheric pressure at a height of 8P47
English miles above the surface of the earth. As electricity passes with
more facility through hydrogen than through air, it would therefore fol
low from those negative experiments that no electric discharge can take
place at that altitude (Nature, [5] xxii. p. 33, 1880). On the ground of
his experiments, Pliicker carries to 0 geographical miles the maximum
height above the earth at which aurorse boreales can be produced (Pogg.
Ann. cxvi. p. 53, 1802). According to the calculations of Loomis, the
intense aurora borealis which appeared on the 28th of August 1859 ex
tended to 534, and that which appeared on the 2nd of September follow
ing to 405 English miles above the surface of the earth (American Journal
of Science and Arts, n. s. vol. xxxii. p. 318, 1801). From observations
made upon 28 aurora) boreales Professor Newton has calculated that their
altitude varied between 33 and 281 English miles, and their mean
height above the earth amounted to 130 miles (Nature, vol. xxii.
£ 291, 1880). The calculation of observations made simultaneously at
  crliu and Christiansand (Norway) upon the intensely luminous aurora
borealis of Jan. 7, 1831, permitted Ilansteen to estimate its height above
the earth's surface at 20 geographical miles (J. Muller, Lehrhuch der kos-
mischen P/tysik, Brunswick, 1801). That the aurora in question, seen at
Upsal with its crown in the magnetic zenith (Pogg. Ann. xxii.), must
have presented a considerable height above the earth, appears to follow
from the fact that it was simultaneously visible at Madrid ( Verzcichniss
beobacJiteler Nordl&hter, von Fritz, Vienna, 1873). Lemstrbm ((Efirre.
konyl. Vctensk.-Akad. Forhandl. 1809), however, has shown that auroral
rays may also appear, principally in the polar regions, at a small distance
above the surface of the earth.

                          Resistance of Vacuum .                   3
moreover, in experimenting, various circumstances present
themselves which act in a perturbing manner upon the expe
riments, and of which the consequences are difficult to calcu
late. It will therefore be worth while to attempt to obtain,
by a synoptic account and the discussion of the researches
already made, some bases for the correct appreciation of this
important question.
                                       § 2.
    Walsh took a glass tube bent into an arc in the middle so
that the two branches were parallel ; this he filled with mer
cury and placed it vertically with the arc uniting the two
branches above, each branch dipping in an insulated cistern
filled with mercury. The mercury in the tubes then sank,
forming a vacuum of several feet length between the vertical
columns of mercury. When one of the cisterns was then
charged with electricity, this passed with a violet light through
the arc-shaped vacuum, and the mercury in the other cistern
showed itself electric. On the other hand, when the mercury
was carefully boiled in the tube in order to expel all traces of
 gas or humidity, the luminous appearance was not presented,
 and the mercury in the second vessel showed no trace of elec
tricity. Thus the vacuum freed from air and moisture showed
itself perfectly insulating. The experiment took place in the
presence of Franklin, Smeaton, de Luis, and several other
 men of science*.
    Morgan made an experiment for the same purpose, although
he proceeded differently. He filled with mercury a glass tube,
 which he placed vertically in a cistern filled with the same
 metal. This cistern could be closed hermetically by means of
 a metal plate, and the air above the mercury removed by an
 air-pump. When this was done the mercury of the vertical
 tube descended, leaving a vacuum behind it. The upper ex
 tremity of the tube was covered over outside by a piece of
 tinfoil. When the foil received electricity from the conductor
 of an electrical machine, the interior of the tube became also
electric by induction; and this electricity passed, with a green
 and violet light, through the vacuum and the column of mer
 cury to the cistern : this took place when the tube had been
 filled with mercury without taking special precautions : but
 when the latter had been carefully boiled, the vacuum obtained
 appeared to be insulatingj.
    For the investigation of the resistance of a vacuum Paul
Ermann made use of an ordinary cistern-barometer in which
     • Gilbert's < Annals,' vol. ii. p. 161.  t Phil. Trans. 1786.
                                        B2

4                     Prof. E. Edlund on the Electrical
the mercury had been carefully boiled, and the vacuum was
 put into electric communication with the exterior by a plati
 num wiro soldered to the glass in the upper extremity of the
 tube*. The mercury-cistern was connected with a sensitive
 electroscope. When the platinum wire was electrified the
 electroscope showed no trace of electricity. Thus the Torri
 cellian vacuum appeared here likewise to be a nonconductor
 of electricity. Davy obtained the same result with a similar
 experiment, in which two fine, very light threads were fixed
 to a platinum wire soldered to the tube. When the electricity
 was communicated to this, the fine threads diverged and main
 tained the divergence without modification, while if the va
 cuum had been a conductor they must have put themselves
 into contact againf. E. Becquerel made a similar experiment,
 which led to the same results}:.
      Masson employed for his experiments the Torricellian
 vacuum of a barometer in which the mercury had been care
 fully boiled §. Two platinum wires were soldered to the part
 of the tube surrounding the vacuum. Masson tried in vain
 to produce a discharge between these wires by means of a
 Ruhmkorff induction-apparatus sot in action by a powerful
battery; and he infers from this experiment that an absolute
vacuum must be considered an electric nonconductor. Some
 very just remarks were made by Gaugain || in opposition to
the results of a more recent experiment H, in which Masson
succeeded in passing the current of a powerful IluhmkortF
induction-apparatus through the Torricellian vacuum.
      Some mercurial vapour always remains in the Torricellian
space above the column of mercury ; it is therefore not an
absolute vacuum. To obtain a more complete one, Gassiot**
proceeded as follows :—Through a glass tube furnished with
platinum wires at its extremities, into which a certain quan
tity of potass had been introduced, he passed a current of pure
carbonic acid until it could be assumed that all the air had
been expelled ; then the carbonic acid was rarefied by means
of an air-pump, and the tube was closed. Connecting now
the two platinum wires with the two poles of a powerful induc
tion-apparatus, a continual transformation of the electrical
luminous appearance presented itself as the carbonic acid was
    * Gilbert's ' Auuals,' xi. p. 164 ; Itiess, Die Lehre van iter Reibunys-
electricitiit, i. p. 30.
   + Phil. Trans. 1822; Kiess, /. c. p. 42.
    t Mascart, Traite de Vtleetrieil4 sta/ique, ii. p. 100.
    § Ann. de Chim. el de Physique (3) xxxi. pp. ;)12-315.
    || Comptes Rendu*, xli. p. 152.            % Ibid, xxxvi. p. 255.
  ** Mascart, Traite de FMectrieite statique, ii. p. 101.

                      Resistance of Vacuum.                     5
more and more absorbed by the potass. At last, when all tho
carbonic acid had disappeared, the electricity could no longer
pass through the vacuum between the platinum wires. If a
galvanometer was then introduced into the circuit, it did not
show tho slightest deflection.
   Gassiot here calls attention to a fact which appears to us to
possess a certain importance:—When the gas was so strongly
rarefied that the direct discharge ceased to take place, it was
nevertheless possible to render the tube luminous by influence.
It was sufficient for this purpose to put one of the poles of the
induction-coil into communication with one of the electrodes
of the tube and connect the other with a strip of tinfoil fixed
to the outside of the tube, or, again, to put the two poles each
into communication with a special strip of tinfoil fixed to the
outside of the tube. Then the current coming from the induc
tion-apparatus could not develop itself, and acted only by
induction upon the vacuum. Although the latter was suffi
ciently complete to prevent tho direct current from passing
from the induction-apparatus, it was nevertheless possible to
produce a current in it by induction.
   Gaugain did not succeed in making the current of a Ruhm-
korff induction-apparatus traverse a perfect Torricellian va
cuum*; but at the same time he makes another observation
which appears to us to bo of great importance. If a strip of
tinfoil be inserted between the electrodes of a less complete
vacuum perpendicularly to the path of the current, the electric
light shows, by its colour, that the side of the foil turned
towards the positive electrode forms a negative polo, and that
turned towards the negative electrode a positive pole. If one
of the electrodes be then brought sufficiently near to the tin
foil, the current pierces the latter with a fine hole, through
which it afterwards takes its path exclusively, which puts an
end to the polarity of the foil. This fact proves, according to
 Gaugain, that the tinfoil does not act here solely as a simple
conductor of electricity; for, if that were the case, the greater
part of the current would pass through the tinfoil itself, which
must rightly be regarded as a better conductor than the
rarefied gas which fills the aperture. Gaugain draws from
this the conclusion that there must exist at the surface between
the metal and the gas a special resistance (we would add, or a
 contrary electromotive force) opposing the passage of the cur
 rent through the metal.
   Pliickerf has also made an observation which throws a
bright light upon the point which now occupies us. In some
               • Comptes ltendus, xli. p. 152.
               t Pogg. Ann. cv. p. 70 ; cf, vol. civ. p. 629,

6                Prof. E. Edlund on the Electrical
Geissler tubes furnished with platinum electrodes which had
been soldered to them, tubes from which the air had been ex
pelled as completely as possible, the current of a Ruhmkorff
induction-apparatus passed at first with a whitish light. In the
continuation of the experiment, however, the discharge soon be
came interm ittent, to cease totally at the end of a few minutes.
Pliicker attributes the cause of this phenomenon to the cir
cumstance that the oxygen of the insignificant quantity of air
which was still present in the tube was absorbed by the pla
tinum electrodes, after which the nitrogen remaining was un
able to transmit the discharge. If now strips of tinfoil were
placed round the tube near its two extremities, but insulated
from the platinum electrodes, and the poles of the induction-
apparatus put in contact with the tinfoils, the tube recom
menced shining with electric light, indicating that induced
currents were thus produced in the vacuum by the charge and
discharge of the tinfoils. If after some time the electrodes
were connected with the poles of the induction-apparatus, the
discharges again passed at first with a whitish light, soon
became intermittent, and ended by totally ceasing. After
wards, on the poles of the apparatus being connected with
the tinfoils, the tube was again seen to shine with electric
light ; and these alternations could be continued ad libitum.
When the electric light was explored with a magnet, it ap
 peared that the induced current producing it circulated with
a to-and-fro movement, as there was every reason to expect.
Pliicker's experiments consequently show that, if the air of
 the tube is so rarefied that the current of the induction-appa
 ratus cannot traverse it, it is nevertheless possible to produce,
 with the same apparatus, induced currents in the rarefied air
 —that is to say, to set in motion the electric material present
 there. These experiments therefore entirely confirm the
 above-mentioned experiments of Grassiot*.
     Lastly, Hittorf f succeeded in producing, by t^e simulta
 neous employment of the air-pump and intense heating of the
 tube, a still more perfect vacuum than that obtained by Gras
 siot with the aid of pure carbonic acid. Even when the dis
 tance between the electrodes amounted to only 2 or 3 millim.,
    * von Waltenhofen deduces frcm his researches the result that, as is
 natural, the form of the electrodes influences the limit of rarefaction at
 which the current ceases to traverse the rarefied gas. He remarks, in
 consequence, that if it were possible to introduce the current into the rare
 fied gas without the aid of electrodes, the discharge would take place even
 when the rarefaction was carried so far that a discharge could not be pro
 duced with the aid of the electrodes (Pogg. Ann. cxxvi. p. 537).
    t Pogg. Ann. cxxxvi. p. 201.

                       Resistance of Vacuum.                            7
it was impossible for the current of the most powerful Ruhm-
korff induction-apparatus to leap from one of the electrodes
to the other. Instead of this, the current passed from one of
the platinum wires to the other along the outside of the tube.
We shall, further on, return to Hittorf 's very instructive in
vestigation. The experiments we have just mentioned show
that, if the air of a glass tube is rarefied beyond a certain
limit, it is impossible for the strongest current to pass through
it ; but the experiments of Gassiot and Plucker prove more
over that, even when the limit of rarefaction is reached, it is
possible by induction to excite a current in the rarefied gas.
From that time there does not appear to have been any reason
for maintaining that it is the lack of conductivity in the rare
fied gas that prevents the transmission of the direct current of
a discharge, that lack not bringing any obstacle to the deve
lopment of the assuredly weaker influence-currents. The
 cause of the dissimilarity of the two currents can hardly be
sought elsewhere than in the electrodes, which in some way
hinder the passage of the current from them to the rarefied
 gas or vice versa.
    The influence-current has not such an obstacle to surmount,
 seeing that it is formed in the gaseous mass itself and has no
 need to pass, at any point whatever, from a solid conductor to
 the gas. This deduction is moreover in accordance with the
 experiment made by Gaugain with the tinfoil ; and we shall
 have, in the sequel, repeated opportunities of confirming it.
 Thus the experiments which we have mentioned do not appear
 to constitute a satisfactory proof of the assumption that highly
 rarefied gas or an absolute vacuum is by itself a nonconductor
 of electricity.
                                    §3.
     We now pass to the researches respecting the electrical
 resistance of gases at different degrees of density.
     According to the researches of M. E. Becquerel, gases under
  the ordinarj' pressure of the atmosphere commence to become
  conductors if they be heated to redness*. In his experiments he
  employed an ordinary battery to produce the current. Among
  the observations wbich he was able to make ;n this respect we
  shall cite two which are of special interest for our subject. He
  observed that, if the surfaces of the electrodes between which
  the current passed were of different sizes, the apparent resist
  ance of the gas was greater when the current passed from the
  larger to the smaller than if it circulated in the opposite direc-
     • Comptes Rendu*, xxxvii. p. 22; Traiti du magnetUme etdeVikctricHt",
  Paris, 1865.

8               Prof. E. Edlund on the Electrical
tion. Therefore, to obtain as small a resistance as possible, as
large a surface as possible must be given to the negative pole.
It appeared moreover that the material composing the surfaces
of the poles had an influence upon the amount of the apparent
resistance. These observations have been confirmed by those
which we shall cite below, and present the interesting feature
that the current was produced by an ordinary battery, which
was of course not sufficiently powerful to call forth the forma
tion of a voltaic arc. Hittorf has specially confirmed the fact
that gases become conductors when heated to redness*.
   Griiugainf made the following observation :—If the current
of a Ruhmkorff apparatus passes through the air in a glass
tube in which two platinum wires are inserted as electrodes, a
galvanometer intercalated in the circuit shows that the inten
sity of the current increases in proportion as the air is rarefied,
until the rarefaction has reached a certain limit, but that the
intensity begins to diminish if the rarefaction be carried beyond
that limit. The degree of rarefaction at which the intensity
of the current arrives at its maximum depends on a multitude
of circumstances—such as the distance between the electrodes,
the size of their surfaces, the width of the tube, &c. In general
the degree of rarefaction necessary for the maximum of inten
sity of the current has increased in the same measure as the
augmentation of surface of the negative electrode ; when, on
the contrary, the surface of the latter was small, the rarefac
tion of the gas did not need to be carried so far in order to
bring about the maximum of intensity of the current.
   Morren has found in his experiments the observation con
firmed that the intensity of the current augments with the
rarefaction of the gas up to a certain limit, past which it begins
to diminish if the rarefaction is carried further^. He em
ployed for this purpose a Euhmkorff apparatus, and a glass
tube of 29 millim. internal diameter and 45 centim. length, in
which the distance between the soldered aluminium electrodes
amounted to 24 centim. Hydrogen commenced giving evi
dent deflections when the rarefaction had reached a pressure
of 74 millim. of mercury ; the deflections presented themselves
at 39 millim. for carbonic acid, at 29 for atmospheric air, and
at 23 for nitrogen and oxygen. Of course these figures
possess onlj- a relative importance and are of value only for
the conditions under which the experiments took place. The
maximum intensity of the current presented itself, for the
first-mentioned gas, at a pressure of 1 millim., for oxygen and
         * Pogg. Ann. Jubelband (1874), p. 434.
         t Comptei Rendus, xli. p. 152 (1855).
         j Ann. <k Chimie et de Physique, (4) iv. p. 325 (1865).

                       Resistance of Vacuum.                           9
atmospheric air at 0'7, for carbonic acid at 0'8, and for nitrogen
at 1 millim. Employing tubes and electrodes of equal size
in all his experiments, Morren had not, like Gaugain, the op
portunity of observing how the maximum of intensity of the
current depended on the width of the tube, as well as on the
distance and the size of the electrodes.
    Schultz*, in his researches, employed as source of electricity
the Holtz machine instead of the Ruhmkorff apparatus. He
also used Faraday's method for the determination of the elec
tric tension necessary upon the electrodes for the production
of a discharge at different densities of the enclosed gas. The
following were the results of Schultz's researches:—For the
passage, through rarefied air, of electricity between electrodes
at a determined distance from one another, the tension neces
sary diminishes with the reduction of the density of the gas,
until the rarefaction has reached a certain limit at which the
before-mentioned tension acquires its minimum value ; if the
rarefaction is carried beyond that limit, the electric tension
must again increase for a discharge to be possible. The den
sity of the gas at which the tension necessary for the discharge
presents its lowest value depends on the width of the tube and
the condition of the electrodes. These two conclusions fire in
conformity with those established by Gaugain and Morren.
But Schultz made another important observation, of special
interest for our subject : he found that, if the pressure of the
gas was greater than that at which the minimum of tension was
presented, the tension necessary for the discharge increased,
all other circumstances being equal, with the distance between
the electrodes; when, on the contrary, the pressure of the gas
was inferior, the tension was independent of the distance be
tween the electrodes. This agrees with the observation made
by De la Rive, according to which, cwteris paribus, the tension
is proportional to the distance between the electrodesf- In
the experiments made by De la Rive, however, the density of
the gases examined (hydrogen and nitrogen) was higher than
that at which they possessed their least resistance ; he made
no experiment at a lower density than that at which the resist
ance was at its minimum.
 • G. Wiedemann and Riihlmann executed in conjunction, and
afterwards the former alone, some researches on the course of
electricity in rarefied gases %. The source of electricity em-
   * Pogg. Ann. cxxxv. p. 249 (1868).
   t Compter Itendus, hi. p. 0(59; Arch. d. Sei. Phys. et Nat. (2) xvii.
p. 53 ; Mem. de la Soc. de Phys.
(1863).                         ' et a"Hist. Nat. de Geneve, xvii. rn G9
   X Pogg. Ann. cxlv. pp. 235, 304, and clviii. pp. 35, 252.

10                Prof. E. Edlund on the Electrical
ployed in these two series of investigations was a Holtz
machine giving a constant quantity of electricity proportional
to the velocity of rotation of the disk. In the first series the
rarefied gas was contained in a large receiver made of stout
sheet brass, and the discharge took place between spherical
electrodes of metal, of course insulated from the brass receiver.
For the observation of the electric light the receiver was fur
nished with two apertures opposite each other and covered
with glass. In the second series the electrodes were also sphe
rical, but were placed in balls of glass joined hermetically to
a glass tube the length and width of which were varied with
the experiments. In all the experiments the discharge ap
peared discontinuous even when ,the gas had its maximum of
rarefaction ; this latter, however, was never carried far enough
to surpass that of the minimum of tension necessary for the
production of the discharge. The object of the investigation
was to determine the electric tension necessary under different
circumstances to produce an electric discharge.
   With the aid of a rotating mirror and a heliometric appa
ratus ingeniously arranged by Wiedemann, a more particular
description of which would not be in place here, it was possible
to determine the time between two successive discharges.
The source of electricity being constant, that time was pro
portional to the electric tension of the electrodes at the com
mencement of the discharge. The most important results of
these experiments for the question which we have set ourselves
to elucidate here are the foliowing:—(1) If the flow of elec
tricity to the electrodes is constant, the electric tension neces
sary at the electrodes for a discharge to take place increases
with the pressure of the gas. (2) This tension depends, at
equal pressure, on the nature of the gas employed ; it is greater
for dry air than for hydrogen ; but it is independent of the
chemical nature of the electrodes*. (3) The experiments
made at a pressure of 25 millim. or above showed that the
necessary tension increased as the distance between the near
est points of the electrodes was augmented ; still the increase
was less than proportionate to the augmentation of the dis-
   • That the tension necessary for the discharge was independent of the
chemical nature of the electrodes is in contradiction with Hittorf's expe
riment of which we shall speak further on. The difference of the result
obtained by Wiedemann and lliililmann is doubtless due to the electrodes
in their experiments presenting relatively large surfaces and the pressure
of the gas being considerable (13-8 millim. and above). It is known from
other experiments that the influence of the electrodes is in the inverse
ratio of the magnitude of their surfaces, and that it increases with the
rarefaction of the gas.

                       Resistance of Vacuum.                         11
tance*. (4) If the positive electrode was put into communi
cation with the earth, the requisite tension was but little
greater than when both insulated electrodes were connected
with the electrical machine ; if, on the contrary, it was the
negative electrode that communicated with the earth, a still
stronger tension was necessary in order to call forth the dis
charge.
   The authors note, at the end of their first memoir, that the
circumstances observed during the electric discharge in rarefied
                              1     ¦
gases .appeared to argue the existence of a sort of resistance to
the passage at the surface between the electrode and the envi
roning medium, obstructing the issue of the electricity from
the electrode.
   In the second memoir Wiedemann communicates various
observations made with the view of determining the depend
ence of the tension necessary for the discharge on the length
of the glass tube between the glass spheres furnished with
electrodes. The minimum of pressure of gas employed in this
series of observations was from 0-8 to 9*0 millim., and was
consequently considerably lower than in the corresponding
series of experiments of the first memoir. As conducted at
pressures for the most part lower, the series in question give
also as their result that tho electric tension appears to be suffi
ciently independent of the length of the glass tube. For
tubes of equal lengths but different widths, uniting the glass
spheres, no great difference was shown in the tension of the
electrodes necessary to produce the discharge. When the
apparatus was filled with rarefied hydrogen, the necessary
tension of discharge was less than when it was filled with
rarefied air.
   Wiedemann also made some experiments to ascertain the
quantity of heat evolved, under the prevalence of different
conditions in the tube, by the passage of tho electricity. In
regard to this, he found that, with an equal flow of electricity,
the evolution of heat increased with the increase of the density
of the gas, and that the amount of heat evolved was, cceteris
paribus, nearly independent of the width of the tube. On a
 former occasion Wiedemann had found that, when the current
 of an induction-apparatus was passed through a Geissler tube,
 the evolution of heat was proportional rather to the intensity
 of the current than to the square of this, as would be required
 by Joule's law for continuous currents and solid or liquid con
 ductors!. These two positions have been completely confirmed
 by Naccari and BellatiJ, who found, on employing a liuhm-
       * Pogg. Ann. cxlv. p. 374.            t Ibid. cxlv. p. 2-'S7.
       X BabliitUir zu den Ann. d. Phys. u. Chem. ii. p. 720 (1878).

  12            Prof. E. Edlund on the Electrical
 korff induction-apparatus, that the quantity of heat evolved in
 a G-oisslor tube is proportional to the quantity of electricity
 that has passed through the tube, and is almost independent
 of the diameter of the tube. The quantity of heat evolved at
 the negative electrode was in the same way proportional to the
 quantity of electricity which had passed through the tube, and
 several times as great as at the positive electrode ; at this
 latter the quantity of heat evolved was so very small that it
 was impossible to determine distinctly its proportionality to
 the amount of electricity.
                                  § 4.
     From the observations above cited we can already deduce
 some results which will find their confirmation in the obser
 vations expounded below. When the electric current passes
 through rarefied gas, the gas is heated. This could not take
 place unless the gas opposed an obstacle to the electric motion.
 The current is forced to consume a certain amount of work to
 overcome this obstacle ; and it is the work consumed that is
 transformed into heat. We must admit, on the ground of this
 observation merely, that the gas exerts a resistance to the pro
 pagation of the electricity; it is, besides, of no importance
 whatever for our consideration to know the nature of that
 resistance, whether it is or is not homogeneous with that which
 occurs among solid and liquid bodies. The observations above-
 mentioned show that the quantity of heat evolved may be
 regarded as proportional to the intensity of the current, and
not to the square of that intensity as Joule's law would require
it to be. It follows directly from this, that, all other circum
 stances remaining equal, the amount of heat evolved must be
independent of the section of the tube containing the gas.
    Suppose, for example, two tubes of equal length, filled with
the same gas, the section of one tube being n times as large
as that of the other, and the same current s passing through
both.    Then - of the current passes through each - of section
of the wide tube, whence it follows that the evolution of heat
in each equal part is proportional to ^, and consequently that
the heat evolved in all the parts united is proportional to s
(that is to say, of an amount equal to that in the narrow tube).
Of course, moreover, caiteris paribus the evolution must in
crease with the length of the tube, and be in general proportional
to that length. If rx denote the specific resistance in a column
of gas of unit length, the heat evolved in I units of length will

                        Resistance of Vacuum.                           13
be proportional to rjs when the current « traverses that column.
Now Wiedemann's experiment has demonstrated that the
quantity of heat evolved diminishes with the rarefaction of the
gas, while the quantity of electricity which has passed is the
same, whence it follows that the resistance ?', of the gas dimi
nishes as the gas is rarefied.
   As was said above, according to Wiedemann and Riihlmann
the electric discharge in rarefied gases presents phenomena
similar to those which would be called forth by the existence
of a sort of resistance to the passage of electricity impeding
its escape from the electrodes. Gaugain's above-mentioned
observation with the tinfoil is in favour of such an admis
sion. If such a resistance between the tinfoil and the sur
rounding rarefied gas be not admitted, it is impossible to un
derstand why the electricity passes exclusively through the
aperture, as the metal must be regarded as a better conductor
than the gas. We can cite an allied phenomenon well suited
to furnish an elucidation in regard to this. When the resist
ance opposed by the voltaic arc to the propagation of the gal
 vanic current is measured, that resistance is found to be
composed of two parts, one of which is independent of the
length of the arc, and the other proportional to that length—
provided that, by an appropriate modification of the rest of
the resistance in the circuit, the intensity of the current is
 maintained without sensible variation while the length of the
arc is diminished or increased. Here, therefore, the resistance
can be expressed by a + bl, where a and h are constants, and I
denotes the length of the arc*. As a remains always invari
able however short the arc be made, this resistance must have
its seat upon the electrodes themselves, whether it be shared
between the two or be situated exclusively upon one only.
Experiment shows, it is true, that the obstacle a to the propa
gation of the current is not produced by a resistance in the
 ordinary sense of the term, but by an electromotive force
 which diminishes the intensity of the current quite as much
 as an ordinary resistance of the amount a. The propagation
 of the current in the voltaic arc and in a rarefied gas assumes
 forms so different that it is impossible to deduco a priori, from
 that which takes place in the one case, what must happen in
 the other. In the arc, particles are torn from one electrode
 and transported to the other; but a similar transference is not
 effected in rarefied gas. The intense evolution of boat which
 was found by Naccari and Bellati in the negative electrode
   * CE/vers. Kongl. Sventka Vetentk.-Akad. Fijrlutndl. 1807, p. 05 ; Pogg.
Ann. exxxi. p. 580.

14             Prof. E. Edlund on tlie Electrical
seems nevertheless to show positively that there, in the same
way as in the voltaic arc, an obstacle must, exist to the propa
gation of the current. If we designate this obstacle by r, the
total obstruction to the propagation of the current through
the rarefied gas from one electrode to the other must conse
quently be =»• + »',£ ; and it is necessary that the electric ten
sion of the electrodes be able to overcome this sum in order
that a discharge may be possible.
   According to the observations which have been cited in the
preceding pages, the tension necessary for the discharge dimi
nishes as the gas is rarefied, until a certain limit is reached,
after which the tension must be augmented for it to be pos
sible to effect the discharge. The degree of rarefaction at
which this turning-point is met with is dependent on the dis
tance between the electrodes, the width of the tube, the amount
of surface of the negative electrode, and several other circum
stances. Now, as, from the preceding, rx diminishes constantly
with the increase of rarefaction, the fact in question, demon
strated experimentally by several physicists, can only be ex-
 lained by the first term, r, increasing with the rarefaction,
  consequently assume that the term r increases when the
density of the gas is diminished. In this manner the sum
r + j'i/can reach its minimum at a certain density; and when
this takes place, the minimum of electric tension is sufficient
to produce the discharge. If a Ruhmkorff induction-appa
ratus or an ordinary battery endowed with great electromotive
force be employed as the source of electricity, the intensity of
the current is found to increase as the rarefaction is continued,
until the above-mentioned turning-point is reached, after
which the intensity begins again to diminish. If the rarefac
tion be carried far enough, r will have so increased that no
tension will be sufficient to cause electricity to pass. Now
this by no means comes, as it has been assumed to come, from
excessively rarefied gas being an insulator, but from the resist
ance r having become so great. The fact that the degree of
rarefaction at which the point in question is met with depends,
as Gaugain has observed, on the distance between the elec
trodes is explained by the above-mentioned expression of the
resistance, into which I enters as a factor.
   If the gas has a pressure corresponding with the ordinary*
barometric pressure, v is very small in proportion to         and
can be neglected in comparison with the latter term. It is
then seen that the tension necessary for the discharge must be
proportional to the distance; that is to say, we arrive at the
well-known old law of the distance of the discharge. If the
pressure be diminished, r increases, while i\ decreases ; and

                         Resistance of Vacuum.                             15
then it is found that the tension necessary for the discharge
must increase with the distance between the electrodes, but
more slowly than proportionally to that distance. If the gas
is strongly rarefied, ri can be neglect-ed in comparison with r;
and the tension necessary for the discharge is then indepen
dent of the distance between the electrodes. All these deduc
tions are rigorously conformable to the observations cited.
    The fact that electricity cannot penetrate an almost com
plete vacuum depends, then, according to this exposition, on
the resistance to its passage between the electrodes and the
surrounding medium having risen above a certain limit*, and
 has by no means its reason for existence in the circumstanco
 that the resistance, properly so called, of the gas has received,
 by the rarefaction, an insurmountable value; on the contrary,
 the resistance of the gas is diminished when its rarefaction is
 augmented, so that an absolute vacuum is to be regarded as a
 good conductor. If that is the case, one ought to be able to call
 forth, without employing electrodes, an electric motion in a
 vacuum sufficiently complete for it to be impossible to pass a
 current in it by means of electrodes. This is in reality what
 Gassiot and Pliicker have already done, in their above-mention
 ed induction experiments with strips of tinfoil pasted to the
 outer surface of the tubes. Morgan's experiment, however,
 also mentioned above, might appear to be in contradiction
 with the fact cited, since it was impossible to that physicist to
 produce by influence a luminous phenomenon in the most per
 fect vacuum. But to this it may be objected that the absence
 of a luminous phenomenon is not a positive proof that no elec
 tric motion took place in the vacuum. Morren, in his expe
 riments upon the passing of electricity through rarefied gases,
 saw that a galvanometer inserted in the circuit gave an evi
 dent deflection before it was possible to perceive any electric
 light in the tube, although the experiment took place in a
 dark roomf. The reason that in Morgan's experiment no
 electricity passed to the mercury column was simply that there
 was a resistance to its passage between the mercury and the
 vacuum.
     I have not been able to find a single certain experimental
 proof that absolute vacuum is a nonconductor; on the con
 trary, every thing indicates that vacuum is a good conductor
    * 1 have designated as a resistance the obstacle which the current has
 to surmount in order to pass from the electrodes to the gas, or vice versa ;
 now by that I do not at all mean that the obstacle is due to a resistance
 in the ordinary meaning of the term, but rather that it is an electromotive
 force producing in this respect the same ett'ect as an ordinary resistance.
    t Ann. efe Chim. et de Pkys. (4) iv. p. 337.

  16              Prof. E. Edlund on tlie Electrical
  of electricity. It seems to me that, in drawing from the known
 impossibility of an electric current traversing the most perfect
 vacuum between two electrodes the conclusion that a vacuum
 is absolutely nonconducting, the same mistake has been made
 as when, from the circumstance that the sun rises in the east
 and sets in the west, it was believed that one might infer that
 the sun in reality goes round the earth. The first of these
 conclusions does not appear more certain than the second.
    I will now cite some observations furnishing a new support
 for the correctness of what has just been said.
                                   § 5.
    Hittorf made a great number of very instructive observa
 tions on the conductivity of gases*. In the first series of his
 researches he employed, as electric source, a powerful Ruhm-
 korff induction-apparatus : the gas, contained in Geissler
 tubes of different shapes and sizes, was rarefied by means of a
 mercury air-pump. The electrodes were mostly composed of
 aluminium, but sometimes of other metals. The current was
measured by a mirror-galvanometer. Of the results obtained
we shall mention only those which have a connexion with our
subject.
    Two cylindrical tubes, equal in width and length, were fur
 nished at their extremities with electrodes of platinum wire
 of 0-67 millim. thickness. The electrodes were in part encom
 passed with tubes of glass. The two positive electrodes had
 each an equal portion of the wire without a glass covering ;
 but one of the negative electrodes presented a free surface
 3-87 times as largo as that of the other. The distance between
 the extremities of the electrodes was the same in both tubes.
 The tubes therefore presented perfect similarity, except that
the negative electrode of one had a larger free surface. When
 thej" had both been filled with hydrogen and the pressure of
the gas was lowered to 1*35 millim. of mercury, they were
inserted side by side in the circuit of the induction-apparatus,
the current of which traversed them simultaneously ; but it
appeared that the current of the tube whose negative electrode
hail the largest free surface was, on an average, 4-2o times as
intense as the current of the other. The intensity of the cur
rent was therefore not far from proportional to the free surface
of the negative electrode. The same result was obtained with
carbonic acid and with nitrogen, as also with aluminium elec
trodes. Therefore, all other circumstances remaining equal,
   * Pogg, Ann. exxxvi. pp. 1, 197 (18G8), Jubelb. p. 4:30 (1874) ; Wied.
Amu vii. p. 653 (1870).

                      Resistance of Vacuum.                      17
when the pressure of the gas is very slight the resistance is
inversely proportional to the surface of the negative electrode.
   Two tubes of equal width, and with equal electrodes, between
the extremities of which the distances were 12 and 146 mil-
lims. respectively, were filled with hydrogen and connected,
side by side, with the poles of the induction-apparatus. The
current divided itself between the two tubes ; and it appeared
that the two portions continually approached nearer to equality
as the hydrogen was rarefied. When the pressure had fallen
to 1'85 millim., the ratio between the intensities was 1*65; as
soon as it had fallen to 055, the two intensities became per
fectly equal, although the distance between the extremities of
the electrodes in one of the tubes was twelve times as great as
that in the other. Therefore the resistance designated by r,
in the foregoing decreased with the pressure of the gas, and
at a pressure of 0*55 millim. r^l could be neglected compara
tively with r.
    On the other hand, other experiments proved that the resist
ance r really increases as the gas becomes more rarefied. Two
equal ellipsoidal glass vessels were furnished with equal elec
 trodes of aluminium, then filled with hydrogen at a pressure of
 1"05 millim., and connected, side by side, with the poles of an
induction-apparatus. The two vessels being equal, the current
 ought to have been shared equally between them ; but it was
found that, in consequence of a slight difference between the
electrodes, the ratio between the respective resistances of the
two vessels was 1'17. The pressure of the gas was afterwards
 diminished by one half in the vessel which had the less resist
ance ; and now it was ascertained that the resistance was
 thereby so much increased that it became 2'34 times as great
 as in the vessel in which the pressure was not changed. Con
 sequently, if the two vessels had had exactly the same resist
 ance before the reduction of the pressure in one of them, the
resistance would have been raised to 2-34 x l'17 = 2-74. If in
 both vessels the pressure was 0-5 millim. and was afterwards
 reduced in one to 0-25 millim., the resistance was thereby
 augmented in that vessel from 1 to 2"59. These experiments
 were modified in different ways and with different current-
 intensities; but the result remained nearly the same.
    The gas-pressure in these last experiments being only 1'05
 millim. or less, according to the foregoing r,£ can be neglected
 in comparison with r. These last observations consequently
 prove, as we have had cause to admit for other reasons before-
 mentioned, that the resistance r increases as the gas is rarefied.
  Much importance attaches to Hittorf's observation that the
 resistance r depends on the material of which the negative
    PhU. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 78. Jan. 1882.             C

18             Prof. E. Edlund on the Electrical
electrode is composed. When it was aluminium, r was at least
4 times less than when the same electrode was composed of
silver or of platinum, 2"5 times less than when the consti
tuent material was zinc. Aluminium being, of all metals,
that which suffers least from the current, while the latter tears
silver and platinum without difficult)', Hittorf is inclined to
admit that here, as in the voltaic arc and the electric spark, at
the surface of the electrodes exists an electromotive force
acting in the opposite direction to the discharge.
   In order to decide if the diminution of what we designate
by r,Z proceeds continuously with the decrease of the gas-
pressure, or if it ceases at a certain degree of rarefaction,
Hittorf carried on the latter till the pressure was, by calcula
tion, only 0-003 millim. ; but to this extreme limit rxl con
tinued to diminish with the pressure. Detailed study of the
questions relative to the foregoing furnished to Hittorf the
result that there exists at the negative electrode an altogether
peculiar cause opposing the passage of the electric current
from the gas to the surface of the electrode. When the light
surrounding this electrode was explored with a magnet, it was
ascertained that the current here passed from the gas to the
electrode.
   In the subsequent researches which he has published, Hit
torf substituted for the Kuhmkorff induction-apparatus a gal
vanic battery of from 400 to 600 cells. These were composed
of carbon, amalgamated zinc, and a solution of potassium bi
chromate and sulphuric acid. With the Holtz machine and
 Kuhmkorff apparatus the current which passes through the
gas is constantly discontinuous; with the battery, on the con
trary, the current was always continuous as soon as the resist
ance of the rheostat inserted in the circuit did not exceed a
 certain limit. But if the resistance was above that limit, the
 current of the battery became discontinuous. It was therefore
 easy to give the current those two forms at pleasure. Hittorf
 calls attontion to the very slight increase of temperature pro
 duced by the current in highly rarefied air. When the tube
 was a little wider, a thin strip of paper enclosed in it did not
 show a trace of carbonization when the current traversed it
 producing an intense light. This is in accordance with the
 result found by E. Wiedemann*, that a rarefied gas can be
 rendered luminous b}' the passage of the current, although the
 temperature of the gas may be much below 100° C. This has
 received further confirmation from the observations of Hassel-
 bergf. But while the gas was so little heated by the current,
   • Wied. Ann. vi. p. 298 (1870).
   t Mim. de VAcad. des Sci. de St. P&ersbourg, [7] xxvii. no. 1 (1879).

                      Resistance of Vacuum.                     19
the negative electrode became intensely incandescent, though
the temperature of the positive electrode was much lower.
There must therefore be, at the negative electrode, some cause
opposing a considerable obstacle to the propagation of the cur
rent. Moreover, on employing the battery as the source of elec
tricity the same phenomena were verified as when the Holtz ma
chine or the induction-apparatus was employed—namely, that
the tension necessary for the passage of the current diminished
when the gas was rarefied, until the rarefaction had reached a
certain limit, past which that tension rapidly augmented. In
a cylindrical tube of 1 centim. diameter, and with filiform
electrodes, the pressure of the air or hydrogen amounted to
0'7-O-5 millim. when the tension necessary for the discharge
was at its minimum. With less than 200 cells it was possible,
at the rarefaction mentioned, to pass the current through those
gases. The increase or the decrease of the distance between
the electrodes had little or no influence upon the number of
cells necessary for the passage of the current.
                                §6.
    It has, then, been proved by direct observations that the
resistance, properly so called, in rarefied gas, or ru diminishes
constantly with the pressure of the gas till that pressure has
fallen to an insignificant fraction of a millimetre, and that
during that time r, which represents the resistance undergone
by the current on passing from the gas to the solid electrode,
constantly increases in value. The question may now be
stated thus:—Does the known fact that the current is incapable
 of traversing the Torricellian vacuum depend on ru after con
 stantly decreasing simultaneously with the pressure of the
gas, suddenly acquiring a very high value when the last mole
cules of gas are removed? or is it more probable that the
resistance r upon the electrodes continues to increase ? Or,
in other terms, which of these two magnitudes is it that in
 creases when the highly-rarefied gas passes to absolute vacuum ?
 Without any doubt the correct assumption is that r continues
 to increase with the continuation of the rarefaction, and, in
 doing so, receives so great an augmentation that the current
 cannot circulate. Only in this manner, too, is it possible to
 explain the fact that, without electrodes, a current can be called
 forth, by induction, in a vacuum deprived of gas, while it is
 impossible for a current to pass there between electrodes.
 The observations above related lead therefore, in my opinion, to
 the remarkable result that vacuum is a conductor of eleclrieitt/.
     This at the same time annihilates the difficulty of explaining
 how one heavenly body can exert an electrical action upon
                                 C2

  20    Mr. L. Wright, on Spiral Figures observable in Crystals,
  another, as is the case, for instance, between the sun and the
  earth. The heavenly bodies are in this wayin a sphere of mutual
 action, not only by universal gravitation and by the radiation
  of light and heat, but also by the electric force. If vacuum
 is a good conductor of electricity, an electric motion arising
  or disappearing on one heavenly body, will of necessity excite,
  by induction in the vacuum, an electric motion which can be
 propagated to any distance whatever in that good conductor,
  and in its turn call forth electrical phenomena upon another
  heavenly body. The inconsistency with the electrical nature
  of the aurora borealis which has been supposed to be found in
 its altitude, sometimes very great, above the surface of the
 earth, loses thereby all its importance. In the last place, the
 assumption that the presence of ordinary matter is necessary
 for the propagation of an electric current from one place to
 another to be possible will have to be abandoned. If it be
 agreed that it is possible to an electric motion to propagate
 itself with the greatest facility in vacuo, the notion of conduc
 tivity will be deprived of all physical meaning. The various
 material bodies produce only a greater or less resistance to the
 propagation of electricity ; their effect in this respect is not
 active, but passive.
 II. Some Spiral Figures observable in Crystals, illustrating the
       Relation of their Optic Axes. By Lewis Wright*.
                               [Hate I.]
 f I^HE true relation of the optic axes in uniaxial and biaxial
   A     crystals has always been an interesting subject. We
 know that if the crystals lie both polarized and analyzed cir
 cularly, and we disregard any dispersion of the axes for various
 colours, the axis of a uniaxial and one of the two axes of
 a biaxial present ultimately similar phenomena. Here, for
 oxample, is the well known system of rings and brushes pre
 sented by a plate of calcite (fig. 1 ). As is well known, if
 we interpose between the polarizer and the crystal a quarter-
 wave plate, the black cross disappears, to be replaced by grey
 nebulous lines (fig. 2), on alternate sides of which the quadrants
 are dislocated ; and if now we interpose a second quarter-wave
 plate between the crystal and the analyzer, when the latter is
either crossed or parallel even these lines disappear, and we
get simply a series of circular rings with no break whatever
(fig. 3). Let us now take a plate of sugar cut across one of
   * Communicated by the Physical Society, having been read at the
Meeting on November 12, 1881 .

           illustrating the Relation of their Optic Axes.      21
its two optic axes. This crystal is suitable for our purpose as
Laving scarcely any axial dispersion, so that one of its axes
gives sensible circles, which many other biaxials do not.
Placing it in the stage, we have a system of rings traversed
by a straight brush (fig. 4), which, on interposing the first
quarter-wave plate, becomes a grey line, on each side of which
the semicircles are dislocated (fig. 5) ; but now interposing
the second quarter-wave plate, we have perfect unbroken
circles as before (fig. 6).
   Now this might seem to imply that the optic axis of the
uniaxial calcite resembled in its character that of a single
axis of the sugar, or biaxial. It need hardly be said here,
that such was not the view taken of the matter by those intel
lectual giants who chiefly shaped into definite form the theory
of double refraction in crystals. Gradually this theory was
simplified, until Fresnel finally framed the conception of three
elasticities within the crystal in the direction of three rectan
gular axes. If all three elasticities were equal, there was no
double refraction ; if only two were equal, there was a single
axis of no double refraction in the direction of the third ; if
all were unequal,, there were two such optic axes. In any
conceivable case the wave-surface could be calculated or geo
metrically projected upon this hypothesis; and it is needless
to repeat how, after its author had passed away, Sir William
Hamilton worked out from his conceptions the remarkable and
unforeseen results of conical and cylindrical refraction which
were experimentally verified by Dr. Lloyd (also removed from
us during the past year). That extraordinary verification of
Fresnel's theory, which makes the optic axes mere resultants
of three rectangular elasticities, has always been considered to
have placed it upon an impregnable basis, and seems only to
have left for future experiment the possibility of perhaps some
further illustration, which is the sole object of this paper.
   For observe that, according to this theory, the optic axis of
our calcite would not correspond in character with a single
axis of the sugar or any other biaxial, but must be regarded
as simply a limiting case in which both such axes coincide.
This is well illustrated by the celebrated experiments of Pro
fessor Mitscherlich in gradually applying heat to crystals,
especially to a crystal of selenite, and thereby altering by the
unequal expansion their respective elasticities.
   Of the two axes gradually approaching till they unite into
one as the elasticities are gradually equalized, there could be
no clearer proof than this old experiment. But it seemed
worth while to seek further illustration of one particular point,
viz. that the axis of the uniaxial crystal did actually retain or

22 Mr. L. Wright on Spiral Figures observable in Crystals,
embrace within itself, in some visible form, optical characte
ristics of the two axes thus brought, temporarily or perma
nently, into coincidence. This object seemed most likely to
be obtained by the aid of quartz, or some other substance pos
sessing similar properties of rotary polarization. Such sub
stances having, apart from their ordinary doubly-refractive
effects, two different axial velocities or waves capable of being
brought into interference, and the two axes of a biaxial being
according to hypothesis dissimilar, one being principal and
 the other secondary to it, it seemed probable that by proper
means the two axes might be made to exert some kind of
 differential or selective action upon the two sets of waves
passing through the rotary substance. I was confirmed in
 this expectation by the curious double spiral, first noticed by
 Sir George Airy, as displayed by quartz itself when subjected
 to circularly polarized light, the cause of which appeared to me
 to be connected with this very matter, as we shall presently
 see to be the case. After observing with more care than usual,
 therefore, the effects of quartz in combination with other crys
 tals in various ways, most of which have been described by
 various observers, I finally adopted the following arrange
 ment :—We introduce first, next to the polarizer, a quarter-
 wave plate, then (in the convergent rays) a plate of calcite,
 and next to this a plate of quartz 5 to 7| millim. thick. The
 result of this arrangement is the system of double spirals,
 mutually enwrapping each other, now on the screen (fig. 7 ).
 This figure only changes in colour, or moves to or from
 the centre, as the analyzer is rotated—though there are of
 course only certain complementary positions of the polarizer,
 related to that of the quarter-wave plate, which produce them.
 The point to be here observed is the double character of the
 spiral in this uniaxial crystal.
    This figure, however, so closely resembled in all but the
 number of its convolutions the one exhibited by quartz alone,
 as described by Sir George Airy in the Cambridge Transac
 tions for 1831, that it might possibly be due to the quartz
 itself in the convergent light; it was necessary to see if there
 were any differential results with other crystals, and, finally,
 to see if they remained when any such possible cause for them
 was removed. A single axis of sugar was therefore next
 placed in the crystal-stage in place of the calcite; and the
 result is again before you (fig. 8). Observe that, with this
 single axis of a biaxial, wo no longer have the double spiral,
 but a single one, corresponding exactly to the supposed rela
 tion of which we are in search, and also showing that the
figures are not proper to the quartz as such, but to some selec

            illustrating the Relation of their Optic Axes.     23
tive action of the axes of the other crystals upon the two axiat
waves of the quartz and their interferences. A single axis of
iron sulphate, and this crystal, cut across a single axis of a
topaz, gives similar single spirals.
    The single axis heing thus tested, we place in the stage a
biaxial cut across both axes—in this case nitre (fig. 9). The
supposed relation still holds good : each axis now has its own
distinct spiral, and the two mutually enwrap one another as in
the calcite.
    The same is true of crystals whose axes include much wider
angles; but to show their spirals we must alter our arrange
ments. Extra convergent lenses are added in a moment ; but
if we placed a quartz plate in the strongly convergent light
we have to employ to bring both axes of such crystals upon
the screen togther, the rings and spirals proper to the quartz
itself, which have not appeared in the very moderate conver
 gence so far used, would now appear so strongly as to over
 power and distort those due to the crystals under examination.
 We also want to ascertain beyond doubt that the effects are
 not due to any convergence of the rays traversing the quartz,
 but solely to selective action upon the right-handed and left-
 handed waves traversing itaxially. We therefore reverse the
 combination, placing a large plate of quartz about 1\ millim.
 thick next to the polarizing Nicol, in the parallel rays, and
 removing the quarter-wave plate to a position between the
 crystal to be examined and the analyzer. Of course, as it is
 now the analyzer which is related in position to the quarter-
 wave plate, the spirals only appear in complementary posi
 tions; while, on the other hand, when the analyzer is in those
 positions the polarizer may be completely rotated. Of course,
 also, we might have adopted this arrangement all along ; but
 I have given the experiments as they were made, in order to
 show how each successive question was determined.
     A multiplicity of crystals would be useless: three of various
  angles will show the uniformity and gradation of the pheno
  mena. Our former crystal of topaz cut across one axis, being
 thin enough also for the more convergent arrangement, will
  show that the single spiral appears precisely as before, the
  convolutions being simply closer in this strongly convergent
  light. Next we will take again the small angle of another
  nitre crystal, cut thin enough to show conspicuous figures in
  the convergent apparatus (fig. 10). Observe that we can
  now barely distinguish its two spirals, by their oval contour,
  from those just now presented by the calcite: they are a little
  drawn out, as it were, precisely as we should expect ; and that
  is all ; otherwise the visible elements are manifestly the same

24    Mr. L. Wright on Spiral Figures observable in Crystals,
in both. Arragonite (fig. 11), with an angle of 18£ degrees,
 shows a spiral of several turns round each axis ; but still they
finally enwrap each other : and now mica, with an angle in
this specimen of 60° or 70° (fig. 12) gives the same pheno
mena. With the wider separation the spiral round each axis
 has room to show separately more of the character of the
single axis of the sugar; but the two always preserve the same
relation, and only crystals which, owing to very powerful dis
persion of their axes, fail to show perfect lemniscates in the
ordinary way, fail for the same reason to show these figures
complete. Here, for instance, is a plate of borax, whose axial
 dispersion is considerable and peculiar; but as this still leaves
the ordinary lemniscate curves tolerably unbroken, we can
trace the spirals without difficulty.
   That these figures are solely due to differential action upon
the interferences of the quartz rotational colours, we shall de
monstrate absolutely in a few minutes ; meantime we can
almost prove it in two ways. First, though all the arrange
ments remain complete, the spirals disappear or lose their cha
racter in monochromatic light ; and, secondly, substituting a
quartz of opposite rotation, the direction of the spirals is, as
you see, reversed.
   And now we will project the beautiful experiment of Prof.
Mitscherlich, afterwards applying to it this additional method
of analysis. There are the two axes arranged vertically ; as
we apply heat they gradually unite. The crystal is now uni
axial. And now the axes open out again, but horizontally.
It is a beautiful demonstration, which never loses its fascina
tion for the student. We now add our arrangements for the
spirals. There they are, arranged perpendicularly on the
screen. They approach as the crystal is heated, till now we
have them as in the calcite. Now they open out again in a
horizontal direction, like those of a plate of nitre turned round
90° in its own plane. Observe that all through we have the
double spiral. We can only get a single one by taking a single
axis ; while the axis of a uniaxial always preserves what we
may call its " twin " character. Thus we have the ocular
illustration sought at the commencement, of the precise rela
tion predicated by Fresnel's theory between the axes of uni
axial and biaxial crystals, and that the former class do con
tain, within their single axis, elements (capable of being made
optically visible) of both the axes in the latter class.
   We have here also objectively demonstrated the reason of
the double spiral, first observed by Mr. Airy, in quartz itself.
We see that the quartz, considered as an ordinary uniaxial
crystal, owing to its peculiar effects upon plane-polarized light

           illustrating the Relation of their Optic Axes.        25
passing through it axially, is able to show its own spirals,
which of course are double. They are not seen at all in par
allel light ; and, on the other hand, if we increase the rings
by convergence, the spirals become more definite. Here,
for instance, is a rather thin quartz (one of a pair generally
used to show Airy's spirals) : in this strongly-convergent
circularly polarized light, it shows spirals as well defined as did
our calcite. A crucial test of this view readily suggests itself.
If it be well founded, obviously we can combine the two pro
perties of our quartz artificially, as it were, since many fluids
possess the same power of dividing into two opposite circular
waves, differently retarded, a plane-polarized ray. If there
fore we take a column of such fluid of sufficient length, and
any ordinary uniaxial crystal, the one will represent the pecu
liar axial properties, and the other the ordinary doubly-
refractive properties of the quartz ; and the two ought to give
similar double spirals. In fact an adequate column of fluid
ought to replace the quartz successfully in all the foregoing
experiments. Our last step, therefore, is to prove that this is
the case. I have here a tube of oil of lemons 200 millimetres
(8 inches) in length, which we introduce into the parallel-
plane-polarized beam in place of the quartz, whose axial pro
perties it now represents. In the crystal-stage we adjust the
calcite, which in all except being a negative crystal (and a
positive one would be just the same) represents the ordinary
doubly-refractive properties.        And now introducing the
quarter-wave plate between crystal and analyzer, we have the
spirals as given by the quartz in all respects. The same
effects are produced by other crystals, any slight inferiority
being due to the slightly yellowish tint of the fluid, which so
far approximates to homogeneous light. Spirit of turpentine
is free from this defect ; but we could hardly project through a
tube of sufficient length.
   These phenomena hold good through all the ordinary analo
gies with, or substitutes for, natural crystals. This round disk
of chilled glass, placed in parallel light, which behaves in all
other respects like a crystal in convergent light, also gives
double spirals like those of the calcite. I have here also an
artificial uniaxial crystal formed of crossed mica-films, after
Norremberg, and an artificial quartz of mica-films, after
Reusch, for both of which I am indebted to my kind friend
Mr. Fox, who made them with his own hands. The first
gives the calcite spirals w ith a quarter-wave plate and quartz ;
the Reusch preparation gives the quartz spirals with the
quarter-wave plate alone.
   These experiments of course add nothing to the theory of

26        Mr. T. Bayley on the Atomic Weight and the
the matter, and make no such pretension; their whole interest
lies in the visible, ocular demonstration they afford of the
truth of conclusions long ago worked out by the brilliant
mathematical genius of Fresnel. But to the best of my
belief they are new ; and if it should prove that some other
student has been before me, I hope the beauty of the pheno
mena may excuse my bringing them before you.
III. On the Connexion between the Atomic Weight and the Che
   mical and Physical Properties of Elements. By Thomas
   Bayley*.
                            [Plate II.]
WHEN we arrange the elements in the order of the atomic
         weights, hydrogen of course comes first. After this
there is a considerable interval, corresponding to an increase
of six in the atomic weight, before the next element, which is
lithium. After lithium the elements follow in this order,—
beryllium, boron, carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, fluorine—the rise
in atomic weight between each being on an average about
two. The next element is sodium, with the atomic weight 23;
and after sodium come magnesium, aluminium, silicon, phos
phorus, sulphur, chlorine—the average rise in atomic weight
being again about two. If we stay to consider the properties
of the elements we have so placed in sequence, our attention
is soon arrested by some curious circumstances. Excepting
hydrogen, separated as it is by so great an interval from all
other elements, lithium is the first. Lithium is a metal of
the alkalies, which is only another way of saying that it has
properties exceedingly like those of the well-known metals
potassium and sodium. It is metallic, strongly electropositive,
and chemically active, and of low specific gravity; it forms
an oxide and salts which are soluble in water, and formed by
the union of the metal with the smallest proportions of oxygen,
chlorine, or other negative radical, simple or compound, that
are found to be capable of reacting chemically. The next
element (beryllium), although its atomic weight is greater
than that of lithium only by two, has very different properties.
It is metallic, electropositive, and chemically active; but its
oxide is insoluble in water, and the metal unites with two
atoms of chlorine or bromine to form its halogen compounds
instead of with one. The succeeding elements have no longer
the metallic character, which, however, has not quite disap
peared in the case of boron, the next in succession. Carbon
                 • Communicated by the Author.

          Chemical and Physical Properties of Elements.         27
is non-metallic, very stable under ordinary conditions, and its
atom-fixing power is four. Oxygen is gaseous, chemically
active, but electronegative, and its atomicity is two. Fluorine
is in all probability gaseous; it is chemically active, so much
so that it has never been isolated, powerfully electronegative;
and its atomicity is one. At this point the character of the
elements suffers an abrupt change; and the next element
(sodium) is a metal of the alkalies, and almost exactly repeats
the properties of lithium. After sodium, as after lithium,
come six elements, at small intervals of atomic weight ; and
 they repeat the changes and transitions that take place in the
 elements succeeding lithium. There is, first, magnesium, a
 metal of the alkaline earths; and then an earth-metal (alumi
 nium), triad like boron. Next comes silicon, analogous in so
 many respects to carbon, being neither strongly electropositive
 nor strongly electronegative, and having also an atomicity of
 four. Then comes sulphur, electronegative, but less so than
 oxygen, but with analogous properties in many respects.
 Chlorine (gaseous, electronegative, and a monad) is like fluo
 rine repeated in a modified form ; and then again comes an
 abrupt change, and an alkali metal (potassium) succeeds.
 Thus we recognize a periodicity in atomic functions corre
 sponding to intervals of seven elements, and to increase of
 sixteen in atomic weight.
    Potassium and the six succeeding elements form another
 period, but repeat less distinctly the typical characters of the
 first periods. There is the same transition from alkali metal
to alkaline-earth metal (calcium), from low to high atomicity;
and from highly positive elements to the elements chromium
and manganese, which, although possessed of basylous pro
 perties, have also well-marked chlorous characteristics. But
 it is evident that potassium and the six elements in succession
 fail to repeat the full periodic change from alkali metal to
 alkali metal ; there is not the complete transition from posi
 tive to negative, and again to positive ; nor from low atomi
 city to high, and again to low. The three elements succeeding
 to manganese form with it and with copper, which they serve
 to link together, the iron group, which exhibits within itself
 so many interesting relations of resemblance and difference.
 Copper has long been held to have strong affinities with
 sodium; and it is similar, among other things, in being the
 first of a series of seven exhibiting the periodic change. For
 although copper is not a monad, like sodium, the atomicity
 has fallen rapidly from manganese ; and although it is not
 intensely active, like sodium, it is metallic and electropositive,
 and has no symptoms of chlorosity. Zinc, the next element,

   28        Mr. T. Bayley on the Atomic Weight and the
   has analogies with magnesium, and the newly-discovered gal
   lium with aluminium ; after gallium the metallic tendency
   grows weaker and the atomicity higher, in arsenic; and the
   negative monad type culminates once more in bromine.
   Again there is a break, followed by a metal of the alkalies—
   rubidium. We thus recognize the completion of the full
   period; but it is double, and consists (if we omit the interme
   diate elements iron, cobalt, and nickel) of two series of seven.
   The increment from lithium to sodium and from sodium to
   potassium was sixteen ; the increment from potassium to
  rubidium is approximately three times sixteen—viz. 46*4.
   From rubidium to the next alkali metal (caesium) the incre
  ment is 47-5—almost the same as 46'4 ; and the intermediate
  elements form a cycle parallel in a remarkable manner with
  the cycle from potassium to rubidium. Each of these twin
  cycles is double, consisting of two series of seven united by
  an intermediate group, consisting in the second case of palla
  dium, rhodium, and ruthenium. The element silver, at the
  head of the second series of the fourth cycle, has long been
  classified with copper, and cadmium with zinc; and the resem
  blances between antimony and arsenic, between tellurium and
  selenium, and between bromine and iodine, are among the best-
  known facts in chemistry.
     There is no alkali metal known of higher atomic weight
  than caesium ; but there is strong evidence that, just as the
 third and fourth cycles succeed the first and second, and cor
 respond to increment of atomic weight three times as great,
 so the third and fourth cycles are succeeded at any rate by a
 fifth, with increment of atomic weight again three times as
 great. The fifth cycle is incomplete, as indeed are the third
 and fourth in a few members; but it seems to consist of four
 series of seven, united two to two by the metals osmium, iri
 dium, and platinum, which closely resemble palladium, rhodium,
and ruthenium.
     It will be seen that, while the cyclic change retains its cha
 racteristics unimpaired from the lowest to the highest known
 atomic weight, the series, which in its early form is cyclic, loses
 its prominent features as the atomic weight progresses. But
besides the natural classification into cycles and series, the
elements are capable of another mode of grouping. Certain
elements have long been seen to have strong points of resem
blance and analogy, and have therefore been grouped into
natural families. The alkali metals, the metals of the alkaline
earths, and the halogens, are the best examples of family
groups. A moment's consideration of these typical examples
will show that families consist of elements which have corre

          Chemical and Physical Properties of Elements.        29
sponding positions in the ascending series : thus the alkali
metals are the first members of certain series, the alkaline-
earth metals are the second, and the halogens the sixth
members.
   The systematic grouping into families, in accordance with
this conception, is shown in the table (Plate IL fig. 1), and
will be seen to be similar to, but not identical with, Men-
delejeff's classification.
   Family relationships between elements may be of two orders
of intimacy. The halogen group, the group of the alkalies
and of the alkaline earths, are among the best examples of
complete family resemblance ; but there are other groups of
elements usually arranged in families which have a certain
number of points of resemblance, and yet differ in many im
portant respects. For instance, there is the group consisting
of hydrogen, lithium, sodium, copper, silver, and gold ; the
group comprising beryllium, magnesium, zinc, cadmium, and
mercury; the group carbon, silicon, tin, and lead; and the
group nitrogen, phosphorus, arsenic, antimony, and bismuth.
 It is evident that in these cases there is less complete resem
blance between the various members of the family, than exists
 in the case of the halogens and the other aforesaid perfect
families. A little consideration will show that the resem
blances between some of the members of these imperfect sub
 families, as they may be termed, are often merely structural
resemblances of the various compounds formed. For example,
the lower chlorides of the subfamily sodium, copper, silver,
and gold have little more in common than the fact that the
metal in each case is monad, and united to one equivalent
of chlorine ; while the chlorides of the family of elements
lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium, caesium, have this fea
ture in common, as well as many others which are not common
to all the members of the subfamily—as, for example, solu
bility in water, and stability under great variety of conditions.
In short, we may say that the members of a natural family of
elements resemble one another in most physical and chemical
characteristics ; while the members of a subfamily chiefly
resemble the members of the family in atomicity, which
accounts for the similar structure of their compounds. But
the atomicity of an element seems to depend almost entirely
upon position in the primary septenary series ; and, upon
inquiry, we find that in all cases families and their collateral
subfamilies are alike in this respect. It may be thought that
too much stress should not be laid upon atomicity, a concep
tion coming of late to be thought less rigidly applicable by
chemists. But we here employ the notion of atomicity under

30        Mr. T. Bayley on the Atomic Weight and tlie
circumstances that admit of comparison under equal condi
tions. Thus we do not compare the highest atomicity of an
element with the highest atomicity of another element, or
their atomicities in different compounds and under widely
different conditions; but we compare the atomicity of the two
elements in those cases where they are united to the same
elements—that is, if they are of similar character. And we
generally compare them in those compounds in which the two
constituents are of oppositive properties (positive and nega
tive) and have most completely balanced each other's affi
nities. And if we take this last consideration always into
account, it sometimes follows that the subfamilies are found to
have, besides their resemblances, important structural differ
ences, in which case the family relationship may be considered
almost to disappear. The sodium, copper, and silver group,
in this way considered, betray, besides the structural resem
blances of their lower (proto)chlorides, oxides, &c, more im
portant differences in their normal (that is, most stable and
 evenly balanced) compounds. It may be said that, as the
 atomic weight increases and the cycles become of greater
 magnitude, natural families differentiate, splitting first into
 two and then into four branches, the divergence in properties
 each time becoming greater and the resemblances less distinct.
 But in each family there is one branch which preserves unim
 paired the original main characteristics of the family.
    We may now consider what are the causes of this last phe
 nomenon, this maintenance of the original conditions by one
 branch of a family ; but before doing so, we may indicate
 some circumstances that are very probably connected with the
 smaller differences between the members of a family or sub
 family of elements. We refer to the proportional position of
 the elements in the series, or, in other words, to the intervals
 of atomic weight at which the elements of each series occur.
 Thus, if we represent increment of atomic weight in each
 series by a lino, we shall find that the lines representing the
 various series are not proportionally divided, analogous ele
 ments occurring at unequal distances from the commencement
 of the line, and the spaces between pairs of analogous elements
 being disproportionate. These circumstances, it is conceivable,
 may be connected with irregularities in the properties of the
 most closely allied elements.
    Passing on to consider the conditions that are associated
 with and, it may be, cause the resemblances between the
 members of the main branch of a family, we notice that they
 are all similarly situated in the cycle. We may, for conveni
 ence, distinguish the cycles, the series, and their individual

        Chemical and Physical Properties of Elements.           31
members by letters and numbers in some sucb way as the fol
lowing:—
                                                                  i
                                                                  2
                                                                  3
                                                                  4
                                                                  5
                                                                  6
                                                                  7
                                                                  1
                                                                  2
                                      3                           3
                                      4                           4
        1          n                  5                           5
        2            2                6                           (5
        3            3                                            7
        4 II.        4 IIM               IV.
        5            5              n                             1
        6                             2                           2
       I?                             3                           3
                                      4                           4
                                      5                           5
                                      6                           (i
                                      7                           7
                                                                  1
                                                                  2
                                                                  3
                                                                  4
                                                                  5
                                                                   ti
                                                                   7
              (t indicates the intermediate groups.)
   According to this system, the main family of the alkaline
 group is I. a 1, II. a 1, III. a 1, IV. a 1, V. a 1 ; and with this
 are connected the various members of the group as follows :—
                            /                       V.bl
        H—Lai—II. a 1
                            \                       V. c 1
                                                    Y.dl
    By this method each element, whether known or unknown,

32        Mr. T. Bayley on the Atomic Weight and the
 is represented by a symbol expressing its position as regards
other elements and its relations to them, whether axial as
among the members of a family, or lateral as between adjacent
 elements in a series or cycle. Up to the present we have
 recognized the following circumstances to be connected with
the properties of an element :—
             (a) Position of sequence in the series,
              b) Proportionate position in the series,
              c) Position in the cycle;
and we have seen that elements having the closest family
resemblances are most alike in respect of the first and last of
these, and most probably in all.
    Accompanying the periodic variations in the chemical pro
perties of the elements by means of which they have been so far
 systematically classified, are variations in their physical proper
 ties synonymous with the chemical variations, and so closely
coordinated therewith as almost irresistibly to urge the con
viction that the two sets of phenomena (the physical and the
 chemical) are intrinsically due to the same ulterior causes, or
stand in the sequence of cause and effect.
    The diagram, PI. II. fig. 2, which is in some respects the
same as those published by L. Meyer in Die moderne Theorien
der Chemie, has been constructed for me by my friend Mr.
Worrall : along the horizontal line as ordinate the elements
are set out, according to scale, in the order of atomic weights;
and the various curves are formed by joining points in the
abscissa? corresponding to each element. The main curve on
the diagram thus corresponds to the atomic volumes of the
elements, obtained by dividing the atomic weight by the den
sity when known. In cases where the density is not known
the element has been simply passed by, a straight line being
drawn from the preceding to the succeeding element, or from
the nearest preceding to the nearest succeeding element of
known atomic volume. The effect of this is somewhat to
obscure the resemblance in form between the portions of the
curve corresponding to the cycles ; but it has the advantage
of making the diagram entirely a record of known facts. The
line of atomic volume is well worthy of attentive study, which
will reveal better than any array of words the singular resem
blances and points almost of identity in atomic volume between
elements resembling each other quite as closely in chemical
properties. It will be seen how the alkali metals in every
case have the highest atomic volume, and how the metals with
the lowest atomic volumes (those occupying the troughs of the
curves) are metals with comparatively small affinities for

         Chemical and Physical Properties of Elements.          33
oxygen, including the iron-copper group, the platinoid groups,
and all the noble and semi-noble metals. Thus the easily oxi-
dizable metals are those which have their atoms exposed at
large intervals; the semi-noble metals those which have atoms
of medium weight at small intervals; and the noble metals
those which have heavy atoms at small intervals. The last
may be compared to a Macedonian phalanx of large men with
shields interlocked; the semi-noble metals to a phalanx of
smaller men; and the alkali and alkaline-earth metals to com
panies of small men in skirmishing order. The melting-points
of the elements are no less closely associated with the periodic
variations of chemical properties than are the atomic volumes.
A glance at the line of melting-points (at the top of the figure)
shows the closeness of the connexion. The alkali metals have
in every case low melting-points ; the alkaline-earth metals
melt at considerably higher temperatures ; and the melting-
point rises still higher in the metals of the earths, until it cul
minates in those metals which occupy the intermediate posi
tion in the cycle and have low atomic volumes. High melt
 ing-point, however, is not always associated with low atomic
volume ; and it is curious how, in the second, third, fourth,
 and fifth cycles, the curve of melting-points, after attaining
 its maximum in silicon in the iron group and in the two groups
 of the platinoid metals, suddenly falls, until the melting-point
again becomes very low, the minimum being within the region
of moderately low volume (about 15). This depression is suc
ceeded by a moderate rise; and then the melting-point falls to
the alkali-metal standard.
    The low melting-point of gallium has been considered to be
 one of the facts which could not have been anticipated by the
 light of Mendelejeff's conception ; and the Russian chemist,
 who apparently occupied himself more systematically with
chemical than with physical considerations, does not seem to
have assigned a low melting-point to ekaluminium, although
he has subsequently somewhat empirically attempted to assi
milate the fact into his system. But gallium, in having a low
melting-point accords perfectly with its atomic weight and
density and properties in general ; it occupies, in fact, the
minimum that immediately succeeds the maximum of melting-
point, and is analogous to (nitrogen) phosphorus, indium,
and mercury in this respect.
    The magnetic properties of the elements have been shown
by Carnelley to follow the periodic variations (Chem. News,
vol. xl. no. 1038); and he has stated the law in the following
manner :—" Those elements belonging to the even series of
 Mendelejeff's classification are always paramagnetic, whereas
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 78.' Jan. 1882.          D

34        Mr. T. Bayley on the Atomic Weights and the
the elements belonging to the odd series are always diamag-
netic." This supposition is evidently true in the first four
cycles, as far as the present state of knowledge enables us to
verify it. Thus the first cycle is paramagnetic, and the second
diamagnetic. The first half of the third cycle is paramagnetic
and the second half diamagnetic; and this is the situation in
the fourth cycle also. But if the fith cycle contains four periods
of seven elements, excluding platinum, iridium, and osmium,
and we know the first four cycles are strictly septenary, then
 the series containing gold, mercury, thallium, lead, and bis
muth is an oven series; and yet these are diamagnetic elements.
 This and other considerations lead to the modification of the
law expressing the magnetic relations. The first cycle (a
 simple cycle of seven elements) is paramagnetic ; the second
 cycle, also simple, is diamagnetic ; after this, in the complex
 cycles, the first half is paramagnetic and the second diamag
netic. The fifth cycle is incompletely known at present ; but
 if subsequent research shows the first half to be paramagnetic
 and the second half diamagnetic, it will justify the system
 of semicycles at the expense of the system of odd and even
 elements of Mendelejeft'.
    The property possessed by certain metals of giving coloured
 solutions when associated as bases with colourless acids is
 strictly periodic; and the law may be stated as follows:—The
 metals in the first and second cycles form no coloured solu
 tions; in succeeding cycles the metals occupying the position
 of lowest atomic volume and the elements immediately suc
 ceeding them form coloured solutions. Thus in the third
 cycle the metals from titanium to copper, in the fourth cycle
 the metals from niobium to palladium, and in the fifth cycle
 the platinum group gold and tungsten have this property.
 It is interesting to observe how the power of forming coloured
 solutions ceases abruptly in the same region of each complex
 cycle—in the third cycle after copper, in the fourth after palla
 dium, and in the fifth after gold. To be consistent, silver
 should form coloured solutions ; but its solutions are not
 coloured, and it is not itself a coloured metal. Possibly its
 solutions are colourless because they correspond to an oxide
 of the form B/2 0, just as the salts of copper corresponding to
 Cus 0 are generally, but not always, colourless. If this is so,
 salts of silver corresponding to AgO, whenever they are dis
 covered, may have coloured solutions.
    There is one other circumstance with regard to the position
 of lowest atomic volume worthy of notice; it is the follow
 ing:—The increments of atomic weight which, starting from
 hydrogen, successively give the point where the atomic volume
 is a minimum, are members of the geometric series

         Chemical and Physical Properties of Elements.         35
               a,  axb, axb3, axb3, ax b*,
                   where a = 10 and b=l'67,
   _                                       6 '
   The increments are
               10,   16-5,  27-9,    46-6,     77-8;
and the corresponding atomic weights,
               11, 27-5, 55-4, 102-0, 179-8.
   Enough has now been said to indicate the close connexion
between the physical properties of elements and the periodic
variation; and it has been shown that in the majority of in
stances the density, the melting-point, (the expansion for heat,)
the magnetism, and the behaviour of the solution to trans
mitted light have definite relations to the atomic weight.
This being so, and it being well known that certain other
physical properties of substances closely associated with atomic
weight (for instance, vapour-density, isomorphism, and spe
cific heat) are extensively used to decide which of the powers
of the equivalent of an element is the weight of its atom, it
may be worth while to ask whether the general physical pro
perties of an element, and not only certain isolated ones, should
not be called in to decide the all-important question of atomic
weight. A crucial test of the value of this method is afforded
by uranium. This element has the equivalent 60; and its
atomic weight was, until lately, taken as 120. But Mendele-
jeff, for reasons which he states fully, has assigned to it the
atomic weight 240. Our knowledge of uranium and its com
pounds is largely due to Peligot ; and he and others have
established the following facts regarding it:—
    It has high density, 18-4.
    It melts only at the heat of a wind-furnace.
    It forms strongly coloured solutions, and, according to
Verdet, it is magnetic.
    If the atomic weight of uranium is 120, it comes where
 there is no place for it, between tin and antimony; for its
 volume is 6*5, while the volume of tin is 1 6*1 and that of
 antimony 18'2; it has high melting-point, while they melt at
 comparatively low temperatures; and it forms coloured solu
 tions, while their solutions are colourless. In the same way,
 if the atomic weight of uranium is 240, the volume is 13 in
 stead of about 30; and it occupies the region of the fifth cycle
 beyond bismuth, where, unless all analogy fails, we should
 not expect to find a metal with very high melting-point and
 coloured solutions. But if the atomic weight of uranium be
 180, it conforms with the known properties of the element.
 The atomic volume is then 10, and the element takes its place
                                D2

36        Mr. T. Bayley on the Atomic Weights and the
near tungsten and the platinum group, in the region of high
melting-point, low atomic volume, and coloured solutions.
   The facts known about the specific heat of uranium are, as
far as they go, compatible with the atomic weight 180. The
specific heat of metallic uranium has not been determined; but
the specific heat of the lowest oxide Ur203 (Ur=180) was
found by Regnault to be "0619. The product of the specific
heat of this oxide and the molecular weight is therefore 25*25;
and if we subtract from this the assumed specific heat 13-00
of the two atoms of uranium and divide the remainder by 3,
we arrive at a highly probable value for this heat of the atoms
of oxygen, viz. 4-08. The heat of the oxygen atoms is by a
similar process found to be 3-93 in sesquioxide of chromium,
4-12 in tungstic anhydride, and 4-04 in molybdic anhydride.
   The following table exhibits the formula? of the uranium
compounds, taking the atomic weight to be respectively 120,
180, 240:—
       Ur=120.               Ur = 180.           Ur = 240.
        UrCl2                 UrCl,               UrCl4
        UrO                   Ur2 Os              UrOa
        Ur203            Ur,04l(UrsO,?)           UrOs
        UrOCl               Ur2 03 Cl3           UrOa CI,
        Ur3 O,                Ur02                Ur3 08
        Ur 0,         |       Ur03                UrO*
   Uranium with atomic weight 180 may bo regarded as the
atom-analogue of chromium, Ur2 03 being the analogue of
Cr2 03, and Ur03 of Cr03. The fact of the normal oxide
of uranium, Ur2 05, being a higher oxide than the normal
oxide of chromium, Cr2 03, is in accordance with the general
tendency of sitomicity to increase with atomic weight. To
the foregoing it may be objected that tungsten has also claims
to be taken as the atom-analogue of chromium ; and many
arguments might be raised on behalf of each element. Whether
it is worth while to raise them is an open question. For it
it must be remembered that atom-analogy is likely to be most
 perfect in twin cycles, and to be weaker when the cycles are
 dissimilar. This is evidently so in the first four cycles: an
 element in the first cycle resembles its atom-analogue in the
 second more closely than its atom-analogue in the third or
 fourth cycle ; and an element in the third cycle resembles its
 atom-analogue in the fourth cycle more closely than its atom-
 analogue in the first or second.
    With increase in the complexity of the cycle comes the de
 velopment of new features and individualities ; thus the pro
perty of forming coloured solutions appears for the first time
 in the third cycle. The factor having the greatest influence
in determining the properties of an element appears to be

         Chemical and Physical Properties of Elements.         37
cyclic position, especially among the higher atomic weights.
l}ow, as the cycle increases, the same progression of atomic
weight produces less and less change in cyclic position, and
consequently less in properties. Comparing the best-known
members of the fifth cycle with the best-known members of
the third and fourth, we remark that the progression of atomic
weight from gold to bismuth is only about 1 1 , while the pro
gression from silver (107-66) to antimony (120) is about 12,
and from copper to arsenic 1 1*9; and this, although the semi-
cyclic progression from caesium to gold, viz. 66, is three
times the semicyclic progression from rubidium to silver,
viz. 22-4. Therefore, while the dimensions of the fifth cycle
are three times those of the fourth, the mean progression of
atomic weight between adjacent atoms is about the same ;
the obvious inference is the presence of three times as many
atoms in the fifth cycle: and upon these facts an argu
ment may be founded to prove the fifth cycle to contain six
primary series of seven elements. This supposition receives
support from the closeness in atomic weight between cerium
and lanthanum and between tantalum and tungsten, and also
from the number of newly discovered elements, many of them
earth metals, waiting to be classiBed *.
   On the other hand, this equality in atomic progression does
not hold good at the extremities of the cycles ; and in these
positions the atomic progressions are greatest. There is
between potassium and calcium a difference of 1, between
rubidium and strontium a difference of 2, while the progres
sion from caesium to barium is 4. Again, small progressions
of atomic weight between adjacent elements in a large cycle
might, it is conceivable, be insufficient to bring about transi
tion from one full atomic type to another, and might result in
the formation of twin or triplet elements not sufficiently dif
ferent to have separate atom-analogues in the lower cycles.
Cerium, lanthanum, and perhaps didymium may thus have
common atom-analogues in yttrium, scandium, and alumi
nium, and uranium and tungsten in molybdenum and chro
mium. In this way the fifth cycle may have four or even only
two internal periodic variations, and yet have more than thirty-
one elements. Again, tungsten may be the atom-analogue of
manganese and of the unknown element IV. a 7. However,
these are questions too obscure to be answered in the present
state of chemistry, and await the light of further investigation;
but this seems clear, that we must expect to find in the fifth
cycle developments not to be found in the lower ones.
            * Some of these may form part of a sixth cycle.

                               [    38   ]
 IV. Note on the Electrical Resistance and the Coefficient of Ex
    pansion of Incandescent Platinum. By E. L. Nichols,
    Ph.D.{G6ttingen)*.
 I. T N the measurement of temperatures above the red heat,
     J- the platinum pyrometer, in one form or another, is as
 important as the mercury thermometer at ordinary tempera
 tures. The researches already completed, on the electric
 resistance and the coefficient of expansion of platinum, and
 on the specific heat of that metal, only serve, however, to
 remind us of the much that remains to be done before we may
 hope to attain to even a fair degree of accuracy in the mea
 surement of temperatures above 500°.
    The present writer, in order to compare the existing for
mulae for the temperature of platinum from its electric resist
ance with those by means of which the temperature is calcu
lated from the coefficient of expansion, and thus to gain a
clearer idea of the relative usefulness of the two methods, has
determined the resistance and the corresponding length of a
platinum wire at various temperatures between 0° and the
melting-point of that metal.
    II. Upon a platinum wire 0*4 millim. in diameter and 100
millim. long, at points 55 millim. apart and equally distant
from the middle of the wire, two very fine platinum wires
were welded. They served to mark the ends of the portion of
the wire to be measured, and to make electrical connexion
with a shunt containing a sensitive galvanometer. The wire
was heated by the current from a battery of forty Bunsen's
cells. Its resistance was determined by the following method.
    The wire (A B, fig. 1),                     Fig. L
together with a tangent-
galvanometer (Gr) and a
resistance-box (W), was in                    um
in direct circuit with the         Ai^
Bunsen's battery. Avery
small portion of the cur            I
rent was shunted around
ab, the portion of the wire
to be tested, and carried
through a sensitive sine-
galvanometer (g) and
through a resistance-coil (w) of 5000 ohms.
   • From Silliman's American Journal for November 1881, having been
read at the Cincinnati Meeting of the American Association for the Ad
vancement of .Science, August 1881.

        Dr. E. L. Nichols on the Electrical Resistance fyc.   39
   Now, with the above arrangement of apparatus, if w is very-
much larger than r (the resistance of the wire a b), so that the
current through a & is not sensibly less than that through the
main circuit, we shall have
                                r    r"
where C and C are the currents through a b and through the
shunt, and r is the resistance of the shunt.
   But
                       C'= sin UF,
                       C = tanV/fc,
where U is the deflection of the sine-galvanometer and Id the
constant of the instrument, and where V is the deflection of
the tangent-galvanometer and k the constant of the latter in
strument.
   Then                tanV i       tanV „
                       sin U '      sin U ' '
where
   The length of the wire a b was measured by bringing the
two microscopes of a comparator into such position that the
terminal a was in focus in the field of one of the microscopes
and b in the field of the other. Since these points were quite
as near the middle as the end of the wire, every change of
temperature caused a movement of both a and b ; and it was
by taking the differences of these that the true change in the
length of ab was determined. As the microscopes were pro
vided with excellent micrometer-scales and screws, a fair
degree of accuracy was obtained by this method. Readings
of the length of the wire at 20° agreed with a series taken
upon a dividing-engine of known accuracy to within "002
millira. The distance a b at 20° was found to be 53-5576
millim.
   The resistance of the cold wire was found (in terms of U,
V, and K ) by placing the wire in a naphthaline bath, and ob
taining values of U and V with various amounts of current.
From these readings a curve was drawn with tanTT as abscissae
                   &                           sin U
and tan'V as ordinates, tansV being taken as an expression
for the heating effect of the current. The point of this curve
corresponding to tan2V = 0 was taken as the proper value of
-—T> for the cold wire,
sin U

40      Dr. E. L. Nichols on the Electrical Resistance and
   In measuring the resistance of the hot wire, the galvanome
ters were read simultaneously before and after each determi
nation of the length.
   The following table gives the results of the measurements,
for temperatures ranging between 0° and a point not far below
the melting-point of platinum. Both resistance and length of
wire at 0° are taken equal to unity.
                             Table I.
  Resistance.          Length.     Resistance.      Length.
     1-0000   ... ... 1-00000       3-7090          1-01229
     1-0410   ... ... 1-00002                       1-01223
     1-5071   ... ... 1-00125                       1-01285
     1-9000   ... ... 1-00289                       1-01349
     2-1212   ... ... 1-00380       3-8904          1-01371
     2-2934   ... . , 1-00456       3-9305          1-01378
     2-3035   ... ... 1-00489       4-0303          1-01450
     2-7821   .. ...  1-00732       4-0631          1-01469
     2-8633   ... ... 1-00763       4-0655          1-01495
     2-9696   ... ..  1-00809                       1-01499
     3-3533   ... ..  1-01022       4-0841          1-01514
     3-3741   ... ..  1-01003       4-1248          1-01540
     3-4151   ... ..  1-01042       4-2005          1-01567
     3-6449   ... ..  1-01160       4-2447          1-01632
   III. Dr. Siemens has published three formulae for the
variation of the resistance of a platinum wire with the tempe
rature.
   The temperatures were calculated in one case (formula a)
from the heating effect of a copper ball, the specific heat of
copper being regarded as a constant; while the other two for
mulae were derived from measurements with the air-thermo
meter.
   These formulaa are:—
            r= -039369 T* + -00216407 T--24127,       .   . (a)
            r= -0021448 T* + -0024187 T+ -30425,       .  . (6)
            r=-092183 T* + -00007781 T + -50196,      .   . (c)
where T is the absolute temperature and r the resistance of
the wire. The following formula by Benoit is also sometimes
used for the determination of high temperatures:
            r=l + -002445 1 + -000000572 <2                 (d)
In this expression t denotes the temperature in degrees Centi
grade.

    the Coefficient of Expansion of Incandescent Platinum.  41
  When, as is frequently the case, it is more convenient to
measure the length of a wire than its resistance, we may em
ploy Matthiessen's formula,
             l=l0(l + -00000851 < + -0000000035 12);   . .  (e)
or we may use the uncorrected scale of the platinum thermo
meter. The latter scale is expressed by the formula
                     l=l0(l + -000008860                   (/)
   These being almost the only data we possess for the calcu
lation of the temperature of a hot wire, the question of their
accuracy is of some importance. The formulae may be best
compared by plotting side by side the curves which represent
them (fig. 2).
                              Tig. 2.
                  13      3   4      5   6 7   8
                             Resistance.
   In fig. 2, resistance is substituted for length in curves e
and /, using for that purpose the measurements given in

42       Dr. E. L. Nichols on the Electrical Resistance and
Table I. The following table affords a further comparison of
the six formulas.
   In the columns a to/ are given the temperatures, calcu
lated by the several formulae, at which the resistance of the
wire, compared with its resistance at 0°, is given in the
column marked " r."
                              Table II.
                           Siemens.                      Mat- Platinum
                                              Benoit. thiessen.    thermo
 Length,     r.                                                    meter.
                      a.       b.      c.        d.        e.        /•
                         o        0       o         o         o         o
  10000     1000         0        0       0         0         O         0
  1 0032    2000      325      402     420       378       342       375
  1-0082    3000      692      812    1108       708       720       917
  10146     40(H)    1086     1244    1950      1000     1170       1623
  10280     5-000    1464     1082    3170      1272      1638      3100
            6000     1828     2072              1512     2158
            7000     2170     2387              1766     2800
            8-000    2470     2692              1978
   A glance at the curves and at this table suffices to show
how ill-deserved is the confidence generally felt in these for
mulae. The discrepancies involve differences of hundreds of
degrees.
   IV. The methods employed by Dr. Siemens in the measure
ments represented by curves b and c were identical ; but the
platinum used contained slight impurities. To these impu
rities the disparity was due. Dr. Siemens found that such
foreign substances as usually occur in commercial platinum
affected both the resistance of the cold metal and the law of
the change of resistance with the temperature.
   Benoit's formula (d) depends for its accuracy upon the
determination of the boiling-points of mercury, sulphur, cad
mium, and zinc, for which temperatures be adopted the values
given by Deville and Troost*. M. Ed. Becquerel opposed
those values at the time of their publication; and later researches
have confirmed him, at least so far as cadmium and zinc are
concerned, in thinking them to be entirely too high.
   In the following table the results obtained by Deville and
Troost are compared with the more probable values given by
other physicists:—
          * Deville and Troost, Annates de Chimie, (3) vol. lviii.

     the Coefficient of Expansion of Incandescent Platinum.               43
                              Table III.
             Boiling-points. Boiling-points.
  Metals.
           DevilleandTroost. Other values.
                                     0
  Hg              360              350       Regnault. [Journal, 1878).
  S ,             440            /448        Bennett (Silliiuan's American
                                 \4461 r Carnelly and Williams (Quart.
  Cd              860              772/ 1 Journ. Chem. Soc. 1876-78).
  Zn             1040              884       Becquerei(Comp. Bend. lvii.).
   The substitution of these values in Benoit's formula places
it more at variance than before with the measurements of
Mattbiessen and Siemens—a variation probably due to the
difference of behaviour noticed by the latter physicist in the
case of different specimens of platinum.
   The brief discussion of the above-mentioned results suffices,
we think, to show that—
   1st. The formulae in question are based for the most part upon
unwarrantable suppositions, such as the constancy of the spe
cific heat of copper and platinum, the constancy of the coeffi
cient of expansion of the latter metal, and upon the accuracy
of certain very doubtful values for the boiling-points of zinc,
cadmium, &c.
   2nd. That, aside from the inaccuracy of those data, the
varying resistance of different specimens of platinum renders
any formula for the calculation of temperature of that metal
from its electric resistance applicable only to the identical wire
for which the law of change of resistance with the tempera
ture has been determined.
   3rd. That, from the data at command, we are not in posi
tion to calculate the temperature of an incandescent platinum
wire from its change of resistance, nor from its length, nor
indeed in any other manner, further than to express the tem
perature in terms of tbe length or the resistance of the wire.
   4th. That, owing to the great variations shown by different
 specimens of platinum as regards its resistance, the determi
nation of the expansion of the wire is to be preferred, when
ever practicable, to the measurement of its conductivity.

                                 L    44   ]
V. New Transformations of Ordinals. By Sir James Cockle,
                     M.A., F.R.S., F.R.A.S., 8fc*
37. TT follows from my paper in the Number for last Sep-
      J- tember (p. 189) that, when certain conditions are
fulfilled, we get new transformations.
    38. Before showing this, I give a brief verification t of some
of the calculations.
    39. We have identically
                      Ns-L2=N-L + ft)(fl-l); ....                        (9)
and the values of Bs and C3 + b2 are given in art. 20.
    40. Art. 17 yields the system
which the relation
                              6 + 3o)(a> + l)=0                        (10)
reduces to
                      - (2<b + 3) = % = - (2a> + 3).
    41. But, by (3)2 and (10),
              »?2=-i|3 + (4a> + 3)} = -(2w + 3) or 2w.
     42. If, therefore, we take the radical positively, all the con
 ditions of art. 17 are fulfilled, and we determine to from (10),
 thus (see art. 32) obtaining :—
                                 U    ,        U
                                    U i         U 3
                            V2=— j— 1 or 2"— 3.
     43. The other two forms for r)2, viz.               2 and —-2, are
 improper, and in general irrelevant. If, however, <a= — £,
 one of the improper forms may be relevant, and only one.
 Both cannot be so, because, when w takes a single value, that
 value is —\.
     * Communicated by the Author.
     t To verify art. 10, let 6=0, and take the radical negatively. Then
  (1), (2), become B, C=0, and (3) is an identity. But B, C = 0 together
 make x*Xi linear in xn, while 6=0 makes t'Xs linear in x" ; or, in other
 words, the terordinal in z is binomial as it stands. I have verified arts. 19
 and 20 by the substitutions
                     A, E = 0,0; 1,1; -1, -1; 2,1.

      Sir J. Cockle on New Transformations of Ordinals.         45
   44. Using suffixes in conformity with the analogies of
art. 17, and determining h2 and ks from (iv)2 and (v)2, we
shall have (art. 13),
  AD)i= (D + at - 1) { D2 + 2(o2 - 1)D + 3/2 - 0,(20, - 1 ) \ ,
  F(D)S = (D + e% - 1) { D2 + 2(e,- 1)D -l- 3<?2 -ca(2e,-l) } ,
and it only remains to determine /2 and ^2.
   45. But
              /2 = L2 + a»-oa = L-A, + A + a»-aa,
              jr, = N„ + «g - e, = N -E2 + E + e\ + «„.
   46. Now (art. 21) we have four sets of relations; and for
the first (art. 22) we get
               /2=4L + oJ— o2, £2=4N + e»— et;
for the second and third sets respectively (arts. 34 and 35)
                  /2=4L + al-a2,      <72=N + («,-*)*,
and
                /,= L + (oj-i)2,      y2=4N + eJ-<!2;
and for the fourth (art. 36),
              /2=L + (a2-402, S^N + fo-i-)3.
   47. The quadratic factor of /(D)2 can be written
               (D + o2-l)2-(3o»-3o2 + l-3/2),
which for the first and second sets is
        (D + a,-l)2-(l-12L), = (D + a2-l)2-(fI)2,
while for the third and fourth it is
         (D + o2-l)2-(i-3L), =(D + o2-l)2-(|I)2;
and there are corresponding results for F(D)S, e2, N, and J.
   48. The relation characteristic of the first set has (art. 33)
been given. That for the second is obtained thus:
           i-3L = (A-i)2=W2, or &-|Z=a>2;
whence (arts. 29 to 32)
                  ftr="=(?-0'°'(I)'.
and
                          U±3I=0, or 4.
   49. The corresponding relations for the third and fourth
sets are :—
                  U±3J = 0or4; U = 0 or 4.

46      Sir J. Cockle on New Transformations of Ordinals.
    50. We may state all our results concisely as follows :—
When I, U, J are connected by one of the relations
               U-3(l-0a-m)I + 3(l-0s-)J = 4, . . (11)
               U + 3(l-0a-B)I-3(l-01-»)J=0, . . (12)
the terordinal in z can be transformed into
      (D+*-l + Aj)(D + *l-l)(D+e,-l-£ )
U+ ^                                         *                 V^^M = o
      (D + as-l+|,l)(D + a3-l)(D + a3-l-|;l)
                                                          .... (13)
wherein, for the first set m= 1 =n ; for the second, m = l,
w = 2; forthe third, w = 2, n=l; and for the fourth, m= 2 = n.
    51. Both I and J are independently bisignal; and, without
affecting I or J, we can change U into U + 4k, where k is an
integer. The restriction in art. 35 disappears.
    52. When any one of the conditions implied in (11) or (12)
is satisfied, Boole's algorithm would enable us at once to form
a terordinal having its factors, as well in the numerator as in
the denominator, in arithmetical progression. But (13) yields
as many results again ; for, since a2—e2 has two values, (13)
has two forms.
    53. Take U = 0. Here % = - 1 or - 3. The result yielded
by —3 may be always transformed* into that obtained by
Boole's algorithm ; not so that yielded by —1, which is
peculiar to the criticoidal transformation.
   2 Sandringham Gardens, Ealing near
     London W., December 15, 1881.
                     Errata in Vol. XII. (additional).
            Page 189, art. 2, line 2, first term, for d1 read d*
              „ 190, last line of text, for b read —b
              „ 195, line 2, for v read a
              „ 196, art. 34, line 3, for L read 3L
              „ „        „      „ 5, for N read 3N
              „ „ art. 30, line 3, for —2 read 0 or 4
   * This transformation is direct, viz. effected by Boole's process. The
criticoidal transformation is indirect ; viz. we connect two terordinals by
means of a biordinal. I have applied Boole's algorithm in the ' Messenger
of Mathematics ' for November 1881 (pp. 109, 110).

                                 [   47     ]
 VI. On the Distribution of the Molecular Velocities in Gases.
                         By C. Cellerieu*.
THE molecules of* a gas are, according to tbe modern theory,
        withdrawn from each other's action during almost the
whole of their passage, which takes place in this case in
straight lines and with a uniform motion. In all that follows,
we shall suppose that a homogeneous gaseous mass, every
where at the same temperature, is contained in an invariable
enclosure impermeable to heat. It is then in a permanent
state. The molecular velocities, to which a mean value is
often attributed, are really unequal, constantly modified by
the collisions; and after a certain time the proportion of the
molecules possessing a more or less great velocity will no
longer change : the aim of this investigation is to determine
their law—that is to say, the final distribution of the velocities.
    The men of science who have occupied themselves with the
molecular collisions, among others M. Clausius, have in general
likened them to that of two solid, perfectly elastic spheres,
equal in mass and radius, at least in the conditions of perma
nence which we have just mentioned. We shall attribute to
the molecules any form whatever, variable from one to another,
so as not to exclude the cases in which they are regarded as a
grouping of atoms, those in which they are supposed to pos
 sess polarity, &c. With this exception, we shall admit the
 other hypotheses contained in the preceding point of view,
 and which may be summed up thus :—
     1. The sum of the vires vivos of translation of two molecules
 is not altered by the collision ;
     2. All the masses are equal ;
     3. The collision may be compared to that of two solid
 bodies.
     It must be remarked that the total vis viva of translation in
the whole of the gas, measuring the pressure, is permanent ;
 it is equally invariable for each of the small portions into which
 the mass may be divided ; therefore the first hypothesis, like
 the second, consists in neglecting some irregularities which
 may present themselves in one direction or the other, and
 which will but little modify the result sought. Hence, if the
 hypothesis of solidity be admitted, the laws, of the collision for
 two spheres or two surfaces of any kind will certainly be the
 known laws—that is to say, that the projection of the velocity
 of one of the centres of gravity upon the common tangent
    * Translated from the Bibliothkque UniverselU, Archives des Sciences
 Physiques et Naturelles, Oct. 15, 1881, t. vi pp. 337-373.

48            M. C. CelleVier on the Distribution of
plane is not altered by the collision; otherwise the sum of the
vires vivce of translation would also be so.
    In regard to the solidity so far as the collision is concerned,
let us remark that the trajectory of one of the centres of gra
 vity is composed of two straight lines joined by a curve cor
 responding to the period of mutual action. In the case of two
 springs bending one another this curve has a certain extent ;
 for two solid spheres it is reduced to a point. More precisely,
 if a. denotes the displacement of the centre of gravity of a mo
 lecule during the collision (that is to say. during the sensible
 action of another molecule"), and d the distance of the two
 centres at that instant, the condition of solidity consists in a
 being imperceptible compared with d.
     This is only a consequence of the gaseous constitution of
 which we wish to calculate the effect ; for this calculation
 consists in regarding as negligible the ratio ~„ d! being the
 mean distance traversed by a molecule between two successive
 collisions. It is so also for gases strongly compressed; for
 such was the case in one of the principal experiments from
 which the nothingness of the internal work has been concluded.
 Now, if a body in the solid state pass to that of a compressed
 gas occupying either eight times or twenty-seven times its
 original volume, the mean interval between two neighbouring
 molecules is merely doubled or trebled. At the distance of
 the original interval they certainly act the one upon the other;
 and it is evident that in the gaseous state they can hardly be
 displaced the distance d without collision : therefore d and d'
 are quite of the same order of magnitude; and if ^, is negli-
    .... a                                               a
 gible, so is
     It is moreover easy to see, for solid molecules it is true, that
 the degree of incompressibiiity of a body serves as a measure
 for that of its molecules. If two equal masses, divided each
  into n parts, collide with great force, the stress borne by one
  part will be the same as if it had been isolated and received
  the impact of one part only. If in that case it is sensibly
  compressed, as much will happen when it forms part of the
  mass, and this will be compressed in the same proportion.
     We shall examine some particular cases of molecular mo
  tions before attacking the general question ; but first some
  remarks are necessary in order to avoid repetitions.
     (1) The unit of length is supposed to be chosen so that the
  total volume comprised in the enclosure is the unit, although
  it be very great. Even when the molecules are divided into

                  the Molecular Velocities in Gases.              49
numerous groups, each of them will contain an immense num
ber. The molecules are classed in groups according to the
nature of their velocities ; the molecules of one and the same
group are supposed to be distributed in a sensibly uniform
manner throughout the space.
    (2) If n is the number of molecules of a group, the number
of those of which the centre of gravity is comprised in a de
termined volume H will be nH, with an imperceptible relative
error. Indeed this is equivalent to saying that it is propor
tional to the volume. Now it is evident that, when the total
volume is divided into a great number of equal parts, the num
ber of centres contained in each will be very great, and the
ratios between them sensibly equal to unity. There would
only be a difference for the proportions contiguous to the side,
it not being possible for the centre of a molecule to exist at a
distance from this which falls below a certain limit; but this
limit being infinitely small in comparison with the total dimen
sions, the result is not thereby altered.
    (3) We shall have to value the total number of collisions,
or that of certain collisions, during a period constantly desig
nated by t ; this is supposed such that there is an immense
number of collisions, and yet they affect only an imperceptible
fraction of the total number of molecules of one and the same
group; also the cases in which during that time one and the same
molecule suffers two collisions can be completely neglected,
their number being infinitesimal in proportion to the former.
    (4) The directions of the velocities will be indicated by
drawing parallel to each of them a radius of a fixed sphere,
which will be named the typical sphere: the point of the sur
face at which it ends will be the typical point of the velocity ;
any portion of the surface will be called the typical region of
the velocities whose typical point is on that region—which will
serve for distributing them in groups.
                         First Disposition.
    All the centres of gravity of the molecules have one and the
 same velocity       in parallel directions, which wefigure vertical;
 hut n of these molecules are descending, and the others, in number
 n', are ascending.
    Let G, G' be the centres of gravity of two molecules which
 collide, and 0 their common centre of gravity; this is in the
 middle of GG', and consequently immovable before the colli
 sion; it will therefore continue to be so after it in the absence
 of any extraneous force : consequently, if after the collision
 G, G are in P, P' and an instant afterwards in Q, Q', the tri
 angles POQ, P'OQ' being equal, the small spaces PQ, P'Q'
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 78. Jan. 1882.              E

so           M. C. Cellerier on the Distribution of
passed through will be equal and parallel. It will therefore
be the same with the velocities after the collision, which will
be besides in the opposite direction. The vis viva not having
changed, their value will still be £V; their projection upon the
common tangent plane, too, not having changed, the old and the
new velocity will have for their bisectrix the normal to that plane.
   Case I. All the molecules are spheres of the same diameter p.
   Let 0 be the centre of one of the ascending
molecules, and let us trace a sphere with
centre 0 and radius p. In order that a mo
lecule of the first kind may come into contact
with the sphere during the time t, its centre
G must encounter the surface ; and for this
it must be, at the commencement of the time
t, interior to the cylinder which would be
formed by drawing, through all the points of
the upper hemispherical surface, verticals di
rected upwards and of the length Yt, since V
is the relative velocity of the two molecules.
This cylinder is terminated below by the he
misphere, above by an equal hemisphere ; its volume is that
of a cylinder of height Yt and base Trp2 ; the total volume of
the similar cylinders corresponding to all the molecules of the
second kind is H = mV/)2V<; the number fj. of centres of mole
cules of the first kind which are found there at the commence
ment of the time t is therefore nH, according to the second
remark above. Hence, putting Trp2 = a, results
                          fi=ann'Yt.                             (1)
   This number, then, is also that of the collisions during the
time t ; for, according to the third remark, the cases in which
two descending molecules would have their centres in one and
the same cylinder can be omitted, the collision of the one
preventing that of the other.
   Let us employ the above sphere as
typical of the velocities, and draw
various meridians through the vertical
0 A. If the point G (the centre of a
descending molecule) meets the sur
face on one of fhem in M', the tangent
plane common to the two molecules
will be parallel to the tangent plane
in M', so that, 0 M being drawn par
allel to the new velocity, its typical
point M will be upon the same meri
dian, and the angle A 0 M double

                   the Molecular Velocities in Gases.           51
A 0 W.       The latter can moreover take all values from 0 to
     while the other varies from 0 to it.
    Let a/ be a surface-element situated in the upper hemi
sphere, and comprised on the one side between two meridians
very near one another and making the angle d<f>, on the other
between two horizontal circles having i and i + di for their
angular distances from the point A, and consequent!}' p sin i
for radius ; we can, as is known, assimilate co' to a small rect
angle having for its sides p di, p sin i d<f>, and for its surface
to' = p2 sin i di d(f>. The points M corresponding, as above, to
all the points M' situated in the area m' evidently constitute
an element <u, comprised between the same meridians and be
tween two horizontal circles having, for their angular distances
from the point A, 2i and 2(i + di), and therefore for their sur
faces
                  a> = 2p2 sin 2t .     or o> = 4a/ cos i.
     By drawing a vertical of the length Yt through each point
of the area as', we shall form a very thin prism comprised in
the cylinder of which we have spoken, in the interior of which
the centre G of a molecule must be in order that the typical
point of the velocity due to the collision may be within the
 element &>. Its horizontal section, the plane of which makes
the angle i with the tangent plane in M', will consequently be
u> cos t or j-
     If now eo designates not an element, but a finite portion of
 the sphere, it can be decomposed into elements such as the
 preceding; and for the velocity due to the collision to corre
 spond to this new region, the point Gr must be interior to one
 or the other of the small prisms corresponding to each element,
 or, what comes to the same thing, within the second cylinder
 formed by their union, the section of which is again j.       Sup
 posing the construction of this second cylinder identically
 repeated for all the molecules of the second kind, the number
  /*' of the collisions for which the new velocity corresponds to
  the region a> will be the number of the centres Gr of descend
  ing molecules situated in the interior of the second cylinder
  and of its homologues.
      Now (i was the number of points G interior to the first cylin
  der and its homologues; — is therefore the ratio of their
                                    E2

52             M. C. Cell^rier on the Distribution of
volumes or of their sections ^, irp1, whence results
    In particular, if it be wished that the acute angle of the new
velocity with a given fixed direction LOI/ shall be greater
than a given acute angle a, it will be necessary that M be
within a zone bounded by two circles whose poles are L, L',
and having an angular distance a from those two points.
 The height of the zone being 2p cos a, its surface will be
 to = iirp1 cos a, and the number of collisions satisfying the pre
 ceding condition will be
                             ft'=fi cos a                       (3)
    Prof. Clausius has remarked that for the new velocities all
 directions are equally probable. This is what equation (2)
 expresses, since the number of collisions fi! is independent of
 the position of a>. It is this fundamental property that we
 have now to demonstrate for molecules which are not spherical.
    Case II. All the molecules of the first kind have any surface
 S, those of the second kind any surface S'; those of the same
 sort are not only equal, but similarlg oriented ; that is to say,
 the homologous straight lines joining two points of them are
 parallel.
     Let us trace apart a typical sphere with centre 0, radius 1,
 for which we will again use the same figure, A being its high
 est point. If we wish the new velocity of a descending mole
 cule to have M for its typical point, the normal to the plane
 of the collision must be 0 M', the bisectrix of OMA. On an
  ascending molecule S' we shall find the point M", at which
  the interior normal is paralled to M'O; there is only one such
  point, because we shall suppose S, S' convex, without points
  or sharp edges. We shall displace S by a motion of transla
  tion only, so that this surface shall touch S' in M".
     On repeating the operation for all the points M within an
  infinitely small circle t», the locus of the points M' will be an
  element o>' of the sphere, that of the points M" an element oi"
  of S', that of the corresponding positions of Or a surface-
  element 7 in the space. Carrying through each of these points
  a vertical of the length Yt, we shall have formed a thin prism
  of the volume h=Ytycosi, i being the angle made by the
  plane of y with the horizontal. We will name it the efficient
  volume of the region co, because it is that in which G must be
  at the commencement of the time t in order that the new

                 the Molecular Velocities in Gases.             53
velocity may correspond to to. We shall thus have
                     h            -7       »'
                     — = Vt COS-l, -V, —r
                     CO              (0 0> tO
   To simplify this value, let B', C denote two points of 7 the
distance between which is not very small relatively to the
dimensions of 7 ; let B, C be the corresponding points of to",
and let us draw C B" equal and parallel to B'C. The point
G being at first in C the contact was in C ; a motion of trans
lation bringing G to B', the point of S which was in C comes
to B"; at that instant the contact being in B, let T T be the
tangent plane common to S and S'. The point B" being
upon S, and C upon S', the distance of each from the tangent
plane is, as we know, an infinitesimal of the second order.
Therefore the straight line C B" makes with the plane an infi
nitely small angle; and it is the same with B' C. The same
could be said of B"D', D' being another point of 7. Therefore
the plane of y, in its entirety, is parallel to the plane ot to",
and consequently to that of to'.
   Next let us call M specially the centre of the circle to, the
points M', M" being those which correspond to it ; it is evi
dent that the ratios —j        -X; do not change if we alter the
                        fO to' CO              6
form of the elements, provided that they exactly correspond
to one another and, further, are still at the same place—that
is to say, contain M, or M', or M" ; we have, then, a> = 4co'cost,
a relation previously found for a rectangular form. We shall
moreover substitute
                ^'=/(M"),        ^=F(M",S):
                                       ft*
the second of these indicates that -^7 depends at the same time
on the position of M" and that of 8 relatively to S' ; and the

54              H. C. Cell^rier on the Distribution of
first, that       depends only on the position of M" relatively
to S'. It must be rem.arked that, if while preserving these
relative positions we change the general orientation of the
figure to make it correspond to another region a>, the functions
/, F will remain the same.
    Lastly, if we name H the total efficient space n'h found by
combining those of all the molecules of the second kind, we
 shall get, by the preceding substitutions,
                     H n'Yt
                     £ = ^./(M").F(M",S).
    (It could be demonstrated that/(M") = RR', R and R' being
 the principal radii of curvature of the surface S' at the
 point M".)
    Case III. The data, are the same as in the second, except
that, for each kind of molecules, S and S' can be oriented in
all ways, indifferently. It is clear that the equally frequent
orientations of S can be replaced by a numerous series of suit
ably chosen orientations Dj, D2, D3, &c, the character of
 which could even be indicated by a differential notation ; but
 it is needless to make a choice as regards the mode of deter
 mining them; only they possess the essential property that, if
 they be all rotated one and the same angle in the same direc
 tion about parallel axes, they form an equivalent system of
 equalty frequent orientations. We shall designate by D'1; D's,
 D's, . . . the analogous orientations for S'.
    The totality of the collisions will be divided into groups by
 combining those in which the molecules of the first kind have
 one and the same orientation D, and those of the second kind
 one and the same D'.
    The efficient space for a single group is the number H which
 we have just found, if n' be replaced by n", the number of mo
 lecules of the second kind in the group. Designating now by
 H the total efficient volume for all the groups combined, we
 shall have
                  ? _ 11 $'1n"f(W')¥(W', S),
 the sum 2/ applying to the orientations D'„ D'j, . . . , and £
 to Du Ds, &c. To form the latter, one has to leave the posi
 tion IK of S' invariable, as well as M", so that /(M") is the
 common factor ; then S is to be associated with them in the
 successive positions Du Ds, . . . , n" being always the corre
 sponding number of molecules of the second kind: this num
 ber is consequently sensibly constant. The positions once

                   the Molecular Velocities in Gases.            55
  found, if the figure be rotated one and the same angle about
 one and the same axis carried through G', the orientations of
  S will again be of equal frequence. Therefore 2n"F(M", S)
  is a function of the same nature as /(M"), depending only on
  the position of M" upon S', and not on the orientation of the
  latter. We shall therefore have
  the function $(M") being again of the same nature.
      The sum will be formed by giving to S' the positions D'i,
  D'2, . . . and taking for M", each time, the point at which the
  normal is parallel to WO. If we rotate all the positions thus
  formed one and the same angle about one and the same axis
  passing through G', the normals to the points M" will again
  have a common direction, and <£(M") will be the same for each
  figure; consequently X'<j!>(M"j will not have changed. The
  new positions of S' will again be of equal frequence, and will
  then all be found to be those which it would be necessary to
  employ on taking for M' another point of the sphere, or (which
  comes to the same) on supposing to at another place. More
  over, as this may be any place whatever, the value of H is
  independent of the position of to ; and consequently it is the
  same with the corresponding number of collisions—which was
  to be demonstrated.
      Case IV. This will be the general case, in which the mole-
. cules will have any unequal forms whatever.
      We may evidently assimilate them to a numerous series of
  forms Fj, Fs, F3, &c, serving as types, and each of which may
  be oriented in all possible ways. We shall divide the collisions
  into groups by putting in the same those in which the mole
  cules of the first kind have one and the same figure F, and the
   others one and the same, F'. From what we have just seen,
   all directions of the new velocities will be equally probable for
  each group, and therefore also for their union or for all the
  collisions ; and the same property once demonstrated, equa
  tion (3), which is the immediate consequence of it, may also
  be said to be so, fi being the total number of the collisions.
  As to this number, whatever may be the shapes of the mole
  cules, it is proportional to each of the quantities n, n', V, t
  separately when it varies alone, the others remaining constant;
  thus its ratio to nn'Yt is an absolute constant depending on
  the nature of the molecules, and which may be designated by
  a. Equation (1) is thus verified.

5G            M. C. Cellerier on the Distribution of
                        Second Disposition.
     The molecules are of two kinds, of which the numbers are n,
n'. Those of one and the same kind have equal velocities, par
 allel and in the same direction, of which the value is u for the
first, and v for the second; the angle of the velocities is 0.
     Let us represent these velocities, in magnitude and direc
 tion, by OA = j/, OB=i>; let V, V be the diagonals AB, OC
 of their parallelogram; we shall have
        V = vV + j;2-2ut;cos0, V = vV + v1 + 2uv cos 0. (4)
 To these let us draw parallels D 0 E, A D, B E. OB may be
 regarded as the resultant of two other velocities 0 E, 0 I ; in
 like manner 0 A is that of 0 D, 0 1. Thus the velocities of
                 O                    A
  all the molecules are exactly the same as if the entire mass
  with its boundary had a velocity of translation represented in
  magnitude and direction by 0 I or             while the relative
  velocities of all the molecules at the commencement of the
  time t amounted to 0 D for the first species, to 0 E for the
  second. As in the first disposition, these velocities are par
  allel, in opposite directions, and all equal to £V. Conse
   quently in the relative motion every thing will take place as
   we have already seen. The total number of the collisions will
  again be the value of /i given in equation (1); besides, desig
   nating by 0' the acute angle made by one of the new veloci
   ties with 0 I, there will be, according to equation (3), a num
   ber ^ cos a of collisions, for which 0'>x, a being an acute
   angle chosen arbitrarily.
      All these new absolute velocities will be found by com
  pounding the preceding ones with 0 I or JV, which makes the
   angles 0' and tt — 0' with those resulting from one and the
   same collision. These absolute velocities will therefore be
                   v/iV^ + iV' + iVVcosfl
   It can be verified from formula (4) that the sum of their
   squares is w2 + v2, as it ought to be, the vis viva not having
  changed.

                 tlie Molecular Velocities in Gases.              57
   For brevity let us agree to designate by 8, for any collision
whatever, the numerical difference of the squares of the new
velocities ; in the present case we have
              8=YV cos &, whence 8 = or <VV.
   Next, let z be a given positive number. If the number of
collisions for which 8<z is required, the answer will be 8=^
if c>W, since the condition is satisfied by all the colli
sions ; but if s < V V, on the acute angle a being chosen so
that we have VV'cos u=z, the relation 8<z gives cos 0'<cos a
or & > a; and, as we have seen, the number of collisions sought
will be fi cos «, or yy/-    On replacing z by z + dz, those num
bers in the two cases will be fi or ^lyy^; taking the differ
ence, we shall have the number fi" of collisions for which 8
is comprised between z and z + dz: consequently
             M."=0i{z>YV;          (i"=^\Sz<YY'.             .   (5)
                        Third Disposition.
    The molecules are again of two kinds, in number n, n'; for
each kind the velocities are all equal, viz. u for the first, v for
the second. For thefirst kind all are parallel and in the same
direction ; for the second they are in all directions indifferently.
We neglect the collisions occurring between the molecules of
the second kind.
   Let us suppose a typical sphere described having for its
centre a fixed point 0, and for its radius unity; let us divide
it into elements a, and take each of them for the typical region
of a group of velocities—that is to say, of the group of mole
cules of the second kind to which those velocities belong.
The velocities being in all directions indifferently, the number
of molecules of the group will be ^—-, 47r being the surface of
the sphere. The number of collisions effected between this
group and the molecules of the first kind returns into the
second disposition, and will be deduced from /m by replacing
n'byn'£-       PuUing         k = ann't,                         (6)
                              kmV
formula (1) will give fi= -j—; the number of collisions for
which 8 is comprised between z and z + dz will be, according
to equations (5),/*" = 0or yy^, for the single group.        Let us

 58             M. C. Cellerier on the Distribution of
 designate this number by in' for all the groups united, and the
total number of collisions by in ; we shall have
    m = kt^V,        m' = kF(u,v)dz,    F(U,tO = 2^V; • (?)
 the sums are extended to all the elements to of the sphere by
suppressing in the second the terms for which the angle 0 of
the velocities would not satisfy the condition W>z. Sup
posing the radius 0 1 of the sphere parallel to the velocity u,
we can take for to the narrow zone comprised between two
 circles having I for their pole, and 0 and 0 + d0 for their an
gular distances from that point. Its altitude being sin 0 d0,
we shall have w = 27r sin 0 d0; the angle 0, constant throughout
 its extent, will be that of the velocities; V, V will also be the
 same for the whole of the zone. The sums 2 will become in
 tegrals from 0 to 7r. We shall thus have for the indefinite
 integrals, from the values (7) and (4),
                        2 J              buy    '
                   FO^Wj-^                    ^
For 0=tt, V3 = (u + v)3, for 0=0, V* = («-»)* or (w-u)s,
according as u > or < v. Consequently
                            m=k/(u,v)                          (8)
on putting
                  v2                          w2
   /(w,u)=w4 ~~ if w>r, /(u, v) = v+ 7j- if v>u. . (9)
This function is continuous in value, but not in form.
    Let us remark next that, from values (4) we get
                 VV = N/(ua + t>2)9-4uVcos20,
an expression varying with 0 between the limits w2 + »2 and
  V (u1 —v1)'1, or the numerical value of w2— v2. z must be sup
posed <m2 + v2, since the collision does not alter the sum of
the squares of the velocities.
   (1) If, moreover, z is <\/(w2— i;2)2, the condition z<YY'
being constantly satified, in the value of F(«, v) it will be ne
cessary to integrate from 0=0 to 0=ir, which gives
consequently
          F{u,v)=^iiu>v;          F(m, t>) = ^ if v > u. . . (10)

                 the Molecular Velocities in Gases.             59
    (2) Bet if z>\/(u1— v1), we shall designate by & an acute
angle such that we have
                   \/(y + v^-iuV cos~2F=z;
and it will be necessary to integrate only from 6—6' to
6=ir — 6l, between which limits YY'>z. We thus find
    F(u,v) = ^ [Vm2 + 1>» + 2uv cos & - y/u3 + v* - 2uv cos ^]
The factor in brackets having for its square
      2u2 H 2«s-2v/(«2 + t>2)*-4«V cos2 ^ or 2(m2 + v2-«),
the result will be
                     F(m, v)= v v             i               (11)
                                      2uu                     x
    Let us now suppose that the number of collisions isrequired
 for which one of the new velocities is comprised between two
•given numbers x and x + dx differing very little. The differ
 ence 8 will then lie between two numbers z and z + dz corre
 sponding to those ; and consequently the number sought will
 be again the value (7) of m'. If z corresponds to x, the
 squares of the new velocities being x1, «2 + t^ — a?, we shall
 have to suppose x3 < w2 + «2 ; and, moreover,
     (1) If x is the greater of the two velocities, 2= 2a-2—u2—v2;
     (2) If x is the smaller, z=u2 + v't—2x>.
     In both cases it will be necessary to take dz=4xdx, the
 sign — found in the second signifying merely that x corre
  sponded to z + dz and x + dx to z.
     Calling the second velocity x1, x and a/ will both be com
  prised between u and v, or both not
  comprised, according to whether we
  have z < or > \/ (u4— v2)2. Indeed
  in the first case the difference of the
  squares of the velocities, which was
  + (w2— v2), has become z, or has
  diminished ; the velocities have
  therefore come nearer to equality,
  whilst in the second they have re
  ceded from each other. It will
  therefore be necessary to employ £|
  formula (10) in the first case, for
  mula (11) in the second.
      The result can be better expressed
  by regarding u and v as rectangular 0
   coordinates of a variable point P, referred to the axes OU,
   OV, the point being in the angle UOV. The quadrant A C B

60            M. C. Celle'rier on the Distribution of
has 0 for its centre, x for its radius ; the straight lines A F,
B D are parallel to the axes. We shall then have
                      m'=MF(u,v)xdx,                          (12)
the function F of the position of the point denoting:—
(1) If P is interior to OACB       .   . F(w, v) = 0;
(2) If P is in the space ACBEA, . F(m, v)=^~—^,
(3) If P is in the space FED, .        . F(u, i>)=£;
(4) If P is in the space DEAU,        . F(u, v) = h
(5) If P is in the space FEBV,        . F(«, t>) = *-
   In fact, for OACB we have w2 + v2 < x2, which is impossible.
For ACBEA, u<x and v<x; for FED, u>x and v>x; for
both, x being not comprised between u and v, formula (11)
is to be employed, substituting in itz = 2x2 — u1— v2 in the first
case (where x>a/), and z=u +v2— 2x* in the second (where
x<xf).
   For DEAU, u>x and v<x; for FEBV, v>x and u<x;
in both cases x is comprised between u and v, and formula (10)
is to be employed.
   The function F(w, v) is continuous in value but not in
form.
                      Fourth Disposition.
   This differs from the third only in this—that the velocity u,
common to the molecules of the first kind, is in all directions,
indifferently, like those of the second ; in the same manner,
required the number of collisions happening only between
 molecules of different kinds.
   Let us divide the molecules of the first kind into groups of
which the velocities correspond to the various elements <o of
the typical sphere. On reducing the first kind to a single
group, we shall be brought back to the third disposition, except
that the number n is to be replaced by —, and the numbers
of collisions which were expressed by m, m', will now be ex
pressed by              adding up these values for all the groups,
the factors m, m' remain the same, and we have only to add
the values of j—, which gives the unit. Consequently formulsa

                 the Molecular Velocities in Gases.            (51
(6), (8), (9), (12) will again give the total number m of col
lisions between the molecules of different species, and the
number m' will be that of the collisions at which one of the
new velocities is comprised between x and x + dx.
                         Fifth Disposition.
    Let us now pass to the real case, in which the velocities are
infinitely variable. Let N be the total number of the mole
cules of a gas. On making the velocity vary from 0 to infinity
by equal small increments, the molecules will be divided into
a like number of groups; and we will designate by T$(f>(x')dx
the numbers of those whose velocity at the commencement of
the time t is comprised between x and x + dx. The collisions
against the sides do not alter the velocity; but if the whole of
the velocities of all the molecules together be considered, every
 collision between these has the effect of suppressing two velo
 cities and creating out of them two others. The number of
 of velocities comprised between x and x + dx which are sup
 pressed during the time t is that of the collisions which have
 happened between the single group numbering ~S$<f>(x)dx, on
 the one hand, and all the groups, on the other. It will there
 fore be the sum of the values of m, on replacing therein n, n'
 by 1$<j>(x)dx, T$<f>(v)dv, u by x, and making v to vary from 0
 to infinity. According to formulae (6) ana (8) this sum will
 be ^atyfr^dx, putting
                           =       f f(x,v)<f>(v)dv. . . . (13)
                                  Jo
     As to the velocities comprised between x and x + dx which
 are created during the time t, they may proceed from colli
  sions happening between any two groups whatever, corre
  sponding to the velocities u and u + du, v and v + dv. The
  number sought will therefore be obtained by replacing in ex
  pression (12) n and n' by N<£(w)c?h, ~N<f>(v)dv, then adding
  those values of the result which correspond to all those of u
  and v. In this way, however, every possible association of
  two groups will be found to have been reckoned twice; so
  that half of the sum must be taken. According to formulas
  (6) and (12) the number sought will be
                             Wat^'(x)dx,
  putting
  *                          p a p OS
               ¦>lr'(x) = 2x\ \ F(u,v)<f>(u)<l>(v)dudv. . (14)
                            Jo Jo
  The number of the velocities comprised between x and x + dx
  will constantly increase or decrease until the instant when an

62           M. C. Celldrier on the Distribution of
equal quantity is suppressed and created during the time t;
this condition, which characterizes the final state, amounts to
ty(x) = y(x). The function $(.r) is to be determined so as
to satisfy the preceding equation for every value of x.
   The unit of length, at first chosen arbitrarily, must now be
reduced to one metre. The alteration thence resulting in the
formulae is the same as if we had supposed the enclosure a
cubic metre; also, whatever this enclosure may be, it amounts
to taking for N the nnmber of molecules contained in a cubic
metre.
                      Accessory Conditions.
   The number of molecules of a group being 2$<f>(ai)dx, on
adding it for all the groups, N will be found, whence it follows
that
                            <f>(x)dx=l                      (15)
                        i
   Another datum is furnished by the value of the pressure;
this for a portion of side S of 1 square metre has for its value
p=3Lf, the summation extending to all the molecules of the
medium, / being for each its normal action upon S. But,
these actions being intermittent, it is preferable to replace it
by its mean value during a time this being short enough
for the passage of a molecule during it to be inconsiderable in
comparison with the dimensions of the enclosure. We thus
get
   The quantity J/ dt does not differ from 0 for a mole
cule unless it strikes the side during the time t; and in that
case it measures the impulse given by the side to the mole
cule—that is, 2mv, v being the normal component of its velo
city. Consequently
                             2m_
the sum 2 extending to all the impacts against the side S
during the time t.
   Case I. Let us suppose that all the molecules have velocities
h, equal and parallel, carrying them towards the side, and
making with the normal to this an acute angle 6. In this
case, for a molecule to produce a collision it must at the com
mencement of the time t be within a prism having S for its base,

                  the Molecular Velocities in Gases.            63
and its edges of the length ht parallel to the velocities: its
volume heing ht cos 0, the number of the molecules included
in it is NA< cos 0; and this is also the number of the collisions.
Moreover v = hcos0, whence results
                           p=2mm* coss 5.
    Case II. The molecules have one and the same velocity /t,
in all directions, indifferently.
    They will be divided into groups, of which the velocities
correspond to the various elements at of a typical sphere ;
and we shall have to replace N by N ~, taking for a> a thin
zone parallel to the side. We shall have, as we have seen,
a> = 2Trsin0d0; and on integration from 0 to \tr, reckoning
only the molecules moving towards the side, we get
               p = m$h2J'cos* 0 . sin 0 . d0=£roNAa;
a known formula, often deduced from other considerations,
and from which is derived the numerical value of A.
    Case III. By taking account of the inequalities of velocity,
the molecules will be divided into groups. The number of
those of one and the same group in the unit of volume is
 ~N<f>(a:)da:, which will have to be substituted for N; and on
adding the result for all the groups, we get
                        j» = JmN| 2?(f>(x)dx.
 Hence results
                           £ arty(.r)^=A2                     (16)
                Solution of the Equation ¦ty(x)=^'(x).
    According to formula (9), the function f(u, v) having two
 distinct forms, the integral (13) is to be divided into two
 others, which gives
    *(*)=*(*)£(*+ £)#(»>fo + K«)J "(»+ £)<K*)dv.
     In the same way, in the value (14) of           dudv can be
 regarded as the surface-element of the plane, and the integral
 can be divided into several others corresponding to the differ
 ent regions of the figure. According to the values (12) of

64             M. C. CelleVier on the Distribution of
F(m, v), we shall thus get
where \ corresponds to the segment ACBE, so that we have
 x= r'^fMnF(M), F(M)= j*                    vTOE?^(). (17)
   The other parts of the value of y}r'(v), two of which are equal,
decompose into products. Putting
           Jo             Jo                   vo
we get
           *'>-[*+£^+                                I     .  .   (18)
            +'(x) = 2*X + 4.r# + 2*5/2.              *
   The first process which presents itself for finding <f)(x) con
sists in assigning to it the form of a series axx + a3a;2 + asx* + . . . ;
we must then put
               f v<t>{v)dv = K, f'=k'-^'v<t>(v)dv.
              Jo                             Jo
   ^¦(a),         will thus contain, besides the constants k, /f,
only finite integrals. The value of X, on replacing in it for
the integration u and v by u'x, V'x, will be expanded into
a series, the coefficients containing certain definite integrals
easily reducible to one another. It is needless to give the
development of this calculation, which is very complicated; it
is only necessary to remark that the coefficients au at, a3,
&c. are all expressed as functions of k and k1. Consequent]}-,
if a function is expansible according to the powers of x,
contains two indeterminate parameters, and, when taken for
<£(.r), satisfies the equation yfr(x) = yfr'(x), that will be the
solution, and completely so, especially if it is expansible into

                  the Molecular Velocities in Gases.                65
a convergent series for every value of x. The value of <f>(x)
which satisfies all these conditions is the following:—
                         tf>(x) = ax2e-^,                         (19)
e being the base of the Napierian logarithms, a and y8 two
positive arbitrary constants. It is expansible into series for
all the values of x ; and, according to what we have just seen,
to verify that it satisfies the equation ¦*fr(x) = ylr'(x) suffices:
to suppose <x=l will be sufficient; the common factor a2
vanishes everywhere. The values of/ &c. then become
                g = f\,V"2 dv, g' = fVe"^ dv
                    Jo                    Jo
(which cannot be found in a finite form), then
      /= {" V*W»= ^e-^, / = J V""Wt>X v2;
for /' the indefinite partial integral is
                       2/3 " '   T/3,
or between the limits
            J      2/3      + /S     \2/3 + 2/32/e       '
   On substituting these values of /, /', formula? (18) become
          +X*) = 2x\+2*e-^g+^e-W;
and on putting
                    ^[^W-f'W]=f"W,
we get
    Then formula (17) becomes
X = (Xm-^F'(u)du, F'(u) = I *                  y/(u' + v'-a*ie-**v dv.
     Jo                             J <JsJ- u»
    Taking for the variable
     y/m2 + i?2 — x2=y, whence v2 = x* — u2 + y2, vdv=ydy,
 Phil. May. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 78. Jan. 1882.                   F

66              M. C. Cellerier on the Distribution of
we get
    F'(«) = e*-'-*2) fUy1dy e-&, \=e~^ f*w du F"(u),
                     Jo                      Jo
putting
                         F"(«)fV<fy
                                Jo
    The indefinite partial integral is
 and between the limits there results
 On substituting in the above value of ^r"(x) we have
     Finally, partial indefinite integration gives
 or, between the limits,
                    j          „-fi*a   3
 whence results identically
            ifr"(x) = 0, and consequently ¦ty(x) = ifr'(x).
     Formula (19) therefore well represents the law of the velo
  cities; and a, /S will be found on substituting it in equations
 (15) and (16), which gives
                  Jo                    Jo
  it will, however, be simpler to employ the number h, putting
                tf=%h'% or /i' = /iV/|=0-82/i,
     The known integral
                f
 gives, on replacing x by x\/j8 and differentiating twice with
 respect to /S,
 Jo             2^/9' Jo                4/8f Jo             »0f •
 the above relations thus become
      4*71 =1' 8£V£ = *             ' whence*-J*        *=

                the Molecular Velocities in Gases.            67
if we pnt
                                \/7T
   Therefore the law of the velocities is
                                   a'      *2
   The maximum of this expression corresponds to x = A'. It
seems as if the velocities for certain groups might hecome in
definitely great; hut this is only apparent. Indeed, let p be
the proportion of the molecules whose velocity exceeds nh',
n being a number containing several units, we shall have, on
changing x into h'y,
               fi=\ <}>(x)dx=a'\ y'2e-?dy,
                   •J nh'          %)n
or on partial integration
                  %=1Sne-*+iCe-*'d!/,
or
                                                *ydy\
         J.             J.             <i »'
consequently
   For n = 10 or x>8h, about, this view of ^ only commences
at the 43rd decimal; and the theory, established for numerous
groups, cannot be extended to some singular cases in which
only one or two molecules, perhaps, would be concerned. The
high velocities can only be brought about by a series of col
lisions favourably arranged by chance. It is quite otherwise
 with very low velocities, which a single collision can produce.
    The proportion pf of the velocities below a certain value of
           C                 . x .
 x is fi'= \ <j)(x)dx; and if p is small, the exponential can be
 replaced by unity, which gives
 For example, the proportion of the velocities below           is
 about 0 00075.                                            1U

                             [   68   ]
           VII. The Beats of Mistuned Consonances.
       By Professor Silvanus P. Thompson, B.A., D.Sc.
  To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Jourmd.
      Gentlemen,
IN a letter published in your December Number Mr. Bosan-
      quet laments that his labours upon the beats of mistuned
consonances have been thrown away upon me, because I have
ventured to criticise two points in his valuable and interesting
researches.
   These points are, first, his misuse of the word " subjective "
as applied to the phenomena in question ; and, second, the
priority of Dr. Konig in the analysis of the phenomenon so
far as it can yet be said to be analyzed, to the credit of
which Mr. Bosanquet lays a direct claim.
   I will deal with Mr. Bosanquet's objections separately,
merely obse/ving that it would indeed be a pity if " the
credit " of any discovery to which Mr. Bosanquet is entitled
could be " taken away by a caroless sentence " of mine.
   Mr. Bosanquet's attempt to defend his use of the word
" subjective," as applied to the difference-tones or beat-notes,
is virtually an admission of the very point for which I contend.
By way of defence, he retires behind the shelter of Hehnholtz
and of Mr. Ellis, who, it appears, have lapsed into the same
laxity of language. On reading Mr. Bosanquet's reference to
Hehnholtz, I immediately turned to p. 234 of Ellis's transla
tion (the only edition at hand at the moment), and found
that I had underlined the word in pencil, and had added in
the margin " sic " by way of protest. But whether Mr. Bosan
quet sins in good company or not, I am still of opinion that
it is unwarrantable to apply the term " subjective " to that
which has a physical existence independently of the conscious
" eg°j" or °^ ^le brain through which consciousness works.
The ear is, as I have said elsewhere, only a complex resonator;
and any other suitable resonator will also respond to the tones
in question, provided it possesses the asymmetry of its parts
which is necessary for the development of those tones. To
speak of such tones as subjective is a palpable abuse of the
term. But I really do not require to insist further on this
point if, as Mr. Bosanquet says, he docs not believe " much "
in the " advancement of clearness by the employment of words
very strictly defined."
   Secondly, as to Konig's priority in the observation that the
beats of imperfect consonances consist of variations in the
intensity of the lower of the two tones. This observation Mr.
Bosanquet says was "unquestionably " first obtained by him

              On the Beats of Mlstuned Consonances.               69
self. For Mr. Bosanquet's sake I regret that the tone of his
letter leaves me no alternative but to produce the evidence
npon which I deliberately assigned priority to Dr. König.
    Mr. Bosanquet appears to have read König's papers ; for he
savs he " knew " them " intimately," and that " there was no
vestige of guidance in them on the subject;" that "König
never analyzed his beats, and never enunciated any opinion
whatever as to the notes of whose variation the beats consist,
except in the one case of the octave .... where he says that
fundamental and octave" are heard alternately."
    There lie before me at this moment the Annalen of Poggen-
dorff for the year 1876 (Bd. clvii.) It is true that König
states therein that the two primaries are alternately heard ;
 but that he traced this alternation to its true cause is shown
by the very paragraph in which this statement occurs. I quote
 from p. 188 of the volume of the Annalen, italicizing the words
 which Mr. Bosanquet appears to have overlooked when he says
 that König did not analyze or enunciate any opinion, and that
 König only touched the case of the octave.
    " Eine Eigentümlichkeit der Stösse harmonischer Intervalle
 besteht noch darin, das die beiden primären Töne abwechselnd her
 vortreten. Lässt man neben dem starken, grossen C das nur um
 einen geringen Theil einer Schwingung verstimmte kleine c ertönen,
 so dass sich sehr langsame Stö.ise bilden, so hört mau abwechselnd
 einmal den Qrundton und einmal die Octave so deutlich hervor
 treten, dass man, wenn das kleine c sehr stark ist, mitunter geneigt
 seyn könnte, jede Schwebung doppelt zu zählen. Ist das Heine c
 dagegen schwach, so hört man nur den Grundton abwechselnd stärker
 und schwächer werden. Ganz dieselbe Beobachtung habe ich auch
 bei den sehr langsamen Stössen der Duodecime, und der Doppeloctavc,
 C: g und C : c' machen können, aber bei nur einigermassen schnellen
 Schwebungen lässt sich das periodische Hervortreten des höhereu
 Tones nicht mehr wahrnehmen."
     It is the more remarkable that König's insight into the
 cause of the alternation mentioned in the first sentence of the
 paragraph quoted above should have escaped Mr. Bosanquet's
 notice, since three months before the publication of Mr. Bosan
 quet's paper in the Philosophical Magazine König had pub
 lished another very important paper in Wiedemann's Annalen
  (Bd. xii. 1881, p. 337), in which the results of a reexamina-
  tian of the very point in question are most unequivocally laid
  down. I quote the passage from p. 341, again italicizing the
  important words.           ,
     " Eegulirt man ferner die Intensität der beiden Töne eines alte-
  Tirten harmonischen Intervalls in der Weise, dass die Stösse am
  deutlichslen hervortreten, so müssten, wenn sie durch den höheren
  primären Ton und einen im Ohre erzeugten harmonischen Oberton

70                         Geological Society:—
des tieferen, also durch zwei Tone im Einklang gebildet waren,
diese Stosse auch auf diesen Oberton gehort werden, man nitnmt
aber gerade das G-egentheil wahr, d. h. das der Orundton seine In
tension periodisch dndert und dabei nur in den Momenten grosster
Schwdchuixg den hdheren Ton hervortreten lasst, wie ich fr'uher
beschrieben,"
    With Mr. Bosanquet's permission, I will translate the words
in which Dr. Konig states what he observes, namely that " the
fundamental tone alters its intensity periodically, and thereby
allows the higher tone to come out only in the moments of greatest
enfeeblement, as I formerly described.
     I will leave to your readers to decide whether the alleged
 injustice of my " careless sentence " is objective or subjective
in character ; or whether credit for discovery is one of those
terms in the strict definition of which we are not to believe
 "much."              I remain, Gentlemen,
                                        Yours faithfully.
    University College, Bristol,               SlLVANUS P. THOMPSON.
       December 19th, 1881.
              VIII. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                          GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                      [Continued from vol. xii. p. 75.]
    November 2, 1881—Robert Etheridge, Esq., F.R.S., President,
                                 in the Chair.
 THE following communications were read :—
        1. "On the Genus Stoliczkaria, Dune, and its Distinctness
 from Parkeria, Carp, and Brady." By Prof. P. Martin Duncan, M.B.
 Lond., F.R.S., P.G.S., Pres. E.M.8.
    2. " On the Elasticity- and Strength -constants of Japanese
 Rocks." By Thomas Gray, Esq., B.Sc, E.R.S.E., and John Milne,
 Esq., F.G.S.
     In this paper the authors described the results of some experi
 ments made to determine the elasticity-constants and strength
 against rupture and crushing of a few of the commoner Japanese
 rocks, their chief object being to obtain data for calculating the
 theoretical velocities of earthquake-wavo transmission. Tho rocks
 submitted to experiment were a grey granite, a pure white crystal
 line marble, a greyish-green soft tuff, a mottled clay-rock, and clay-
 slate.
     Young's moduli were determined by the bending of solid cylin
 ders of the rocks in an apparatus described and figured ; the
 deviations produced were read by means of the reflection from a
  mirror, which magnified them more than 200 times. The process
 for determining the rigidity was also described and illustrated by a
 figure ; and the experiments in crushing were made upon columns
 of stono by means of a Bramah press. In experiments on the

            The Glacial Deposits of West Cumberland.                71
rupture of the columns there was no marked deviation from the
proportionality of strain to stress up to the breaking-point, except in
the case of the marble. In crushing, the authors obtained con
siderably lower moduli than those quoted in tables for similar rocks ;
and as their experiments were performed upon columns about three
times as long as their diameter, they repeated them upon columns
of marble varying in length from one half to six times the thickness.
The results seemed to show that the short specimens were the
weakest; but there was little difference. The authors give the
formulae by which they worked out the results of each series of
experiments, and bring togother the mean results in a tabular form.
   3. "The Glacial Deposits of West Cumberland.'^ By J. D.
Kendall, Esq., C.E., F.G.S.
   The author gave a brief sketch of the physical geography of the
district and of the distribution of the more remarkable and easily
recognized varieties of rock. The glacial deposits, viz. Boulder-
clays, sands, and gravels, occupy mainly the area of low ground
skirting the hills, extending upward to a height of about 500 feet
above the sea ; above that contour-line they only occur in isolated
patches or tongue-like prolongations up valleys to elevations oc
 casionally of about 1000 feet. The deposits, where fully developed,
 consist of Upper Boulder-clay, Middle Sand and Gravel, and Lower
Boidder-clay ; together they sometimes attain a thickness of from
 100 to about 130 feet. Certain peculiarities in the distribu
tion of the deposits were described. The tripartite arrangement
never occurs in the valleys in the mountainous district. Boulder-
 olays, indeed, sometimes occur here ; but sands are more common.
 The distribution of the boulders from the more remarkable rocks was
described ; tables of these were given, as also of the maximum height
above the sea at which each occurs. The origin of the deposits was
 next discussed. The author is of opinion that the presence in the
 Lower Boulder- clay of boulders derived from such widely different
 sources can only be explained by floating ice, but that the cor
 respondence of the materials of the clay with rocks in the vicinity
 shows that glacier-mud produced the finer elements. The Middle
 Sand and Gravel he considers due to denudation of the above
 materials during a period of emergence. The Upper Boulder-clay
 he attributes to a second period of submergence corresponding
 generally in its conditions with the former one. The gravel mounds
 are probably caused by the stranding of bergs at the end of this
 period.
November 16.—R. Etheridge, Esq., F.R.S., President, in the Chair.
    The following communications were read :—
    1. Additional Evidence on the Land Plants from the Pen-y-glog
 Slate-quarry, near Corwen." By Henry Hicks, Esq., M.D., F.G.S.
    2. "Notes on Prototaxites and Pachythea from the Denbighshire
 Grits of Corwen, North Wales." By Principal Dawson, LL.D.,
 F.R.S., F.G.S.

                                   C    72    ]
            IX. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
ON THE DETERMINATION OF THE ILLUMINATING-POWER OF THE
      SIMPLE RADIATIONS. BY MM. A. CROVA AND LAGARDE.
 i~iNE of the most delicate problems of photometry is the mea-
 " surement of the illuminating-power of lights of different tints.
 One of us has already indicated* how this question might be solved,
 by employing a spectrophotometer. That solution supposes that
the coefficients of illumination of the different simple radiations
composing the light which is to be compared are known.
    If the determination of the radiant energy of a vibration of a
determined wave-length can be expressed exactly in thermal or
mechanical units, that of its illuminating-power admits of all the
uncertainties inherent to the measurement of physiological sensa
tions variable with each eye. There exists no known relation be
tween these two quantities ; we have therefore to commence bv
seeking out what are, for a determined eye, the illuminating-
powers of the various simple radiations of the normal spectrum of
two sources of light—the sun, and the Carcel standard.
    The best-known treatise on this subject is that of Fraunhofert
 on the Sun ; the results obtained by him are not very concordant.
The following is, briefly, the method which we have followed.
    The illuminating-power of a simple light may be regarded as the
property possessed by the latter of rendering distinguishable, upon
a white screen illumined by it, minute details (lines, characters) ;
it will be possible to measure them approximately, as several
physicists have done, by weakening this light until the characters
can no longer be distinguished, and taking the ratio of the initial
intensity to this b'mit of intensity. The absolute value of these
numbers will vary with the fineness of the characters ; but their
ratio will be sensibly constant, and will depend only on the wave
length of the light examined.
    The light to be studied (sun or Carcel standard) is received per
pendicularly upon the slit of a spectrophotometer covered with a
strip of glass on which is photographed a series of very fine and
very close dividing-lines ; the direction of these lines cuts the slit
normally. A pure spectrum is then seen furrowed by a consider
able number of very fine longitudinal stria?. If the ocular slit of
the telescope be brought onto a region of the spectrum, the simple
radiations comprised between two very close known limits are
isolated ; and by a suitable rotation of the nicol, their intensity is
weakened until the striae cease to be perceptible. The phenomenon
of the disappearance of the striaj is more delicate than one would
have at first been inclined to believe ; by practice one arrives at
being certain about the degree or the fraction^ of a degree, ac
cording to the region of the spectrum.
    1. We have traced the curve of the wave-lengths as functions
of the divisions of the micrometer, and calculated its equation by
   * Comptes Rettdxis, t. xciii. p. 5] 2 ; Phil. Mag Dec. 1881, xii. p. 445.
   t Gilbert's Amttilen, xxvL p. 207 (1817).

                 Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.                73
the method of least squares. The derivate of that equation gives,
for each wave-length, the factor by which the intensities of the
prismatic spectrum must be multiplied to reduce them to those of
the normal spectrum.
   2. We have measured for wave-lengths comprised between 480
and 740, at intervals of 20 units, the rotations which cause the
vanishing of the striae.
   3. The variations of the Carcel standard are corrected so as to
reduce the intensity to the constant value corresponding to the
consumption of 42 grams per hour ; for this we made use of
M. Deleuil's automatic balance, which registers, during the time
of the experiments, the successive times required for burning
10 grams of oil. The solar light was diffused by a wooden screen
whitened with carbonate of magnesia. We operated when the sky
was very clear, about noon.
   4. The prismatic curves have been reduced, as we have said, to
the normal spectrum ; and, lastly, the absolute maximum being
set off upon the curve, we have reduced the ordinates to those
corresponding to a maximum equal to 100.
   The curves obtained are tangents at their two extremities to the
axis of the wave-lengths ; they rise at first slowly, afterwards very
quickly in the vicinity of the maximum. For the lamp, the curve
is nearly symmetrical on both sides of the maximum. For the
sun, the ascent and descent are more rapid than for the lamp ; the
descent towards the violet is more rapid than the ascent on the
red side.
   The following results are deduced from the two most regular
series, selected from amongst numerous determinations :—
                            740 720 700 680 660 640 620 600
Illuminating- f Lamp          01    07     16      5-7 14      28 52-5 94
   powers ...\Sun...                               0-5     1-5  4 10-2 23
                            580      560      540        520    500     480
Illuminating- f Lamp 72-5             375       23-5       130    60      1-0
   powers . . . \ Sun . . . 62-5      98-5      30-5       172    9-2     3-5
    The maximum, =100, corresponds, for the lamp, to the radiation
592, and for the sun to 564.
    The discussion of these results leads to conclusions which are
in accordance with the theory of the emission of the radiations
emitted by incandescent bodies *.
    The numbers obtained require a slight correction, on account of
the absorption exerted towards the violet by the material of the
 prisms. We purpose to continue these determinations with prisms
exerting no appreciable absorption upon the visible radiations.—
 Comptes Retidus de I'Academie des Scietices, Dec. 5, 1881, t. xciii.
 pp. 959-961.                                          v
                        • Journal de Physique, viii. p. 357.
     Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 78. Jan. 1882.                     G

74             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                  THE PHOTODYNAMIC PARABOLOID.
                     BY PLINY EARLE CHASE, LL.D.
    In the Philosophical Magazine for September 1876 I referred
 to evidences of parabolic influence between a Centauri and Sun.
 The entire series of paraboloidal abscissas may be found in the
 Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society for June 17,
 1881*.
    Newcomb gives estimates of the parallax of a Centauri, which
 range between 0"'48 and l"-96. The mean of Henderson's obser
 vations in 1832-33, as deduced by himself, was 1"-16+-11.
 Peters, from the same observations, found 1"-14 + *11. Henderson
 obtained 0"-913 from Maclear's observations in 1839-40 ; Peters,
 0"-967± -064 from the same; Maclear, 0"-919±-034 from decli
 nations in 1842,1844, and 1848; Moesta, 0"-880 + -068 from
 declinations in 1860-64. There is therefore an uncertainty as to
 the actual distance, of the same order of magnitude as planetary
 eccentricities. If this fact should be thought to diminish the
 probability of a kinetic bond between the photodynamic paraboloid
 and the fixed stars, it will be well- to bear in mind the following
 considerations :—
    1. If there is an all-pervading interstellar medium, which is both
 material and elastic, all its persistent oscillations must be cyclically
 harmonic in some shape or other.
    2. All such permanent rhythmical oscillations must be depen
 dent upon or associated with permanent masses and velocities.
    3. The mass and velocity from which the paraboloidal abscissas
were deduced are Sun's mass and the velocity of light.
    4. The coordinates indicate a solar motion in space which accords
 closely with Herschel's estimated velocity t.
    5. The abscissas touch regions of incipient subsidence, which
explain the formation of the several planetary belts, in accordance
with Herschel's interpretation of the nebular hypothesis.
   6. The abscissas are manifoldly grouped in ways that are phyl-
lotactically and otherwise harmonically symmetrical, as might be
looked for in a medium like the supposed luminiferous »ther.
   7. The last phyllotactic abscissa, A31i, is a fourth proportional to
Sun's semidiameter, Laplace's limit of synchronous solar rotation
and revolution, and the modulus of light at Sun's surface.
   8. The paraboloid fixes Sun's position relatively to some other
important stars in the Milky Way.
   9. These are the most far-reaching indications of an unbroken
chain of kinetic influences that have ever been published.
   10. Being based upon the greatest mass and the greatest inter-
cosmical velocity of which we have any measurable knowledge,
the law of parsimony gives an a priori presumption that the chain
may extend to other masses of a like order of magnitude with Sun.
   11. The next abscissa to the solar phyllotactic series, AM, is in
                 • Vol. xix. pp. 447, 448.
                 t Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc, Nov. 4, 1881.

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles,               75
the region of the fixed stars, its locus being (within the limits of
probable error) the same as that of a Centauri.
    12. The accordance of the terminal locus with that of a Cen
tauri may be exact ; it is almost impossible that the deviation from
precise accordance can be so great as 8 per cent. ; and such a devia
tion could be easily explained by stellar orbital motions.
    13. The second stellar abscissa, AM, indicates a distance corre
sponding to Bessel's estimate of the parallax of 61 Cygni.
    14. Whatever may be thought of the last three indications, the
first ten are clear, unmistakable, and incontrovertible.
    Haverford College, Nov. 15, 1881.
         ON THE ACTION OF COLD UPON THE GALVANIC ARC.
                             BY D. TOMMASI.
    When the galvanic arc springs between two metallic rheophores,
of copper for instance, formed each of a tube bent in the shape of
a U, through which a rapid stream of cold water flows, and placed
horizontally one opposite to the other, the following facts are
observed :—
    (1) The illuminating-power of the arc is considerably weakened ;
it is reduced, so to say, to a mere luminous point, even when a
very intense electric current is employed (50-75 Bunsen elements,
large size).
    (2) The arc, if it can be called so, is very unstable ; the slightest
breath suffices to extinguish it*.
    (3) If a sheet of paper be placed over the arc, at a distance of
4 or 5 millim., after a few moments a black point is seen to be
produced, which extends and is at last perforated ; but the paper
does not take fire.
    (4) The arc is constituted by a luminous globule moving up and
down between the two rheophores. The form of this globule, as
 well as its extreme mobility, causes it to resemble very much a
 drop of liquid in the spheroidal state.
    (5) If the south pole of a magnetized bar be brought near to the
 galvanic arc, the arc is attracted and approaches the magnet so that
 at length it leaves the rheophores and is extinguished. The same
 phenomenon is observed, but in a contrary direction, on bringing
 the north pole of a magnet towards the arc.
    (6) The amount of ozone seems to be greater than when the arc
 is not cooled.
    It is to be remarked that, in spite of the cooling of the rheo
 phores, the flame of the arc is slightly green, proving that a portion
 of the copper burns. Hence one is entitled to ask if the arc would
 be produced by taking as rheophores two platinum tubes in which
 alcohol cooled to 30° C, for example, was caused to circulate.—
 Comptes Rendus de VAcademie des Sciences, Nov. 7, 1881, t. xciii.
 p. 716.
    • The instability is such that it cannot ignite a match without being

 76             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
   ON THE VARIATIONS OF THE RESISTANCE OF ELECTRICAL
      MACHINES WITH THEIR VELOCITY. BY M. E. LACOINE.
    It is known that the resistance of magneto- and dynamoelectrical
 machines is not constant, but increases with their velocity. The
 experiments of which I am about to give an account to the Aca
 demy afford ground for thinking that these variations of the resis
 tance are to be explained by those of the contact between the
 movable commutator and the rubber-springs.
    I employed a copper cylinder 5 centim. in diameter, with longi
 tudinal grooves resembling the insulating ones of a Gramme's com
 mutator. Upon this cylinder, at two diametrically opposite points,
 rub two steel springs which form the terminations of the two ex
 tremities of a circuit comprising a battery, a telephone, and a
 galvanometer to measure the resistances. The resistance of the
 circuit was :—
                                                       ohms.
            At rest                                       68
            With the velocity of 2000 rotations         183
                                 4000      „            900
                         „ about 5000      „           1567
            "With a very high velocity not measured 2900
    The sound given by the telephone was the louder and shriller
 the greater the velocity.
    In this first series of experiments every spring touched the
cylinder over a space of three grooves ; on making them touch
over a greater extent (eight grooves), less sensible variations are
 obtained.
    For each velocity the resistance diminishes when the pressure
of the spring is increased. It is possible even to reach a pressure
 sufficient to suppress all microphonic effect and stop all sound in
 the telephone.
    I have since modified the apparatus, and substituted for the
fluted cylinder one of the same diameter but with its surface
smooth. I obtained the same effects with a very little higher
velocity. Instead of making the springs touch on the cylindrical
portion, I caused them to press upon the plane lateral portion ;
the same results were observed.
   The measurements which I have taken give me reason to believe
that, for one and the same pressure of the springs, the increase of
the resistance is proportional to the cube of the velocity ; but it
would be necessary to repeat these experiments with means which
were wanting to me at Constantinople, in order to be assured of a
constant velocity and to measure it exactly.
   I will conclude by saying that with the telephone a more intense
sound is heard when the intensity of the current is less ; hence I
conclude that the sound given by a telephone placed in the circuit of
a Gramme machine is not due merely to the undulatory variations
of the current, but also to the microphonic effect of the commu
tator.—Gomptet Bendus de VAcadtmie des Sciences, December 5,
1881, t. xciii. pp. 958, 959.

                Fig .
  120     130     ttO        Bi
                                 1
                               /
                             /
                          //
                       //i
                    /r
                  1*
                  f
               /
               If
     J      t—
    i     i
    |     |
    1 t1
       I *L y       ft. 5
i
i
i
1
  I'jQ   ao       no         lsc


   Fig .11       Fig 12
Mintern Broa.hth


  LIEBIG'S EXTRACT OF MEAT AND MALT WINE
                               (COLEMAN'S).
                   A Delicious Beverage and Tonic,
   Made from Port Wine, Liebig's Extract of Meat and Extract of Malt ; Nutri
tious, Strengthening, Stimulating, Flesh-forming, Health-restoring, Suitable for
the Robust in Health as well as the Invalid. Strongly recommended by the
Medical Faculty. An Immediate Benefit is experienced after taking it; the
Frame is Invigorated, and no ill effects follow.
  LIEBIG'S EXTRACT OF MEAT AND MALT WINE (COLEMAN'S).
                                TESTIMONIALS.
    Sin,—A short time since I was induced ty the novelty of the title to send for
a bottle of your Liebig's Extract of Meat and Malt Wine. I was perfectly
acquainted with the value of the Extractum Carnis, and not quite a stranger to
the invigorating and fortifying properties of malt wine, and therefore felt a
natural curiosity to test them when combined.
    Men who work hard as I do—not muscular hard work, but that which is quite
 as exhausting, viz. brain work—very often experience the need of, and have some
 times an almost irresistible craving for, a "pick me up;" and very often the
panacea for a time for lassitude, and that state of mind which renders work
irksome, are alcoholic stimulants, the use of which must sooner or later end
disastrously.
    The man who can furnish a remedy, sure, certain, and harmless, for the lassi
 tude which follows constant brain-work is a benefactor of his species, and may
 be said to have added many years of usefulness to the lives of useful men.
    Your extract is a success, and, when more generally known, will be used by
 all toilers of the mind.                            Yours faithfully, O. D. RAY.
    Thorpe Hamlet, Norwich, Feb. 23, 1881.
                                                Queen's Crescent, Haverstock Hill,
                                                      London, March 5, 1881.
    Deak Sib,—Some time since, being greatly fatigued with over-work and long
 hours at ousiness, my health (being naturally delicate) became very indifferent.
I lost all energy, strength, and appetite, and was so weak as to be scarcely able
to walk.
    As you are aware, I sent for a dozen of your Extract of Meat and Malt Wine,
 which in a few days pulled me up marvellously. Three or four glasses of it daily
 have quite altered and restored me to better health than ever, " without the assist
 ance of a doctor."
    I am now giving it to my son, twelve years of age, whom we have always
 thought consumptive, and from a puny ailing boy he seems to be fast growing
 into a strong healthy lad.
    Enclosed you have cheque. Please send me two dozen of the " Extract."
 With thanks for your prompt attention to my last.
                                   Yours truly, I am, Sir, GEORGE A. TYLER.
                                     Mineral Water Hospital, Bath, Sept. 22, 1881.
    Gentlemen,—Referring to yours respecting your Liebig's Extract cf Meat
 and Malt Wine, I have much pleasure in testifying to its excellent qualities. It
is highly nutritious, stimulating, and health-restoring.
    Every claim you make for it I can fully endorse, and I shall be pleased to
 recommend it as an incomparable tonic.
                         1 am, Gentlemen, yours faithfully, EDWD. J. VOYSEY.
   Pints, 27s. per dozen ; Quarts, 50s. per dozen. Carriage paid to any
  Railway Station in Great Britain. Sample Bottle sent for 33 stamps.
                           P.O. Orders to be made payable to
                 COLEMAN AND CO.,
                     MUSPOLE STREET, NORWICH.
                      CHEQUES CROSSED LONDON AND PROVINCIAL BANE.
    Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Vendors in the United Kingdom, in
 Bottles, Vs. 9d. and 4s. 6d. each. Ask for Coleman's Liebig's Extract of
 Meat and Malt Wine, and " Sec that you get it."

              CONTENTS of N° 78.—Fifth Series.
   L On the Electrical Resistance of Vacuum. By E. Edlttnd, Pro
fessor of Physics at the Swedish Eoyal Academy of Sciences . . page             1
   II. Some Spiral Figures observable in Crystals, illustrating the
Relation of their Optic Axes. By Lewis Weight. (Plate I.) . . . .              20
   III. On the Connexion between the Atomic Weight and the Che
mical and Physical Properties of Elements. By Thomas Batley.
(Plate II.)                                                                    26
   IV. Note on the Electrical Resistance and the Coefficient of Ex
pansion of Incandescent Platinum. By E. L. Nichols, Ph.D. (Gb't-
tingen)                                                                        38
  V. New Transformations of Ordinals.             By Sir James Cockle,
M.A., F.R.S., F.E.A.S., &c                                                     44
  VI. On the Distribution of the Molecular Velocities in Gases. By
C. Cellehier                                                                   47
  VII. The Beats of Mistuned Consonances.               By Professor Sil-
vAjroa P. Thompson, B.A., D.Sc                                                 68
  VIII. Proceedings of Learned Societies :—
      Geological Society :—Mr. T. Gray on the Elasticity- and
         Strength-constants of Japanese Rocks ; Mr. J. D. Kendall
         on the Glacial Deposits of West Cumberland                       70, 71
  IX. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
      On the Determination of the Illuminating-power of the Simple
         Radiations, by MM. A. Crova and Lagarde                               72
      The Photodynamic Paraboloid, by Pliny Earle Chase, LL.D. . . 74
      On the Action of Cold upon the Galvanic Arc, by D. Tommasi. 75
      On the Variations of the Resistance of Electrical Machines with
         their Velocity, by M. E. Lacoine                                      76
     It is requested that all Communications for this Work may be addressed,
        post-paid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Priming Office, lied
        Lion Court, Fleet Street, London,

Vol. 13.                    FEBRUARY 1882.                                    No. 79.
          I Publisfied the First Day of every Month.—Price 2s. Gd.
                  l '                   THE                     K«0
                LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
   PHILOSOPHICAL                                     MAGAZINE,
                                         AND
                 JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
      Being a Continuation of Tilloch's 'Philosophical Magazine?
       Nicholson's 'Journal,' and Thomson's 'Annals of Philosophy.'
                                    CONDUCTED BY
          SIR ROBERT KANE, LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.A. F.C.S.
          SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, Knt. LL.D. F.R.S. &c.
                                         AND
          WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
                             FIFTH          SERIES.
                        N° 79.—FEBRUARY 1882.
                              WITH TWO PLATES.
      Illustrative of Mr. C. Vernon Bots's Paper on Integrating and other
          Apparatus for the Measurement of Mechanical and Electrical
         Forces.
                                ^ LONDON:
        FEINTED BY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS, BED LION COUBT, FLEET STREET,
   8old by Longmans, Green, Reader and Dyer ; Kent and Co. ; Simpkin, Marshall and
     Co. ; and Whittaker and Co. ;—and by A. and C. Black, and Thomas Clark, Edin
     burgh ; Smith and Son, Glasgow :—Hodges, Foster and Co., Dublin :—Putnam,
     New York : —and Asher and Co., Berlin.

                              jarrazum m v 01. ai.
                 P. 414, for E. H. Nichols read E. L. Nichols.
                        Errata in No 78 (January 1882.)
           Page 45, end of art. 4>, for +ea read —e,
            — 46, art. 50, line 6, end of numerator, for ¦§ read — J
                                                            2"    2"
             — 46, art. 62, line 4, for (13) read /TD)Is+aH,F(D)jc=0 . (14)
             — 46, art. 62, line 5, for (13) read (14).
                      Now ready, Price 6rf., post-free 7d.,
       TAYLOR'S CALENDAR OF MEETINGS
                                        OF
             THE SCIENTIFIC BODIES OF LONDON
                                FOR 1881-82.
            Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                              New Edition, price 1».
             TABLE OP CORRECTIONS FOR TEMPERATURE
to Reduce Observations to 32° Fahrenheit for Barometers, with Brass Scales
         extending from the Cistern to the top of the Mercurial Column.
                       By JAMES GLAISHER, F.R.S.
            Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                    TAYLOR'S SCIENTIFIC MEMOIRS.
   Pabt 6, containing the following important papers—M. Melloni on the
Polarization of Heat, C. F. Gauss on the General Theory of Terrestrial Mag
netism, W. Weber on the Bifilar Magnetometer, Dr. Schleiden on Phyto-
genesis, having been reprinted, a few complete Sets are now on sale, price £6 10*.
            Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
            THE LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
 Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science.
  A Journal devoted to Physics, Astronomy, Mechanics, Chemistry, Mineralogy,
                 and the Allied Sciences. Monthly, price 2s. C>d.
   Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following prices :—
   A set of the First Series, from 1798 to 1826 (wanting a few plates), in 68
 volumes. Price .£15.
   The Second Series, from 1827 to 1832, in 1 1 volumes. Price £2 4i.
   The Third Series, in 37 volumes, from 1832 to 1850.         „ £6.
            Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
   The Annals and Magazine of Natural History.
        Including Zoology, Botany, and Geology.—Monthly, price 2s. 6d.
   Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following prices :—
      The First Series, in 20 volumes, from 1838 to 1847. Price £10.
      The Second Series, in 20 volumes, from 1848 to 1857. „ .£10.
      The Third Series, in 20 volumes, from 1858 to 1867.       „ £\2.
           Taylor aud Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                         IAD VERTISEMENTS continued on 3rd page of Cover.

                                 THE
          LONDON, EDINBUROH, and DUBLIN
   PHILOSOPHICAL                             MAGAZINE
                                 AND
        JOURNAL                  OF       SCIENCE.
                       [FIFTH SERIES.]
                     FEBR UARY 1882.
 X. On Integrating and other Apparatus for the Measurement
     of Mechanical and Electrical Forces. By C. Vernon Boys,
     A.R.S.M., Demonstrator of Physics in the Normal School
    of Science, South Kensington* .
                           [Plates in., IV.]
 WHEN in February of this year I described my first
           integrating-machinef before the Physical Society, I
 felt that, unless the tangent principle could be so applied as
 to admit of an indefinite growth of the integral, such principle
 would be useless for practical purposes. In that machine the
 integral is determined by the position of a cart, and so is
 limited by the size of the apparatus. Since that time I have
 devised a variety of methods of applying the tangent prin
 ciple in which the integral is determined by rotation, and so
 there is no limit to the extent to which the integral may grow.
 In the following paper, which is divided into two parts, I have
 given in the first a description of a variety of integrating-
 machines, while in the second are some useful applications of
 the most simple form of integrator described in Fart I.
                              Part I.
    At the present time there seem to be three types of inte-
grating-machines : 1st, those that may be called radius
   * Communicated by the Physical Society, having been read at the
Meeting on November 26, 1881.
  t Phil. Mag. May 1881.
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 79. Feb. 1882.              H

78            Mr. C. V. Boys on Apparatus for the
machines, comprising Sana's planimeter, Clerk Maxwell's sphere
machine, and Sir James Thomson's disk sphere and cylinder
integrator (Ashton and Storey's steam-power meter also
comes under this head); 2nd, sine or cosine machines, compri
sing Amsler's planimeter and mechanical integrator, and the
various wind integrators; 3rd, tangent machines, which, so
far as I am aware, are represented only by the cart machine
already referred to and those that are the subject of this paper.
This class of machines depends on the formula for integration,
which, in its geometrical application, finds a curve of which
the steepness or the tangent of the inclination (i. e. -3^) is
equal to the ordinate of the given curve or to the given func
tion. In my former machine a pointer is made to follow a
curve, and by so doing causes a rod to be inclined in such a
manner that its tangent is equal to the ordinate. There is
also a three-wheeled cart ; and the plane of its steering-wheel
is by simple mechanism kept parallel to this rod ; moreover
the horizontal component of the cart's motion is equal to that
of the pointer. Under these conditions the vertical compo
nent of the motion of the cart (or, shortly, its ascent) deter
mines the integral.
   I will now show how this principle is applied in a series of
machines in which the integral is determined by rotation and
not by linear motion, and in which, therefore, the integral may
grow indefinitely. At first let us suppose that the cart in my
first machine is incapable of vertical motion ; then it, in its
attempt to move up or down, will push the paper in the oppo
site direction. If now the paper is wound on a cylinder with
its axis beneath the path described by the front wheel of the
cart, and if the hind wheels are supported by some other means,
then the cylinder will rotate ; and the rate of its rotation will
be proportional to the ordinate of the given curve, and the
amount of its rotation will be the integral required. Now it
will at once appear that the cart and the parallel motion are
not wanted, and that the inclination of what was the front
wheel of the cart, and what may now be called the tangent-
wheel, may be determined mechanically by the same method
that was adopted to give inclination to the rod. Also if,
instead of moving the tangent^wheel along the surface of the
cylinder, the cylinder be moved longitudinally under the tan
gent-wheel while its inclination is determined by suitable
means, then, as before, the rotation of the cylinder is a mea
sure of the integral.
   As the cylinder must necessarily have a finite length, it
cannot be caused to move continuously in one direction under

         Measurement ofMechanical and Electrical Forces.       79
the tangent-wheel, bnt must be made to reciprocate. This
motion is most readily produced by use of a " mangle-motion,"
 which converts uniform circular into uniform reciprocating
 motion. Now, when the motion of the cylinder is reversed,
 so also is the direction of its rotation ; and therefore either
the action of the tangent-wheel on the cylinder must be re
versed, or there must be a reversing-gear between the cylinder
and the mechanism employed to count its revolutions. The
action of the tangent-wheel on the cylinder is most easily
reversed by having two of them mounted in a frame so that
they lie in the same plane, but that one is on one side of the
cylinder and the other is on the opposite side. The cylinder
is made to bear against one during its forward stroke, and
against the other during its return stroke—a change readily
effected by the mangle-motion. Then the rotation of the
cylinder is independent of the direction of its longitudinal
motion. When it is preferred to use only one tangent-wheel,
the reversal between the cylinder and the counting mechanism
can be easily and perfectly produced by using three bevel
wheels and a friction-clutch actuated by the mangle-motion
or even by the change of motion of the cylinder.
   If the cylinder could be made long enough and the ends bent
round so as to join one another, then continuous revolution of
the whole ring would take the place of the reciprocation of the
cylinder, and the integral would be determined by the rotation
of the ring round its circular axis. Such a " smoke-ring "
can scarcely be made; but an equivalent can be produced
without difficulty. Let there be four barrels, each with a con
cave instead of a convex outline, mounted on a wheel with
their axes in one plane, and with some one generating line
on each a quadrant of a common circle concentric with the
axis of the wheel. Also let the four barrels be geared to one
another by bevel wheels (fig. 1, Plate III.). Now let a tan-
gentr-wheel be placed inside the common circle so as to touch
it at its lowest point ; then, if the tangent-wheel lies in the
same plane as the circle, revolution of the wheel supporting
the barrels will produce no rotation of those barrels ; but if
the tangent-wheel is inclined at all, the rotation of the bar
rels will be directly proportional to the tangent of its inclina
tion, and inversely proportional to the radius of the barrel at
the point of contact. This periodical inequality, due to the
changing radius of the barrel, may be eliminated by using a
second mechanical smoke-ring made of a series of convex
barrels mounted on a wheel, with some one generating line of
each a portion of a common circle which lies outside instead
of inside the barrels. In this, which may be called an outside
                                 H2

80           Mr. C. V. Boys on Apparatus for the
ring, the other being an inside ring, the barrels must not
be geared together. Fig. 2 is a plan on a larger scale, partly
in section, showing how such barrels might be supported.
Now, if this outside ring is placed horizontally within the
inside ring and touching it at one point, then revolution with
out rotation of the inside ring will cause rotation without
revolution of the outside ring ; if, however, in consequence of
She inclination of the tangent-wheel, the barrels of the inside
zing are caused to rotate, then such rotation will cause revolu
tion of the outside ring ; and this revolution will be a true
measure of the integral, as the outside ring and the tangent
wheel touch barrels of the inside ring at points having the
same radius. The astronomical convention with respect to
the terms revolution and rotation has been used. By revolu
tion of the ring is meant a turning of the whole round a centre;
and by rotation a turning of barrels round their own axes.
   Instead of a disk, a sphere similarly mounted may be used
for a tangent-wheel, with the same result. Of course the
cylinder will be in contact with the sphere at a point on its
equator ; but if the support of this globe is varied in position,
so that the cylinder touches the sphere nearer the poles, then
the rate of rotation will depend not only on any former incli
nation of the plane of the equator of the globe to the axis of
the cylinder, but will also be inversely proportional to the
cosine of the latitude of the point of contact. The latitude
should be brought back to its original value before the rota
tion of the cylinder is measured. Fig. 3 shows the cylinder
in contact with the sphere at a latitude X. It so happens that
the radius in the sphere at the point of contact is equal to
cos X X the radius of the sphere ; but this is not the cause of
the introduction of that function, as the rotation of the cylinder
is independent of the radius of the tangent-wheel. The true
reason can be readily discovered by a simple geometrical con
 struction, which, from the length of this paper, I omit. How
ever, a good illustration may be seen by taking a bicycle and
causing it to lean over on its side; then a given twist of the
handles will be found to produce a greater deviation in the
direction of its motion than would be the case if the bicycle
were upright. The effect just described is most easily pro
duced by mounting the cylinder on a rocking-fraine, so that it
can roll round the ball. Though the axis marked A in the
figure remains vertical, yet the effect may be considered as
 due to a leaning to one side of this axis. If, however, the
axis A is caused to lean forwards or backwards, then the rota
 tion of the cylinder, which is still proportional to the tangent
 of any rotation about A, is also proportional to the sine of the

       Measurement of Mechanical and Electrical Forces.            81
inclination of A above the horizon ; so that if A is horizontal,
no rotation about A as an axis will produce any effect; but as
A rises higher, increased rotation of the cylinder will be pro
duced, the maximum being when A is vertical. As in the
former case, so here, the inclination of A should be brought
back to its original value before the rotation of the cylinder is
measured. This is the method of steering a wheelbarrow when
pushing it. Tho elevation of the handles corresponds to the
inclination of A with the horizon ; the equality of the elevation
of the two handles corresponds to absence of rotation about A;
therefore the barrow goes straight. When turning a corner
the outer handle is elevated more than the inner one ; this
corresponds to rotation about A; and the tangent of this rota
tion, multiplied by the sine of the elevation of the handles,
measures the deviation of the barrow from its straight course.
This deviation, then, is greater as the elevation of the handles
is greater, and therefore in going round a sharp corner the
handles should be raised as much as possible. By the means
above described, either the quotient or the product of two
functions may be directly integrated.
    As in my former integrating-machine, so with these, the
 reciprocal of a function may bo integrated by first inclining the
 tangent-wheel through a right angle; then, when a function
 passes through 0 from + to — , the tangent-wheel describes
 on the surface of the cylinder a cusp showing a momentary
infinite motion. A machine so arranged may be used to
integrate, not the reciprocal, but the function itself, if, instead of
 moving the cylinder longitudinally, it is caused to rotate, when
the longitudinal motion, or the number of reciprocations if
suitable gearing is employed, will measure the integral. In a
similar way the machine as first described will integrate a
reciprocal.
    If for any purpose, in addition to the total result, the inte
 gral up to any time is required, a diagram must be drawn.
 This can be effected by covering the cylinder with a layer
 of black tracing-paper, and allowing a band of paper as wide
 as the cylinder is long to pass between the tangent-wheel and
 the black surface. The length of paper passed through the
 machine represents tho integral; and the curve drawn shows
its rate of growth continuously. Should it only be required
to know the amount of growth during each of a series of short
intervals of time, a narrow band (which is more manageable)
may bo used wrapped round a small wheel at the end of the
cylinder, and so arranged that at the end of each double stroke
of the cylinder it is caused to bear against the point of a sta
tionary pencil ; then the pencil-marks represent equal intervals

82             Mr. C. V. Boys on Apparatus for the
of time, while the distances between them measure the ave
rage rate of growth over each interval.
    I have at present supposed that the integrating surface is
cylindrical; but other surfaces of revolution maybe employed
for particular purposes. As the rotation of the cylinder de
pends on the linear motion of its surface, it is clear that its
rotation must be inversely proportional to its diameter. If,
therefore, instead of a cylinder any other surface of revolution
 is taken, its rate of rotation will depend not only on the inclina
tion of the tangent-wheel, but also on the radius of contact. The
simplest case is that of a disk with the tangent-wheel mounted
so as to be capable of radial movement. Then, if the tangent-
wheel moves in the direction of its own plane, it will simply
describe on the disk a radial line, and there will be no rotation;
but if it is inclined at any given angle the disk will rotate, and
the rate of its rotation will be proportional to -, and its whole
rotation will be J*^ dr, which is log r. Now the tangent-wheel,
in its movement outwards, describes on the surface of the disk
a spiral which everywhere cuts the radii at the same angle ;
therefore in such a spiral the angles are the logarithms of the
radii ; i. e. it is the logarithmic spiral If the inclination of
the tangent-wheel is made to depend on some function, then
such double-disk machine would integrate               dx, in which
                                                € T~ X
c is the radius of contact when x=0.
    If the axis of the tangent-wheel is made to pass through a
fixed point over the disk removed from its line of travel by a
right angle, then the tangent of its inclination to the direction
of its motion is proportional to the radius of contact : but,
other things being equal, the rotation of the disk is inversely
as the radius of contact ; therefore the amount of rotation of
the disk for a given movement of the tangent^wheel is inde
pendent of the radius of contact, and the curve traced out on
the disk is the spiral of Archimedes. But if, instead of passing
over a disk, the tangent-wheel similarly mounted is made to
pass along the surface of a cylinder, then the speed of rotation
of the cylinder will be proportional to the distance of the disk
from its neutral position, and its whole rotation will be J cx dxf
or gff2, and the curve described on the cylinder will be a
parabola. This arrangement of the disk and cylinder may be
used, as described on page 84, in a polar planimeter to illus
trate the formula f f rdrdd.

        Measurement of Mechanical and Electrical Forces.        83
    After the cylinder and disk, the most simple form for an
integrating surface is that of a sphere. Let a sphere be sup
ported, with its axis horizontal, on a frame which can be
made to reciprocate about a vertical axis which would, if con
tinued, pass through the centre of the sphere; then, if a tan
gent-wheel is fixed so as to lie, when its inclination is nothing,
in the horizontal plane which passes through the axis of the
sphere, angular reciprocation, which must be less than 180°,
will cause the tangent-wheel to describe on the sphere a me
ridian when it is in its neutral position, or a rhumb line if
inclined at a constant angle. As the speed of rotation of the
sphere is inversely proportional to the radius of contact—that
is, to the cosine of the latitude of the point of contact—some
means must be adopted whereby the rotation recorded is less
than the rotation of the sphere in the same ratio. The most
simple plan is to use Amsler's principle, and mount a small
sliding and rolling wheel so as to be in contact with the sphere
at the highest point on the equator (i. e. 90° from the tan-
gent^wheel), but with its plane passing through the centre of
the tangent-wheel ; then the rotation of the Amsler wheel is
always less than the rotation of the sphere, in the same ratio
 that the rotation of the sphere is too great. Instead of an
 Amsler wheel, a cylinder capable of moving longitudinally on
 its horizontal axis, and in contact with the sphere at a point
 exactly opposite to the tangent-wheel, would, by pure rolling
 and without any sliding, take off the correct proportion of
 motion, since it and the tangent-wheel always touch the
 sphere at points having the same radius.
    Fig. 4 is a perspective view of a polar planimeter in which
the integration is effected by a disk sphere and Amsler wheel,
as described. All the parts marked a belong to a rigid frame,
which balances on and can turn about a vertical spindle,
the top of which is just visible below the tangent-wheel t.
The vertical spindle is fastened to the stationary wheel w,
which rests on three feet. The segmental wheel W in gear
with w is secured to a vertical spindle, the upper end of which
carries the crutch C. Screws in the crutch form the hori
zontal axis about which the sphere S may rotate. The tan
gent-wheel t is mounted in a frame which can be turned
about a horizontal axis e by means of a lever I. The Amsler
wheel rests by its weight on the highest point of the equator
of the sphere, which is shown dotted. D D is an L-shaped
piece, which carries at the angle the pointer P. At the end
of the long limb is a slot embracing a pin, as shown. A part
of the short limb is made cylindrical ; against this part rests
the edge of the lever I. This edge is not truly radial, but is

  84            Mr. C. V. Boys on Apparatus for the
  laterally displaced from the radial position to an extent equal
  to the radius of the cylindrical part of D D. This causes the
  true radius, which is parallel to the axis of the tangent-wheel,
  to intersect the axis of the cylinder. Now, if the pointer P
  is moved radially in the slot prepared for it, it is clear that
  the tangent of the inclination of the tangent-wheel t will
  be proportional to the square of the distance of P from the
  vertical axis about which the machine can turn, also that,
  during any turning of the machine about this axis, the sphere
  will turn about its vertical axis at a proportionate speed. Now
  it has been shown that, when the sphere is made to turn about
  its vertical axis, the rate of rotation of the Amsler wheel is
 proportional to such rotation multiplied by the tangent of the
 inclination of the tangent-wheel—that is, in this case to r2 dO.
 Therefore the whole rotation of the Amsler wheel is a measure
 of jV</0 ; and so, if the pointer P is taken round any closed
 curve, the area of that curve may be read off from the Amsler
 wheel. The wheel W is three times the radius of to; so that
 the pointer may, if necessary, be taken completely round the
 pole, and yet the tangent-wheel will only move 120° on the
 sphere in latitude. The diameter of the Amsler wheel is one
 third of that of the sphere, so as to restore the diminished
 speed. Unlike Amsler's planimeter, this one shows the incre
 ment of area for each part of a closed curve, the reason being
 that it is an exact mechanical equivalent of the polar formula
 for integration. Though the machine works very well, it can
 not be compared to Amsler's as a practically convenient in
strument.
    An exact mechanical equivalent of the formula j"jV dr d6
would be produced by retaining all the last machine, except
the short limb of the L-shaped piece D D, and mounting on
the long limb a tangent-wheel to traverse a cylinder, the rate
of rotation of which for a given radial movement of the pointer
would be proportional to the distance of the pointer from the
pole—that is, to rdr—and the whole rotation would be § rdr.
Now, if the cylinder were by its rotation caused to change the
inclination of the lever I so that the tangent of the inclination
of I was proportional to the whole rotation of the cylinder,
then, when the pointer was taken round a curve, the rotation
of the Amsler wheel would be JJ rdr d&. In either case,
instead of an Amsler wheel, a cylinder mounted as described
on the last page would give the integral.

        Measurement of Mechanical and Electrical Forces.        85
                             Part II.
    The practical value of the tangent principle depends on the
 fact, that the only operation required of the function to be in
 tegrated is that of turning more or less a spindle and tangent-
 wheel, which may be as light and delicate as any part of a
 watch, and of which the moment of inertia may be inappre
 ciable. This is in marked contrast to what is necessary in
 radius machines: the friction in the common double disk or
 disk and cone integrator, or the inertia of the ball in Sir
 James Thomson's machine, would be quite sufficient to make
 the former useless for the integration of such delicate forces as
 depend on the actions of electricity, or the latter inapplicable
 to machinery in rapid movement. Another point about tan
 gent machines is, that the whole process of integration is the
 result of pure rolling, and any doubt that may be felt as to
 the effect of the sliding action on the accuracy of cosine
 machines is here removed. The rest of this paper describes
 some applications of the disk-cylinder integrator some of which
 are likely to be of practical value.
                       Engine-power Meter.
    As work is motion multiplied by pressure, the work done
 in an engine may be found by integrating the difference of
 pressure on the two sides of the piston with respect to the
motion of the piston. For any one stroke, this is usually
done by measuring the areas of the indicator-diagrams, one
taken at each end of the cylinder, and repeating, so as to get
an average value. But as the work done, or the area of the
diagram, is subject to variation depending on the load, pres
sure, and speed, only guesses can be made as to the whole
amount of work that has been done by an engine during any
length of time. Any machine, therefore, that will automati
cally find the total work done should be of value, not only to
users of engine-power, but especially to experimentalists who
are engaged on testing the efficiency of engines, and on other
subjects where total work done should be known. It is only
fair to mention that Messrs. Ashton and Story have an engine-
power meter in which the integration is effected by a double-
disk integrator acting on the radius principle ; but it necessa
rily suffers from the defects common to all radius machines.
The disk-and-cylinder is especially applicable to this particular
case; for it is only necessary to make the cylinder reciprocate
with the piston of the engine, the motion being of course re
duced to a convenient amount, and to make the tangent of the
inclination of the disk vary with the difference in pressure on

 86           Mr. C. V. Boys on Apparatus for the
 the two sides of the piston of the engine. Then, at any moment,
 the cylinder will turn with a speed which is proportional to
 the rate at which work is being done, and the number of
 revolutions, as measured by a counter, will be a measure of
 the work done in foot-pounds or other units during any time.
 Figs. 5 and 6 are views of an engine-power meter, each partly
in section. A, A are two boxes with flexible covers, like the
 corrugated plate in an aneroid barometer. They may be
 filled with a mixture of glycerine and water or other liquid,
and connected each with one end of the cylinder of the engine.
Each diaphragm will feel the pressure, but not the heat, of the
steam or gas in the cylinder. The two diaphragms are con
nected by the rod r ; and so the effective force tending to bend
the diaphragms is the difference of pressure at the two ends of
the cylinder. This is the force acting on the piston of the
engine. Inclination is given to the tangent-wheel t by the
 rod r by a pin working in a radial slot, as is better shown in
fig. 7. This arrangement causes the tangent of the inclination
 of the tangent-wheel to be proportional to the displacement of
 the rod r, and so to the force acting on the piston. C is the
integrating-cylinder, which is capable of sliding along, but of
turning with a wire W, which may be grooved or polygonal ;
pinion-wire is very suitable. The integrating-cylinder is
caused to reciprocate, by means of a yoke Y and lever L, in
time with the piston of the engine. The stroke is reduced to
a convenient amount by attaching a string from the piston-
rod to a suitable part of the lever L. Now, as the rate at
which the cylinder turns is proportional to the longitudinal
motion of the integrating-cylinder multiplied by the tangent
of the inclination of the tangent-wheel, and as this is propor
tional to the motion of the piston multiplied by the force
urging it, t. e. to the work being done, the whole number of
the revolutions of the cylinder will measure the whole amount
of work done. If the instrument gets out of adjustment so
that the tangent-wheel is not parallel to the axis of the cylin
der when there is no force, then whatever error it makes in a
forward stroke it will take off in the return stroke ; so that no
accumulating error will bo produced. The diaphragms may
either be made of steel or highly elastic metal, in which case
they form their own springs ; or a softer metal, controlled by
an external spring, might be used. If a diagram is required,
one may be drawn as described on page 81. But it will not be
a diagram such as is drawn by an ordinary indicator, but the
integral curve of such a diagram ; so that force, instead of
being represented by the length of an ordinate, will be repre
sented by steepness. Instead of diaphragms as described,

       Measurement of Mechanical and Electrical Forces.        87
spring pistons or Bourdon pressure-gauge tubes might be
employed to give inclination to the tangent-wheel.
                     Integrating Dynamometers.
    The disk-cylinder integrator may be applied to measure the
whole amount of work transmitted by shafting or belting. In
the case of shafting, what is called a differential coupling—that
is, a contrivance which transmits any motion, but measures
the force causing such motion—is employed to give inclination
to the tangent-wheel. In the case of belting, any of the known
dynamometers may be employed for the same purpose; while
a mangle-motion driven by the revolving shaft or travelling
band, causes the cylinder to reciprocate. Either of the methods
given on page 79 may be employed to produce continuous
 growth of the integral in one direction. As the work trans
 mitted at any moment is force multiplied by motion, and as
 the tangent of the inclination of the tangent-wheel is propor
 tional to the force, while the reciprocating motion of the
 cylinder is proportional to the motion, the rate of revolution of
 the integrating cylinder will be proportional to the rate at
 which work is being done, and the whole number of revolu
 tions will give the whole amount of work done. If at any
 time the force causing the motion should change sign and so
 resist it, as is the case in an engine when there is much cush
 ioning, then the tangent-wheel will incline the other way and
 take off from the record a corresponding amount of work.
                      Electric- Current Meters.
    The application of the disk-cylinder integrator to an elec
 tric-current meter is very obvious. Figs. 8 and 9 are two views
 of an electric meter, in which the inclination of the magnet M
 is effected by the electric current passing in a large coil sur
 rounding the instrument. The magnet M and the tangent-
wheel t are each fixed on the same spindle, which is vertical,
 and which is very light and delicate. The weight of the mag
 net produces the necessary pressure between the tangent-
 wheel and the integrating-cylinder C ; and as the surface of
 each is convex, the friction resisting the turning of the tan
 gent-wheel by the magnet is very small. The cylinder is
 supported in a bell-crank frame F, which can be made to reci-
 ?rocate along the wire W by means of the mangle-motion m m.
   he mangle-motion is actuated by clockwork, which may be
 ¦wound by the current itself when necessary, should such a
 course be desirable. Fig. 10 shows the construction of a suitable
 mangle-motion. The pinion can turn, but not move otherwise,

88            Mr. C. V. Boys on Apparatus for tlie
while the frame carrying the racks can move either longi
tudinally or laterally. A pin projecting centrally from the
pinion enters the slot, which is shaded in the figure, and so
causes the pinion to gear with the two racks alternately. This
lateral movement of the rack-frame is made use of to depress
the integrating-cylinder during its back stroke, at which time
the magnet rests on the shoulder S. As the tangent of the
inclination of the tangent-wheel is proportional to the current-
strength, and as the rate of rotation of the cylinder is propor
tional to the tangent of the inclination of the tangent-wheel,
the cylinder will turn with a speed which is proportional to
the current-strength, and the whole number of turns, as shown
by the counter, will be a measure of the quantity of electricity
that has passed. In the arrangement described, time is divided
into a great number of equal intervals, and the current-strength
during each alternate one considered. After any consider
able time, such a sampling of the current would give just
as exact a result as would be obtained by integrating continu
ously. A quick-return mangle-motion might be employed to
diminish the proportion of ineffective time; or the whole time
could be made effective by keeping the cylinder in continuous
contact, and actuating a reversing-gear between the cylinder
and a counter by means of the lateral movement of the mangle-
motion. It would bo well to employ a catch on the armature
of a subsidiary electromagnet, so as to stop the clockwork,
except when a current is passing. This current-meter, like
 Edison's electrolytic meter, is a direction-meter. If the cur
 rent is passing in one direction, it counts it positive ; if in
 the opposite direction, it counts it negative. A reverser actu
 ated by a polarized armature could be employed to make the
 meter count as positive, a current passing either way, and so
 make it applicable to the case of alternating currents. An
 other kind of current-meter, which is by its nature indepen
dent of the direction of the current, would be preferable to the
 magnetic-needle meter and reverser combined.
   Figs. 11 and 12 represent an electric-energy meter, which
will be described later ; but they will serve as diagrams to
illustrate a description of the second current-meter, mm is
the mangle-motion, which causes the cylinder C to reciprocate
and bear alternately against the two tangent-wheels 1 1.
These wheels are mounted in a common swivelling-frame,
which ordinarily is kept vertical by the weights X X, but
which may be inclined by a force due to any cause tending to
turn the beam B. Now the turning-power of the weights
X X varies as tho sine of the inclination ; while the turning-
power of a force acting downwards applied to the point p varies

        Measurement of Mechanical and Electrical Forces.      89
as the cosine of the inclination ; therefore the beam will set
itself at such an angle that the tangent of the inclination is
proportional to the force. If, therefore, the point p of the
beam can be pulled downwards by a force which is propor
tional to the strength of the current, an electric meter will be
the result. The coils shown in the diagrams, which belong to
the energy-meter, must be removed and replaced by an elec
tromagnet and armature of peculiar construction. Let there
be an electromagnet with pole-pieces a certain distance apart,
and let there be between them a wedge of iron at its narrow
end increasing in thickness or width rapidly, and towards its
thicker parts much more slowly ; then, on moving such a
wedge forwards between the poles, but without touching them,
 it will at first facilitate by its movement magnetic induction
at a great rate ; and as it fills up the space, even though the
induction through it is greater, yet the increase of that induc
 tion is less. Now, as the rate at which magnetic induction is
 increased by movement measures the force with which such a
 wedge is pulled forwards, the wedge will, if suitably formed,
 experience a force with a given current-strength which is less
 as its entrance is greater, except over a small space near its
 starting position, where the force should, if possible, be infi
 nite. Also, if the wedge is fixed in position and the current
 made to vary, it will, so long as the magnetic limit is not ap
 proached, experience a force which varies as the square of the
  current ; therefore, if the motion of the wedge is resisted ex
 ternally by a force which varies as its displacement, it will
 enter to such an extent that the amount of its entrance is pro
 portional to the current. Let such a wedge be carried by the
 beam B, so that when it is at its zero position the beam is
  horizontal ; then the inclination of the beam will be greater
 when the current is greater, and, except with very weak cur
 rents, may be made to vary so that its tangent is proportional
 to the current. The same principle might be applied in an
  other way by causing rotation instead of linear movement of
  the armature to facilitate induction, and by resisting such
  motion by a pendulum-weight as before, or by a hair-spring.
  The armature then would have to be shaped something like
  an S, and adjusted experimentally so as to give, except with
  very small currents, a deflection whose tangent is proportional
  to the current. In Sprague's or Edison's electrolytic meters
  (the only ones of which 1 have heard which can lay any claim
  to being called current-meters at all) a portion only of the
  current is sent through the meter, and the rest passed by
 in a shunt. Now, if it were certain that the same proportion
  of the whole current always passed the meter, there would bo

 90           Mr. C. V. Boys on Apparatus for the
 no objection to such a course ; but as a rise in temperature
 makes an electrolyte a better, and a metal a worse conductor,
any electrolytic meter combined with a shunt would have a
tendency to show too much in warm weather or if warmed
by the current. If, again, there is any polarization, and that
polarization is not strictly proportional to the current, then
 another error will be introduced. It would seem therefore
 necessary, if accurate indications are required, to make the
 whole current pass through an electrolytic meter.
                     Electric-Energy Meters.
    Since the energy expended by an electric current between
any two points is equal to the current multiplied by the dif
ference of potential of those points—that is, to the main current
multiplied by a shunt current passing in a wire of high resist
ance between the two points—an electric-energy meter may be
made by combining two electric-current meters, which bike
account of the direction in which the electricity passes, in
such a way that the first integrates the main-current strength,
and that the mangle-motion of the second is driven by the
integrating-cylinder of the first : then, if the needle of the
second is deflected by the shunt current, the rotation of the
second cylinder will give the integral of the energy expended;
This is obvious ; for the rate of rotation of the second cylinder
is proportional to its rate of reciprocation multiplied by the
tangent of the inclination of its tangent-wheel—that is, to the
strength of the current in the first machine multiplied by the
strength of the current in the second ; so its rate of turning
is proportional to the rate at which energy is being expended,
and its whole rotation is a measure of the total energy. If at
any time either the main or the derived current, but not both,
changes sign, then the second cylinder will begin to turn the
other way, showing that the current is not doing work in the
portion of the conductor between the points, but is being
caused to flow by an action of some kind taking place in that
portion. If both currents change sign, then, as before, work is
being done ; and though the first machine is working back
wards, the second is working forwards. A combination of
two machines, as described, would integrate both the current
and the energy. A more simple and practicable machine for
integrating energy alone is shown in figs. 11 and 12. The
integrating mechanism has been already described; the elec
trical principles employed must now be explained. If two
wires, one conveying the main current and the other the de
rived current, are near one another, they will attract or repel
one another with a force which is proportional to the product

       Measurement ofMechanical and Electrical Forces.        91
of the two currents—that is, to the energy being expended;
bat if the wires are allowed to move, the force will depend
also on the position. The question then is, how can the wires
be so arranged that the force exerted may be used to incline
the tangent-wheels and yet be independent of their motion.
The arrangement of solenoids shown in section in fig. 12 is
a complete and perfect answer. Sx and S2 are two fixed sole
noids concentric with one another ; and the main current is
made to pass through each in the same direction. S3 is a
solenoid made of a very great length of fine wire, preferably
of aluminium silver, as suggested by Mr. Imray; and the
upper half is wound in one direction and the lower half in the
opposite direction ; and the derived current is made to pass
through it so as to pass in the upper half in the same direction
as the main current passes in the fixed solenoids, and in the
lower half in the opposite direction. This solenoid is hung in
the annular space between the fixed ones by a band passing
over the arc of the beam B. The tubes within and without
the fixed solenoids and the rings above and below them, all of
¦which are shown dark in the figure, are made of iron, and
may or may not be used according as the currents employed
are in general weak or strong. But whether the tubes are
or are not retained, the use of the rings has certain advan
tages, which I now proceed to explain. Fig. 13 is a diagram
taken by iron filings, which shows the distribution of the lines
of force due to the fixed solenoids alone, without the tubes or
 rings. Here the lines of force cut the walls of the solenoid at
an oblique angle, so that the force, which is at right angles
 both to the wires and the lines of force, tends to stretch the
 movable coil, and only a portion of it is effective in drag
 ging down the solenoid : moreover the lines of force are very
 widely distributed over the solenoid, so that, unless it is of
 very great length, the upper part will leave by its motion
 many lines. It is true that on the lower end the movable
 solenoid will, when at its central position, enter as many lines
 in an element of motion as it leaves at its upper end ; but
 after any considerable movement the upper end will leave
 many more than the lower end enters ; and the force, as it is
 proportional to the number of lines enclosed, will become less
 as the solenoid moves from its central position. This will be
 referred to again later. Now the iron rings act as traps, so to
 speak, and catch nearly all the lines of force which without
 them stray over so great a space. Fig. 14 shows the field pro
 duced when the iron is present. It will be seen at once that
 nearly the whole of the induction takes place across a very
 narrow band of the solenoid, and that the lines of force,

 92            Mr. C. V. Boys on Apparatus for the
 where they cut the solenoid, are nearly horizontal; so that
 practically the whole of the force developed tends to drag the
 solenoid downwards, instead of being partly spent, as before,
 in producing a stretching strain. The consequence is that the
 movable solenoid may be made very much shorter than would
 be necessary if no rings were present. The tubes, having a
 higher coefficient of induction than air, merely serve to increase
 the number of lines of force, rather than affect their distri
 bution.
    If a movable solenoid, arranged as described, is hung by a
 band passing over the arc of the beam B, then the turning
 moment due to a down-pulling force is, within certain limits,
 constant, while the force restraining motion varies as the sine
 of the inclination of the beam; but had it been hung from the
 point p, the turning moment would have been proportional to
 the cosine of the inclination, and the tangent of the incli
 nation would have measured the force. What is wanted
is to make the tangent of the inclination proportional to the
product of the two currents; and, as explained, this could
be attained by using a long solenoid hung from the point p.
 But such an arrangement causes a double inconvenience;
for not only is a long solenoid itself inconvenient, but the
fact that it is hung from an arm and not from an arc causes a
lateral shifting of the solenoid when the beam B is inclined,
thus necessitating a wider annular space for it to pass through.
Now the use of a comparatively short solenoid hanging from
an arc introduces two errors which are almost absolutely
equal and opposite. The error due to the arc is an increase
of moment in the ratio of the cosine of the inclination of the
beam to 1 ; that is, the error is equal to the versed sine of the
inclination ; and, like a thing that increases as the square of a
quantity, it is at first quite inappreciable, and it increases in
amount with increasing speed as the quantity grows. Now
the error due to a short solenoid, such as shown in the figure,
is at first nothing; for a given movement will cause the sole
noid to enter as many lines of force at one end as it leaves at
the other, but as it gets displaced it enters rather fewer than
it leaves ; and this difference in the number of lines of force
increases in amount with increasing speed. Now, if the pro
portions are so taken that when the inclination of the beam
is a little less than the greatest amount permitted to it the
actual magnetic error is equal and opposite to the versed-sine
error, then, since each is a quantity which grows according to
the same kind of law, those errors will be always approximately
equal, and their differences very small compared with the
errors, and absolutely inappreciable in comparison with the

        Measurement of Mechanical and Electrical Forces.       93
 quantities of which the errors themselves are small. The
 geometrical representation (fig. 15) makes this clearer. The
 two sets of errors may be considered as ordinates of two
 curves drawn to the same abscissa. The point p, where the
curves intersect, corresponds to that inclination at which the
 two errors are made equal, and the origin 0 to the central
position. Since both errors are of a kind which are inappre
ciable at first, the two curves will have the axis of # as a
tangent ; and since the two errors are of a kind which grow
in the same kind of way, i. e. at first slowly, and at an increa
sing rate as they grow, the curves must be nearly similar ;
and since they have the common point p, they must be nearly
identical. The distance between the curves at any part gives the
actual error there; and this being small in comparison with the
ordinates at that part, is inappreciable in comparison with the
whole distance of that part from the line z z. In the parti
cular case the ordinate p m is about 4 per cent, of p Q; so the
actual error may be safely neglected. But, finally, should
there be any error that can be detected at all, such error may
be almost entirely eliminated by putting a few extra turns of
wire near the ends or the middle of each half of the movable
solenoid, according as the curve of the magnetic error between
O and p is below or above the curve of the versed-sine error.
    Assuming the truth of what is stated in the last paragraph,
we find the tangent of the inclination proportional to the rate
at which energy is being expended. But the speed of rotation
 of the cylinder is proportional to the tangent of the inclina
tion ; therefore the number of turns of the cylinder, given by
the counting-mechanism in the box over the cylinder, is a
measure of die total energy expended. As in the other energy-
meter, so in this, if the electric current is helped at any time
instead of being used, then the integrating-cylinder will turn
the other way, and take off from the record an amount which
is a measure of the work expended on the current.
   There is a point about the solenoid energy-meter which is
worthy of notice. The movable solenoid has an equal number
of turns in opposite directions; so it is independent of the
magnetic field in which the instrument is placed, and so this
meter may be used in workshops or near dynamo-machines
without its action being interfered with. For the same reason,
when used in houses as gas-meters are for gas, it will be im
possible for the householder to tamper with its indications by
placing magnets round the instrument.
   When very powerful currents are employed, it is well to
shunt a certain proportion of the main current past the meter,
or, when the electromotive force is very great, to introduce
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 79. Feb. 1882.            I

94    On the Measurement of Mechanical and Electrical Forces.
into the secondary circuit resistance-coils. To prevent waste
of clockwork energy or of electricity, the main current is made
to pass round a subsidiary electromagnet whose armature
allows the clockwork to go only when the main current is
passing. This armature also, on being attracted, completes
the secondary circuit, so that the derived current can only flow
when the main current is passing.
   The meter may be used as an energy measurer or indicator
(not meter) with advantage when setting the carbons of an
electric arc. If the two poles are made to touch, though the
current is enormously increased, the energy is reduced, owing
to a greater falling-off in the difference of potential between
the poles. As the carbons are gradually separated the current
diminishes, but the difference of potential increases in a higher
ratio; so their product increases; that is, the energy expended,
and so the heat and light produced, increases. This increase
is shown by an increased inclination of the beam. After a
time a point is reached at which the current decreases in
the same ratio that the difference of potential increases; at
this point the inclination of the beam attains a maximum ;
beyond this the decrease of the current is in a higher ratio
than the increase in the difference of potential, so the energy,
heat, and light fall off, as is indicated by the diminution of
the inclination of the beam. If, therefore, the carbons are
placed so that the inclination of the beam is a maximum, then
the best -effect is being obtained. In the same way, if the cur
rent is being employed to drive a machine, the most effective
speed for that machine may be found by observing at what
speed the inclination of the beam is greatest.
   The various meters described depend for their numerical
results on two things—(1) the horizontal intensity of the
earth's magnetism, (2) the force of gravity. The indications
 of the first current-meter are inversely proportional to the
horizontal intensity, and of the first energy-meter to the
square of the horizontal intensity. Each of them is dis
 turbed by changes in the direction of the earth's magnetism.
   The second current-meter and the second energy-meter are
independent of the magnetic field altogether. Their indi
cations vary inversely as g when the clockwork is regulated
by a balance-wheel, or inversely as \/g when a pendulum-clock
is used. This dependence on gravity is a point of very great
importance ; for over any one country gravity does not change
 appreciably, nor does it matter in what direction the machine
is placed so long as it is level. By screwing the weights X X
up or down, so as to decrease or increase the influence of
gravity on the meter, its indications may be regulated to a

    Experimental Comparison of Coefficients of Induction.      95
standard measure. Therefore, in making the coils, there is no
necessity to count the number of turns exactly, or to lay them
with the utmost accuracy: they may be wound in the ordinary
way, and then a hundred machines or more connected together,
with the main circuits in series and with the derived circuits
in series, and a current sent from a suitable source through
each series ; then, if there is one meter which has been standar
dized by careful experiment, all the rest can be regulated, just
as clocks are, by screwing down the weights X X of thoso
that are going fast, or screwing up the weights of thoso that
are going slow.
   If in the foregoing paper any of the apparatus is not as
fully described as it might be, I must plead as an excuse an
endeavour to occupy a reasonable space with an account of
what is essentially one invention.
XI. The Experimental Comparison of Coefficients of Induction.
                 By Herbert Barfield, B.Sc*
OF all electrical investigations, the experimental compa
        rison of coefficients of induction is one of the most dif
ficult to carry out with accuracy ; and it is doubtless most
desirable that we should be able to compare such quantities
much more accurately than has been hitherto possible. The
usual methods, as far as their general arrangement is con
cerned, are in all probability not capable of improvement ;
but, as carried out, there is one modification applicable to all
of them, by which the sensitiveness can be vastly increased.
This modification is in the use made of the galvanometer.
Hitherto it has been usual to observe the throw of the needle
due to the passage of the quantity of electricity in one tran
sient current ; but if, instead of doing this, we pass through
the galvanometer a number of such quantities in rapid succes
sion and (after the manner of Siemens and others) observe the
permanent deflection of the needle, we shall find this far
greater than any throw attainable by even the most suitable
apparatus.
   In fact, the permanent deflection due to a certain number
of transient currents per second may be compared with the
throw of the needle due to one of them, in the following
manner:—Let
   H represent the magnetic force acting on the needle,
   G the galvanometer-constant,
   M the magnetic moment of the needle,
   t its time of vibration,
                  » Communicated by the Author.
                                 12

96            Mr. H. Barfield on the Experimental
   A the moment of inertia of mirror and needle,
   Q the quantity passing in each transient current,
    n the number of such currents per second,
   </> the permanent deflection due to their passage,
   6 the throw of the needle due to one transient current.
Then                           HT
                          Q= £?-2sin£0,
                               KXTT
                       nQ= 5 tan$;
or, with sufficient accuracy for the purpose of this comparison,
                            Q,
                       </)=gXn.Q                                   (2)
Thus                  </>  nr
And it may be observed, in passing, that these equations hold
rigidly true when <f> and 6 become very small ; and thus, in
the use of a null method, the equation (3) accurately expresses
the relative sensitiveness of the two methods.
   Now, since ^ =               , equation (1) may be written
                      *=Q-gVhz                                     <4>
So that, with Q and G given, te obtain the largest value of 0,
                 M
we must make j as large as possible and H as small as pos
sible. The former condition is provided for in the Thomson's
galvanometer; and, using such an instrument, we have only
to make H as small as we are able. In doing this t is in
creased, and equations (2) and (4) show that, whilst we are
increasing 6 in the ratio          <f> increases in the square of that
ratio.                     vH
   Now, by diminishing H, t may readily be made as large as
27r, in which case the relative sensitiveness of the two methods
would be given by the equation
                             4> = 2n0                              (5)
From this it would appear that the value of <f> is only limited
by that of n. This latter quantity, again, cannot exceed a
limit determined by the duration of the transient current.
This duration Blaserna gives as 3J5 second, or thereabouts, in
one of the cases investigated by him ; but the capabilities of

              Comparison of Coefficients of Induction.         97
 the apparatus would fix a limit far before any such speed was
 reached. It does not, however, appear to be beyond the mark
 to say, that the sensitiveness could be in this method made
 fifty times as large as that of the ordinary mode of experi
 menting.
    The conclusion expressed in equation (3) has been experi
 mentally verified by comparing (f> and 6 with the following
arrangement:—A single Leclanche cell sends a current through
 the primary of a certain pair of coils. The secondary is con
 nected up to the galvanometer; and the induced current at
breaking is used to deflect the needle.
    To obtain a constant succession of transient secondary cur
 rents in the same direction, the apparatus shown in ¦the sketch
 is used:—A is a cylinder of hard dry wood 5£ inches in dia
 meter, which rotates on its axis be in the direction of the
arrow. On the surface of A are fixed the brass strips B, C,
 five in each row : the pieces B are in metallic connexion with
 each other and also with b ; similarly the pieces C are con
nected to the other end of the axis c. F, Gr are springs keep
ing an electrical contact with b c respectively whilst the axis
rotates. D, E are springs pressing firmly on the cylinder, and
making contact with the brass strips when they pass under
neath. F, D are inserted in the primary circuit; E, G in the
secondary. Thus the secondary circuit is only closed between
each break and make of the primary ; and only the induced
current at break flows in it.
    It is found that when the cylinder is rotated, a steady de
flection of the needle is obtained, which increases with the
speed of rotation, as equation (2) leads us to expect.

98                      Mr. J. Le Conte on
    With the coils mentioned above and with one Lechanche"
in the primary, 0 was 13 scale-divisions (the galvanometer
being shunted), t was 7£ seconds, or about 2ir. When the
cylinder was making about 4 revolutions per second (giving
20 breaks per second), </> was found to be a little over 500;
that is, the light was off the scale.
    Now equation (3) gives
                           4> = 2n8 = 520.
This shows that a value of enormously in excess of 6 may
be obtained ; and though the experiment is only a rough proof
of equation (3), it serves to show the greatly increased sen
sitiveness obtained.
     Other experiments of a similar nature were made ; but,
being merely confirmatory of this, they need no further men
tion. It is possible that a powerful vibrator might with ad
vantage be substituted for the rotating cylinder; and this
would be completely self-acting; but it is doubtful whether it
would be easier of manipulation than the cylinder, which can
be very conveniently worked by a treadle, thus leaving the
hands quite free to adjust the resistances.
     In using the rotating cylinder with the bridge, E G would
be inserted in the " bridge wire ; " and since that is thereby
broken whenever the battery is on, the effect due to the in
duced current is separated from that due to any very slight
derangement of the balance—a great advantage when it is
remembered how troublesome the presence of this latter effect
is liable to be with the ordinary arrangement.
    Derby, December 30, 1881.
   XII. On Sound-Shadows in Water. By John LeConte*.
 1. "V/TORE or less perfect sound-shadows thrown by hills,
      -L'-L buildings, piers, and other obstacles to the trans
 mission of aerial vibrations, must be within the experience of
 all. Nevertheless the boundaries of such shadows are so
 imperfectly defined, that they can hardly be compared, except
in a general way, with those of light. Moreover, in some
cases the obstacles placed in the route of the sound-waves,
being elastic, propagate more or less perfectly the sonorous
vibrations of the air through their thickness; so that, under
these conditions, it is similar to producing a light-shadow by
means of a transparent or translucent body.
     2. But even in cases in which the sound-vibrations in air
are not sensibly transmitted through the intervening obstacle
    * From advance sheets of the 'American Journal of Science,' vol. xxiii.
January 1882. Communicated by the Author.

                     Sound-Shadows in Water.                        99
the boundaries of the sound-shadows are necessarily very
 imperfectly defined; for the amount of diffractive divergence
 proceeding from the secondary waves, originating at the
 boundaries of the obstacle and propagated within the geo
 metrical shadow, is usually so considerable that the diminu
 tion of intensity of sound behind it, although quite perceptible,
 is by no means so conspicuous as might be expected.
    3. The contrast, in this respect, between sound and light
 is well expressed by Lord Rayleigh :—" When waves of sound
 impinge upon an obstacle, a portion of the motion is thrown
 back as an echo, and under cover of the obstacle there is
 formed a sort of sound-shadow. In order, however, to pro
 duce shadows in any thing like optical perfection, the dimen
 sions of the intervening body must be considerable. The
 standard of comparison proper to tho subject is the wave
 length of the vibration ; it requires almost as extreme condi
 tions to produce rays in the case of sound, as it requires in
 optics to avoid producing them " *. In other words, the dif
 ference between sound and light results from the well-known
 fact, that an ordinary obstacle bears an immense ratio to tho
 length of a wave of light ; but does not bear a very great
 ratio to the length of a sound-wave. Hence it follows, from
 the mathematical theory of undulations, that the waves of
 sound bend around obstacles, and produce more or less effect
 within tho geometrical shadow, whereas light-shadows have
 definite boundaries and are more sharply defined. For, in
 the case of light, calculation shows that at any point decidedly
 within the geometrical projection of the obstacle from the
 luminous source the disturbance vanishes, while at any point
 outside of the geometrical projection the disturbance is the
 same as if the primary wave had passed the screen unimpeded.
 But this is only partially true in the case of ordinary sound
 waves, in consequence of their considerable length ; it is
rigorously true only when, as in optics, the diameter of the
obstacle is large in comparison with the wave-length.
    4. There are, however, other causes, depending upon the
differences between the sense of hearing and of sight, which
doubtless render the appreciation of the shadows of sound
much less distinct than those of light. On this point, Lord
Rayleigh justly remarks :—" In many cases sound-shadows
appear much less perfect than theory would lead us to expect.
The anomaly is due in a great measure, I believe, to an error
of judgment, depending on the enormous range of intensity
with which the ear is capable of dealing. The whistle of a
     • ' Theory of Sound,' vol. ii. p. 106, art. 283. London, 1878.

100                       Mr. J. LeConte on
locomotive is very loud at a distance of ten yards. At a mile
off the intensity must be 30,000 times less ; but the sound
still appears rather loud, and would probably be audible, under
favourable circumstances, even when enfeebled in the ratio of
a million to one. For tins reason, it is not easy to obtain
complete shadows"*. In other terms, the range of audition
is so extensive, that the diffractive secondary waves originating
at the boundaries of the obstacle and propagated into the
Seometrical shadow, though comparatively feeble, produce
  ecided sensuous impressions upon the auditory apparatus of
the ear.
    5. The mathematical theory of undulations indicates that
acoustical shadows should be more distinct for short waves
than for long waves. This prevision has been verified by the
experiments of Lord Rayleighf, who found that the sound-
shadows cast by acute sounds were more distinct than those
produced by grave sounds.
    6. Another prevision of theory has been experimentally
verified both in the case of light and of sound. It is well
known that the great geometer roisson, in applying Fresnel's
integrals to the case of the diffraction of light produced by a
small opaque circular disk, was led to the startling result
that the illumination of the centre of the shadow was precisely
the same as if the disk had been altogether removed. This
 deduction from theory was experimentally verified by the
 illustrious Arago, by means of an opaque circular disk 2 mil-
 lim. in diameter; for he observed a bright point in the centre
 of the shadow of the disk on which waves of light were directly
 incident. In this case the secondary waves originating at
 the disk find the conditions of complete concurrence at a
 definite point in the axis of the geometrical shadow.
    7. The difficulties to be overcome, in the experimental
verification of the acoustical analogue of this beautiful pheno
menon, are entirely different from those of optics, on account
of the immense disproportion of wave-lengths. In light, the
disk must be small, and the luminous source must have a
very small angular magnitude. In sound, the disk must be
comparatively large, and the sounds must be acute. Lord
Eayleigh has recently succeeded in experimentally verifying
this prevision of theory in the case of sound, by means of a
circular disk about fifteen inches in diameter, with a bird-call
as the source of sound, placed at a distance of twenty inches
from the centre of the plane of the disk. At twenty-four
           » rhil. Mag. 5th series, vol. iii. p. 468 (1877).
           t Ibid. pp. 458, 450 (1877).

                      Sound-Shadows in Water.                           101
inches on the further side of the disk, the augmentation of the
intensity of the sound, in the axis of the acoustical shadow,
was obvious both to the ear and to a sensitive flame *.
                      Sound-Shadows in Water.
    8. It is a significant fact in relation to the phenomenon of
acoustical shadows, that they seem to be more perfect or more
sharply defined in water than in air. Thus, during the pro
gress of the classical experiments of Daniel Colladon, in
November 1826, on the velocity of sound in the waters of the
Lake of Geneva, this physicist incidentally observed that when
the end of the hearing-tube (comet acoustujue), plunged into
the water, was screened from rectilinear communication with
the bell by a projecting wall running out from the shore,
whose top was above the surface of the lake, there was a very
remarkable diminution in the intensity of the sound, in com
parison with that observed at a point equally distant from, but
 in direct communication with, the source of sound, or out of
 the " acoustic shadow," thus indicating the relative non-
 divergence of the rays of sound around obstacles in water as
 compared with those in airf.
    9. Another fact observed by Colladon during these famous
experiments is, in this connection, no less significant. He
found that the sound of the bell struck under water, when
heard at a distance, has no resemblance to its sound in the
air. Instead of a prolonged tone, a short sharp sound is heard,
like two knife-blades struck together. It was only within
 200 metres that the musical tone of the bell was distinguish
able after the blow. In air, it is well known, the contrary
takes place—the shock of the first impulse of the hammer
being heard only in the immediate neighbourhood of the bell,
while the continued musical sound is the only one that affects
the hearing at a distancef. Sir John Herschel, in his Treatise
on Sound §, promised to explain this curious difference, but
has not, so far as I can find, done so. Colladon || explains
this phenomenon by the nature of the sonorous vibrations in
water, showing that the duration of the sound will be much
less when transmitted by water than when propagated by air.
              Experiments of L. J. LeConte in 1874.
    10. The preceding remarks show that comparatively few
exact observations have been made on the obstruction pro-
   •  Phil. Mag. 5th series, vol. ix. pp. 281, 282 (1880).
   t  Ann. de Chim. et de Phyt. 2nd series, vol. xxxvi. pp. 256, 257 (1827).
   j  Op. cit. suprd, p. 254.
   §  Ejicyc. Metrop. art. 101.                 || Op. cit. p. 255.

 102                       Mr. J. LeConte on
duced by interposed obstacles to the propagation of sound
waves in different media. The following experimental results
 in relation to acoustical shadows in water may be of interest
to physicists. The experiments were executed in 1874*, at
 my suggestion, by my son, L. J. LeConte, during the engi
 neering operations incident to the removal of " Rincon Rock,"
a sandstone reef in the harbour of San Francisco (near the
 south-eastern water front of the city), by means of " surface
blasting " with " giant powder " or dynamite. The depth of
water on the reef was about fifteen feet at low tide, with an
extreme tidal range of about six feet. The " cans " or " car
tridges " of " giant powder " used contained each about fifteen
 pounds of the explosive compound, comprising about 75 per
 cent of nitro-glycerine.
    11. Effects of the Explosive Shock.—It was observed that the
 suddenness of the shock imparted to the water by this explosive
agent produced the most remarkable and astonishing effects.
At the distance of 300 feet or more from the detonating car
 tridge, two distinct shocks were experienced. The first shock
 came through the intervening water, and was felt as a short
 concussion or click before there was any sensible elevation of
 the column of water resting over the point of explosion. The
second shock came a little later by the air, and was heard. It
 was evidently communicated to the air by the water, at the time
 the elastic pulse transmitted by this liquid (the first shock)
 emerged, in a direction nearly normal to its surface, over a
 limited area around a point vertically above the exploding car
 tridge. This was obvious from the fact that aerial sound came
 from this region. The area which was the source of the sound
 transmitted by the air, was the same as that from which the
 small jets of water (noticed hereafter, 14) were projected. The
Sjases generated during the explosion came to the surface much
  ater than this shock, and after elevating the column of water
over the position of the cartridge to the height of twenty-five
or thirty feet.
    It is the character of the first shock that deserves special no
tice. To a person sitting in a small boat floating on the water
at a distance of 300 feet or more from the point of explosion,
with his feet resting on its bottom, the shock was felt as a
sudden blow applied to the soles of the feet. In fact, it drove
out the oakum from the seams in the bottom of the boat. When
the observer stood on the top of a vertical wooden pile, this
shock was felt as a sudden concussion coming up from the
   * The long delay in writing out the notes of these experiments in form
for publication has been duo to domestic affliction and the subsequent
pressure of perplexing duties.

                   Sound-Shadows in Water.                   103
water along the cylinder of wood. The concussion produced
by such an explosion was so violent that it killed or stunned
the fish in the water within a radius of 200 or 300 feet from
the explosive centre. They rose to the surface in a helpless
condition, and were secured by the boys.
              Experiments on Sound-Shadows.
   12. Experiments with stout glass (soda-water) Bottles.—In
these experiments the observer stood on the top of a vertical
cylindrical pile (the trunk of an Oregon pine) about one foot
in diameter, situated about forty feet horizontally from the
explosive cartridge. The bottle, being secured to a rigid rod,
was first plunged under the water from ten to twelve inches
behind the pile (fig. 1, A), that is within its geometrical
shadow. The shock of the explosion did not injure the bottle.
It was then plunged into the water in front of the pile (fig. 1,
B), or outside of its geometrical shadow. In this position
the bottle was shivered to atoms by the concussion due to the
explosion. As viewed from the experimenter's situation on
the top of the pile, fig. 1, A' and B' indicate the two positions
of the bottle in the preceding experiments.
                               Fig. 1.
   The experiments were varied by plunging bottles into the
water in various positions around the pile, within and outside
of its geometrical projection from the explosive centre ; and
in all cases they were protected from injury when within the
geometrical shadow, and were shivered when outside of the
same. The same results took place whether tho bottles were
filled with water or with air.

 104                   Mr. J. LeConte on
    The breaking of a glass vessel by a sudden shock communi
 cated by means of water is a fact long known, and is illus
 trated by the old familiar class experiment of exploding a
 " Prince-Rupert drop " while its bulb is plunged into an ordi
 nary apothecary's phial filled with water.
    13. Experiments with stout glass Tubes.—The cylindrical
 glass tubes employed were about 6 feet long and 1-5 inch
                              Fig. 2.
in diameter, the glass being about 0'5 of an inch in thickness.
They were covered by pasting cartridge-paper over them, so
as to prevent the loss of fragments when breakage occurred.
 (See fig. 2, M.)
   The tubes were adjusted to a framework of wood so arranged
(fig. 2, N) that they could be plunged in a horizontal posi
tion beneath the surface of the water behind the pile, the axis
of the tube being at right angles to the plane of its shadow,
and held there (the observer standing as before on the top)
with the middle of the tube in the geometrical shadow, while
the two extremities projected on either side about 2*5 feet
beyond the boundaries of said shadow. (Fig. 3, C and C.)
In every case the shock of the explosion shivered the pro
jecting portions of the tube, and left the portion within the
shadow uninjured. The boundaries between the broken and
the protected portions of the glass were sharply defined.
   By standing on the top of a second pile, in the direction of
the axis of the shadow of the first pile, and distant about 12
feet, the experiments were varied by plunging the framework
and tubes—adjusted at right angles to the plane of the pro
longed shadow—into the water at this distance (12 feet) from
the obstacle which obstructed the sound-wave transmitted by
the liquid. (Fig. 3, D and D'.) The shock of the explosion
produced sensibly the same results as when the tube was near
to the obstructing obstacle. The protected portion of the hori
zontal glass tube was sensibly equal in length to the diameter

                    Sound-Shadows in Water.                     105
of the pile casting the shadow ; hence the shadow of the
cylindrical pile extended back for about 12 feet between sen
sibly parallel vertical planes, and its boundaries, at thisdistance,
were still sharply denned.
                                Fig. 3.
                      w                           -           ^
    It is evident that, if the explosive centre were of insensible
 magnitude, the horizontal thickness of the geometrical shadow
 of the pile, at a distance of 12 feet beyond it, would be aug
 mented in the ratio of 40 to 40+12, or of 40 to 52, these
 numbers being the distances in feet from the centre; so that,
 if the thickness of the shadow at the pile were 12 inches, its
 thickness at 12 feet beyond would be 15'6 inches. If, how
 ever, the explosive energy occupied more or less space (as was
 the case in relation to the " giant-powder " cartridges), the
 thickness of the geometrical shadow or umbra cast by the
 pile might not increase sensibly with augmenting distance ;
 and, indeed, in case the exploding body exceeded 12 inches in
 diameter the thickness of the shadow would diminish with
 increasing distance from the obstructing pile, as in the case
 of the umbra cast by an opaque body which is smaller than
 the luminous source.
    14. Another Phenomenon observed.—Another interesting
 phenomenon came under our notice during the execution of
 these experiments. It was the singular effects observed on
 the surface of the water (when perfectly calm and glassy) for
 a certain area around the point immediately over the explo
 ding cartridge. Simultaneous with the first shock (11) trans

106                      Mr. J. LeConte on
                                Fig. 4.
                          STILL WATER SURFACE
mitted by the water—and before the ascending gases of
explosion disturbed it—the surface of the liquid exhibited
numerous jets of water, rising to the height of about 3 inches
over the centre of the area, and diminishing in height with
augmenting distance from the centre. The appearance pre
sented was not unlike that produced by a heavy shower of
rain falling on the calm waters of a lake (fig. 4). To an
observer in a boat floating on the adjacent water, and con
sequently viewing the phenomenon from a point near the
water-level, there seemed to be a curious quincunx-like arrange
ment of the jets.
        Explanation of the Phenomena observed.
   15. Greater Distinctness of Sound-Shadows in Water.—The
much greater distinctness ofacoustical shadows in water, as com
pared with those in air, appears to be pretty clearly established
by the experiments of Colladon ; and the fact seems to be abun
dantly confirmed by those which we have recorded in the prece
ding pages. This is an interesting and significant phenomenon
in relation to the theory of sound. At first sight it might be
supposed that the difference is due to the greater velocity of
propagation of the sound-wave in water. This may have
been Sir John Herschel's idea when he explained Colladon's
results by reference to the greater elasticity of water*.
   But, as already indicated (3), according to the mathe
matical theory of undulations, the intensity of the effects due
to the secondary waves progagated into the geometrical
shadow from the borders of the obstacle is not directly de
pendent upon the velocity of propagation, but is properly a
 function of the wave-length, the diffractive divergence being
less for short than for long waves. Hence it follows that the
 distinctness of sound -shadows, like those of light, should
 depend upon the shortness of the wave-length. We have
 already seen (5) that experiment verifies this prevision of
 theory in the case of sound-waves in air, by demonstrating
 that acute sounds cast more distinct shadows than grave
           • " Treatise on Sound," Encyc. Metrop., art. 102.

                      Sound-Shadows in Water.                            107
 sounds. Does this principle apply to sound-shadows in
 water ?
      Some physicists have attempted to explain the phenomenon
  of the great distinctness of sound-shadows in water, as in
 dicated by the observations of Colladon (8), by assuming that
  the lengtns of the sonorous waves propagated through water
  are much shorter than those transmitted through air*. But no
 reason is given for this fundamental assumption, other than
 that it is required by the demands of the theory of undulations,
 in order to account for the more perfect shadows in water.
  It evidently would be vastly more philosophical to establish as
 a matter of fact the greater shortness of the sound-waves in
  water, and thus to verify the deductions of theory. This wo
 shall endeavour to accomplish.
     16. Measurement of Wave-lengths.—With regard to con
 tinuous or musical sounds, we have the means of very
  readily determining^ the wave-length ; for it is equal to
     Velocity of Sonn— ^ ^ .g evj,jent therefore, that, tho
  .Number of Vibrations                                        '
 number of vibrations or musical pitch of the sonorous body
  remaining the same, the wave-length in water, so far from
 being shorter, must be more than four times as long as they
 are in air. Hence, according to theory, if Colladon's obser
 vations had been within the radius (200 metres) at which the
 musical tone of the sonorous bell was heard, the sound-shadows
 would have been' less distinct than in air. Unfortunately,
 Colladon does not inform us at what distance from the
 vibrating bell his observations in relation to the acoustical
 shadows were made ; so that it is impossible to apply this
 critical test of the theory of shadows. But the presumption
 is, that the observations were made in the neighbourhood of
 Thonon (while tho sonorous bell was placed at Rolle), at a
distance of 13,487 metres from the source of sound, these
being the arrangements during the execution of the experi
ments for determining the velocity of sound in the waters of
the Lake of Geneva. At all distances from the bell greater
 than 200 metres, as we have seen (9), the sound lost its
 musical character and became short and sharp, like two knife-
blades strnck together. Hence, under the assumption that the
observations on sound-shadows were made very far beyond
the limits at which musical tones were transmitted, we aro
precluded from determining the wave-length by tho number
of vibrations. It appears that in water grave sounds are more
rapidly suppressed or damped than acute sounds ; so that at
    • Vide W. H. C. Bartlett's ' Elements of Natural Philosophy,' "Acoustics
and Optics," 4th ed., N. Y. 1866, p. 75, art. 66.

   108                         Mr. J. LeConte on
   moderate distances from the sonorous centre only the short
  and sharp sound due to the shock of the striking hammer was
  transmitted to distant points through the water. It is obvious
  that the wave-lengths of sounds of this character must be
  determined by other considerations than those relating to the
  musical pitch.
      In relation to solitary waves generated by sudden blows
  and explosions*, it may be more difficult to form a just estimate
  of the wave-length than in the case of musical sounds. Never
  theless it is evident that the wave-length must be directly pro
  portional to the time occupied by the displacing impulse, mul
  tiplied by the velocity of transmission of the elastic pulse.
  In algebraic terms, if L = wave-length, tatime of the genera
  ting impulse, and v = velocity of sound in the elastic medium;
  we have, L varies as t x v, or lt = tx v. Consequently, in a
  given medium, in which v remains constant, L will be a func
  tion of t, or the duration of the generative impulse ; so that
  when the factor t is indefinitely small, the value of L will be
     • It may be questionable whether the elastic waves generated by
 momentary explosions or detonations can be properly regarded as strictly
 solitary. It is possible that, in such cases, groups of waves are generated
 similar to those discussed by Lord Rayleigh in the Appendix to his work
 on the Theory of Sound, vol. ii. pp. 297-302.
    Furthermore, the admirable and exquisitely refined arrangements de
 vised by Regnault for investigating the phenomena of sound enabled him
 to submit this question to a more or less satisfactory experimental test, so
 far as aerial waves are concerned (Mimoires de I'Acad, des Sciences,
 vol. xxxvii. pp. 45-49 et pp. 278-282: Paris, 1868). He found that
 the explosion of a pistol charged with ordinary powder does not produce
 only a single wave, since it gave rise to a recognizable musical tone of very
 brief duration (p. 45) ; and the same was the case with the sound pro
 duced by the detonation of a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen gases
 (p. 48). But the explosion of a small charge of fulminate of mercury was
 so sudden that the wave generated in the air was much shorter, and the
 " coup " was much more " sec," than that which was produced by a
 pistol charged with ordinary powder (pp. 47, 48, and pp. 278-281).
 He adds, " II est encore difficile de decider si Ton a produit ainsi line onde
 unique, mais il est certain que si plusieurs ondes prennent naissance, ellea
 doivent se suivre de tres pres'' (p. 48).
    Again, the observations ofGeneral H. L.Abbot (U.S. Engineers), incident
to the heavy blastings at Hallet's Point, Hell Gate, in the harbour of New
York, seem to render it at least probable that the waves transmitted by the
earth reached the distant observers in groups, or as a train of waves
(Silliman's Journal, vol. xv. (1878), p. 178 et seq.).
    Sir G. B. Airy maintains that " there is reason to think that a single
wave in air or in the medium of light would not produce the sensation of
sound or colour" (Undulatory Theory of Optics, p. 15, art. 18, 1866).
No reason is assigned for this somewhat extraordinary assertion. In the
case of light, it is obviously impossible to experimentally test the validity
of this idea of the former Astronomer Royal ; and it does not appear to
be sustained by the results of acoustical experiments.

                       Sound-Shadows in Water.                   109
  correspondingly small. Hence, when the time of the blow or
 explosive impulse is exceedingly brief, the wave-length must
  be proportionately short.
     17. Application to Sound-Shadows.—In the experiments of
 Colladon, if we assume that the brief shock of the hammer on
 a limited portion of the bell was alone transmitted to the dis
  tant observer, it is clear that only the short sound-waves thus
 generated would reach the distant obstructing wall or screen
 in the water; and consequently, the greater definiteness of
 the acoustical shadows in water as compared with those in
 air would be the necessary result of the greater shortness of
 the sound-waves in water. Under the foregoing assumptions,
 the theory of undulations appears to afford a satisfactory ex
 planation of the phenomenon observed by Colladon. Never
 theless it would have been extremely interesting and in
 structive, as a very severe test of theory, had this distinguished
 physicist made observations on the relative distinctness of the
 sound-shadows in the water within the musical range of the
 submerged bell, as compared with those observed at points
 so remote that only the sharp blow of the hammer was audible
 in the water.
    In like manner, the application of the principle of briefness
 of elastic-wave-genesis to the explanation of the phenomena
observed by my son in his " Dynamite " experiments, is suffi
 ciently obvious. In fact, all the phenomena incident to the
explosion or detonation of the nitro-glycerine compounds indi
cate that the impulse generated is of indefinitely brief dura
tion ; indeed its suddenness is almost beyond conception.
Thus, a dynamite cartridge placed upon a log of wood, uncon-
fined and free, with nothing above it except the atmosphere,
will, when exploding, shiver the portion of timber under it to
atoms—the detonation being so instantaneous that the super
incumbent air, as well as the gases generated, having no time
to be displaced, become a veritable tampion.
    The efficiency of surface-blasting under water by means of
these explosive compounds, depends upon this extraordinary
suddenness of detonation, which renders the effect akin to
that of the sudden blow of an enormous unyielding mass. It
is evident, that the wave generated in an elastic medium like
water by an explosion of this character must be verv intense
and very short. Hence the acoustical shadow produced by
an obstacle placed in its path of propagation must, as in the
case of light, bo sharply defined and definite in its boundaries.
Thus the striking fact, that the protecting influence of the
piles on the glass vessels plunged in the water was narrowly
circumscribed within the limits of the geometrical shadow
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 79. Feb. 1882.            K

110                    Mr. J. LoConto on
may be rationally traced to the extreme shortness of the
elastic wave, due to the inconceivably brief duration of action
of the generative detonations. This view seems to afford a
satisfactory explanation of the remarkable results revealed by
the experiments in the harbour of San Francisco.
    18. Gunpowder Explosions.—If the foregoing is the true
explanation of the definiteness of the sound-shadows cast in
 the preceding experiments, then the waves generated by the
 explosion of ordinary gunpowder, being less sudden, should
 not produce as sharply-defined shadows as those due to the
 detonation of dynamite. We have, so far as known, no
 specific experiments testing this point; but it seems to be quite
 reasonable that such will be found to be the case whenever
 the test of experiment is applied; for it is well known that the
 subaqueous explosions of ordinary powder do not give rise to
 the remarkable concussions so characteristic of the detonations
 of the nitro-glycerine mixtures.
    19. Dynamite Explosions in Air.—Moreover, if iny explana
 tion is correct, the acoustical shadows produced by nitro
 glycerine detonation in air ought also to be more sharply
 defined than those due to sounds less suddenly generated. In
 other words, if the distinctness of sound-shadows depends
 upon the duration of the impulse which produces the accom
 panying sound-wave, then the definiteness of the shadows cast
 by sounds propagated through the air should vary with the
 suddenness of the action of the generating cause.
    Inasmuch as the variations in the duration of the genesis
 of audible sounds in the atmosphere must, in ordinary ex
 perience, be very great, it may, at first sight, appear incredible
 that the corresponding differences in the perfection of sound-
 shadows cast by obstacles in the paths of different kinds of
 sounds should have escaped the most casual observation. But
 it must be recollected that, for the reasons already assigned
 (1), (2), (3) and (4), aerial acoustical shadows are not readily
 appreciated by the ear. Moreover, in the case of sounds
 transmitted by the air, the distinctness of such shadows is most
 seriously impaired by the numerous refleoted waves which
 come from circumjacent objects. It should be borne in mind
 that it is only very recently (5) that the influence of acute-
 ness of sounds on the distinctness of the resulting shadows
 has been satisfactorily verified by experiment. In like
 manner I venture to predict that careful experiments will
 verify the deduction that the shadows due to sounds generated
 by the extraordinarily brief detonations of dynamite are more
 sharply defined than those owing their origin to sounds less
 suddenly produced.

                   Sound-Shadows in Water.                  Ill
   In confirmation of the foregoing view, the following obser
vation may be cited : on the 16th of April, 1880, an explosion
of about 2000 or 3000 pounds of a nitro-glycerine compound
occurred at the u Giant Powder Works, situated under a
bluff on the eastern shore of the Bay of San Francisco, at a
distance (determined by triangulation) of 16,201 feet (4938
metres) in a direct line, in a north-west direction, from my
room in the University building. About twenty-five adult
men, a-majority of them Chinamen, were literally blown to
atoms, no one escaping to reveal the cause of the accident.
The concussion at the University buildings—more than three
miles distant—was sufficient to break about a dozen panes
of stout window-glass on the side next to the explosive centre.
Nearly every person about the University grounds experienced
two distinct shocks—one transmitted by the air, and the
other by the ground. The cottage occupied by my brother
(Professor Joseph LeConte) was situated in the geometrical
shadow of one of the buildings, being about 890 feet on the
further side of it. No aerial shock was experienced by him
or any member of the household ; and the concussion trans
mitted by the earth was alone felt as a shock emanating from
the floor. In other terms, the acoustical shadow cast by the
intervening structure completely cut off the sound-wave
coming by the air. It is scarcely necessary to add, that for
ordinary sounds such would not have been the result.
   20. Phenomenon of Jets.—The singular phenomenon ob
served by my son (14), of numerous small jets projected
from the surface of the water when the shock transmitted by
the liquid reached the surface-area above the exploding
cartridge, was probably due to the circumstance that when the
short and intense elastic wave emerged in a direction normal,
or nearly normal, to the aqueous surface, the tense superficial
capillary film yielded to the sudden impulse more readily at
some points than at others. The sensibly homogeneous
character of such a tensile elastic film would naturally tend to
group the points of rupture, or jets of water, into more or less
perfect order, partaking more or less of geometrical symmetry.
Hence the curious quincunx-like arrangement of jets as
viewed by the observer near the water-level. According to
this view, the phenomenon in question seems to find its
counterpart or analogue in the more or less symmetrical forms
produced by the intersection of the lines of rupture as the
result of the tensional strains due to the contraction of homo
geneous masses, during the process of cooling or of desiccation.
Thus the columnar structure of certain igneous rocks seems
to be duo to the tensile stress of contraction by cooling after
                               K2

112    Dr. Carnelley on the Influence of Atomic Arrangement
solidification supervened ; while the analogous structure de
veloped by the desiccation of homogeneous masses of moist
clay, mud, or starch appears to be produced by a similar strain
consequent upon shrinkage from loss of moisture. In a
similar manner, the tense superficial capillary film of the
water, when it experiences the sudden molecular impulse due to
the emergence of the elastic pulse, is ruptured along lines more
or less symmetrically disposed on tho surface of the water ;
and the liquid beneath is projected through these lines or
points of least resistance.
   Berkeley, California, Oct. 25, 1881.
XIII. Chemical Symmetry, or the Influence of Atomic Arrange
   ment on the Physical Properties of Compounds. By Thomas
    Caknelley, D.Sc, Professor of Chemistry in Firth College,
   Sheffield".
f| WO years ago I published in this Magazine (Oct. 1879)
 -L a paper on the Influence of Atomic W eight, in which
I endeavoured to trace the connexion between the atomic
weights of the elements and their properties and those of their
compounds. In the present paper I wish to consider this sub
ject from a different point of view, viz. the influence which
the atomic position or arrangement has on the properties of
compounds.
   This is a subject which has lately absorbed a great deal of
attention, more especially as regards the connexion between
the refractive indices of compounds and the arrangement of
their constituent atoms in the molecule; and it will be my
object to give as brief and as clear a sketch as possible of tho
chief results which have been obtained up to the present, tra
cing the influence which atomic arrangement has on (1) the
melting-point, (2) the solubility, (3) the heat of formation,
(4) the heat of combustion, (5) tho action of polarized light,
(6) the specific refraction, and (7) the tinctorial properties of
chemical compounds. For this purpose I shall necessarily
limit myself entirely to the consideration of carbon compounds,
and to those which are isomeric with one another.
   Those compounds are said to be isomeric which, though
having the same percentage composition and the same mole
cular weight, have very different physical and chemical pro
perties. This difference in properties must evidently depend
on the different arrangement or linking together of atoms in
the molecules of the several compounds. Thus, acetic acid
  • Communicated by the Author, being the Opening Address of the
Session to the Owens College Chemical Society, Nov. 18, 1881.

           on the Physical Properties of Compounds.           113
and methyl formate have both exactly the same composition,
viz. CsH402, and yet have very different properties,—the
former being a well-characterized acid, which on cooling soli
difies in the form of large transparent plates, which melt at
 + 17° and boil at 118° 0., it possesses a pungent sour smell,
and is highly corrosive; whilst the latter is a colourless liquid
which has not yet been obtained in the solid state, and boils as
low as 33°-4, or about 85° below the isomeric acetic acid,
from which it also differs notably in emitting a pleasant
ethereal smell. Since both compounds have exactly the same
composition, this remarkable difference in properties can only
be caused by the atoms being arranged differently in the two
bodies; and that the atoms are differently arranged, we know
from the various chemical decompositions which the two com
pounds undergo. This difference in atomic arrangement is
represented by the following graphical formula? :—
                H                          H
            H-i—H                      H—C—H
            0=A—0—H                        0
                                       0=C—H
             Acetic acid.             Methyl formate.
In the former the two carbon atoms are directly united, whilst
in the latter they are combined indirectly by means of oxygen.
  I. Influence of Atomic Arrangement on the Melting-
                              point.
    It seems strange that scarcely any attempt has been made
to trace the connexion between the composition and melting-
points of carbon compounds, notwithstanding that the melting-
points of a very large number of such compounds have been
determined. The most noteworthy of these attempts is that
of Baeyer, in regard to the melting-points of the fatty acids,
and that of Korner, who states that, amongst aromatic com
pounds, what are called para-derivatives usually melt higher
than the corresponding ortho- and meta-derivatives.
    Attention has been directed almost exclusively to the boil
ing-points. Now the boiling-points are by no means so suit
able for tracing the influence of atomic arrangement as the
melting-points, since they are far from being such a fixed
property as the latter; for, as is well known, the boiling-point
is raised or lowered considerably by even small alterations in
the pressure, whilst under ordinary circumstances the melting

 114    Dr. Carnelley on the Influence of Atomic Arrangement
point of a pure compound is practically fixed and constant,
 and hence depends solely on the nature of the compound,
 whilst the boiling-point depends not only on the nature of the
 compound, but also on the superincumbent pressure ; and,
 further, given alterations of pressure by no means produce
 corresponding alterations in the boiling-points of different
 compounds. It is therefore far easier to trace the connexion
 between melting-point and atomic arrangement than the con
 nexion between boiling-point and atomic arrangement.
     Such considerations as these induced me, about three years
ago, to commence the study of the influence of composition and
atomic arrangement on the melting-points of organic com
pounds. And for this purpose I have made complete lists of
all the melting- and boiling-points which have been deter
 mined up to the present date. This tabulation has taken
three years, and was finished only a few weeks ago. During
this time I have collected not far short of 30,000 melting- and
 boiling-points, about one half of which are melting-points.
 The systematic arrangement of this enormous quantity of data
 is now in progress; and I have already been able to trace cer
 tain relations between them, which I hope will throw light on
 the influence of atomic arrangement. Some of these I now
propose to describe ; but at the same time I wish to say that,
though these conclusions have been verified in a very large
number of cases, I have -not yet been able to test them in
 overj- possible case, because the systematic tabulation of my
 lists of melting-points is not yet completed.
    Of the compounds of carbon, the aromatic compounds are
perhaps the most important, and are certainly the most inter
esting. These compounds may all be considered as derived
from benzene.
    Benzene has the formula C6 H6; and its constitution is gene
rally represented as follows:—
                                CH
                           HC'^CH
                              I   I
                           HC CH
                                CH
or it consists of a closed ring of six atoms of carbon united
alternately with one and two combining-powers, whilst the
fourth combining-power of each carbon atom is combined with
hydrogen.
    The aromatic compounds are derived from this ring by

            on the Physical Properties of Compounds.            115
replacing one or more of the atoms of hydrogen by the atoms
or groups of atoms of other elements.
   The ring
                                 c
                                /l V
                          -Co 20-
                             1        J
                          -C5 30-
                                   I
is called the benzene ring, or the benzene nucleus ; and the
carbon atoms in this ring we will number, for sake of distinc
tion, as in the figure.
   Now suppose we replace one atom of hydrogen by an atom
of another element, say bromine ; then we can only get one
derivative, for an identical compound is obtained no matter
which of the six atoms of hydrogen is replaced by the atom of
 bromine, thus :—
               Br
                                        Br                   &C.
            5       3        15      SI                   B
                4
But when we replace two atoms of hydrogen by two like
atoms of another element, or by two like groups of elements,
 then no less than three different isomeric bodies may be ob
 tained; viz.—
             Br                        Br                Br
              1\                     Si>
           6      3
               4                           Br
   Ortho- or 1.2-dibrom-   Meta- or 1.3-dibrom- Para- or 1.4-dibrom-
          benzene.                benzene.            benzcne.
   It has been observed for some time past, that para-compounds
 always melt higher than ortho- and meta-compounds; whereas,
 as regards the ortho- and meta-compounds, the former some
 times melt higher, and sometimes lower, than the latter.
    Now the arrangement of the atoms in the para-compounds
 is symmetrical, whilst in the ortho- and meta-compounds the

 116    Dr. Carnelley on the Influence of Atomic Arrangement
 arrangement is asymmetrical ; i. e. if we imagine the para-
 compound to be suspended from a point in the centre of the
 benzine ring, then the molecule would balance in any position,
 whilst this would not be the case with the ortho- and meta-
 compounds. Or, in other words, the centre of gravity of the
 molecule of the para-compounds corresponds more nearly with
 the centre of figure of the molecule than is the case with the
 ortho- and meta-compounds. This fact led me to conclude
 that a similar rule might hold good, not only with the primary
 derivatives of benzene, but also in the case of all isomeric
 compounds of carbon ; and this appears to be true in a very
 large number of instances. I have therefore ventured to con
 clude, " That of ttoo or more isomeric compounds, those whose
 atoms are the more symmetrically and the more compactly
 arranged melt higher than those in which the atomic arrange
 ment is asymmetrical or in the form of long chains'1''*.
    After working out this subject at some length, I noticed
 that Mr. Henry Watts had already observed, in the third Sup
 plement of his well-known ' Dictionary of Chemistry,' that
 " the more symmetrical the constitution of a benzene deriva
 tive, the greater is the resistance which it offers to the passage
 from the solid to the liquid state," or, in other words, the
 higher the melting-point. Subsequently, however, in a note
 to a paper by Neville and Winther (Journ. Chem. Soc. xxxvii.
 p. 450), Mr. Watts emphatically says that he intended this
 rule to apply only and solely to the derivatives of benzene
 containing but six atoms of carbon ; whilst I believe that it
 holds good, with a very few exceptions, in the case of all car
bon compounds whatever.
    Let us now illustrate this rale by a number of examples
taken almost at random. In the following tables the com
pounds are generally, though not always, arranged in the order
of symmetry, those to the left being the most symmetrical.
In the case where two compounds are equally symmetrical,
that which is most compact is placed to the left.
Tetramethyl methane.       Normal pentane.       Dimethylethvl methane.
         CH3       |                               |
                                                     CH3\ /CH3.CH3
   CH3—C—CHj CH3. CHj. CHj.CH2.CH3
                                                         A
         CH3                                         CIV H
    m.p.= -20.                  Liquid.                   Liquid.
  * In the examples given below of this and of all the rules stated subse
quently, the exceptions are in every case marked with an asterisk.

        on t/ie Physical Properties of Compounds.                       117
                               n.
                      Dimethyl benzene.                   Ethyl benzene.
   CH,              CH,          |        CH,                    CH,
                                                  CH,            OH,
                  A
    1.4              1-3 1        ,|        1.2
                           CH,
    CH,
m.p. =15.                               below —22.           Liquid,
                               in.
                   1.4 Diethyl                              Dimethylethyl
 Durene.             benzene.            Iaodurene.            benzene.
                                            CH,
CH,     CH,
                                                         CtH,.(CH,)a.CaH,
CH,     CH,                      OH,\^yOH,
                       CaH,                CH,
m.p. =80.            Liquid.             Liquid.              Liquid.
         Methylpropyl benzene.                         Methylisopropyl
  CH,             CH,              CH,                     benzene.
A             jA^Nc.H,         A
                  12               1 <i
                                   1.0              C,H1.CH,.0H(CH,),
  1.4
                                            OaH,
\/
 C,H,
Liquid.         Liquid.            Liquid.                 Liquid.
      Normal butyl benzene.                     Isobutyl benzene.
                                                   \/ .CH.
               CHj.CHj.CH,. OH,                        CH..CH
                                                                 \CH,
            Liquid.                                  Liquid.

  118     Dr. Carnelley on the Influence of Atomic Arrangement
                                        IV.
       Hexamethyl benzene.       Dipropy] benzene.        Triethyl benzene.
                OH,                      OaH,
                                                            O.Hj.CCH,),
                                        C3H,
                                      Liquid.                  Liquid.
  Amylmethyl benzene. 1 Propylisopropyl benzene.           Hexyl benzene.
    0„H4.CH3.C5Hn           CH^.CA.CHCCK,),
          Liquid.                  Liquid.            |       Liquid.
                                    V.
                                             Tolylphenyl.      Tolylphenyl.
                                                C„HS                C6H5
                                              /\                 A-
                                                 1.4
                                              v      •s
                                              \/
                                                CH3
                                             m.p. = — 2.          Liquid.
                                    VI.
    1.4 j 1.4Ditolyl.           Dibenzyl.               1.2; 1.4Ditolyl.
 C^.O.H^.O^.OH, 0„Hs.CH1.OHJ.OeHi                   CH,.C„H1.C,H4.CH,
       m.p. =121.              m.p. =52.                    Liquid.
     Benzyltoluene.          Phenylxyleno.              Diphenyl ethane.
 C„H5. CH^C.B^.CHa          C.H^C.B^CH,),            CH3.CH(C0H,),(?)
         Liquid.                 Liquid.                    Liquid.
                                   VII.        Derivatives of Ethai
                                         Ethylene.              Ethylidene.
                         XX           XH2C-CH2X.              HjC-CHX,.
Dibromide             Br. Br          m.p. =9                     Liquid.
Diiodide               I.I                   73                      »
Chloroiodide          CI. I          Solid in freezing-              n
                                          mixture,
Bromoiodide .... Br . I              m.p. =28
Diphenide             Ph.Ph                  52 (dibenzyl)
Sulphide                S"                  112                     95
Iodopropiouic acid COOH . I                  82                   Liquid.
Succinic acid ... . COOH . COOH             180                     129

               on the Physical Properties of Compounds.                     119
                                        VIII. .
                                              xhc=ciix.          H2C=CXj.
   Diphenide            Ph.Ph               120 (stilbene)          Liquid.
   DiJolide            0,^.0,^ { 176(<Wh)n 176 (dimethyl 1          Liquid.
                                                stilbene) J
                                         IX.
                           Diderivatives of Benzene.
                                                     Para       Meta         Ortho
                                                      X           X            X
                                                                           A
                                                      1.4       1.3           1.2
Dichlorbenzene                     CI. CI              53      Lat-18 Lat -14
Dibroinbenzene                     Br. Br              89       -28           -1
Diiodobenzene                        I.I              127         40           94
Dicyanobenzene                     CN.CN              222        168
Chloroiodobenzene                   CI. I              50                      L
Bromiodobenzene                     Br. I              92          L           L
Dibydrozybenzene                  OH. OH              172          99         112
Disulphydrobenzene                 SH.8H               98          27
Dinitrobenzene                   NO, . NOa            171          90         118
Diamidobenzene                   NHa . NHa            140          03           99
Hitrobromobenzene                 NO,. Br             120          50           41-6
Nitrochlorobenzene                NOj.Ol                83         44           32
Nitroiodobenzene                  NOa.I               171          30           49
Amidobromobenzene                NHa.Br                 64         18           31
Amidocklorobenzene               NHa.Cl                 70         L      L above- 14
Amidoiodobenzeno                 NHa.I                  60         26
Amidonitrobenzene                 NHl.NO,             146        no             71
Dimethylbenzene                   0HS . CH3             15         L             L
Diphenylbenzene                    Ph.Ph              205      1-3 or 1-2
Tolyldipenylmethane            Me . (CHPha)             71     59 6 or L L or 59 5
Methyl chlorobenzene                Me. CI                6-6       L            L
Methyl bromobenzene                 Me. Br              28          L            L
Methyl iodobenzene                  Me. I               35          L            L
Methyl amidobenzene                 Me.NH,              45          L            L
Phenyl chlorobenzene                Ph. CI              75                        4
Phenyl bromobenzene                 Ph. Br              89                       Ii
Phenyl amidobenzene                 Ph . NH,            50                      48
Di-{aniidometbyl)benzene . (CHa6HHH«H"NH2)i             99         89
Hydroxy-earboxyl benzene.                             210        200           166
Methoxy-carboxylbenzene . OCHj . COOH                  175        100           99
Kthoiy-carboxylbenzene ..       OEt.COOH               195        137            20
Fluo-carboxyl benzene              F . COOH            182        123
Chloro-carboxyl benzene ..        01 . COOH            234        152          137
Bromo-carboiyl benzene . .       Br . COOH             250        155          148
Iodo-carboxyl benzene              I . COOH            267        185          169
Hydroxy-potasaium-6ul- 1         OH . S03 K         not at 260    200
  phobenzene             J                                                     240
Bromhydroxybenzene               OH. Br                  64         32           L
Nitro-earbozyl benzene ..        COOH . NO,            240        141          143
Amido-carboxyl benzene ..       COOH . NH,             187        174           144

    120      Dr. Carnelley on the Influence of Atomic Arrangement
                          X. Triderivatives of Benzene.
                                                Symmetrical. Consecutive. Asymmetrical.
                                                     X                             X
                                                              Ax               Ax
                                                x         Jx              X
                                                  \y
                                                   1.3.5       1.2.3                X
                                                                                1.2.4
                                01. CI. 01            64           54              16
                               Br. Br. Br           119            87             44
Methyl dibromobenzene         OH.. Br. Br             39           27              L
                             NO,. Br. Br.           104                           62
Nitiodibromobenzeno           Br. Br. NO..                         59
                              Br. NO.. Br                          83             85
                              NO.. CI. 01 .           65                          32
Nitrodiohlorobenzone ¦        01. CI. NO.                                         43
                               C1.N0,.C1                                          55
                              NO.. 01. Br             83                          47
Nitrochlorobromoben-          01. NO,. Br                                         69
                              Br. NO.. CI                                         50
                              NH,.Br.Br               57*                         79
Amidodibromobenzeuo            Br.NH,.Br                                          52
                              Br.Br.NH,                                           80
                              NH..C1.C1               51.          24             63
Amidodiohlorobenzene          C1.NH,.C1                                           50
                              C1.C1.NH.                                           71
                             COOH.Br.Br             209
Dibrombenzoic acid ...«      Br.Br.OOOH                                          228.
                             Br.COOH.Br                                          151
                            C00H.NO..N0,            205                          179
Dinitrobenzoic acid ...     N02.COOH.NO,                         202             140
                        XI. Tetraderivatives of Benzene.
     Order of                              m.p.      1.    2.   3.     4.   5.   6.
     symmetry.
         . 1.      Br. Br. Br. Br          138      Br     Br         Br   Br
           2.                     t         99      Br         Br Br       Br
           1.       CI. CI. 01. CI         138      CI     ci         a    Cl
           2.            It      »1         50      01         6i a        01
           3.                               46      CI     ci  Cl ci
            1.   NHa.Br.Na,.Br             202     NHa     Br  ... NO,          Br
           2.            it      n         127     NHa     Br        Br        NO,
            1.   NHa.01.Cl.N0a             100     NHa     CI  ... NO,          Cl
                                                   NHj
                                            66 [ orNH,     01       NO,    ci
           2.            It      »                         CI         •••  Cl NO,
           1.      CH,. a. oi. ci          138     CH,     CI         01   Cl
           2.            »       »        27-35 CH,            ci 01       Cl
           3.                               46* CH,        oi  ci     01
          f\.     CH,. Br. Br. Br          112     CH,     Br  ... Br      Br
           2.                               88     CH,         Br Br       Br Br
           3.            it       'i        66     CH,     Br         Br
                         ii      ii         59     OH,     Br  Br ...           Br
           5.                               52     CH,     Br  Br          Br
           6.            ii      ti         44     OH,     Br  Br Br

            on the Physical Properties of Compounds.         121
   Note.—When all the side chains are of one kind the form
is the most symmetrical, and always has the highest melting-
point. But when the side chains are not all of the same
kind, then there seems to be a struggle between the three
forms
           AAA
                                              V1
                                                    X
and between
                        A                  A
                     A                A
                               and
                        A                  A
                               XTI.
                    Pentaderivatives of Benzene.
                                 Br                  Br
         m.p. =116.          m.p. =111.          m.p. = 107.

122    Dr. Carnelley on the Influence of Atomic Arrangement
                               XIII.
                   Hexaderivatives of Benzene.
               NHa                                NHa
                                        CH,
                                        CH,           NH,
                                                  CH,
                                              Liquid.
                               XIV.
                  OOBr                         CC1,
                                               II
                  COlBr                        OBr,
               m.p. = - 1G.             Liquid at — 16.
                               XV.
             CH,            CH,
X = C1   m.p. = 6-5     Liquid.          Liquid.            Liquid.
X=Br     m.p. =28       Liquid.          Liquid.            Liquid.
X=I      m.p. =35       Liquid.          Liquid.            Liquid.
                               XVI.
  Tolylene                        Dibromometaxylene.; Cinnameno
 dibromide.                                            i dibromide.
    CHa Br                                                    CH,Br
                                                              CH.Br
                                            ?
    CH2Br
m.p. =146.                             m.p. =69.
                                                         m.p. =08.

             on the Physical Properties of Compounds.                     123
                                XVII.
                     CH,             OH,               OH,      I      OH,
                                                                I /
                                                            Br
                                                                           lir
                                                      i               i
m.p. = 79.        Liquid.        Liquid.           Liquid.         Liquid.
                                XVIII.
                     CII 01             |              CHOI,
                     01
                 m.p. =29.                          Liquid.
                                 XIX.
              Diamidobenzene .
         ,              K.            ,               Phenylhydrazine.
         1.4          1.3         1.2                  C„ Hs . NH . NH,
    m.p. = 140         63          99
                                  XX.
Amidotoluene, CH, . CB H4 . NHa.          Benzylaraine.      Methylaniline.
      1.4          1.3      1.2           C,H,.CH2.NHa. C„H5 . NHCH,.
  m.p. = 45. Liquid. Liquid.                  Liquid.             Liquid.

          124    Dr. Camelley on the Influence of Atomic Arrangement
                                             XXI.
      Tolylenediamine.                          Diamidotoluene.                 Phenylmethyl
    CH,.NH,        CH, NH,             CH,            CH,           CH.            hy
A              /\ 0H,.NH2
f u               1.2                                                                  N
                                                                                      NH,
               \y
    CHa.NHa                           NH,             NH,
m.p. = 99       =69                m.p. = 90         =88           = 80             Liquid.
                                            XXII.
                    Ethenediphenylether.            Ethyldipbenyl carbonate (1.4).
                 O.Hj.O.O^.O.CjH,                       C,H,.C6H4.COOCaH,
                         m.p. = 98.                          m.p. = 40.
                                           XXIII.
          C4H,.OH1.S.S.CH!1.C0HS    0,Hs.S.CH1.OHa.S.CliH, CH3.C,H,.S.S.C,H1.OH.
                                                                   (1.4; 1.4)
                m.p. =66.                 m.p. = 65.              m.p. = 43.
                                  OH3.06H1.S.S.CsHJ.Cnj
                                         (1.3; 1.3)
                                           Liquid.
                                           XXIV.
                                     CH,               OH,
                      OH,.                 -8-8—               ^> CH,
                                     CH,               CH,
                                         m.p. = 125.
                            CH,     OH,                CH,    OH,
                                        >—S—S— i"
                           \         / \ /
                            CH,             \ f               CH3
                                 These positions unknown.
                                         m.p. =115.

            on tlie Physical Properties of Compounds.                     125
                                  XXV.
                             Diamidostilbene.
           NH,                    CH=CH-                        >NH,
                               m.p. = 170».
• This, though nearly, is not quite so symmetrical as ( 1.4 ; 1.4) azotoluene.
                          Azotoluene (1.4; 1.4).
                                m.p. = 144.
                           CH,
                           Azotoluene          OH,
                                        (1.2; 1.2).
                                m.p. ¦ 137.
    Ethenyldiphenylamidine.         Phenylacetophenyl- Benzenyltolylamimide.
                                           amidine.
                                                <U+2713>N.C„H,            <U+2713> N.O,H4.CH,
 C.H,—NH—CK—CH=N.C,H, C.Hj.CI^.C                           0,H6.0v
                                                                   \NH,
            m.p. = 132.                  m.p. = 128.             m.p. =99.
Ethenylisodiphenylamidine.                Azotoluene (1.3; 1.3).
                                    CH,                                 CH,
      CH..C.
             NN(C.H,)a
         m.p. = 63.                             m.p. = 54.
   The influence of symmetry on the melting-point is still
farther shown hy the following table, which contains the
melting-points of the most symmetrical modification of a few
of the mono-, di-, tri-, tetra-, penta-, and hexa-derivatives of
benzene; from which it will be seen that the melting-points
of the mono- and penta-derivatives are comparatively always
very low, whilst those of the other derivatives are high ; the
reason being that benzene cannot form symmetrical mono-
and penta-derivatives, whereas a symmetrical form of a di-,
tri-, tetra-, and hexa-derivative is always possible.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 79. Feb. 1882.                       L

  126            Dr. Carnelley on the Influence of Atomic Arrangement
                                    Mono- Di- Tri- Tetra- Penta-
                              Ben deriva                                       Hexa-
                              zene. tive. deriva- deriva- deriva- deriva-     deriva-
                                           tive. tive. tive. tive.              tive.
Position of side chains...      0      1     1.4   1.3.5 1.2.4.5 1.2.3.4.5 1.2.3.4.5.6
The side chains being—
                                7   Liquid   15 Liquid 80            50          164
               CI                   Liquid 153      635 138          74          226
                                    at-40  /
               Br               :< b.-20     89     119 140        a 240        a 310
               I                7 Liquid    127
               NO,              7 Liquid    171
               NET,             7     -8    147
     Influence of Compactness, or number of Side Chains on the
                            Melting- and Soiling-points.
     Lothar Meyer has pointed out, in his ' Modern Theories of
  Chemistry,' p. 280, " that, ofany number of isomeric compounds,
  those are the most volatile in which there are the greatest number
  of side chains, or in which the main chain of atoms is most
  branched, and therefore in which the main chain is the shortest."
      From the observation of a great number of compounds, I
  cannot help concluding that a rule the exact reverse of the
  above holds good as regards the melting-point, viz. that those
  isomeric compounds melt the highest in which there are the
  greatest number of side chains. This has already been indi
  cated to some extent above, where it has been pointed out that
  the greater the compactness of the molecule the higher tho
  melting-point. The above rules may be illustrated as fol
  lows:—
                                                         Boiling-      Melting-
                                                          point.         point.
                 'CH3.CH2.CHrCH2.CH,                        38          Liquid.
                                                            30          Liquid.
         ia
                     3 CH,
       i  5             1
      Ph CH,—C—CH,                                           95           -20
                       CH,
                 rCHJ-CHJ.CF2.CH2.CH2.CHJ.CHa.CH,          125          Liquid.
                  CH^CH-CH.-CH.-CH^H,
      Octanes.                                             108          Liquid.
                       CH.CH,
                  CH,—C—C—CH,                              105           96-97
                       CH.CH,

                            on the Physical Properties of Compounds.         127
                                         Table (continued).
                                                           Boiling- Melting-
                                                            point.    point.
                      'CH3.CH3.CH..CK,.OH                    117     Liquid.
                        CH,.CH.CH3.OH                        109     Liquid.
       aPentyl
        lcohols.            CH,
                        CH..CH..CH.OH.                        97     Liquid.
                                  OH
                               CH.
                                1
                        CH,—C—OH                              84        25
                      1        OH.
                      r CB^.CR.rCn^.CKrCHr CH2.CH,.C1. . .   159     Liquid.
                        CH,.CH.OH,.CH2.CH.CH,                136     Liquid.
                            CH,        CI
                               CH, CH,
            «           CH,—C—C—CI                                     136
        w                      JL    1
                      I        CH, CH,
Butyric acids. f CH3.CH2.CH,.COOH                            162         0
                        CH,.CH.COOH                          154      L(?)»
                            CH,
                      fCH,.CH2.CH2.CHrCOOH                   184     Liquid.
                        CH, CH.CHj.COOH                      175     Liquid.
         aVcliedrsi.c       OH,
                        CH,.CH2.CH.COOH                      173     Liquid.
                                  CH,
                               CH,
                                                             164       354
                                CH,
                      /CH,.CHrCH,.CH„.CN                     140     Liquid.
           cyanides. CH..CH.CHJ.CN
           Butyl                                             127     Liquid.
                             1
                            CH,
                               CH,
                                                             105      15-16
                               CH,
                                                L 2

 128    Dr. Carnelley on tJie Influence of Atomic Arrangement
                             Table (continued).
                                                Boiling-   Melting-
                                                 point.      point
    Dipropargyl, CH=0—CH,—0Ha—C=CH                 85       Liquid.
                  /CH^
    iJenzene, HOp
    _                 ""OH
                         i
                                                   81          7
              HOv       OH
    Amyl benzene, OaHj.OHj.O Ha.CH<               193       Liquid.
                                      CH,
    Propyldimetbyl 1        f °] I,
      benzene,     J ' 31                         188       Liquid.
    Dietbylmethyl benzene, CaEt,{cHCH.        f 178 \       Liquid.
                                              1 198-200 j
                                 fCH.
                                  CH.
    Fentamethyl benzene, C.H^ CH3                225*         50
                                  CH.
                                  CH,
                        Melting-                               Melting-
                           point,                                point.
Propyl terephthalate 31°, and Isopropyl terephthalate 56°
Butyl           „       Liquid, and Isobutyl             „        53
Butyl hippurate            40-5, and Isobutyl hippurate           45"5
   So great indeed is the influence of the compactness of the
molecule, that it sometimes overbalances the influence of in
crease of atomic weight : thus
                                                               Melting-
                                                                point.
Methyl terephthalate C6H4(cooCH33                                U°
Ethyl                       c H /COO.CH2.CH3
                                                                  44
                              6 NX>0.CH2.CH,
Propyl          „           c H /COO CHS.CH2.CH3
                              6 *xCOO CH2.CH2.CH3 "               31
Butyl                       c H /COO CH2.CH2.CH2.CHS
                              6 *NCOO CHS.CH2.CHS.CH3 Li1uid-

           on the Physical Properties of Compounds.            129
                                                          Melting-
                                                           point.
Methyl hippurate (C8H8NO).COO.CH3                           80-5
Ethyl         „      (C8H8NO).COO.CH8.CH,                   60-5
Butyl         „      (C8H8NO).COO.CH2.CH2.CH2.CH8 40-5
l8obutylhipparate(C8H8NO).COO.CH3.CH(^3                ... 45-5
Isoamyl       „      (CaH8NO).COO.OHs.CH,.CH(^« 275
   It will now be necessary to make a few remarks in regard
to the examples which have been given in illustration of what
is thought to be a true connexion between atomic structure
and melting-point, and more especially as regards the influ
ence of symmetry. It would, of course, be easy to support
any theory if we merely gave those examples which were
favourable and excluded all those which were adverse. This,
however, has not been done in the examples which have been
given above. For the purpose of this paper there were taken
quite at random somewhere about 300 cases to which the rule
of symmetry could be applied; and of these 278 were in agree
ment with the rule, whilst 22 were exceptions ; the latter
amounted therefore to only 7 per cent., which proves that the rule
is of almost general application. Many of the exceptions may
possibly be due to the constitution or arrangement of the atoms
not having been correctly determined, and might thus on close
examination be shown to agree with the rule.
   The following are some of the most marked exceptions
included in the above 22, and which are undoubtedly real ex
ceptions, since the constitution is known with a considerable
degree of certainty:—
           Tolane          {"toSSST"!           Phenanthrene.
                                              CH = CH CH=CH
   C6H5.CSC.C6H5                          H((       Z5-^
                                           HC—C              C—CH
         m.p. = 60°.                              HC=CH
                                                  m.p. = 100°.

130          On the Influence of Atomic Arrangement.
       to. i -j           I is more symme- 1          n        .    ,
       Phenyl oxide < tricai than              (      Oxydiphenyl.
     C6H5.O.C6H6                                  C6H5.C6H4.OH
         m.p. = 2 8°.                                 m.p. = 164°.
                             is  more
     C6 H5 . S . C6 H6 | 1 trical than symme      C6 H5 . C6 H4 . SH
            Liquid.                                    m.p. = 110°.
                             is  more  f nme-
           Diphenyl        j ' ti-ioal i an         Aconaphthalene.
       Cg H5 . C6 Hs                                 Cl°H6<iH2
         m.p. = 70°.                                   m.p. = 95°.
                     Isomeric Pyrotartaric Acids.
         (1)                    (2)                    (3)               (4)
          COOH                 COOH           COOH COOH COOH
                                                     \ /
   CH3-C-CHS            H-C-CH,                      CH                CH2
          COOH                CH2                    6h2               CH2
                              COOH                    OH,              CH2
                                                                       COOH
    m.p. = 170°.         m.p. = 112°.          m.p. = lll°-5. m.p. =97°-5.
  No. 4, which is more symmetrical than No. 2 and No. 3, is less
compact; and perhaps this is the cause of the low melting-point.
   Bayer has shown that, if we compare the melting-points of
homologous series, wo find that the melting-point is materially
influenced by odd and even numbers, in such a way that those
compounds containing an even number of carbon atoms melt
higher than the neighbouritig compounds containing an odd
number, thus:—
                 Melting-point.                             Melting-point.
                 Even.       Odd.                          Even.      Odd.
  CIJ2 02                        8-6       C2 H2 04          200
  C2 H4 02       + 17                      C3H404                     132
  C3 H6 02               b.-21             C4HG04            180
  C4H802         + 1                       0, H8 04                    97
  C5H1002                 b.-16             C„ H ,0 04       148
  C6H1202        - 2                        C7 H12 04                 103
  C;HH02                      -10-5         C8 HM 04         140
  C8 HJ6 C2       + 16                      C8 Hi6 04                 106
  C9 H 18 02                   + 12         C10 H18 04 127
  C10 H2o 02 + 30                           Cn H20 04                 108
  Ci6 H32 02                                C17 H32 04                132
  C17 H34 02                    + 60
  Cis Hjo 02      + 69
                            [To be continued].

                           [   131   ]
           XIV. The Beats of Mistuned Consonances.
 To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
      Gentlemen,
I HAVE jnst seen Prof. Silvanus Thompson's Note in your
      January Number. I have no books with me ; but I think
I can close the controversy, as far as I am concerned, without
them.
   As to the word " subjective," I am quite content to have
Prof. Helmholtz and his translator (Mr. Ellis) as authorities
for my use of it; and I fear I shall require some further autho
rity before 1 shall feel called upon to give up a use now
well established, sanctioned by custom and by the highest
authorities.
   As to the law that the beats of mistuned consonances of the
form h : 1 consist of variations of the lower note, (the law is
not true for imperfect consonances in general,) no doubt I
expressed myself hastily, and, as was evident, without refer
ring to Koenig's papers.
   Notwithstanding this, I cannot admit that the citations
made by Prof. Silvanus Thompson contain any demonstration
of the law in question, though undoubtedly the last quotation
contains a suggestion of the law. I must point out that the
sentence translated by Prof. Silvanus Thompson is not quite
correctly given; the preceding qualifying clause showing that
it is only an assumption, not a definite conclusion. Further,
there is no such experimental establishment of the law as to
amount to a demonstration.
   I have in fact recently learned, through a private source,
that Kcenig had, some time ago, convinced himself of this
result. But the experiments which were shown to my infor
mant all bore the character of beats still associated with varia
tions of the upper note ; and my informant, a most competent
person, was wholly unable to verify the conclusion. This
agrees entirely with my own observations made with similar
means. I therefore consider that the quotations from Kosnig
made by Prof. Thompson contain nothing but assumption or
inference on this point; and, indeed, they do not purport to be
more.
   I consider that, in my experiments, the disturbing effects of
the harmonics are entirely separated out, so that direct de
monstration of the law in question is obtained.
                              Yours truly,
                                       Pi. H. M. BOSANQTJET.

                               [   132     ]
XV. On the Theoretic Determination of Vapour-pressure and
   the Volumes of Vapour and Liquid. By Prof. R. Clausitjs*.
   (Second Paper].)
§ 1. TN the first paper on this subject, I formed for the de-
      -L termination of the pressure of a gas as a function of
the temperature and volume the following equation, which is
a generalization of that which I had previously employed for
carbonic acid:—
                      p _ 1          27Q+ff)
                     HI v-ot 80(»+/8)J                                  v '
Herein p denotes the pressure, v the volume, and T the abso
lute temperature—namely the sum 273 + t, if t represents the
temperature reckoned from the usual zero-point. Further, R
is the constant which already occurs in the usual expression
of Mariotte and Gay-Lussac's law; and a and/3 represent two
other constants, the sum of which will further on be denoted
by y. 6 signifies a temperature-function which for T=0 has
the value 0, and for the critical temperature the value 1, but
otherwise is provisionally to be left undetermined.
   It is self-evident that we can give this equation a simpler
form if wo combine the temperature-function with the con
stant factors occurring in the term into one symbol. Namely,
if we put
                                80           80
                      W~ 27(a+£) ~ 277'            • •• • • • W
the equation is changed into
                       P _ 1                1                           (3)
                      KT v-a.        ®(y + $y
    The relation between the temperature-function 0 in this
equation and that employed above, 0, becomes particularly
evident when it is borne in mind that the value assumed by 0
 for the critical temperature, and which may be denoted by &c)
is to bo determined by putting the value 1 for 0 in equa
 tion (2). Thence, namely, we get
                                                                        w
   * Translated from a separate impression, communicated by the Author,
from Wiedemann's Amialcn, 1881, vol. xiv. pp. (J02-704.
   t For the iirst paper teo Wiedemann's Annatm, xiv. p. 279; trans
lated in the ' Philosophical Magazine ' for December 1881, vol. xii. p. S81.

          Theoretic Determination of Vapour-pressure.            133
and in consequence of this we can write
                                                                 (5)
                                  0.
   In applying equation (1) to saturated vapour, the pressure
of the saturated vapour was denoted by P, and the fraction
P/RT by II. The volumes of the saturated vapour and the
liquid standing under the same pressure were denoted, in the
usual manner, by s and cr ; but for the differences s— a and
<r — « the simplified symbols W and w were introduced. In
order to determine the quantities II, W, and to in their de
pendence on 6, first all four quantities were expressed as func
tions of X= log (W/u>); and then, to facilitate the further
calculations, a table was added, from which for every value of
6 the corresponding value of X can be taken. At the same
time I remarked that, after the calculation of the table for X,
there would be little further difficulty in calculating a similar
table for II, W, and w also; this I take leave to communicate
infra:—
  9=.          n      A.         W                       w
              lie
   0-20   00000059      67 072780        355440       0 033767 1947
   0-21   0 0000126    VI?, 317340        156060      0035714  1978
   0-22   00000249          100080
                       213 16505           74175      0037092  2008
   0-23   00000462     352 49140           37305      0039700  2040
   0-24   0-0000814    553 29263           19877      0041740  2072
   025    0 0001307    834                 11097      0 043812 2106
   026    00002201    1215   18106          6404      0-045918 2141
   027    00003416    1715   11702          3912-3    0 048059 2170
   0-28   0 0005131   2352    7789   7      2449 8    0 050235 2213
   0-29   00007483    3144    53;',9 9      1581-6    0-052448 2253
   0-30   0-0010027           3758   ¦3               0054701
   031    00014738    4111    2708   '6     1049-7    0056991  2290
   0-32   0 0020002   52(54   1994    0      7140     0-059321 2:30
   033    0 0026021   6019    1497-  •4      4972     0-001095 2374
   0-34   0-0034808   8187    1144   •2      353 2    0C64113  2418
    035   00044780    9972      888- 41      255-79   0 000575 2402
    0-30   00056763  11983      099   97     188-44   0009083  2508
    0-37   0 0070987 14224      558   90     14107    0071038  2555
    0 38   0-0087080 10093      451  •73     107 17   0074245  2007
    039    0010705   19380      309   24      82-49   0 070903 2058
    0-40   0012936   2230       304   94      64 30   0 079012 2709
    0-41   0015479   2543       254 ¦25       5009    0-082379 2707
    042    0-018356  2877             84
                                213 ¦30       4041    0085201  2822
    043    0 021589  3233       181-¦87       32-54   0088084  2883
    044    0-025193  3004       154-          20 43   0091028  2944
    0-45   0-029187  3994       133   22      2105    0-094037 3009
    046    0033589   4402       115   34       17-88  0-097112 3075
    0-47   0038413   4824       100   45       14-89  010020   3148
    048    0043080   5267        87- 953;      12-497 0 10347  321

134     Prof. B. Clausius on the Theoretic Determination of
                        Table {continued).
              n       A.        W
             lit'
  0-48    0043680    5718    87-953   10532     010347    329
  0-49    0049398    6179    77-421    8945     010676    337
  0-50    0055577    6655    08-476    7 640    011013    3-15
  051     0062232    7140    60836     6-561    0-11358   354
  052     0-069372   7632    54-275    5-663    011712    302
  053     0.077004   8135    48-612    4-914    012074    371
  0-54    0085139    8644    43-098    4-284    012445    381
  0-55    0-093783   9157    39-414    3-750    012826    391
  056     010294     907     35 064    3-295    0-13217   402
  0-57    0-11261   1020     32-309    2-909    0-13619   412
  0-58    0 12281   1072     29-460    2576     014031    42.".
  0-59    0-13353   1125     20-884    2 289    0 14456   437
  0-60    0 14478   1179     24-595    2046     0-14893   417
  001     0-15657   1230     22-549    1-829    015340    403
  002     0 16887   1284     20-720    1 642    015803    470
  063     018171    1337     19 078    1-478    010279    491
  064     0 19508   1391     17-700    1-335    0 10770   507
  0-65    0-20899   1444     10-205    1-209    017277    524
  0-156   0-22343   1494     15056     1098     017801    540
  067     0-23837   1548     13 958      998    018341    500
  0-68    0-25385   1000     12900       911    018901    578
  069     0-26985   1652     12049       832    0- 19479  000
  0-70    0-28637   1703     11-217      703    0-20079   023
  0-71    0-30340   1754     10-454      7007   0-20702   645
  0-72    0-32094   1806      9-7533     6447   021347    072
  0-73    0-33900   1855      91086      5946   0-22019   098
  0-74    0 35755   1906      85140      5494   0-22717   728
  0-75    0-37661   1956      7-9646     5085   0-23445   759
  0-76    0-39617   20O4      7-4561     4717   024204    793
  0-77    0-41621   2051      69844      4377   0-24997   830
  0-78    0-43072   2100      6-5407     4078   0-25827   870
 0-79     0-45772   2147      6-1389     3801   0-20097   915
 0-80     0-47919   2196      57588      3554   0-27012   901
  0-81    0-50115   2242      64034      3323   028573 1014
 0-82     0-52357   2258      5 0711     3115   0-29587 1072
 0-83     054642    2333      4-7590     2927   0-30659 1138
 084      0-56975   2377      4-4609     2755   031797 1207
 085      0-59352   2422      41914      2597   0-33004 1289
 0-86     0-61774   2463      4-9317     2452   034293 1382
 087      0-04237   2508      3-0805     2324   0-35675 1485
 0-88     0 00745   2552      3-4541     2208   0-37100 1004
 089      0 09297   2592      3-2333            038764
 0-90     0-718S9   2034      3 0231     2102
                                         2C05   040508 1744
                                                         1914
 091      074523    2677      2-8226     1926   0-42422 2106
 0 92     0 77200   2713      2-C3C0     1850   044528 2360
 093      0 79913             2-4450            0-46888
 0 94     0 826! 18 2755
                    2793      22057      1793
                                         1751   04 9552 2004
                                                         3006
 095      0-85461   2833      2(1900     17S0   052618 3007
 096      0-88i.94            1 9170     1740   0-56225 4394
 0-97     0-91164   2870      1-7436            000019 5084
          0-94073   £909      1-5635     1S01   0-66303 8239
 0-98               2945                 2008
 099      097018    2982      1-3627     £627   074542 ;25458
 1        1                   1                 1

Vapour-pressure and the Volumes of Vapour and Liquid.                   135
    Here it must be remarked that the values taken by the quan
tities II, W, and w at the critical temperature, at which \=0,
and which values may be denoted by nc, W„ and wr, can be
obtained from the expressions above mentioned, contained in
§ 3 of my previous paper, if the series contained in § 4 be also
taken into account, as follows:—
                   nc=^;         Wc=27;       u,=2y                      (6)
These three values can hence be regarded as determined, just
like the value ®„ directly by the constant 7; and accordingly
the following fractions can be formed :—
                             n       W      , to
    It is these fractions whose values are given in the Table
 (p. 133) by the side of the corresponding gradually increasing
 values of the fraction @/©c denoted by 6.
     § 2. In the foregoing Table is exhibited a relation, equally
 holding true for all substances, of the quantities II, W, and w
 to a temperature-function 0 which is still left undetermined.
 Now what the form of the relation between those quantities
 and the temperature itself is, whether and in what degree it
 also agrees for different substances*, depends on the behaviour
 of that temperature-function. In my investigation I started
 originally from the hypothesis that the temperature-function
 could be represented by an expression containing only one
 constant, dependent on the nature of the substance; but I
 found, on closer consideration, that a satisfactory accordance
 with experiment cannot be attained in so simple a manner.
 After various comparisons I obtained, as the most suitable
 form of an equation for the determination of the fraction
 which we have denoted by ©/@c, the following:—
                                 0 - a j,                                n\
                                   c
    « Two older propositions 011 this relation I have long since discussed
 (Pogg. Ann. lxxxii. p. 273, 1851, and Abhandlungensanimhmg, i. p. 119,
  1804}. If, namely, the temperatures which with different liquids belong
 to equal vapour-tensions be called corresponding temperatures, then, accord
 ing to Dalton, the differences between corresponding temperatures ore equal.
  Groshans, on the other hand, has set up an equation (Pogg. Ann. lxxviii.
 p. 112, 1849) which, supposing that the temperatures be reckoned from
  — 273° C, expresses that for any two liquids all corresponding tempera
 tures are proportional. Of these two propositions the second certainly
 does not deviate so far from experience as the first, but still it deviates
 too far for it to be possibly admitted as expressing an actual physical law.

136       Prot. E. Clausius on the Theoretic Determination of *
in which a, b, and n are constants which have different values
for different substances.
   The question now is, to determine these constants for each
substance.
    In the first place, in regard to carbonic acid, in the formula
which I constructed specially for it*, I have given the tempe
rature-function ® a very simple form, namely that which is
obtained from equation (7) by putting in it 6 = 0 and »=2,
by which it is transformed into
                             ©c _ a
for which we can also write
                              @ = T2. const.
I added, however, at the time of publishing that formula that
I had tried to adjust certain differences still existing between
it and Andrews's observations, but had again desisted on
account of the uncertainty of the results of those observations.
    What I said at that time of the then existing results of
observation still holds good. In particular it must be remarked
that Andrews's observations refer only to temperatures above
 0°, while the formula must remain valid also below 0° down
to the freezing-point of carbonic acid, — 57°, and hence
 requires for the determination of its constants the observed
values of a similar range of temperatures. Now we possess, it
is true, a series of tensions of saturated carbonic-acid vapour,
 published by Regnaultt, which extends to —25°, although
 not to —50°; but in the experiments by means of which
 Eegnault found those numbers considerable sources of error
appear to have prevailed. The tensions cited by Regnault for
 temperatures above 0° deviate considerably from those observed
 by Andrews}; and it is particularly surprising that Regnault
professes to have observed the tensions of saturated vapour of
 carbonic acid up to temperatures above 42°. while after An
drews's experiments it is now established that from 31°
upwards there is no saturated carbonic-acid vapour, because
 condensation no longer takes place.
    Under these circumstances I think it advisable to retain
provisionally my above-mentioned formula for carbonic acid,
 as an approximately correct one, and to defer undertaking the
 more exact determination of the constants till reliable data of
 observation shall be available also for temperatures below 0°
 down to the freezing-point of carbonic acid.
        • Clausius, Wied. Ann. ix. p. 337 (1880).
       t Regnault, Relation de$ Experiences, &c. ii. p. 625 (1862).
        X Andrews, Proc. Roy. Soc. rxiii. p. 516 (1875).

Vapour-pressure and the Volumes of Vapour and Liquid.                    137
   § 3. A substance specially suited for the comparison of the
theoretically determined with the observed vapour-tensions is
ether. For this we possess the series of tensions determined
by Regnault*, extending from —20° to 120°, of which the
reliability cannot be questioned, and a series of tensions by
Sajotschewskyf, which extends from 100° to the critical tem
perature 190°.
   Of these observed tensions I have employed three for the
determination of the constants occurring in equation (7), and
found the following numbers:—
                  a = 2665; 6 = 0-76786; n=M9233.
By employing these numbers, for every value of T the corre
sponding values of O/0C can be calculated from (7); and then
the value belonging to it of the fraction H/Hc can be taken
from the Table. 1* rom this fraction, which can also be written
PTC/PCT, the value of P is immediately obtained, since Pc and
Te are known. In this way I have calculated the tensions for
a series of temperatures advancing by increments of 20° each,
and arranged them in the following Table under the designa
tion P calc. For comparison I have added, under P obs., the
observed values—below 100° those observed by Regnault,
above 100° those observed by Sajotschewsky, and for 100°
and 120° the mean values taken from the data of both ob
servers.
          i       -20°      0°       20°        40°      60°       80°
     P calc. ... 0 0381 0-2427 0-572            1195     2-265     3-978
     P obs        0-0907 02426 0 569            1193     2270      3-977
     A          -00026   +0-0001 +0003 +0-002 -0 005 +0-001
          t       100°     120°      140°       160°     180°      190°
     P calc. ... 6-557     10-27      1541      22-33    31-41    36-90
     Pobs.         6549     10-28    15-42      22-34    31-90    36-90
     A           +0-008 - 0-01 - 001 - 001 - 0-49                   0
   The accordance between the calculated and the observed
tensions is seen to be almost complete. Only at 180° does a
difference of inadmissible magnitude occur, which, in compa
rison with the rest of the differences, is very striking. This,
however, is doubtless occasioned by an inaccuracy of the
observation-value, as is most clearly to be inferred from the
             • Kegnault, Relation des Experiences, &c. ii. p. 393.
             t Sajotsohewsky, Beiblatter, iii. p. 741 (1879).

 138    Prof. It. Clausius on the Theoretic Determination of
fact that Sajotschewsky himself, by means of an empiric
formula deduced from the rest of the observation-values, has
determined the tension at 180° to be 31*56 instead of 31-90,
whereby the difference from the value derived from our Table
is reduced from 049 to 0'15.
   The values of W/Wc and te/we, as well as those of n/TTcJ
are given in our Table.
   In order to deduce the values ofWand w from these fractions,
Wc and to,, and consequently, according to (6), the constant
7 must be known, for the determination of which the constant
R is again requisite. The latter is obtained in the following
manner:—The quantity K is, in accordance with its significa
tion, inversely proportional to the specific gravities possessed
by the substances in the perfectly gaseous state. Now the
value of R for atmospheric air is known*, namely 29'27; and
from this follows for ether, if d denotes the specific gravity,
referred to air, of the vapour of ether in the state of a perfect
gas:—
                              B=^                             (8)
   The question now is, which specific gravity k to be ascribed
to ether vapour in the perfectly gaseous state ? That, I believe,
can be admitted as such, which is obtained when, in accord
ance with the accepted chemical formula for ether, it is
assumed that 1 vol. oxygen and 10 vols, hydrogen, with the
corresponding quantity of carbon, give 2 vols, ether vapour,
namely the sp. gr. 2-5604. On employing this number ford,
the preceding equation gives
                            R= 11-4318.
This value refers to 1 kilogram of the substance considered,
and therefore, in the present case, of ether; and in it the unit
of volume is i cubic metre, and the unit pressure the pressure
exerted by a weight of 1 kilogram spread over a surface of
1 square metre. These units we will retain in the determina
tion of the other constants and the quantities s and a.
   To determine y, according to (G) we can put
                                1 -RTe.                       fa\
                          7~8ff~8lV                           W
                                  c      e
and from this, if, employing the values found by Sajotschewsky
for the critical temperature and pressure, we put
         Tc= 273 + 190=463 and Pc= 36-9 x 10333,
           Sue Clausius, Mec/umische Wdrmetheorie, i. p. 55.

Vapour-pressure and the Volumes of Vapour and Liquid.         139
and for R the previously determined value, we get
                         7 = 0-0017352.
   Now, when with the help of the value of We and wc repre
sented by 2y the quantities W and w have been obtained from
the above-mentioned fractions W/W„ and iv/wc and we wish
from those quantities to arrive at the volumes s and a of the
ether vapour and liquid, we must for that purpose know the
constant a also, since s = W + a, and cr=w + a. For the de
termination of « it is best to employ any observed volume of
the liquid, from which the calculated value of w for the same
temperature is to be subtracted. At 0°, according to Kopp,
liquid ether has the specific gravity 0'73658, from which, con
sidering that the volume <r refers not to the pressure of 1 atm.,
but to that of 0-2426 atm., we get <r= 0-0013578. In like
manner we get for 20°, according to Kopp, cr=0-0014001.
If with the help of these quantities we determine a and take
the mean of two closely accordant values, we find
                         a = 0-0010876.
    It may here at once be added, further, that after the deter
 mination of 7 and a the value of ft also immediately results,
 since J3=y— a. There comes, namely,
                           0= 0-0006476.
    Employing the found values of the constants, we can now
 calculate from the fractions W/We and w/we the quantities s
 and <r, and obtain for the above-considered series of tempera
 tures the following values:—
   t      -20°      0°       20°       40°       60°       80°
  s ... 3182     1-238     0-5562    0 2793    0-1524    008883
  a ... 0 001318 0001356   0001402   0001405   0 001520  0-001600
   t      100°     120°      140°      160°      180°      190°
  * ... 005417   0 03408   002175    001373    0 00S016  0004558
  a ... 0 001702 0001837   0-002030  0-002335  0 002082  0001558
     In conclusion, the form which the general equation (3)
 assumes after the determination of ® may now be added.
 According to (7) and (4) we must put
                 l=^(aT--*)=^(«T-»-6).

140     Prof. R. Clausius on the Tlieoretic Determination of
For this, by introducing new constants, we can write more
briefly
                        g=AT--B;                             (10)
and thereby (3) is transformed into
   The values of the constants A and B for ether are obtained
from the above-given values of a, b, and y as follows:—
                A=15-607;      B=0-0044968.
   § 4. The substances in which it has not yet been possible to
extend the observations of the vapour-tensions up to the cri
tical temperature, present difficulties, in the determination of
the constants a, b, and n in equation (7), which are the greater
the more distant the highest observed temperature still is from
the critical temperature. If, namely, that distance is very
great, the alterations of the constants which, in the tempera
ture-interval for which observations are available, occasion but
slight differences in the calculated vapour-densities, yet have
for their result a considerable difference in the calculated cri
tical temperature and the pressure corresponding to it.
   To these substances belongs water. I have tried, from Reg-
nault's observations of tensions, which extend to somewhat
above 220°, to deduce the most probable values of the con
stants, and, after various comparisons, have arrived at the
following numbers:—
                 a=5210; 6=0-85; n=l-24.
   With the aid of these numbers, and on the supposition that
for the temperature of 100° the vapour-tension amounts to 1
atmosphere, I have, as in the case of ether, deduced the vapour-
tensions for a series of temperatures advancing by increments
of 20° each, and found the following values. So far as the
observation-values extend, I have added them also, for com
parison, selecting those values which Regnault took direct
from the curves constructed by him, and which he regarded
as the most immediate result of his observations. Where he
gives two values, obtained from different curves, I have taken
their mean. Beneath the observed tensions are placed the
differences from the calculated ones ; and I have moreover
given in this Table the calculated values of s, which will be
spoken of further on.

Vapour-pressure and tfie Volumes of Vapour and Liquid.               141
      t          0°       20°       40°      60°     80°        100°
  Pcalc...     0-00574  0 02248   0-07183  0-1956  0-4666       1
  P obs. ...   0-00605  0-02288   007225   0-1958  0-4666       1
               000031   000040    000042   00002   0-0001       0
             216-6     5930      19-81     7-725   3-422        1-677
      t         120°      140°      160°    180°    200°        220°
  Pcalc... 1-962         3-571     6106    9-907    15-37      22-97
  Pobs.... 1-960         3-569     6-118   9-922    15-35      22-88
  A          -0002     -0002       0-012   0015 - 0-02 - 0 09
               0-8927    0-5085    0-3060  01924     0-1253     0-08371
      t         240°      260°      280°    300°    320°      332°-32
  Pcalc... 33-23        46-73     6415    86-27   113-9     134'1
               005700 0 03912 0 02680 001796 001111 0-005892
   Comparison of the calculated and observed tensions shows
a very satisfactory accordance within the entire interval from
0° to 220°; accordingly it may well be assumed as probable
that the calculated values of the tensions for the higher tem
peratures also, as well as the calculated critical temperature
3320-32, and the corresponding pressure of 134 atmospheres,
do not deviate too far from the truth.
   Now, as to the other constants which occur in the formulae,
for E, according to equation (8), if we put therein for d the
value 0*6221, which results from the values found by Reg-
nault for the specific gravities of hydrogen and oxygen, we
get
                               R=47-05.
   From this it follows, further, according to (9), if for Te
and Pc the values above found be employed, that
                               7 = 0-002569.
   To determine a, from an observed volume of liquid water the
calculated value of w for the same temperature must be sub
tracted. Now liquid water, when heated from 0°, exhibits the
peculiar phenomenon that at first it contracts, and only ex
pands above 4°, and that even then, within a considerable
interval of temperature, its coefficient of expansion is much
more variable than those of other liquids. This phenomenon,
which is unquestionably connected with those molecular forces
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 79. Feb. 1882.                   M

142                      Geological Society :—
whicb at the freezing of water act as forces of crystallization,
is not expressed in our equation employed for the determina
tion of w, because in constructing that equation forces of this
kind are not taken into consideration. Hence arises for the
determination of a an uncertainty, since different values of a
are obtained, according to the temperature to which the water-
volume employed for the determination refers. If the observed
volume at 20 is employed, there comes
                           a = 0-000754;
and when this number is subtracted from that above given for
y, we get
                            £=0-001815.
   Upon the calculated values of the vapour-volume * the un
certainty existing in relation to the constant a has only a very
slight influence, since the total quantity of a, in comparison
with the vapour-volume at al! temperatures which are not too
near the critical temperature, is very small. The calculated
values of « for the above-considered series of temperatures are,
as already mentioned, annexed to the last Table; they exhibit
the volume, in cubic metres, of a kilogram of vapour.
   If, lastly, to the equation determining the pressure p be
given the form adduced under (11),
                      p _ I          AT-'-B
                     RT~v-«           (t> + /9)2 '
the constants A and B herein occurring have for water the
following values:—
                     A=45-17;       B=0-00737.
             XVI. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                       GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                        [Continued from p. 71.]
   December 7, 1881.—Robert Etheridge, Esq., F.R.S., President,
                             in the Chair.
THE following communications were read :—
    1. " The Zones of the Blackdown Beds and their Correlation with
those at Haldon, with a List of the Fossils." By the Rev. W.
Downes, B.A., F.G.S.
   The author, after some remarks on the inexact way in which

                      On the Torridon Sandstone.                     143
fossils had been collected from or referred to the Blackdown beds,
and a sketch of the literature of the subject, passed on to a correlation
of the Blackdown beds with deposits in other localities. He pointed
out that they do not contain a sufficient number of species in common
with the Maine de Bracquegnies to justify an identification with
this. He compared them with the Haldon beds, and, by a com
parison of the fossils bed by bed, showed that of 196 Blackdown
species (omitting a few corals) 50 occur at Haldon ; the latter
section, however, represents not the whole, but only the upper part
of the former, nine beds in the lower part of it being without
 representatives at Haldon. Here also the higher beds contain a
 thin band distinguished by a distinct and all but unique fauna (the
 zone containing the corals described by Prof. Duncan). Comparing
 the Blackdown beds with lists of Cretaceous fossils from other
 localities, it would appear that we have neither exclusively Upper-
 Greensand forms at the top, nor exclusively Lower-Greensand
 forms at the bottom, nor exclusively Gault forms in the middle.
    2. " On some new or little-known Jurassic Crinoids." By P.
Herbert Carpenter, Esq., M.A.
    3. " Notes on the Polyzoa of the Wenlock Shales, Wenlock Lime
stone, and Shales over the Wenlock Limestone. From material
supplied by G. Maw, Esq., F.L.S., F.G.S." By G. R. Vine, Esq.
      December 21.—Robert Etheridge, Esq., F.R.S., President,,
                              in the Chair.
    The following communications were read :—
    1. " The Torridon Sandstone in relation to the Ordovician Rocks
of the Northern Highlands." By C. Callaway, Esq., M.A., D.Sc,
F.G.S.
   The author pointed out that the apparent difference in dip
between the Torridon sandstone and the overlying quartzite in the
neighbourhood of Loch Broom was due to some markings in the
former which suggested a direction of bedding which was not the
real one, and that the one rock passed gradually into the other.
The two are perfectly conformable at Strath Auchall, where the
junction can be well studied, also between Unaport and Strath
Kennort, on the north side of Loch Assynt and south of Unaport.
The author then considers that there is proof of the conformity of
the quartzites with the Torridon sandstone, and that there is no
unconformity as generally suggested. In this case it appears to
him to follow that the Torridon sandstone must bo either Ordovician
or Upper Cambrian in age, and that the former is more probable, as
the overlying quartzite is not more than some 500 feet thick, so that
the united thickness of the two hardly exceeds at most that of the
Arenigs of Shropshire or South Wales.
   2. " The Precambian (Archaean) Rocks of Shropshire." Part II.
By C. Callaway, Esq., D.Sc, F.G.S.
    The author described the western axis of Archaean rocks in

 144                         Geological Society:—
 Shropshire, which runs roughly parallel with the Wrekin and
 Caradoc ranges at a distance of from 6 to 7 miles, the intervening
 district heing chiefly occupied by the Longmynd rocks. They are
 exposed over a line about 11 miles long, forming usually low hills or
 ridges trending S.S.W. Pontsford Hill, however, at the northern
 end, projects prominently into the Shropshire plain. In the lower
 part of this hill are purple rhyolites banded and spherulitic, the
 latter structure being exhibited in chalcedony filling cavities of the
 rock. Compact dolerite forms the upper part of the hill. At Lyd's
 Hole a junction of the Cambrian Grits with the underlying rhyolites
 is seen. Conglomerates containing the latter rock also occur. At
 Gatten Lodge are purple hornstones ; at Knoll's Bidge somewhat
 similar rocks, with others that appear intrusive; at Cold Hill
 purple hornstone and breccia ; and at Chissol a greenish hornstone.
 The rocks of Knolls Wood are probably about on the horizon of
 those of Caer Caradoc, grits perhaps derived from a gneissic area.
 Stratigraphical as well as lithological considerations lead the author
 to the opinion that the series is Frecambrian.
    3. "The Bed Sands of the Arabian Desert." By J. A. Phillips,
Esq., F.R.S., F.G.S. " '
    The author described the general characters of the Nefud, or
great red desert of Northern Arabia, which consists of a series of
 parallel ridges of considerable elevation, no doubt at some period
piled up by the action of strong winds, but now no longer under
going much change of position, as is evidenced by the fact that
sticks and stones remain for many days uncovered on the surface,
and that the landmarks made use of in crossing the desert appear
to be permanent. A specimen of the sand of this desert received by
the author from Lady Anne Blunt, is composed of well-rounded red
grains from        to -jlj,- inch in their longest diameter, which are
rendered colourless by treatment with hydrochlorio acid, the material
thus removed amounting to -21 per cent., or a little more than
of the total weight operated upon, and consisting of ferric oxide
with a small quantity of alumina. The sand dried after the action
 of hydrochloric acid gave on analysis :—
            Silica                 i                     98-53
            Protoxide of iron                             0-28
           Alumina                                        0-88
            Lime, magnesia, and alkalies                 trace.
                                                         99-69
   The external coating of ferric oxide must therefore have been
deposited subsequently to the rounding of the grains; it could
not have been derived from an external decomposition of the grains
themselves; and it becomes difficult to imagine in what manner the
superficial red coating can have been produced. The author com
pared these grains with those of the millet-seod sandstones of

             On the Cambrian Beds of the British Isles.           145
Triassic age, with which they closely agree in character, but re
marked that the conditions of their occurrence were apparently
quite different.
    4. " Analyses of five Bocks from the Charnwood-Forest District."
By E. E. Berry, Esq. Communicated, with Notes, by Prof. T. G
Bonney, F.E.S., Sec. G.S.
    These analyses are of hornblendic granite from Mount Sorrel,
*' syenite " from Markfield, Garendon, and Croft Hill, and " porphy-
roid " from Sharpley. In the main they confirm the views ex
pressed by Messrs. Hill and Bonney in their communications on the
subject, arrived at from microscopic examination, as to the nature
and affinities of these rocks.
      January 11, 1882.—B. Etheridge, Esq., F.B.S., President,
                             in the Chair.
    The following communications were read :—
    1. " On the Chalk Masses or Boulders included in the Contorted
Drift of Cromer, their Origin and Mode of Transport." By T.
Mellard Beade, Esq., F.G.S.
    The author referred to the occurrence in the Contorted Drift of
Cromer of large masses of chalk, and came to the following con
clusions :—The travelled masses are derived from sea-cliffs and the
result of landslips, aided by the penetration of water forming ice,
intrusive in fissures which detached them from the parent rocks.
 Water rising from subterranean sources accumulated as ice around
 the fallen masses, and was then frozen into tho shore-iee. Ice-floes
 brought into contact with these masses were also frozen into them,
forming a raft capable of floating away the boulders. The incline
 of the shore and the rise and fall of the tides on the breaking-up of
 the ice would suffice to launch the rafts into the sea ; and they
 probably floated in water not more than 200 feet deep. The fre
 quency of these boulders and their accumulation in the Cromer
 deposit point to their having been arrested by the shoaling of the
 water and by stranding on a submarine bank. The nature of the
 chalk showed that they had not travelled far.
     2. " Observations on the two Types of Cambrian Beds of the
 British Isles (the Caledonian and Hiberno-Cambrian), and the
 Conditions under which they were respectively deposited." By
 Prof. Edward Hull, LL.D., F.B.S., F.G.S.
     In this paper the author pointed out the distinctions in mineral
 character between the Cambrian beds of the North-west Highlands of
 Scotland and their assumed representatives in the east of Ireland and
 in North Wales. In the former case, which included the beds belong
 ing to the " Caledonian type," the formation consists of red or purple
 sandstones and conglomerates ; in the latter, which included the
 beds belonging to the " Hiberno-Cambrian type," the formation

146                       Geological Society.
consists of hard green and purple grits and slates contrasting strongly
with the former in structure and appearance.
   These differences the author considered were due to deposition in
distinct basins lying on either side of an Archaean ridge of crystalline
rocks which ranged probably from Scandinavia through the central
highlands of Scotland, and included the north and west of Ireland,
with the counties of Donegal, Deny, Mayo, Sligo, and Galway—in
all of which the Cambrian beds were absent, so that the Lower
Silurians repose directly and unconformably on the crystalline rocks
of Laurentian age.
   As additional evidence of the existence of this old ridge, the author
showed that when the Lower Silurian beds were in course of for
mation, the Archaean floor along the west of Scotland must have
sloped upwards towards the east; but he agreed with Professor
Bamsay that the crystalline rocks of the Outer Hebrides formed
the western limit of the Cambrian area of deposition, and that the
basin was in the form of an inland lake.
   On the other hand, looking at the fossil evidence both of the
Irish and Welsh Cambrian beds, he was of opinion that the beds of
this basin were in the main, if not altogether, of marine origin, and
that the basin itself had a greatly wider range eastward and south
ward, the old Archaean ridge of the British Isles forming but a
small portion of the original margin.
   3. " The Devono-Silurian Formation." By Prof. E. Hull. LL.D.,
F.E.S., F.G.S.
   The beds which the author proposed to group under tho above
designation are found at various parts of tho British Isles, and to a
slight extent on the continent. The formation, however, is emi
nently British, and occurs under various local names, of which the
following are the principal :—
                         England and Waxes.
   Devonshire.—The Foreland Grits and Slates lying below the
Lower Devonian beds (" Lynton Beds ").
    Welsh Borders.—" The passage-beds " of Murchison, above tho
Upper Ludlow Bone-bed, and including the Downton Sandstone,
and rocks of the llidge of the Trichrug. These beds form the con
necting link between the Estuarino Devonian beds of Hereford
(generally, but erroneously, called the " Old Eed Sandstone ") and
the Upper Silurian Series.
    South-east of England (Sub-Cretaceous district).—The author
assumed, from the borings at Ware, Turnford, and Tottenham Court
Eoad described by Mr. Etheridgo, that the Devono-Silurian beds
lie concealed between Turnford and Tottenham Court Eoad on the
south and Hertford on the north.
                                Ireland.
   South.—1' The Dingle Beds," Or " Glcngariff Grits and Slates,"

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.             147
lying conformably on the Upper Silurian Beds, as seen in the coast
of the Dingle promontory and overlain unconformably by either Old
Red Sandstone or Lower Carboniferous beds, 10,000 to 12,000 feet.
   North.—" The Fintona Beds," occupying large tracts of London
derry, Monaghan, and Tyrone, resting unconformably on the Lower
Silurian beds of Pomeroy, and overlain unconformably by the Old
Red Sandstone or Lower Carboniferous beds, 5000 to 6000 feet in
thickness.
                                Scotland.
   Beds of the so-called " Lower Old Bed Sandstone," with fish and
crustaceans, included in Professor Geikie's " Lake Orcadio, Lake
Caledonia, and Lake Cheviot," underlying unconformably the Old
Red Sandstone and Lower Calciforous Sandstone, and resting un
conformably on older crystalline rocks. Thickness in Caithness
about 16,200 feet.
   The author considered that all theso beds were representative of
one another in time, deposited under lacustrine or estuarine con
ditions, and, as their name indicated, forming a great group inter
mediate between the Silurian on the one hand and the Devonian
on the other. He also submitted that their importance, as indicated
by their great development in Ireland and Scotland, entitled them
to a distinctive name such as that proposed.
          XVII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
  ON THE LUMINOUS INTENSITIES OF THE RADIATIONS EMITTED
        BY INCANDESCENT PLATINUM. RY PROF. J. VIOLLE.
 T HAVE measured at different temperatures, and for various ra-
      diations, the light-intensities of incandescent platinum.
   I have selected as temperatures some of the melting-points
which I previously determined in degrees of the air-thermometer,
and which I here repeat (correcting the melting-point of gold,
which was set down by mistake at 1035°) :—
                                                        o
              Melting-point of silver                  954
                                 gold                 1045
                    „      „      palladium           1500
                    „      „      platinum            1775
    In order to get some platinum, for example, at 1045°, a button
 of platinum or about 200 grams weight was put into a crucible of
 unglazed porcelain, which was introduced into a second crucible,
 made of fireclay, and already containing at its lower part 500 grams
 of gold. The whole was placed in a large vertical Perrot furnace
 traversed along its axis by a long fireclay tube, through which the
 surface of the platinum could be seen. It was heated up to the
 fusion of the gold ; the arrival gas-cock was then, to a slight extent,

148            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
partially closed, so as to induce a commencement of solidification ;
the cock was again touched ; and by thus modifying the arrival of
the gas, it was kept, without too much difficulty, just at the point
of fusion. The great mass of the furnace secures a sufficiently
extensive constant thermal field, and permits its constancy to be
easily maintained.
    The operation was precisely the same for bringing the platinum
to and keeping it at 954°, the outer crucible containing silver
instead of gold.
    It is rather more difficult to accomplish the operation in the pal
ladium bath ; it can, however, be done by feeding the furnace with
a Schlcesing blowpipe and protecting the crucibles by graphite
casings. Palladium can also be made use of more simply, even at
its melting-point, by employing Deville and Debray's furnace and
blowpipe.
    For the photometric measurements I employed successively the
two methods by which luminous intensities are usually measured—
the comparison of two contiguous luminous fields, and the extinc
tion of the isochromatic lines called forth by a sensitive polariscope.
I used for this purpose the Gouy spectrophotometer and a Trannin
spectrophotometer, suitably modified for the present use ; and
although each of these apparatus suits better than the other in cer
tain cases, I thus obtained a valuable control of the results. The
source taken as the term of comparison, in all the experiments, was
the Carcel standard lamp burning 42 grams of oil per hour.
    The following Table contains the results thus obtained, plus
those of a series made at 775° (temperature measured by the calo-
ri metric method).
                                          Intensities.
                                                «                       s
 Temperatures.        X=656.        X=589-2.         X=635.       X=482.
                        0.             D.          (E=527)      (F=486)
       775           0-00300        0-00060        0-00030
       954           0-01544        2-01105        0-00715 (?)
     1045            0-0505         0-0402          0-0265        00162
     1500            2-371          2-417          2-198          1-894
     1775            7-829          8-932           9-759       12-16
   If, then, the luminous intensity of incandescent platinum at
954°, 1 045°, and 1500°, in the various simple radiations, be suc
cessively taken for the unit, we get for the relative intensities :—
 775 ...    0-19               0-05                   0 04
            j                  j                      I
1045        3-27 "l            3-64     1             371     1 ... 1
1500 ... 154       47 1     219        60 1        307       83 1      117 1
1775 ... 507      155 3-30 809        222 3 70 1365         368 4 44 752 6-
   Various consequences follow from these numbers, both for the

                Intelligence arul Miscellaneous Articles.           149
  law of radiation at high temperatures, and in regard to the mea
  surement of those high temperatures by photometry. I shall
  shortly resume these two important questions, at present confining
  myself to indicating the formula
                            I=mT3(l + «.«-T)T
 as well representing the results. I is the intensity of a simple
 radiation ; T, the absolute temperature ; m, e, and a, constants
 which will have to be determined.—Oomptes Rendu* de VAcademie
  des Sciences, t. xcii. p. 866 (1881).
    AN APPLICATION OF ACCIDENTAL IMAGES. (SECOND NOTE.)
                              BY J. PLATEAU.
     In my first Note* I showed that the distance to which we refer
 the moon in the sky can be pretty exactly estimated by projecting
  upon a wall the dark accidental image which succeeds the contem
  plation of the moon itself, then receding ' from or approaching
 towards the wall till the diameter of the image is judged to be equal
 to that of the celestial object, and, lastly, measuring the distance
 at which the observer is from the wall when this condition appears
 to be fulfilled. I said then that one of my sons had by this means
 obtained about 51 metres for the distance in question. As this
 value seemed very small, I have more recently induced my son to
 make a control experiment, although with less precision : he sought
 a position, in front of the wall, such that the diameter of the dark
image appeared to him as exactly as possible half of that of the
 moon ; and this required him to be distant from the wall not more
 than 23-5 metres. Now, in virtue of the known proportionality
 between the diameter of the accidental image and the distance to
 which it is projected, double the above quantity, viz. 47 metres,
 consequently represented approximately the distance at which my
 son instinctively placed the moon ; and it will be seen that this
 latter distance, though not coinciding with the 51 metres of the
 previous experiment less subject to error, is nevertheless of the
 same order.
     M. l'abbe Thirion, Professor at the College de la Paix at Namur,
has since published t an estimate at which he arrived by a quite dif
ferent procedure. He assembled twelve of his pupils, and asked
each of them to trace on a black board a circumference of the size
he saw the moon in the sky. These twelve circumferences were
very unequal ; the smallest was only 19 centim. in diameter, while
    • Bull. Acad. Roy. Belg. [2] xlix. 1880, p. 316; Phil. Mag. August
1880, p. 134.
   t La Lune—lesprfjugis et les illusions : Bruxelles, 1881.
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 79. Feb. 1882.                    N

 1 50          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 the largest was 72 ; the mean of the twelve was 32 centimetres.
 [Starting from this, and from the mean value 31' of the angle sub
 tended by the moon's diameter, M. Thirion finds about 35 metres
 for the distance sought—that is to say, for the meau of those to
 which his pupils respectively referred our satellite.
    Lastly, Dr. Charpentier*, who wanted, for the discussion of an
 entoptic phenomenon, to know to what distance his eye " projects
 the retinal images in the vision of remote objects," determined
 accessorily, by again a different procedure, that at which he places
 the moon. That heavenly body appears to him to have a diameter
of only 15 centim., and to present the same breadth as a disk of
 7"5 millim. diameter held at 645 millim. from the eye. From this
he deduces, for the apparent distance of the moon, the value 12-9
metres.
    From all this it follows, in the first place, that the distance in
 question varies considerably from one observer to another, and, in
 the second place, that it is always much less than would a priori
 have been believed.
    I have applied my accidental-image process to the investigation
 of an element for the approximate determination of which I believe
 it is the only one practicable. When in the daytime and in calm
weather we look at the sky, it presents to us the appearance of an
azure surface in the form of an elliptical vault ; but at what dis
 tance do we picture to ourselves this imaginary surface ? Our eyes
 then dive into an indefinite medium ; and yet they stop somewhere ;
 but where? To what distance do they adapt themselves? It is
 this, again, that the accidental images will permit us to appreciate.
 As I said before, 1 reside in a house situated in a square, and with
 its frontage facing the south. The experiment was made as fol
lows :—In July last, about 4 p. m., the weather being calm, a square
of white paper marked with a black point in the centre was placed
upon a black surface ; and the whole wns put on the sill of an open
window. My son-in-law contemplated for 20 seconds the white
square, keeping his eyes fixed on the black point; he then gazed at
the sky, at a sufficient height above the opposite houses of the
square, in order to observe the dark accidental image, after which
he projected this upon the wall of one of those houses, and found
that it had increased a little in magnitude : the respective sides of
the image in the two conditions were, in his estimation, in the
ratio of 5 to 6. My son Felix performed the same operations ; and
for him the ratio was about 4 to 5. The two observers were at 36
metres from the houses opposite ; consequently it follows, from
the proportionality above mentioned, that my son-in-law referred
the celestial vault to the distance of 30 metres approximately, and
my son to that of 29 metres. Therefore it is an equally inconsi
derable distance that is attributed to the vault of heaven.
   • " Illumination violette de la re'tine sous l'influence d'oscillations lumi-
ueuses," Comptes Rendus, t. xcii. 1881, p 366.

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.             151
   I asked myself if the greater or less brightness of the sky has
not an influence upon the distance sought. To ascertain this I
requested my son-in-law to repeat the experiment at night, illumi
nating the white square by means of a lamp. He did so in the
middle of September, at 9 in the evening, the Bky being calm and
without moon. To remove all lateral light, an assistant took away
the lamp as soon as the observer, after contemplating the white
square, directed his eyes to the sky. Now, to my great surprise,
the result was sensibly the same as in the day experiment. After
wards my second son operated, and found a value still of the same
order. So the brightness appears to have no notable influence
upon the appreciation of the distance at which the point observed
in the celestial vault is instinctively placed.—Bulletins de VAcademic
Boyale de Belgique, ser. 3, tome ii. nos. 9 and 10, Sept. and Oct.
1881.
  ON SOME CONSEQUENCES OF GAUSS'S PRINCIPLE IN ELECTRO
                   STATICS. BY M. CROULLEBOIS.
    M. Bertrand* has deduced from Gauss's principle several impor
 tant theorems relative to electrostatics ; following the same path, I
 have obtained some interesting relations, and particularly the sim
 plified demonstration of Clerk Maxwell's theorem.
    L Gauss's proposition 2MV=SM'V is a pure identity if the
 potentials be replaced by the expressions which the definition fur
 nishes. This relation can be arrived at independently of any ana
 lytical form attributed to the function V, by resting on the notion
 of electric energy. Let us consider a conductor of charge M, at
                                                           MV
 the potential V, the potential energy of which is             ; let us
 vary the eharge from M to M', the potential will vary from V to V,
and the increase of energy, equal to the electrical work expended to
bring the additional charge M'— M from infinite distance to the
 conductor, will be
                            (M'-M)Ifl'.
    "We shall therefore have for the final energy,
                   M'V'=MV+(M'-M)(V+V'),
 from which, after simplification, and for a system of conductors,
                            2MV'=2M'V                                (1)
    II. Prom the two sides of the equality (1) let us subtract MV
 and put M' — M=/i and V— V=u, we shall have
                            2M«=2V/i                                 (2)
                   • Journal de Physiqtte, t. iii. p. 74.

 152           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 or, if the simultaneous modification of the charges and potentials is
 infinitesimal,
                             2MSV=2V8M                                  (2)
 whence this theorem, a consequence of Gauss's principle explained
 according to § I. :—
    In a system offixed conductors, in which two distinct systems of
 equilibrium are considered, the sum of theproducts of the initial charge
 of each conductor and the variation of its potential from one state to
 the other is equal to the sum of the products of the initial potential and
 the variation of the charge.
    III. When conductors, maintained at constant potentials, are left
 to their mutual actions, the energy of the system tends towards a
 maximum.
    Clerk Maxwell has demonstrated this theorem* by means of the
 linear equations which exist between the potentials and the charges.
 The following process is more direct and speedy.
    Let us suppose, at the beginning, each conductor A,, Aa,
 insulated, and impress on the system an infinitely small deformation ;
 the charges M,, M2, ... do not change ; there are for the respective
 potentials the falls SV,, £Va, . . . ; the loss of energy, equal to the
 external work accomplished, is
                             aw=-|sMsv.
    Now, the conductors being fixed, let us connect them to constant
 batteries, in order to restore the potentials to their original values.
 This restoration of the potentials cannot be effected without addi
tional charges 5M,, 2MS, . . . , regulated by the relation (2'). The
positive variation of the initial energy will therefore be
                             S'"W=+£2M2V.
    We hence conclude that
                             aw+rw=o,
and
                             2'W-aW=2M2V.
    Therefore (1) the work accomplished, during the displacement,
by the electrical forces is equal to the augmentation of energy of
the system ; (2) the energy furnished by the sources is equal to
twice one or the other of those quantities, and is expended exactly,
half in mechanical work, half in electrical work or potential energy.
   According to the equality (2), the preceding theorem applies to
a finite deformation ; but, for its application to the theory of elec
trometers, there is, as is known, only occasion to consider an ele
mentary modification.—Comptes Rendus de VAcademic des Sciences,
Jan. 9, 1882, t. xciv. pp. 74-76.
               • ' Electricity and Magnetism/ vol. i. p. 96.


--4J
  LIEBIG'S EXTRACT OF MEAT AND MALT WINE
                               (COLEMAN'S).
                  A Delicious Beverage and Tonic,
   Made from Port "Wine, Liebig's Extract of Meat and Extract of Malt ; Nutri
tious, Strengthening, Stimulating, Flesh-forming, Health-restoring, Suitable for
the Robust in Health as well as the Invalid. Strongly recommended by the
Medical Faculty. An Immediate Benefit is experienced after taking it; the
Frame is Invigorated, and no ill effects follow.
  LIEBIG'S EXTRACT OF MEAT AND MALT WINE (COLEMAN'S).
                                TESTIMONIALS.
    Sib,—A short time since I was induced by the novelty of the title to send for
 a bottle of your Liebig's Extract of Meat and Malt Wine. I was perfectly
 acquainted with the value of the Extraction Carnis, and not quite a stranger to
 the invigorating and fortifying properties of malt wine, and therefore felt a
 natural curiosity to test them when combined.
    Men who work hard as I do—not muscular hard work, but that which is quite
 as exhausting, viz. brain work—very often experience the need of, and have some
 times an almost irresistible craving for, a "pick me up;" and very often the
panacea for a time for lassitude, and that state of mind which renders work
irksome, are alcoholic stimulants, the use of which must sooner or later end
disastrously.
    The man who can furnish a remedy, sure, certain, and harmless, for the lassi
 tude which follows constant brain-work is a benefactor of his species, and may
 be ?aid to have added many years of usefulness to the lives of useful men.
    Your extract is a success, and, when more generally known, will be used by
all toilers of the mind.                             Yours faithfully, 0. D. RAY.
   Thorpe Hamlet, Norwich, Feb. 23, 1881.
                                                Queen's Crescent, Haverstock Hill,
                                                      London, March 5, 1881.
    Dear Sib,—Some time since, being greatly fatigued with over-work and long
hours at business, my health (being naturally delicate) became very indifferent.
I lost all energy, strength, and appetite, and was so weak as to be scarcely able
to walk.
    As you are aware, I sent for a dozen of your Extract of Meat and Malt "Wine,
 which in a few days pulled me up marvellously. Three or four glasses of it daily
 have quite altered and restored me to better health than ever, " without the assist
 ance of a doctor."
    I am now giving it to my Son, twelve years of age, whom we have always
thought consumptive, and from a puny ailing boy he seems to be fast growing
into a strong healthy lad.
    Enclosed you have cheque. Please send me two dozen of the " Extract."
With thanks for your prompt attention to my last.
                                   Yours truly, I am, Sir, GEORGE A. TYLER.
                                     Mineral Water Hospital, Bath, Sept. 22, 1881.
    Gentlemen,—Referring to yours respecting jour Liebig's Extract of Meat
and Malt Wine, I have much pleasure in testifying to its excellent qualities. It
is highly nutritious, stimulating, and health-restoring.
    Every claim you make for it I can fully endorse, and I shall be pleased to
recommend it as an incomparable tonic.
                         1 am, Gentlemen, yours faithfully, EDWD. J. VOYSEY.
  Pints, 27s. par dozen; Quarts, 50s. per dozen. Carriage paid to any
  Railway Station in Great Britain. Sample Bottle sent for 33 stamps.
                           P.O. Orders to be made payable to
                COLEMAN AND CO.,
                    MUSPOLE STREET, NORWICH.
                      CHEQUES CROSSED LONDON AND PROVINCIAL BANK.
   Sold by all Druggiits and Patent Medicine Vendors in the United Kingdom, in
Bottles, 2*. 9d. and 4s. Gd. each. Ask for Coleman's Liebig's Extract ct
Meat and Malt Wine, and " See that you get it."

             CONTENTS of N° 79.— Fifth Series.
   X. On Integrating and other Apparatus for the Measurement of
Mechanical and Electrical Forces. By C. Vebnox Bots, A.K.S.M.,
Demonstrator of Physics in the Normal School of Science, South
Kensington. (Plates III., IV.)                                          page 77
   XI. The Experimental Comparison of Coefficients of Induction.
By Hebbebt Babeield, B.Sc                                                      95
   XII. On Sound-Shadows in Water. By John LbCokte                             98
  XIII. Chemical Symmetry, or the Influence of Atomic Arrange
ment on the Physical Properties of Compounds. By Thomas Cab-
nelley, D.Sc, Professor of Chemistry in Firth College, Sheffield . . 112
  XIV. The Beats of Mistimed Consonances. By E. H. M. Bosah-
QVEt                                                                          131
   XV. On the Theoretic Determination of Vapour-pressure and
the Volumes of Vapour and Liquid. By Prof. E. Clausius                        132
  XVI. Proceedings of Learned Societies :—
     Geological Society :—Eev. W. Dowtjes on the Zones of the
        Blackdown Beds and their Correlation with those at Haldon ;
        Dr. C. Callaway on the Torridon Sandstone in relation to
        the Ordovician Bocks of the Northern Highlands, and
        on the Precambrian (Archaean) Bocks of Shropshire : Mr.
        J. A. Phillips on the Bed Sands of the Arabian Desert ;
        Mr. E. E. Bebby's Analyses of five Bocks from the Charn-
        wood-Forest District ; Mr. T. Mellabd Beade on the Chalk-
        Masses or Boulders included in the Contorted Drift of
        Cromer, their Origin and Mode of Transport ; Prof. Edwabd
        Hull on the two Types of Cambrian Beds of the British Isles
        (the Caledonian and Hiberno-Cambrian), and the Conditions
        under which they were respectively deposited, and on the
        Devono-Silurian Formation                                      142—146
  XVII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
     On the Luminous Intensities of the Badiations emitted by In
        candescent Platinum, by Prof. J. Violle                               147
     An Application of Accidental Images (second note), by J.
        Plateau                                                               149
     On some Consequences of Gauss's Principle in Electrostatics, «
        by M. Croullebois                                                     151
•»* It is requested that all Communications for this Work may be addressed,
       post-paid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office, Red
       Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

ol. 13.                       MARCH 1882.                                    No.
         Published t/ie First Day of every Month.—Price 2s. 6d.
                                     MAJU31882
                                       THE
             LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL                                    MAGAZINE,
                                       AND
              JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
    Being a Continuation of Tilloctis 'Philosophical Magazine?
      Nicholson s 'Journal,' and Thomson s 'Annals of Philosophy.''
                                    CONDUCTED BY
        SIR ROBERT KANE, LL.D. F.RS. M.RI.A. F.C.S/igi
        SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, Knt. LL.D. F.RS. &c.
                                        AND
        WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.RA.S. F.C.S.
                            FIFTH         SERIES.
                          N° 80.— MARCH 1882.
                                WITH A PLATE.
        Illustrative of Mr. C. Vebnon Bots's Paper on Apparatus for
                               Calculating Efficiency.
                                   LONDON:
       PRXNTED BYTAYLOB AND FBANCIS, BED LION COUBT, FLEET BTBEET,
 Sold by Longmans, Green, Reader and Dyer j Kent and Co. ; Simpkin, Marshall and
   Co. ; and Whitt aker and Co. ;—and by A. and C. Black, and Tliomas Clark, Edin
   burgh ; Smith and Son, Glasgow :—Hodges, Foster and Co., Dublin :—Putnam,
   New York : —and Asher and Co., Berlin.

                      Errata in Vol. XII. (November 1881).
    Page 370, second line from bottom, for maximum velocity read maximum
              rate of change of velocity
     — 371, second line from top,/or kinetic energy read acceleration
                        Errata in No 79 (February 1882).
                                                      e       e„
    Page 135, last line of text, in equation (J), for g- read —
                     TAYLOR'S SCIENTIFIC MEMOIRS.
   Part 6, containing the following important papers—M. Melloni on the
Polarization of Heat, C. F. Gauss on the General Theory of Terrestrial Mag
netism, W. Weber on the Bifilar Magnetometer, Dr. Schleiden on Phyto-
genesis, having been reprinted, a few complete Sets are now on sale, price i'tl 10*.
           Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                            Demy 8vo, cloth, price 15».
                       THE SCIENTIFIC PAPERS OF
                                      THE LATE
            SIR CHARLES WHEATST0NE, D.CX., F.R.S., &c.
                  Published by the Physical Society of London.
           Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                              New Edition, price It.
            TABLE OF CORRECTIONS FOR TEMPERATURE
to Reduce Observations to 32° Fahrenheit for Barometers, with Brass Scale*
         extending from the Cistern to the top of the Mercurial Colnnin.
                        By JAMES GLAISHER, F.li.S.
           Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
           THE LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science.
  A Journal devoted to Physics, Astronomy, Mechanics, Chemistry, Mineralogy,
                 and the Allied Sciences. Monthly, price 2s. 6d.
   Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following prices :—
   A set of the First Series, from 1/98 to 1826 (wanting a few plates), in 68
volumes. Price £ 15.
   The Second Series, from 182/ to 1832, in 11 volumes. Price £2 As.
   The Third Series, in 3/ volumes, from 1832 to 1850.         „ £6.
           Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
   The Atrngla and Magazine of Natural History.
        Including Zoology, Botany, and Geology.—Monthly, price 2*. 6d.
   Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following prices :—
     The First Series, in 20 volumes, from 1838 to 1847- Price j£10.
     The Second Series, in 20 volumes, from 1848 to 185/. » £10.
      The Third Series, in 20 volumes, from 1858 to 1867.        „ £\2.
          Taylor aud Francis, Ked Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                         [AD VERT1SEMENTS continued on 3rd /*>y« of Covtr.

                                  THE
          LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL                              MAGAZINE
                                  AND
       JOURNAL                   OF        SCIENCE.
                         [FIFTH SERLES.]
                          MARCH 1882.
 XVIII. Electro-optic Experiments on various Liquids. By
   John Kerr, LL.D.,Free Church Training College, Glasgow*.
 THE following notes of experiments are intended as a
        sequel to two of my former papers on Electro-optics,
 which appeared in the Philosophical Magazine for August and
 September 1879. In those papers I gave an account of me
 thods and results in connexion with twentv-seven liquid dielec
trics; thirteen of them belonging to the class of fixed oils, and
all clearly active as nonconductors, with the one exception of
nitrobenzol. Shortly afterwards, Professor liontgen repeated
and varied my experiments, and produced a very interesting
investigation on the subject ; and, in particular, he extended
the list of electro-optically active dielectrics by the important
addition of three bodies—water, sulphuric ether, and glyce-
rinet- To the list already published I have now to add more
than a hundred new liquids, with specification of their actions
as positive or negative, strong or weak, pure or impure. I
shall give first a condensed account of the experiments, and
then a summary of results (art. 29).
                       Apparatus and Methods.
    1. The small plate cell is the principal instrument used in
the present experiments. As I gave a full description of this
   • Communicated by the Author.
  t There is a good account of Professor Rontgen's paper in Mr. Gordon's
Treatise on Electricity.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 80. March 1882.                 0

  154                Dr. J. Kerr's Electro-optic
  important piece in the first of my two papers already referred
  to, I think that here I need only reproduce the diagram.
     Optical Arrangements.—The plate cell, charged nearly full
  with the dielectric liquid, is stationed between the polarizing
 and analyzing Nicols, the faces of the liquid plate being
 alwavs perpendicular to the line of vision. In most cases, the
 object viewed in the polariscope is a narrow and sharply-out
 lined flame, a flat and thin paraffin-flame presented edgeways,
 and seen exactly through the centre of the electric field. The
 first Nicol is fixed with its principal section at 45° to the
 horizon, or to the lines of force; and the second Nicol is fixed
 at extinction. When the light is well restored by electric
 force, the character of the effect as positive or negative is
 generally detected at a glance, and with perfect certainty, by
 the use of the hand-compensator. This is a small rectangular
 slip of thin plate glass, held in the observer's hands between
 the two Nicols, and simply stretched or compressed in a direc
 tion parallel to the lines of force.
    Electric Arrangements.—These vary with circumstances, and
 are sometimes all employed successively in the examination of
 one dielectric. The liquid may be tried (1) as a nonconductor,
 (2) as a conductor, but without the jar, (3) with the jar,
 (4) with intense discharges of a Ruhmkorff's coil.
    Every new liquid is tested for insulation in the first place.
 The outer balls of the cell are connected respectively with
 prime conductor and earth by unbroken wires, and the machine
 is set in motion. The test consists in bringing up the knuckle
 or an earth-connected ball to contact with prime conductor,
 and receiving, or not receiving, a spark.
    (1) To try a liquid electro-optically as a nonconductor.
The cell is placed in the polariscope at extinction, its outer
balls being connected with prime conductor and earth by un
broken wires ; the machine is set in motion, and the polari
scope is watched for a restoration of the light from extinction.
When there is a clear effect, it is tested by the hand-compen
sator, and characterized as positive or negative. This method
has given distinct results with every moderately good insulator
yet examined.

                 Experiments on various Liquids.                  155
    (2) When the prime conductor gives no sensible spark in
 the test for insulation, the first method fails, and the liquid is
 then tried as a conductor, but first without the jar. The wire
 from prime conductor to cell is broken, and the ends are in
 serted in two metallic balls, which are supported on insulating
 pillars, and separated by an air-interval. The machine being
 set in motion, the two balls are put in contact at every turn
 or half turn of the plate, so as to discharge the prime conductor
 through cell to earth; and the polariscope is watched for resto
ration at the instants of discharge. When the optical effect
is moderately strong and not very abrupt, the hand-compen
sator works as well here as in the former case. There are
many liquids (nitrobenzol, benzonitrile, amyl alcohol, &c.)
which give intense restorations purely positive or purely nega
tive when tried in this way, though they give no sure trace of
effect when tried as nonconductors.
    (3) When this method fails, the power is increased by the
addition of a Leyden jar, whose knob and outer coating are
connected respectively with prime conductor and earth. The
machine is set in motion, and the discharging balls are brought
into contact, first at every turn of the plate, then at every second
turn, and so forward, till tho optical effect is brought out with
sufficient intensity. There are many liquids (butyl and propyl
alcohols, propionic and acetic acids, &c.) which give pure and
strong restorations at and above some point of this process,
but no trace of effect without the jar.
    (4) When these methods fail, the Winter's plate machine
is abandoned, and a Ruhmkorff's coil is applied. The coil is
worked by six large Grove's elements in series, and gives a
powerful spark (8 to 10 inches in air). The cell is sometimes
inserted in the circuit of the secondary coil by unbroken wires;
in other cases, there are air-intervals left at the outer ends of
the cell, which are traversed by spark discharges. It is found
to be generally advisable, and sometimes necessary, to dis
pense with the automatic rheotome, and to work tho instrument
by hand, so as to obtain separate discharges at intervals of one
or more seconds. With all precautions, the discharges are
often too strong for perfect purity of electro-optic action, pro
ducing large disturbances in the liquid, and giving rise in a
little time to intense heat-effects. There are several liquids
(ethyl alcohol, distilled water, &c.) which have given good
results by this method only.
    2. The Fusion-cell, a small instrument similar to the plate
cell, but adapted to higher temperatures, is represented in the
adjacent diagram.
    The shaded piece is a square of plate glass, half an inch
                                 02

156                Dr. J. Kerr's Electro-optic
thick, with a square space worked out of it as shown in the
figure. In contact with this frame, and covering its two faces,
are two panes of thin plate glass, which are kept closely and
firmly united to the frame by a small metallic press. The
conductors in the coll are two balls of brass, electroplated with
platinum, and attached each to a stiff wire, which passes
upwards through an insulating tube of glass. These tubes
 are supported by a stand (shown in the figure). The cell and
 stand are placed on an iron tripod, and enveloped by a wide
 muffle of sheet iron, with an aperture at the top for the long
 conductor, and two apertures at the sides for transmission of
 the light. Under the floor of the tripod is an Argand gas-
 burner, which supplies a current of hot air to the interior of
 the muffle.
    In the course of some preliminary experiments on the fats
 and waxes, the fusion-coll was found to be not nearly so deli
 cate as the plate cell, both instruments working under ordinary
 conditions—the former at high temperatures, the latter at the

                Experiments on various Liquids.                157
temperature of the laboratory. The conditions of experiment
with the fusion-cell are always in some degree unfavourable ;
so that a moderately strong effect obtained with this instru
ment may be accepted safely as an evidence of high electro-
optic power in the dielectric. This remark applies to several
important bodies (phosphorus, cetyl and cinnyl alcohols, sper
maceti, &c), which have given good effects in the fusion-cell.
                       Elementary Bodies.
   3. Bromine, phosphorus, and sulphur, all in the liquid state,
are found to be electro-optically active and purely positive.
   Bromine was examined in the plate cell without effect; but
this trial was indecisive, as the plate of liquid was almost
opaque to the sunbeam. I therefore had a special cell con
structed, shaped like the fusion-cell, but only a quarter inch
thick. As inductive terminal I used the long conductor of
the fusion-cell, supported by its proper stand; the other con
ductor was a rounded segment of a disk of brass, resting on the
floor of the cell, and connected by a lateral wire to earth. All
the metallic pieces were plated with platinum; and the fumes
from the liquid were sufficiently confined by a covering of soft
leather pressed lightly on the mouth of the cell. The optical
conditions were now very favourable. The image of the sun
in the mirror of a porte-lumiere, viewed through the centre of
the electric field, was of course deeply coloured and much
weakened; but it still presented a fine object in the polariscope:
the extinction also was pure and sharp ; and the object was
well restored by a very feeble strain of the hand-compensator.
   Tried as a nonconductor, the plate of bromine gave no
optical effect; nor did it give any sensible spark in the test for
insulation. Tried then as a conductor, with moderate charges
of the jar, it gave a regular and very fine restoration, vivid
and undistorted, and not at all abrupt. When tested by the
hand-compensator, the effect was found to be purely positive,
strengthened by tension parallel to the lines of force, and
weakened to extinction by compression.
   Phosphorus was examined in the fusion-cell, at a tempera
ture a little above its melting-point. Several trials were made
before a sufficiently clean plate was obtained; but I succeeded
at last, by pressing out the phosphorus through a bag of
chamois-leather, under hot water. The cell, charged nearly
full with phosphorus, and then filled up with water, was placed
in the hot-air bath, between the two Nicols ; and the experi
ment was carried forward as in the case of bromine. The con
ditions of optical observation were unfavourable, the cell-panes
being strongly and not very regularly strained by the heat.

 158                  Dr. J. Kerr's Electro-optic
 The initial extinction was very slow and impure ; but it was
perfected by careful regulation of the temperature, and by the
application of a stationary neutralizing plate of glass. Like
difficulties occurred in most of the experiments with the fusion-
 cell, and they were generally overcome in the same way.
     Tried as a nonconductor, the plate of phosphorus gave no
 optical effect. Tried then as a conductor, with moderate
 charges of the jar, it gave a good restoration,—not so strong, I
 thought, as that of bromine, but equally regular and pure,
strengthened by tension parallel to lines of force, and weak
 ened to extinction by compression. Phosphorus therefore, like
bromine, is purely positive
    Judging from some facts that presented themselves in the
 course of my experiments with fused phosphorus, lam almost
 sure that, with better apparatus and proper arrangements,
this body would give a good optical effect as a nonconductor.
    Sulphvr.—The fusion-cell was placed on its tripod between
the crossed Nicols, and all the pieces were put in final position
as for the optical experiment ; the cell was then filled with
sublimed sulphur, and the temperature of the air-bath was
raised gradually. As the sulphur melted, now quantities were
supplied till the cell was nearly full of liquid. The initial
extinction was now restored as quickly as possible by the use
of a thick neutralizing plate of glass placed in front of the
second Nicol, and the sulphur was tried as a nonconductor.
When the machine was set in motion, the flame was restored
strongly from extinction; and the effect was found to be purely
positive, strengthened by tension parallel to lines of force, and
extinguished by compression. As the experiment went on for
a minute or more, the effect became weaker and weaker till
it was imperceptible. The insulation had evidently failed, the
temperature being too high for the apparatus.
    The Leyden jar being now introduced quickly, the sulphur
was tried as a conductor, and there was a strong restoration
obtained by discharge at every fifth turn of the plate. The
effect was still purely positive, strengthened by tension parallel
to lines of force, and extinguished by compression. In a few
minutes this effect also disappeared ; and it could not be reco
vered by regulation of the temperature. In the meantime the
plate of sulphur had deteriorated very much from its first
purity. Perfectly clean at first, it was now filled with black
particles.
    After this first experiment, I made several attempts to obtain
a more constant effect, but without success. The conditions
of the experiment were too trying for the apparatus : the cell
was damaged in the first experiment, and was very soon de

                 Experiments on various Liquids.                     159
 stroyed. Although I never recovered any thing like the very
strong and fine effects which I have described, I have no
 doubt that fused sulphur is purely and strongly positive.
                             Hydrocarbons.
    4. Those of the hydrocarbons that I have examined up to
this time, the nine or ten mentioned in my former paper, and
the eight which here follow*, arc all nonconductors, electro-
optically active, and purely positive.
    Amyl hydride, C5 H12, is interesting as one of the lightest
 of known liquids. Tested for insulation in the plate cell, it
gave a spark hardly £ inch long. Tried optically as a non
conductor, it gave a sure but extremely faint restoration from
  ure extinction. When the hand-compensator was introduced
  eforehand, and strained steadily, the effect of electric force
was brought out more strongly, and with great purity—an
increase of light in the case of tension parallel to lines of force,
and a decrease to extinction in the case of compression. There
was no increase of effect when the liquid was tried as a con
ductor, with or without the Leyden jar.
    Hexyl hydride, or trityl, C6 Hu. For a specimen of this
liquid, prepared from petroleum-oil, I am indebted to the
kindness of Dr. Gladstone. It was examined immediately
after amyl hydride, for the purpose of comparison. Of the
two, the hexyl compound appeared to be somewhat stronger
both in insulating and in electro-optic power. Both bodies
exert very faint but perfectly pure actions as positive non
conductors.
    Cinnamol, C8 H8, tried in the plate cell as a nonconductor,
gave an intense and purely positive effect. The action was
strong enough to give definite and very black extinction-
bands, like those in my old experiments with CS2 and the
stronger hydrocarbons.
    Caprylene, C8 H]6, acts in the plate cell as a positive non
conductor. Most of the plates of this liquid were somewhat
dirty, and easily traversed by spark discharge ; but the effect
•was always manifest, and always purely positive. In the
cleaner plates the action was very fine, and apparently a good
deal stronger than that formerly observed in the lighter define,
amylene.
    Caoutchoucin, or empjTreumatic oil of caoutchouc.—My
specimen of this liquid was of a deep red colour, and a mode
rately good insulator ; so that it could be tried in the plate cell
   * All of them pure hydrocarbons, except caoutchoucin and oil of resin,
which contain a little oxygen.

160                  Dr. J. Kerr's Electro-optic
as a nonconductor. The optical conditions were unfavourable,
and the effect of electric force could hardly bo detected from
pure extinction; but when the hand-compensator was used
(as with amyl hydride formerly), the effect came out very
clearly—an increase of light in the case of tension parallel to
lines of force, and a decrease to sensible extinction in the case
of compression.
     Oil of Resin is interesting for its great density, '9989. It is
a distillate of common resin, redistilled from caustic potash,
and is now largely used in the jute-manufacture. My speci
men was a very clean trade-sample, of a clear amber-colour, a
pretty strong photogyre, and a good insulator. Tried in the
plate cell as a nonconductor, it gave a strong positive effect.
As soon as the machine was set in motion, the light was
restored from a faint red or blue, which was the best extinc
tion, to an intense and sensibly pure white; and the effect was
strengthened by tension parallel to lines of force, and weakened
to good extinction by compression. This result agrees with
my former observations on solid resin, where also the effects
were positive, though very much fainter.
    Paraffin fuses into a purely transparent liquid at about
50° C. Tried in the fusion-cell as a nonconductor, it gave a
strong regular effect. A quarter turn of the plate restored the
light well from extinction; and the effect was strengthened by
tension parallel to lines of force, and neutralized bv compres
sion. The sluggishness of rise and fall of optical" effect was
very manifest. There was also some disturbance, produced by
movements in the liquid, when the machine was in motion.
 ' Naphthaline, C10 H8, fuses at a moderate temperature into
 a transparent and very volatile oil. Tried in the same way as
paraffin, it acted very similarly. There was a greater disturb
ance by gross movements in the liquid; but the optical effect,
  was regular and perfectly distinct, conspiring with tension
  parallel to lines of force, and neutralizing compression.
                        Alcohols, C, H2B+IH0.
     5. Of this series, the eight members corresponding to the
  following values of n were examined in order:—
                  16, 8, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, 0.
  The first six are purely negative, falling in power perceptibly
  and regularly from first to sixth ; the seventh and eighth are
  purely but feebly positive.
      Cetyl alcohol (?j=16) fuses into a transparent and nearly
  colourless plate, at or near 50° C. It was tried in the fusion-
  cell as a nonconductor, after the initial extinction had been

                 Experiments on various Liquids.               161
perfected by careful regulation of temperature and by the use
of a neutralizing plate. One turn of the machine gave a strong
restoration in the polariscope; and the effect was purely nega
tive, being neutralized by tension of the hand-compensator in
a direction parallel to the lines of force, and regularly strength
ened by compression. Good results of the same kind were
obtained with half a turn of the plate, and even with a quarter
turn. When the electric force was intense, there was some
disturbance produced by movements in the liquid. When the
 temperature was raised very high, the regular effect disap
 peared, probably from failure of the insulation; and when the
 temperature was lowered to the point of solidification, and
 particles began to appear in the liquid, the optical effect
 became irregular and very weak, and (on the whole) appa
 rently positive. But when these exceptional temperatures
 were avoided, the action of this alcohol was seen to be con
 stantly, strongly, and purely negative. All the following
 members of the series were examined in the plate cell, and at
 ordinary temperatures.
     Capryl alcohol (n=8) gave no spark in the test for insula
 tion, and was inactive accordingly when tried as a noncon
  ductor. Tried as a conductor, with the jar and two or three
 turns of the plate, it gave a brilliant effect, which was found to
 be purely negative, being strengthened by compression of the
  hand-compensator in a direction parallel to the lines of force,
  and neutralized by tension, weakened in fact from a high
  intensity down to perfect extinction. Tried then without the
  jar, by discharge at every turn or half turn of the plate, it
  gave a clear and pretty strong effect, always purely negative
   by both tests.
     Amyl alcohol (n = 5) is weaker than the last, both in insu
  lating and in electro-optic power; for when tried as a con
   ductor, without the jar, it gave a mere suspicion of effect.
   Tried then with the jar, and two or three turns of the plate, it
   gave a pretty strong effect, which was found to be purely ne
   gative by one test, being strengthened by compression parallel
   to lines of force, but not sensibly affected by tension. The
   failure of the second test, weakening by tension, was evidently
   due to the great abruptness of the electro-optic action, the
   momentary darkening of a steady flame being less perceptible
   than a momentary brightening. If any proof of the truth of
   this explanation were required, it could be supplied by a simple
   form of experiment, which I may describe further on.
      Butyl alcohol (n=4) is weaker than the last. Tried with
   the jar, it gave a very good restoration by discharge at every
   tenth turn of the plate. Five turns, powerful formerly with

 162                 Dr. J. Kerr's Electro-optic
 amyl alcohol, gave now no sensible effect. The electro-optic
 action was found to be purely negative, conspiring regularly
 with compression parallel to lines of force, and giving no sen
 sible change (except an apparently instantaneous tremor of
 the flame) with tension.
    Propyl alcohol (« = 3) shows an additional fall of power.
 Tried with the Leyden jar, it gave a good restoration, though
 not strong, with fifteen turns of the plate. Ten turns, powerful
 with butyl alcohol, gave now no sensible restoration from ex
 tinction. The effect was purely negative, strengthened always
 by compression parallel to lines of force, and not sensibly
 affected by tension.
    Ethyl alcohol (n = 2), specific gravity -795, showed a large
 fall of power. With plate machine and strongest charges of
 the jar, it gave no sure trace of effect. With the large Ruhm-
 korff's coil, working in the usual way with oscillating rheotome,
 it gave a strong heat-effect almost at once. The rheotome
 was therefore worked by hand, separate discharges being
 taken at intervals of 1 or 2 seconds. At each discharge,
 there was a perfectly regular, but very faint, restoration from
 pure extinction. Tested by the hand-compensator with great
 care, the electro-optic action was found to be purely negative,
 regularly neutralized or much weakened by tension parallel to
 lines of force, and regularly strengthened by compression.
    Methyl alcohol (n=l), tried with strongest charges of the
jar, gave an effect which was clear and regular, but too feeble
 to be characterized. Tried with separate discharges of the coil,
 it gave a faint restoration regularly from pure extinction.
 Tested by the hand-compensator with great care, the effect
 was strengthened regularly by tension parallel to lines of force,
 and neutralized or much weakened regularly by compression ;
 so that this alcohol, contrarily to the preceding six, is distinctly
and purely positive. As far as I could judge, the action was
somewhat stronger than the contrary action of ethyl alcohol.
    Distilled water (n=0), tried with strongest charges of the
jar, gave a clear effect, apparently better than that in methyl
alcohol, but still too faint to bo characterized. Tried with
separate discharges of the coil, it gave a faint restoration regu
larly from pure extinction. The effect was found to be purely
positive, strengthened by tension parallel to lines of force, and
neutralized or much weakened regularly by compression. I
thought the action rather stronger than that of methyl alcohol,
and certainly not weaker. The experiment with one charge
of water could not be continued well for any length of time,
as the electro-optic field was obscured very soon by an ascend
ing cloud of gases.

                  Experiments on various Liquids.              163
                         Acids, C„ H2n Os.
    6. Of the series of fatty acids, the seven members corre
sponding to the following values of n were examined in the
plate cell at ordinary temperatures:—
                     8, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1.
    The first six are purely positive, the seventh feebly but
purely negative ; and they fall regularly in power from the
 first to the last.
    Caprylic acid («=8), tried as a nonconductor, gave a faint
but good restoration regularly from extinction. As a con
 ductor, its action was much stronger ; and when the jar was
 used, the effect of discharge at every second or third turn of
 the plate was very brilliant. The effect from weak to strong
 est was purely positive, strengthened by tension parallel to
 lines of force, and extinguished perfectly by compression.
    I never obtained this liquid, nor indeed any of the following
 acids, in a state of perfect (optical) purity. After any amount
 of filtering, there were always some visible specks left, solid
 particles apparently of the acid itself, or of some chemically
 homologous matter.
     Caproic acid (n = 6) is distinctly weaker than the last, but
 otherwise hardly distinguishable from it in experiment. As
 a nonconductor, it gave no satisfactory effect in the polariscope.
 Tried as a conductor, with or without the jar, it gave a fino
 restoration, which was very brilliant with strong discharges ;
 and the effect, weak or strong, was always purely positive,
 strengthened by tension, and extinguished by compression.
     Valeric acid (n = 5) acts as a weak photogyre, barely sepa
 rating the red and blue at extinction. Tried as a conductor,
 without the jar, it gave a regular effect, which was merely
 strong enough to be characterized as purely positive. With
the jar it gave a series of brilliant effects, always purely posi
tive by both tests.
    "With either of these three acids, it is easy to obtain a large
 range of optical effects, from very intense to evanescent, in
 one experiment. The jar is well charged, say by twenty turns
of the plate, and the discharging balls are brought at short
 intervals into instantaneous contact, so as to discharge the jar
gradually and discontinuously through the cell. Working in
this way with valeric acid, and with one moderate charge of
the jar, I have counted up to about fifty good restorations in
the polariscope.
    Butyric acid (n = 4), tried as a conductor, but without the
jar, gave an effect which was too faint to be characterized,
showing a distinct fall of power in comparison with the last

164                   Dr. J. Kerr's Electro-optic
acid. With the jar and two turns of the plate, the restoration
was good, though still faint ; with ten or fifteen turns it was
brilliant. The effect was always strengthened by tension
parallel to lines of force, and always extinguished perfectly by
compression.
     Isobutyric acid, examined immediately afterwards in the
same way, acted very similarly, but was apparently stronger.
    Propionic acid (« = 3) showed an additional fall of power—
gave no clear effect without the jar and five or more turns of
the plate. The effect of discharge at every tenth turn was
moderately strong, and was found to be purely positive by
both tests.
    Temperature was observed to have a great influence on the
action of this acid. In one experiment, the initial temperature
happened to be about 0° C, and there was no effect obtained
with less than twenty turns of the plate; but when the cell
was now gently heated by exposure for a minute in front of
the fire, the effect of discharge was certain at every third turn,
and good at every fifth.
     Glacial Acetic acid (h = 2) showed an additional fall of
power. With the jar and ten turns of the plate, it gave an
effect so faint as to be often uncertain. With fifteen turns,
the restoration was clear and regular, though not yet strong.
Tested by the hand-compensator at this or higher power, the
effect was strengthened regularly by tension parallel to linos
of force, but hardly or not at all affected (and certainly not
strengthened) by compression. Acetic acid is seen thus to be
purely positive, and a very weak insulator. The second test
by the hand-compensator (neutralization by the proper strain),
 fails here, as it failed earlier (with Leyden discharges) in the
 series of alcohols.
     Crystallizable Formic acid (n=l) showed a large additional
 fall of' power, with undoubted reversal of sign. Tried with
 plate machine and strongest charges of the jar, it gave an effect
 which was clear and perfectly regular, though very faint and
 abrupt. The light was now restored steadily and very faintly
 from extinction, by permanent strain of the hand-compensator ;
 and the observations were repeated. In the case of compres
  sion parallel to lines of force, the effect was regular and very
  distinct ; the light brightened sensibly for a moment at the
  instant of discharge. In the case of tension parallel to lines
  of force, the effect was not so regular; at the instant of discharge
  the light was sensibly and very abruptly darkened in a few
  instances, never certainly strengthened, and genorallv affected
  merely as by an instantaneous shock, without seizable change of
  intensity. Like results, though hardly so good, were obtained

                 Experiments on various Liquids.            165
afterwards with the Ruhmkorff's coil. Formic acid is there
fore purely negative, but a very weak insulator. It gives no
good effect at temperatures very near the freezing-point ; and
die same remark applies to acetic acid.
   7. Two of the so-called solid acids of the same series were
examined in the fusion-cell, and were found to be negative.
   Palmitic acid (n = 16), a transparent oil at or above G2° C,
acted well as a nonconductor. One turn of the plate gave an
intense restoration, whose purely negative character was very
little disturbed by movements in the liquid. When the tem
perature was little above the point of fusion, and carefully
regulated, the initial extinction was very good without the
neutralizing plate, and there was no trace of disturbance by
currents. One eighth of a turn gave then a good effect which
was purely negative, strengthened by compression parallel to
lines of force, and extinguished by tension.
    Stearic acid (n = 18), a transparent oil at or above 70° C,
acted on the whole as well as the last, though there was rather
 more disturbance by currents. One turn of the plate gave
 always a strong effect which was purely negative, conspiring
 with compression parallel to lines of force, and neutralizing
 tension.
    These results were very unexpected. I therefore tested
 them at some length, working with new samples of the acids,
 the purest that could be obtained, and comparing them suc
 cessively with paraffin and the fats. The facts never varied :
 the two fused acids were always distincth' and purely negative.
                     Other Alcohols and Acids.
    8. Allyl alcohol, C3 H6 HO, is distinctly though not quite
purely negative, and a good deal stronger than ethyl alcohol.
 With good charges of the jar it gave a clear effect, which was
 strengthened by compression parallel to lines of force, and
 weakened almost to extinction by tension. There was always
 some disturbance produced, partly by a feeble photogyric
 action of the liquid, and partly by a special effect of electric
 discharge. The flame was not simply restored in the polari-
 scope by discharge, but was deformed as by an undulatory
 movement in the liquid, and rendered also fibrous or thready
 in appearance. This effect was probably due to heat ; for it
 came out much more strongly afterwards with the Ruhmkorff's
 coil, in which case three separate discharges were sufficient
 to mask the electro-optic action completely by a permanent
 heat-effect.
    Benzyl alcohol, C7 H7 HO, is purely negative. Tried in the
plate cell as a conductor, it gave a faint but good restoration

  166                 Dr. J. Kerr's Electro-optic
  with five turns of the plate, strong with ten turns ; and the
  effect was purely negative.
      Cinnyl alcohol, C9 H, HO, is purely negative. Tried in the
  fusion-cell at a temperature a little above its melting-point,
  33° C, it acted well as a conductor. With ten turns of the
  plate it gave a clear and pretty strong effect, which was found
  to be purely negative by both tests.
      Glycol, (C2 H4)" H2 02, is very feebly and impurely negative.
 This is a very inconvenient liquid to work with, viscous and
 heterogeneous, giving permanent deformations of the flame,
 and impure initial extinction in the polariscope. With strong
  est charges of the jar, it gave a mere trace of effect, which
 appeared to be negative. With the strongest Ruhmkorff-dis-
 charges, the restorations were clearer, and almost perfectly
 regular, but still faint, and obscured by disturbance. The effect
 was pretty surely negative, strengthened sensibly by compres
 sion parallel to lines of force, but not extinguished by tension.
     Glycerin, (C3 Hs)'" H3 03, is certainly, but feebly and im
 purely, negative. As far as I can judge from my samples,
 this liquid is more unsuitable even than glycol for delicate
 optical work. With the Ruhmkorff's coil, it acted better than
glycol, giving very good retorations, notwithstanding great
disturbance produced by the syrupy structure of the plate.
The effect was found to be certainly negative, though the
neutralizing action of tension was not always seized.
    Phenol, C6 H5 HO, is purety positive, in the fusion-cell,
at or above 35° C, it acted well with the plate machine and
without the jar, but required several turns of the plate. There
was generally some optical disturbance by heterogeneous
structure,"and also by movements in the liquid, when the elec
tric force was intense ; but the optical effect was regular and
very distinct, purely positive by both tests.
     Oleic acid, C18 H34 02, is purely and strongly positive. Tried
in the plate cell as a non-conductor, it acted more intensely
than any of the fatty acids—gave a regular and pretty strong
effect, which was strengthened by tension parallel to lines of
force, and extinguished perfectly by compression.
    Lactic acid, C3 H6 03, is apparently positive. Tried with
strongest charges of the jar, and afterwards with the coil, it
gave a regular effect, undoubtedly pure, and pretty surely
positive, but too faint and abrupt to be characterized with
perfect certainty. The liquid was evidently a very weak in
sulator.
                         Oxides, (CH2n+1)20.
    9. The only two of these that have been examined are purely
negative, and much stronger than the corresponding alcohols.

                Experiments on various Liquids.                 167
   Ethyl oxide (purus, P.B.), tried as a conductor with machine
and Leyden jar, gave a good restoration with eight turns of
 the plate, pretty strong with ten turns ; and the effect was
strengthened by compression parallel to lines of force, and
regularly neutralized by tension. With the Ruhmkorff 's coil
aftorwards, there was a good effect obtained even when the
length of the safety spark was reduced to zero ; and the action
of the compensator was as clear as formerly, extinction by the
proper tension being regularly perfect. This liquid is there
fore purely negative, and a great deal stronger than ethyl
alcohol.
   Amyl oxide, tested for insulation in the plate cell, gave a
strong spark {\ inch) from the prime conductor. Tried op
tically as a nonconductor, it acted like the best of the fixed
oils. As soon as the machine was set in motion, there was a
strong effect from extinction, which was neutralized perfectly
by tension parallel to lines of force. Among chemically
definite bodies, I regard this amylic ether as the best negative
dielectric yet discovered.
                        Iodides, C„H2n+,l.
   10. Four of these were examined in the plate cell, first as
nonconductors, but without effect, then as conductors. The
regular effects were disturbed in some degree by photogyric
action, but were all clearly positive.
   Methyl iodide, without the jar, gave a good restoration,
which was too quick to be characterized. With the jar and
five or four turns of the plate, the effect was distinctly positive,
strengthened by tension parallel to lines of force, but not sen
sibly affected by compression.
   Ethyl iodide was of a deep red colour, much darker than the
methyl compound, but otherwise not distinguishable from it
in experiment.
   Butyl iodide, still deeper in colour, and almost opaque,
required the jar and fifteen or more turns of the plate. The
effect was regularly strengthened by tension parallel to lines
of force, but not sensibly affected by compression.
   Amyl iodide was the strongest of the four. With the jar
and three or even two turns of the plate, it gave a clear effect,
which was strengthened by tension parallel to lines of force,
and weakened to extinction by compression.
                      Bromides, CnH2n+iBr.
   11. These are purelypositive,the powers rising as n increases;
and they are distinctly stronger than the corresponding iodides.
   Ethyl bromide, tried as a conductor with the jar, gave a clear

168       Electro-optic Experiments on various Liquids.
but faint restoration with five turns of the plate, strong with
ten turns ; and the effect was purely positive by both tests.
  Propyl bromide, as a conductor, but without the jar, gave a
good effect which was positive by one test, clearly strengthened
by tension parallel to lines of force, but not sensibly affected
by compression. With the jar, one turn of the plate gave a
strong effect, which was purely positive by both tests.
   Isopropyl bromide acted more strongly, giving a clear effect
as a nonconductor. Tried as a conductor, with the jar, it
gave increasingly brilliant restorations with two, five, ten,
or more turns ; and the effect from weak to strongest was
purely positive, strengthened by tension, and extinguished by
compression.
   Butyl bromide, not a very clean sample, was hardly so strong
as the last, giving a mere trace of effect as a nonconductor.
Tried as a conductor, with the jar, it gave a good restoration
with one turn, strong with three turns ; and the effect was
purely positive by both tests.
   Amyl bromide, tried as a nonconductor, was quite inactive
at first, giving no trace of effect in the polariscope, no sen
sible spark from the prime conductor ; but when the machine
had worked for a little time, the optical effect came out
clearly, and was found to bo purely positive. Tried then as
a conductor, with the jar, it gave a splendid restoration with
one turn of the plate. When the jar was detached, well
charged, and again connected for discharge through the cell,
the light flamed up in the polariscope with great brilliancy,
and faded away gradually, remaining visible for sixty or more
seconds. The increase of insulating and electro-optic powers
of the dielectric in the course of this experiment, and in a
few minutes of time, was very remarkable.
                       Chlorides, C„H2n+1Cl.
   12. These are purely positive, and stronger than the bro
mides ; and they show a great increase of power as the expe
riment proceeds.
   Propyl chloride, tried in the plate cell as a nonconductor,
gave at first no trace of effect in the polariscope, no sen
sible spark from the prime conductor. Tried then as a
conductor, it gave a clear and strong restoration at each dis
charge. When the jar was added, one, two, three, or more
turns gave increasingly brilliant effects, which were found to
be purely positive by both tests. When the observations had
been carried on for some time, the liquid was tried again as
a nonconductor. The prime conductor gave now a spark
fully a quarter of an inch long ; and the polariscope gave a

               Researches on Chemical Equivalence.              169
fine effect, purely positive. The final action was at least as
strong as that of amylene. My sample of this liquid was not
very clean ; and the initial extinction was far from pure.
   Butyl chloride was rather weaker than the last, and showed
no great increase of power with time. As a conductor, with
out the jar, it gave a good restoration which was too abrupt
to be characterized ; with the jar and four or five turns of the
plate, it gave a very strong effect, purely positive by both
tests. My sample was not clean ; and the initial extinction
was quite impure.
   Amyl chloride, a very fine optical medium, giving perfect
initial extinction. As a nonconductor, it gave at first no trace
of effect in the polariscope, no spark from the prime conductor.
Tried then as a conductor without the jar, it gave a clear
restoration, too abrupt at first to bo characterized ; but as
the experiment went on, the machine working at a moderate
rate, and discharges passing regularly through the cell, the
restorations in the polariscope rose very gradually in intensity,
till at last the effect was one of the finest that I had ever seen.
 The liquid being now tried again as a non-conductor, the
prime conductor gave a spark more than half an inch long,
and the eleetro-optic action was magnificent, as fine apparently
 as that of CSS. The effect was always strengthened by ten
 sion parallel to lines of force, and always weakened to ex
tinction by the proper compression.
                          [To be continued.]
 XIX. Researches on Chemical Equivalence.—I. Manganous
    and Nickelous Sulphates. By Edmund J. Mills, D.Sc,
    F.R.S., and J. H. Bicket*.
 THE following experiments were conducted with the view
        of determining on what terms manganous and nickelous
 sulphates might prove to be mutually equivalent; and the par
 ticular equivalence we have examined has been equivalent
 precipitability of the sulphates, by sodic carbonate, from an
 aqueous solution.
                    I. Preparation of the Salts.
    The pure manganous sulphate was prepared from the ordi
 nary commercial dioxide. The oxide was dissolved in hydric
 chloride, the solution filtered and evaporated to dryness, the
 residue dissolved in water, and excess of baric carbonate added
                   * Communicated by the Authors.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 80. March 1882.            P

170            Messrs. Mills and Bicket's Researches
to precipitate the iron ; the barium was separated by hydric
sulphate ; and the manganese was precipitated from the solu
tion by means of sodic carbonate. The manganous carbonate
thus obtained was well washed with water, dissolved in hydric
chloride, and baric carbonate again added in order to precipi
tate any remaining traces of iron. After the barium had been
removed with hydric sulphate, the manganese was again thrown
down as carbonate with sodic carbonate. The manganous car
bonate, after being well washed and dried, was roasted ; and the
oxide obtained was washed with dilute hydric nitrate to remove
any sodic salt. As the oxide obtained was very slightly acted
on by hydric sulphate at any temperature or of any strength,
 we could not obtain the sulphate by the direct action of hydric
sulphate on this oxide. The oxide was therefore dissolved in
hydric chloride, the solution evaporated to dryness, and ignited
with excess of strong pure hydric sulphate. This ignition with
hydric sulphate having been repeated, the salt was found to be
 free from all impurities, and quantitative analysis showed it to
be pure anhydrous manganous sulphate.
   The pure nickelous salt was prepared from a sample of
nickelous chloride which contained copper, lime, and iron, but
 no cobalt. The copper present was precipitated with hydric
sulphide ; and the nickel in the filtrate was precipitated by
hydric oxalate in an acid solution. The nickelous oxalate was
washed thoroughly with dilute hydric nitrate, ignited, and the
 oxide so obtained heated with pure hydric sulphate and so
 converted into sulphate.
    The sodic carbonate was prepared by igniting hydrosodic
 carbonate in a double platinum crucible, dissolving in water,
 and reprecipitating with carbonic dioxide, igniting this as
 before, and repeating the operation. The final precipitate was
 dissolved in boiling water to the necessary strength.
        II. Method of separating Nickel from Manganese.
    The method for the separation of manganese from nickel
 that we found to give the most accurate results was that of
 Beilstein and Jawein* for the separation of manganese from
 iron. It consists in evaporating the mixed solutions to dry
 ness, adding strong pure hydric nitrate, heating to boiling,
 and adding potassic chlorate in small quantities at a time.
 The manganese is thus precipitated as pure black oxide; which,
 after filtering and washing free from the nickel that is in solu
 tion, is dissolved in hydric chloride, precipitated with sodic
 phosphate, and ignited and weighed as manganous pyrophos-
                  • Deut. chem. Get. Ber. 1879, p. 1528.

                       on Chemical Equivalence.                   171
phate. The nickel solution is evaporated to dryness (to get
rid of the large excess of acid), dissolved in water, and preci
pitated as sulphide with ammonic sulphide. The sulphide is
then ignited with excess of pure hydric sulphate in an open
porcelain crucible, and weighed as nickelous sulphate.
    In experiments that were tried to ascertain the accuracy of
this method, the following results were obtained :—Two solu
tions, each containing 0*2500 grin, manganous sulphate and
0-2500 grm. nickelous sulphate, were taken ; the manganese
was separated by the method given above, with the following
results: —
         (a) Manganous sulphate obtained . = 0-2506
               Nickelous sulphate                       0-2503
         (6) Manganous sulphate obtained .              0-2497
               Nickelous sulphate                       0-2517
                             Mean                       0-2506
    Having now fixed on the method for separation that was to
 be used, we made up solutions of the salts required.
    For the manganous and nickelous sulphates, 1-per-cent.
 solutions were made. The sodic carbonate solution was of
 5*7151 per cent, strength. It was kept in a stoppered bottle
that had been well coated internally with paraffin.
                  III. A. Conjoint Precipitability,
    A series of nine experiments was made, in which the rela
 tive weights of nickelous or manganous sulphate present
 varied from *1 to "9 grm.,—the total weight of nickelous and
 manganous salt and the volumes of the solution being, how
 ever, always the same, viz. 1 grm. and 100 cub. ccntim. The
 experiments were conducted as follows:—The bottles contain
 ing the solutions of the sulphates and the sodic carbonate were
 immersed in a tank, through which there was a constant flow
 of water from the main to bring them to a constant tempera
 ture. The necessary quantities of nickelous and manganous
 solutions were then carefully measured out, mixed, and the
 temperature observed. 10 cub. centim. of sodic carbonate
 solution were then added, the mixture stirred, and the tempe
 rature again observed. The precipitate was then filtered off
as quickly as possible* (an aspirator being used to facilitate the
filtration) and washed, first with cold and then with hot water.
   * Continued experience with precipitation experiments has convinced
us that our probable error would have been less if we had allowed the
precipitate to stand some time.
                                  P2

172            Messrs. Mills and Bicket's Researches
The washing of the precipitate took a long time ( a maximum
of two days), especially when the nickelous salt was in excess
of the inanganous. After the precipitate had been washed, it
was dissolved in dilute hydric chlorido, and the manganese
and nickel separated and estimated by the method given
above.
   In the course of these experiments we noticed that, (1) if
we kept the clear filtrate in a glass-stoppered bottle for some
time, or boiled it, a further precipitate appeared; and (2) that
the clear filtrate was alkaline to test-paper, turning red litmus
blue.
   The results obtained in these experiments are comprised in
the following table ("temperature ' meaning temperature of
the reagents after mixture) :—
                                  Table I.
     Nickelous     Manganous    Nickelous  Manganous
     salt taken.    salt taken. salt preci  salt preci Temperature.
          n.            m.       pitated.    pitated.
                                    v.           H-
        grm.           grm.        grm.        grm.
        ¦1000          •9000       •0953       •5850       12-9 C.
        ¦2000          •8000       •1852        4616       13-6
        •3000          •7000       •2799       •3766       12-5
        •4000          •0000       •3588       •2976       130
        •5000          •5000       •4305       •24.50      13-6
        •6000          •4000       •4788       ¦1536       128
        •7000          •3000       ¦4991       ¦1089       170
        •8000          •2000       •5584        0722       170
        •9000          •1000       •5841       0363        15-2
                    III. B. Separate Precipitability.
   We next tried the following experiments to determine the
precipitability of manganous and nickelous sulphates when
separate. Four series were undertaken, viz. (1) when the
nickelous salt varied and the sodic carbonate was constant,
 2^ nickelous salt constant and sodic carbonate varying,
 3) manganous salt varying and sodic carbonate constant,
 4) manganous salt constant and sodic carbonate varying.
    (1) Nickelous Salt varies, Sodic Carbonate constant.—The
bottles containing the solutions were brought to a constant
temperature by immersion in a tank of running water. After
the solution of nickelous sulphate had been measured out, it
was made up to 100 cub. cent, with distilled water that bad
been cooled to the same temperature, and then 10 cub. cent,
of the sodic carbonate solution was added, the mixture stirred,

                         on Chemical Equivalence.                       173
and the temperature observed. The precipitate was then fil
tered (with the help of an aspirator), and washed with cold
and afterwards with hot water until the washings showed no
trace of nickel; the precipitate was then dissolved in pure
hydric sulphate, evaporated to dryness, ignited, and weighed
as nickelous sulphate. The results obtained in these experi
ments are given in the following table :—
                              Table II.
   Sodio carbo   Nickelous Nickelous     salt
                                (obtained) Nickelous    salt
     nate taken. salt taken. precipitated.    (calculated) Temperature.
                      X.                      precipitated.
                                    y-
        grm.         grm.          grm.           grm.          o
       0-57151      01050         01015           •1192        5-6 0.
          tt        0-2100        01912           •2139        4-8
          it        05000         0-4084          •3967        73
          i»        0-7100        0-5103          •4856        4-8
          »t        1-0000        0-6550          •5745        5-6
   (2) Nickelous Salt constant, Sodic Carbonate varies.—This
series was conducted in the manner of (1) ; only there was
always the same volume of nickelous sulphate measured out,
viz. 100 cub. cent. To this was added enough distilled water
to make, along with the volume of sodic carbonate to be added,
10 cub. cent. The results thus obtained are given in the fol
lowing table:—
                              Table III.
    Sodic carbo               Nickelous salt Nickelous salt
    nate taken.  Nickelous      (obtained) (calculated) Temperature.
         r.      salt taken.  precipitated. precipitated.
                                    y-
        grm.         grm.          grm.           grm.
      0057151        1-000       0-0300          0 0393         7-8 C.
      0114302        1000        0O798           0O810          81
      0-285755       1-000       0-2311          0-2242         7-9
      0-571510       1-000       0-5438          0-5450         79
   (3) Manganous Salt varies, Sodic Carbonate constant.—The
manganous sulphate was measured out, the solution made up
to 100 cub. cent, with distilled water, and 10 cub. cent, of
sodic carbonate solution added ; the mixture was then stirred,
and the precipitate filtered off", washed, and dissolved in pure
hydric chloride. The manganese was estimated as pyrophos
phate. The results were as follows;—

174           Messrs. Mills and Bicketf s JResearcJies
                                      Table IV.
                                               Manganous
            Sodic carbo       Manganous             salt
            nate taken.        suit taken.      (obtained) Temperature.
                                    ,r.       precipitated.
                                                      y-
                grm.               p*m.            grm.            o
               057151             01050           01039            9-3 C.
                  H              0-2000           01969            93
                  It              0-5000          0-4894          10-1
                  11             0-7100           0-6748          10-1
                  »»              1-0000          0-7500           97
   (4) Manganous Salt constant, Sodic Carbonate varies.—This
series was conducted like series (2). The washed precipitate
was dissolved in hydric chloride and the manganese estimated
as pyrophosphate. The results are given in the following
table:—
                                      Table V.
                                      Manganous | M           ons
   Sodio carbo    Manganous               "It       |     gin
   nate taken.     salt taken.                                     Temperature.
        X.
       grm.           grm.               grm.            grm.
     0057151         1-0000             00400            -0577           7-6 C.
     0114302         1-0000             01145            -1188           7-6
     0-285755        1-0000             0-3558           -3261           78
     0-57151         1-0000             0-7592      |    -7797           9-2
                                      Discussion.
    Conjoint Precipitability.—If n represent nickelous sulphate
taken, and v the carbonate (calculated to sulphate) obtained
from it by precipitation, then <f> in the expression n = <f>y is the
precipitability. Our experiments (Table I.) satisfy the equation
                          <f> = 98570 + -61438 n                                (1)
(which is deduced from all of them), with a probable error of
¦055284 for a single determination, or '018428 for nine de
terminations.
   Similarly, in the case of manganous sulphate (Table II.),
                        4>= 3-0881 - l-7203m ;                                  (2)
with probable error amounting to -088893 and -029631 respec
tively. In both cases, therefore, the precipitability is a linear
function of the mass. The second constants in equations (1)
and (2) present an interesting relation, closely resembling that

                     on Chemical Equivalence.                175
which we have elsewhere* shown to hold good for nickelous
with cobaltous sulphate. Within the limits of error of expe
riment, the second constant in (1) is the reciprocal of the
second constant in (2). The attraction of nickelous sulphate
for the reagent is thus the inverse of that of manganous sul
phate.
   In order to ascertain in what proportions the commixed sul
phates are equally precipitable, we have
             •98570 + -61438 n = 3-0881 - 1-7203 m,
whence
                     m=l-2221--35714«.
   This equation does not admit of solution except on some
further supposition with respect to m or n. Now Table I.
shows that the required values of m or n are very nearly equal
to 0-9, and consequently that equal weights of nickelous and
manganous sulphates are equally precipitable. If, in fact, in
the equation just given we put n = 0*9, we shall find the sub
stantially identical value 0-9007 for m.
   To calculate in what proportions the two sulphates must bo
mixed so that they may give equal weights of precipitate, we
have
                n _ (-98570 + -61438 n)y 1
                m ~ (3-0881- 1-7203 m)n J
                7t=l—m.
           v
Putting - = 1, and combining these equations, wo obtain a
quadratic, one of whose solutions is m = -6215, and conse
quently v="3785. Substituting these values in the primitive
equations, we find /*=-3086, v = "3107—very nearly equal
weights.
   Separate Precipitation.—In cases of precipitation of a single
salt, if x be the weight of reagent taken, y the weight of pre
cipitate obtained, and «, /3 constants of condition, some form
of the relation
                          *=rfe                              <3)
is ordinarily valid. The sign of /3 is necessarily positive; but
the sign of a depends upon the order of constancy in precipi
tation. The equation can obviously apply only as long as
^=^is=or>l. There are very few instances in which, as when
sodic chloride acts on argentic nitrate in a weak solution, the
                   • Proc. Boy. Soc. xxix. 181.

176           Researches on Chemical Equivalence.
value of a vanishes and /3 represents an undisturbed combining
proportion.
   In Table II. we have stated the result of acting upon a con
stant quantity of sodic carbonate with a varied amount of
nickelous sulphate. The equation employed in the calculation,
all experiments being taken into account, is
                              1-2816a
                         y~l + l-2308.r                       W
Probable error of a single experiment, •014915. Applying
the criterion as to <f>, wo notice that the equation cannot actu
ally hold good until .r=-2288, though the difference between
theory and experiment is not great before that stage.
   On the other hand, when (Table III.) nickelous salt is kept
constant and sodic carbonate is the varied precipitant, we have
                          _ -66641a-
                        y-l--52700*'                          W
with a probable error -0046138 for a single experiment.
Similarly, when carbonate is constant and manganous salt
varies (table IV.),
                              2- 7486 a-
                         y~ 1 + 2-6648.*'                     (b>
an equation which is not rational until .r = -6562, and has
therefore been necessarily calculated from the last two expe
riments only.
    Again, when manganous salt is constant and carbonate
varies (Table V.),
                              •98103*
                         y~ 1--49146.*'                       V>
the probable error of a single experiment being -015742.
   If in equation (3) we put <f>= -, we shall find that
                                     y
                               1 + CtX
                          4>=
a relation which, when we adopt other constants, may be ex
pressed as follows :—
                          <f>=a + bx.
 Hence the precipitability equation is, as we have already seen,
a linear one.
   The equation to <p, as thus deduced from the separate preci
pitation experiments [<£,], differs in its constants from that to
which the "conjoint" experiments [<£,.] have led us. The

       Messrs. Mills and Hunt on Chemical Equivalence.     177
two equations are apparently related thus
                     tf>c=:a + bj;,
where p is some constant to be deduced from the determina
tions. We find, in the case of manganous sulphate, that these
relations do in fact hold accurately ; but the results with
nickelous sulphate are not in definite accordance with them.
We trust on some future occasion to resume the consideration
of this subject, which is of primary importance in the theory
of precipitation.
   The equations of separate precipitability (as deduced from
the separate precipitation experiments) are
                     <£m= -36383 + -9G951m,       .... (8)
                      0. =-78027 + -95815 n                 (9)
Here there is no reciprocal relation between the second con
stants, which are indeed identical within the limits of experi
mental error. We infer from these numbers that manganous
and nickelous sulphates, when separate, are equally precipi-
table.
   The following are the chief conclusions which we have
drawn from our work.
    1. Precipitability is a linear function of mass.
    2. When commixed manganous and nickelous sulphates are
precipitated by sodic carbonate, equal weights of them are
 equally precipitable, the attraction of one of them for the
 reagent being the inverse of that of the other.
    3. When the above sulphates are separately precipitated by
 the same reagent, they are equally precipitable, and do not
 exhibit the inverse function.
    4. There is some evidence that the precipitabilities of the
 commixed and separate sulphates are mathematically related
 in a simple manner.
    5. Within moderate limits, precipitation is not traceably
 affected by temperature.
 XX. Researches on Chemical Equivalence.—II. Nickelous and
     Cadmic Sulphates. By Edmund J. Mills, D.Sc, F.R.S.,
    and Bertram Hunt*.
 WE propose to consider a case in which a metallic sul
          phate belonging to some other group is compared
 with nickelous sulphate (the previously employed standard),
 sodic carbonate being the precipitant. For this purpose we
 have selected cadmic sulphate—partly because it admittedly
                   * Communicated by the Authors.

 178             Messrs. Mills and Hunt's Researches
fulfils the required condition, and partly because it neverthe
less has some strong analogies with the nickel group.
                      I. Preparation of the Salts.
   Pure cadmic sulphate was prepared from an excellent com
mercial sample, the only impurity in which was a small quan
tity of zinc sulphate. From an acidified aqueous solution
of the sample, cadmic sulphide was thrown down by hydric
sulphide. The washed sulphide was then dissolved in pure
hydric sulphate, and rendered neutral by careful ignition.
   1-per-cent. solutions of each of these salts were accurately
prepared. The sodic carbonate solution was prepared and
treated as in Part I.*
              II. Separation of Nickel from Cadmium.
  From a solution of the mixed chlorides, cadmic sulphide was
precipitated as sulphide ; this was washed, dissolved in strong
hydric chloride, evaporated with hydric sulphate, ignited and
weighed as sulphate. The filtrate and washings were also
evaporated with hydric sulphate ; the ignited residue was
weighed as nickelous sulphate.
                  III. Precipitability Experiments.
   The solution of pure sodic carbonate was of such a strength
that 1 cub. cent, of it exactly corresponded (Na2 03 : CdS04)
to 1 cub. cent, of the cadmic solution. The usual series of nine
experiments was made, under the same general conditions as in
Part I.—the constant weight of mixed metallic sulphates being
1 grm., and volume of their solution 100 cub. cent., the constant
volume of carbonate solution being 100 cub. cent. The preci
pitates were in all cases allowed one hour's repose ; they were
then filtered as rapidly as possible with the aid of an aspirator,
and washed with cold water. The results are given in the
following table, the precipitate being returned as sulphate:—
     Nickelous       Cadmic        Nickelous      Cadmic
      sulphate      sulphate        sulphate     sulphate Temperature.
       taken.        taken.      precipitated. precipitated.
          n.           d.              v.
          •9            •1            •5705        •0810       7 0 C.
          •8            •2            •5351        •1823       70
         •7             ¦3            ¦4477        •2763      10-4
          •6            •4            •3875        •3546      12-0
         •5             •5            •3295        ¦4807       9-6
         '4             ¦6           •2563         •5937      100
         •3             •7           •1876         •6990      10-5
         •2             •8           •1358         •8010      10-7
         ¦1             •9            0692         •9037      11-3
                           • For Part I, see ante, p. 169,

                    on Chemical Equivalence.                  179
                          IV. Discussion.
   The precipitability of nickelous sulphate being, asheretofore,
represented by <f> — -, we find our experiments in accordance
 with the equation
                        0=1-53106                             (1)
 Probable error of a single experiment, '034802; of nine expe
 riments, -011(501.
    In a similar manner, the precipitability of cadmic sulphate,
      g, proves to be
                    </>= 1-19462 --25763 d                    (2)
 Probable error of a single experiment, -025793; of nine expe
 riments, -008598.
    In order to ascertain under what conditions the two sul
 phates are equally precipitable, we must have
                  l-19462--25763rf=l-53106,
 which leads to —1-3059 as the value of d. To this negative
 result no chemical interpretation can be assigned. We con
 sequently infer that, in these experiments, nickelous and cadmic
 sulphates are not comparable in point of precipitability.
    To calculate in what proportions the sulphates should bo
 mixed in order to yield equal weights of precipitate, we must
 solve the quadratic
                n_          1-53106 v
                d (1-19462- -25763 rf)S'
                n = l-8-
                        y
 [The condition gives g = 1 ] • The deduced values are d = -4153
and n=-5847. Inserting these quantities in the primitive
 equations, we obtain v=8=-3819, a result evidently in ac
 cordance with experiment.
    Our present inference with regard to the precipitability of
 nickelous-cadmic salt will lead (if confirmed by the action of
 reagents other than sodic carbonate) to the following important
criterion:— Two elements belong to the same group ivhen, in
saline solutions of identical genus, they may be equally preci
pitable.

                              [  180    ]
XXI. Chemical Symmetry, or the Influence of Atomic Arrange
   ment on the Physical Properties of Compounds. By Thomas
   Carnelley, D.Sc, Professor of Chemistry in Firth College,
   Sheffield.
                       [Concluded from p. 130.]
II. Influence of Atomic Arrangement on the Solubility.
 W"E have seen that those compounds whose atoms are
          symmetrically arranged melt higher than those in
which the arrangement is asymmetrical. Now let us see if
there are not other physical properties which vary in this
respect in the same way as the melting-point.
   All bodies are acted on by at least two forces; one of which
is the attraction between the molecules, and the other (viz.
heat) tends to drive them apart. When the first force is in
excess of the second, the body is solid ; when the second is in
excess, the body is a gas ; when the two are about equally
balanced, the body is liquid. Therefore the greater the attrac
tion between the molecules the greater the temperature re
quired to melt the body, and consequently the higher the
melting-point. Having come to this conclusion, let us see if
there are not other physical properties which depend on the
attraction between the molecules, and which hence ought to
be affected by symmetry of arrangement of the atoms in the
molecule in the same way as the melting-point.
    The first of such properties which suggests itself is solubility.
In order that a solid may dissolve in any liquid, it is necessary
that its molecules should undergo a sort of unloosening process;
and we should therefore conclude that, of two isomeric com
pounds, that would dissolve the most easily in which the
atttraction between the molecules was the least, and which
would therefore, as shown above, have the lowest melting-
point. This argument shows, then, that of two isomeric
bodies that dissolves the most easily which has the lower melting-
point, and in which therefore the atomic arrangement is less
symmetrical.
    Let us now apply this rule in a few cases, and sec whether
 symmetrical compounds are less soluble than their asymme
 trical isomers. The following instances were taken quite pro
 miscuously from Watts's ' Dictionary,' and are all that were
 tried, whether agreeing or not with the rule. The numbers
 in the third column represent the order of solubility; whilst
 the melting-point is taken as a measure of the symmetry: —

            On the Influence of Atomic Arrangement.                                181
                                                       1
                                  Melting- solubility.;
                                           Order of i              t>     i
                                   point.                          Remarks.
 Diphenyl ben- \    (1.2 or 1.3)      85        1        \ In alcohol, ether, CS2
lene.C.HjPhJ                (1.4)    205        2        J or 06H6.
 Phthalic acid,!           fl.2 175             ?
  C6H,(COOH)J             \ 1.3 a300            1        | In alcohol or water.
                            .1.4 does not       2
                                    melt.
 Dinitrobenzene, ]         fl.3       89        1
                             1.2     118        o          1 In alcohol, benzene,
                             1.4     171        3(?) | or chloroform.
                       r 1.3.4 126              1              The melting-points
 Dichlorbenzoic acid,       1.2.3                            are for the free acids,
   C6H3.CL,.0OOH        or 1.2.5 } 156          2            the solubilities for the
                       L 1-2.4 201              3             barium salts in water.
 Chlorbenzoic aoid, 1        1.2 137            1
   C6HvCl.COOH J - [1.4      1.3 152            2           • In water.
                                     234
                            '1.2     147        1        ¦
Brombenzoic acid, "1         1.3
  C,H4.Br.0OOH J- [1.4               155        2           ¦ In water.
                                     250        a
Nitrobenzoic acid, \       ri.2      143*       1
 C,HJ.Jf02.COOH/- " [1.4     1.3     142        2              In water.
                                     240        3
 Tiitrobrombenzoic acid, f 1.2.5     140        1
   06H3J)fO2.Br.0OOH \ 1.2.3         250        2        J- In water.
 Amidobenzoic acid,        ri.2      144        1
    C0HJ.NH,.COOH            1.3
                          ' .1.4     173        2           • In water.
                                     186        3
<U+2666>Oxybenzoic acid, 1        [1.2      156        2
 CA.OH.COOH/ - ' .1.4         1.3    200        ?         | In water.
                                     210        1
 Methoxybenzoio aoid,        1.2      99        1
   C6H4.OCH3.COOH            1.3     106        1           ¦ In water.
                             1.4     175        3
•Oxybrombenzoic acid, / 1.2.5        164        2
   C,H4.Br.OH.COOH \ 1.2.3           219        1        | In water.
 Pyridine monocarboxylic
    acids:—
                                     135        1
                                     228        2         J In water.
 Pyridine dicarboxylic       f^      237        1
                                     243        o        j In water.
                                     245        8

 182      Dr. Carnelley on the Influence of Atomic Arrangement
                              Table (continued).
                                    Melting- Order of           Remarks.
                                      point. solubility.
                                          Amide.         Ba salt. Pb salt.
    tToluene sulphonic       Jf 1 3   108
                                      136        2
                                                  1         1
                                                            2
     acids, C6HrCH3.S03H              154        3          3        1 H
    Isostilbene, CH, = C(C„H,)., .. Liquid.       1       | In alcohol.
    Stilbene, C,H5.CH = CH.C,H, 120               2
    Ditolyl,             / 1.2; 1.4 Liquid.       1      J In alcohol.
   CH3.C,H4.C(1H4.CII., \ 1.4; 1.4 121            2
                       f(—              75        1      1
                                      164         2       V In alcohol.
                       [{»-?-)        187        3       J
    Phenanthrene                      100        1       J In alcohol.
                                      213        2
    Dinitrophenyl ...    1.4P1.4       93        1       J In alcohol.
                                      213        2
III. Influence of Atomic arrangement on the Heats of
                     Formation and Combustion.
    We may compare the union of two or more atoms in the
formation of a compound to the falling of a stone to the earth.
The further the stone falls, the greater the amount of heat
evolved on its being suddenly stopped; and tbe nearer the
stone gets to the centre of the earth, the greater the attraction
between the stone and the earth, and therefore the greater the
force required to raise the stone—t. e. to separate it from the
earth. In an analogous manner, the greater the heat produced
in the formation of a compound from its elements, the greater
its stability, and the greater therefore the force required to
separate the atoms.
    Again, if a stone falls halfway towards the earth's centre
and afterwards falls the remaining half, then the heat given
out at the second half of its journey would be less than in the
   f The solubilities of the amides, Ba salts, and Pb salts of the three
toluene-sulphonic acids obey the rule as regards the melting-point of the
amides, the 1.4 amide, however, melts lower than the 1.2. It therefore
 seems probable that the orientation of the toluene sulphonic acids is
incorrect.

            on the Physical Properties of Compounds.           183
second part of the journey of a stone which had first fallen
only one quarter of the way towards the earth and afterwards
fell the remaining three quarters. For a stone falling from a
given height to the centre of the earth can only produce one
given quantity of heat ; and if it divides its fall into two parts,
then the greater the amount of heat produced at the end of the
first portion of its fall the less will be the amount produced in
the second part of the fall.
    And so it is in the formation of chemical compounds. Sup
pose we have a compound of carbon and hydrogen; this, on
complete combustion, gives out a fixed and definite quantity of
heat, say 3x. If now, instead of being completely burnt to car
bonic acid and water, the process stops at an intervening
point with the formation of two isomeric compounds A and B,
and if x units have been evolved in the formation of A and
2x units in the formation of B, then the heat evolved by the
further complete combustion of A and B will be 2x and x
respectively; i. e. of two isomeric compounds, the one which
has the greatest heat of formation will have the least heat of
combustion, and vice versa. We have also seen, that the greater
the heat evolved in the formation of a compound from its ele
ments the greater is the attraction between its atoms, and
therefore the higher the melting-point. So that, of two iso
meric compounds, that which has the highest melting-point
will also have the greatest heat of formation and least heat of
 combustion.
    Now though isomeric compounds, as a rule, have nearly the
same heat of formation, and therefore of combustion, yet they
are not exactly the samu in this respect. This being so, what
 is it. that causes the difference, small though it may be ? The
 cause can be nothing but the difference in the arrangement
of the atoms in the two compounds. And from a comparison
 of all available data, which in this respect are very meagre,
I venture to conclude
    (1) TlwZ the stability, and tlierefore the heat offormation, of
symmetrical compounds (and therefore those xcith highest melting-
points) is greater than that of asymmetrical compounds isomeric
 with them.
    If this be true, it will follow
    (2) That the heats of combustion of the former compounds
are less than those of the latter.
    The following table contains all the examples to which the
above hypothesis can at present be applied:—

      184      Dr. Carnelley on the Influence of Atomic Arrangement
                                                             Melting Heat   of Heat of
                                        Formula.              point forma-     combus
                                                                      tion, tion.
 Salicylic acid .      (1.2)                                   155     100
 Metoxybenzoic acid (1.3)                                      200     111
 Paraoxybenzoic acid (1.4)                        COOH         ¦210    11.-*
 Isopropylenic glycol            CH3.CH(OH).CHi.OH
 Methylal                        OH3.O.CHrO.CH3
 Normal propylenic glycol .      OH.OH2.CHa.CH;i.OH
 AUyl alcohol                      CR, : CH.CH2.OH                       ?
 Propyl aldehyde .                 CH3.CH,.COH                          no*
 Acetone                           CH3.C0.~CH,                          t>5
 Mannito                     CH2(OH).(CH.OH)<.CHa(OH)          10(i    2>7
                                                                       ¦2'M
 Dulcite ..                                ?                   185
 Methyl formate                       H.COOCH,               Liquid.
 Acetic acid                          CH..CO.OH                 17
 Ethyl acetate                    CH3.CO.OCH2.CH,            Liquid.
 Butyrio acid . .                       ,CH—COOH                0
*Methyl acetate .                   CHrCO.OCH,
<U+2666>Ethyl formate .                    H.COOCH2.CH3
 Methyl valerate              CH3.CH2.CH:l.CH,COOCH3
 Ethyl butyrate..             CH3.CH,.CHrCOOCH.1.CH3
 Amyl acetate                   COO'          CH ,.CH ..CfT,
 Ethyl valerate .               CH,.'         Co6.CH2.<
 Normal propyl alcohol             CH3.CH2.CH,.OH
 Isopropyl alcohol                 CH3.CH(OH).CH3
 Isoamyl alcohol             P23\CH.CHrCH2.0H                Liquid.
 Dimetbylethyl carbinol        ^>0(OH).CH2.CH3                  12
 Ethylvinyl carbinol .       CH3.CH2.CH(OH).CH = CH2
 Valeraldehyde               CH^>0H_CH~C0H

            on the Physical Properties of Compounds.        185
    These relations as regards the heats of formation and
combustion of isomeric compounds are thrown out merely as
suggestions; for the data are so extremely few in number that
I should not be justified in doing more.
    I may here mention that Julius Thomsen has shown that
the determination of the heat of combustion will in many
cases enable us to say whether two or more carbon atoms are
united by single, double, or more linkings. Thus, he has
shown that ethane is CH3—CH3, and propane CH3 . CH2 . CH3,
i. e. that their carbon atoms are united by single links only ;
whilst in ethylene and propylene two carbon atoms are con
nected by double linkings, thus, CH2=CH2, and CH2=
CH . CH3 ; whereas in acetylene the two carbon atoms are
bound by treble linkings, CHsCH. Thomsen also concluded,
from the heat of combustion, that the six carbon atoms in ben
zene are not bound by three double and three single linkings,
thus,
                                  I
                                c
                               ^ \
                           -c       c-
                             X      X
                           -c       c-
                               V
                                  I
 but by nine single linkings, thus:—
                         -H.(f XCH-
                         -HC        Ah-
                                !
 Bruhl, however, as we shall see presently, concludes from the
specific refraction of benzene that the old view is the correct
one.
     rv. Influence of Atomic Arrangement on Optical
                            Rotation.
    According to Pasteur (Researclies, p. 27), molecules are
divisible into two classes:—(1) those in which the atoms are
symmetrically arranged, (2) those in which the arrangement
is asymmetrical. The property of optical activity belongs to
the latter class only; and Le Bel has proposed the hypothesis
that when a carbon atom is united directly with four different
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 80. March 1882.        Q

186    Dr. Carnelley on the Influence of Atomic Arrangement
elements or radicals, an asymmetrical form of molecule is pro
duced, which must therefore be optically active. This view is
supported by Van t'Hoff (Bull. Soc. Chinu [2] xxiii. p. 295),
who finds, from the comparison of the chemical composition
of all known active and many inactive bodies:—(1) That every
organic combination which rotates the plane of polarized light
contains an atom of asymmetrical carbon. The converse of this
law, however, does not hold good. This may be attributed
either to the presence of two isomerides of opposite rotatory
power, or to the fact that asymmetrical carbon is not of itself
sufficient to produce optical activity, which may also depend
on the nature, as well as on the mutual diversity, of the atoms
attached to the asymmetrical carbon atom. The follow
ing compounds are all optically active, and all contain an
asymmetrical carbon atom, which for distinction is printed in
black type:—
Lactic acid                  CH3.CH(OH).COOH.'
Malic acid                   COOH.CH2.CH(OH).COOH.
nialamide                    (CONH2).CH2.CH(OH).COOH.
Aspartic acid                COOH.CH2.CH(NH2).COOH.
Asparagine                    (CONH2).CH2.CH(NH2).COOH.
Tartaric acid                 COOH.CH(OH).CH(OH).COOH.
Tartaramide                  (CONH2).CH(OH).CH(OH).(CONHs).
Secondary butyl carbinol. . .CH3.CH2.CH(CH3).CHs(OH).
Methylethylacetic acid . . .CH3.CH2.CH(CH3).COOH.
Hydroxygratamc acid          COOH.CHs.CH2.CH(OH).COOH.
Glutamic acid                COOH.CH2.CH2.CH(NHs).COOH.
Secondary butyl acetic acid.CH3.CH2.CH(CH3).CH,.COOH.
Mannitol*                    GH2(OH).(CH.OH),.CH2(OH).
Glucose                      CHs(OH).(CH.OH)4.COH.
Saccharic acid               COOH^CH.OH^.COOH.
Phenylhydroxyacctic acid..C6H6.CH(OH).COOH.
   (2) Derivatives of optically active combinations lose their rota
tory power ichen the asymmetry of their carbon atoms disappears.
 When the contrary happens they do not generally lose it.
   These facts will in the future, no doubt, render great service
in determining the constitution of optically active chemical
compounds.

            on the Physical Properties of Compounds.         187
   V. Influence of Atomic Arrangement on Molecular
                          Refraction.
                                               A— 1
   The molecular refraction of an element =—^— x M; where
A = the index of refraction, d = specific gravity, and M =
molecular weight.
   Now Bruhl has recently shown, in a most important series
of papers, that the molecular refraction of a compound con
taining polyatomic atoms is dependent on the manner in which
these atoms aro combined in the compound, whilst that of
monatomic elements is quite independent of this.
   The atom of a given element has a definite refractive equi
valent, which it retains in all those compounds in which there
are no double linkings ; so that the refraction-equivalent of
such a compound is equal to the sum of the refraction-equiva
lents of its constituent atoms ; consequently, if we know the
refraction-equivalents of each of the constituent atoms, we can
readily calculate that of the compound. Thus, the refraction-
equivalents of the following elements are:—
                H = l-29; 0 = 2-71;      C = 4-86;
and therefore the refraction-equivalent of alcohol, CH3.CH2.OH,
which contains only single linkings, is
              (2 x 4-86) + (6 x 1-29) + 2-71 =20-17.
But we find that, in the case of those compounds containing
double linkings between carbon atoms, the observed refrac
tion-equivalent is always in excess of the calculated quantity,
as shown in the table, p. 188.
   Here we see that, for every double linking of carbon atoms,
the refraction-equivalent is raised by two units.
   Bruhl has also shown that a similar thing holds good in the
case of other polyatomic elements besides carbon. Thus,
oxygen, when combined with carbon by a double linking, as
in acetic acid, CH3 . C—OH, has a higher refraction-equiva-
                       0
lent (3'29) than when combined with only a single link, as in
alcohol, CH3 . CH3 . OH, viz. 2-71.
   Monatomic elements, on the other hand, possess refractive
equivalents which are constant in all their compounds. The
above will show at once what an important influence the
 double or single linking of atoms has on the refractive equiva
                                Q2

        188     Dr. Carnelley on tJie Influence of Atomic Arrangement
                                                       Molecular
                                                        refraction-
                                                For equivalent, j Differ No.      of double!
                             Structure.        mula.                    ence. linking?  X2
                                                                              = difference. I
                                                               Calcu
                                                      Found. lated.
  Propyl alcohol         CH3.CH2.CH;i.OH       03H8O|  28 00   27-61    0-39 {No    double
                                                                                 linkings.
  Amylene             CH3.CH3.OH,.OH = CH,      C,H„   39-29   3720     209 =1X2=2
  Diallyl           CH, = CH.CH2.CH2.CH = CH    C„H,   45-99   42 06    3-93 =2x2=4
  Valerylene         CH2 = CH.CH2.CH = CH,      C,HS   38-65    34-62 j 4-03 =2x2=4
                   .          HO—CH
                              /      %
  Benzene .        1        HC       CH         0«HS 4216 36-90 1 5-26 I =3x2=6
                   I         ^H=C^
                              HC-CH
   Toluene .               HC        C—CH,      C7H8 5006 44-34 5-72           =3x2=6
                              CH=rfl
                           CH:1
                              No—c
! Mesitylene.                 C      C-CH,      0,H,, 6522 59-22 6-00           =3x2=6
                               \ /
                                C=CH,
                           CH^
          lents of compounds, and also what great service the knowledge
          of refraction-equivalents is capable of rendering in the deter
          mination of the constitution of compounds.
                    VI. Influence of Atomic Arrangement on
                                       Fluorescence.
             Till within a few years ago, the number of bodies known
          which possessed fluorescing properties was very small. And
          it is only with the advance of the manufacture of coal-tar
          colours, and the investigations to which this advance has given
          rise, that a large number of fluorescing compounds has become
          known to us ; so that the phenomenon of fluorescence has
          nowadays ceased to be a rarity. Up to the present, however,
          but little has been done in tracing any connexion between this
          property and the chemical constitution of the bodies exhibiting
          it. There can nevertheless be no doubt that it is dependent
          on a certain grouping of atoms—-just as the tinctorial proper
          ties are dependent on special atomic groupings, as pointed out
          by 0. N. Witt, to which I shall shortly refer.
             Quite recently, Liebermann (Ber. xiii. p. 913) has made

            on the Physical Properties of Compounds.         189
an attempt to refer the fluorescent phenomena of the anthra
cene series to the chemical constitution of the members of this
series. According to him, those derivatives fluoresce in which
the two carbon groups binding together the two benzene rings
possess the constitution C0 H/'j       ^C6 H4 (where M = a mon-
atomic element or group); whilst those derivatives which contain
the double ketone group C« H^z9^C4 H4, or the group corre-
spending to it inphenylanthracene, f!„ H^^^Q___^^>Ot TT([
do not Jluoi-esce. This rule he finds to hold good in the case
of all the 60 to 70 compounds to which it can at present be
applied ; thus:—
                           Fluorescent.
   Anthracene                          CeH4<^>C,H4.
   Dichloranthracene                   CeH^1 xCH
                                             C1<^>C6HSC1.
   Trichloranthracene                       X^^^^X*.
   Dibromanthracene                               „
   Tetrachloranthracene                           „
   Anthracene sulphonic acid ... C6H4<^       CH \C6H3.S03H.
   a-anthracene disulphonic acid            Xlv/OH\
                                                 . /X*.
                                                VK
   ^-anthracene disulphonic acid                  „
                                &c.             &c.
                           Non-fluorescent.
   Anthraquinone                           C6H4<^qq^>C6H4.
                                                   CO
   Anthraquinone sulphonic acid ... C6H4<^qq^C0H3.SO3H.
   Oxyanthraquinone                               CO
                                           C6H4<^q^>C6H3.OH.
   Alizarine                               C6H3.OH<^q>C8H3.OH.
                                   &c.
                 * Constitution of X and X, unknown.

190     Dr. Carnelley on the Influence of Atomic Arrangement
    The strength of the fluorescence is very different for different
memhers of the fluorescing series. Thus, ^-anthracene disul-
phonic acid is strongly fluorescent, whilst the «-acid is but
slightly so.
       VII. Influence of Atomic Arrangement on the
                     Tinctorial Properties.
    The influence of chemical constitution on the tinctorial pro-
  erties of compounds has been studied more especially by Otto
'viVitt (Ber. ix. p. 522), whose more important conclusions
may be briefly stated as follows :—
    Since benzene is not a dye-stuff, it follows that colouring-
properties are conditioned by the side chains. Of the three
side chains, N02, NH2, OH, not one of them alone is capable
of producing a compound possessing tinctorial properties ; for
C6H6.N02, O.H..NH,, C.H..OH are all colourless bodies.
It is possible, however, that certain combinations of two or
more of these groups will produce the necessary result ; thus,
of the six possible compounds,
      N0.2       N02        NO,        NHa        NH2         OH
             /\         /\         /\         /\          /N
             V          V          V          V           V
                 NH,        OH         NHa        OH          OH
only 2 and 3 are dye-stuffs. We therefore see that the combi
nation of the nitro-group with the amido-, or hydroxyl groups,
produces a colouring compound ; or, in other words, the pre
sence of a N02 and a salt-forming group conditions the dyeing
properties. The nitro-derivatives of benzene are to a certain
extent coloured ; but it is only on the introduction of a salt-
 forming radical that we got a true dye-stuff. That to obtain a
 dye-stuff the presence of a N02 group and a salt-forming
 radical is necessary, is shown by the fact that if we destroy
 the basicity of an amido-group by the introduction of an acetyl
 group, or if we destroy the acidity of a hydroxyl group by
introducing a methyl group, tho compound entirely loses its
colouring-properties, though by these changes no alteration
has been produced in the general constitution of the com
pound. Thus

               on the Physical Properties of Compounds.                 191
         NO,              N02                    NO,             NO,
    /\               /\
         NH2              N(C2H30)2              OH             OCH3
    Dye-stuff.        Colourless.           Dye-stuff.       Colourless.
   If, however, we methjlate the NH2 group of nitro-aniline,
we do not destroy its tinctorial properties, because we do not
at the same time destroy its basicity. Thus
                                                 NO,
                        NH2
              Basic, and dye-stuff.    Basic, and dye-stuff.
   From such considerations as these Witt has enunciated the
following laws:—
   (1) The tinctorial properties of aromatic compounds are con
ditioned by the simultaneous presence of a colour-imparting
group (such as a nitro-group) and of a salt-forming group
(such as NH2 or OH group).
   The colouring group he terms the chromophor ; and a com
pound containing a chromophor, and in which a salt-forming
radical is still wanting for the formation of a dye-stuff, he calls
a chromogen: thus N02 is the chromophor of Ca H4.N02.NH2
and C6 H4 . N02 . OH, whilst C6 H5 . N02 is the chromogen of
both compounds.
   Further, the tinctorial properties increase with the number
of N02 groups present ; thus, the nitrodiphenylamines are all
acids and dye-stuffs, and their dyeing-power increases with the
number of N02 groups.
   Again, azobenzene, C6 H, . N = N . C H5, though of a dark
yellow colour, is not a dye-stuff ; nor is benzidine,
                         NH2.C6H4.C6C4.NH2,
though it is a strong base ; but as soon as we combine the
properties of the two, by introducing into the latter compound
the chromophor — N=N— , or a salt-forming group into the
former, we get a series of beautiful dye-stuffs.

192    Dr. Carnelley on the Influence of Atomic Arrangement.
   Another point observed by Witt is
    (2) Hie chromophor exerts its tinctorial influence much more
in the salts of a dye-stuff than when the latter is in the free
state.
    Thus, nitraniline, nitrophenol, and picric acid, when pure,
are pale yellow, whilst their salts are dark orange and some
times red.
    Again,
   (3) Of two dye-stuffs, both possessing in other respects a similar
constitution, that has the highest tinctorial power whose salts are
the most stable.
    Since most d}re-stuffs owe their basicity or acidity to the
presence of the NHa or OH group, each chromogen may give
rise to two colouring compounds. All dye-stuffs, therefore,
may be arranged in pairs; and it is worthy of notice that cor
 responding dye-stuffs always have a similar colour. Thus,
  Nitr°Pheno1          C6H4 .N02 . OH              1
  Nitroaniliue         C6H4.N02.NHs                J      8   J
  Picricacid           C6Hs.(N02),.OH              > ^
  Trinitraniline ...   C6H2.(N02)3.NH3             J
 Amidoazobenzene       NH2 . C6 H4 . N=N . C0 H5 1 ,cjjow
  Oxyazobenzene...     OH.C,H4.N=KC,H((            J )C °W'
  Totramidotetrazotriphenyl                        \ j)rown
  Tetroxytetrazotriphenyl                          J
  Rosaniline
                                                   | red.
  Bosolic acid
  Dioxvanthraquinone or alizarin                   )     ,      . , .
        .            ,                              f red or violet.
  Diamidoanthraquinone                             J
    All the compounds referred to above (except the two anthra-
 quinone derivatives) contain a nitrogenous chromophor. The
 dye-stuffs of anthraquinone, however, show that a carbon
 group may be a chromophor. Neither anthraquinone nor
 dioxyanthracene are dye-stuffs ; whilst a combination of both,
 viz. alizarin or dioxyanthraquinone, is a powerful colouring
 agent. The double (—CO—) group is therefore the chromo
 phor of alizarin and the related dye-stuffs. These compounds
 also lose their colouring-properties on the introduction of
 methyl into the hydroxyl groups. If wo increase the salt-
 forming power of alizarin by introducing more hydroxyl
groups, or by nitration or amidation, we also increase the
tinctorial properties. Further, in alizarin and the related

              Apparatus for calculating Efficiency.            193
dye-stuffs, one of the hydroxyl groups must be in the ortho-
position us regards the (—CO—) group in order that the
compound may he a dye-stuff. For there are numerous iso
mers of alizarin, but most of them are colourless, only qui-
nizarin and xarithopurpurin possessing tinctorial properties;
and in these, as well as in alizarin, one of the HO groups is
in the ortho-position, thus :—
                                                  OH
                               Quinizarin.       Xanthopurpurin.
                             m.p. = 200.          m.p. = 184.
   In the above sketch I have endeavoured to give a brief
account of the more important facts which have come to light
during late years in reference to the influence of chemical
constitution on the physical properties of organic compounds.
   I had intended saying something of this influence of atomic
arrangement on the specific volume of compounds and also on
the chemical activity, or the susceptibility of certain elements
or groups of elements in a compound being replaced by other
elements or groups of elements ; but my remarks have already
attained more than sufficient length, and to do these latter
subjects full justice would require the space of another paper.
 XXII. Apparatus for calculating Efficiency. By C. Vernon
    Boys, A.R.S.M., Demonstrator of Physics at the Normal
    School of Science, South Kensington*.
                             [Plate V.].
 IN a previous paper I have shown how work done in an
      engine or transmitted by shafting or belting, or ex
pended by an electric current, or how the quantity of elec
tricity which has passed in a conductor during any time, may
 be automatically measured and integrated or recorded. The
 present paper refers to apparatus for dividing rates of growth
   * Communicated by the Physical Society, having been read at the
Meeting on January 28, 1882.

 194               Mr. C. V. Boys on Apparatus
 of two integrals so found one by the other, and continuously
 recording the quotient. Before describing any of these
 machines, it may be well to give an example showing an ap
 plication of a divider to sonio useful purpose. Let there be a
 steam-engine driving a dynamo-electric machine, which is
 employed to produce an electric light. Steam does work on
 the piston of the engine, which may be integrated as already
described. This is the work put in. The electricity does work
 in the electric arc and in the conducting wires, which may be
integrated. This is the work taken out. If after any time,
say one hour, the work taken out is divided by the work put in,
 the quotient will represent the average efficiency of the engine
 and machine combined during the hour. In like manner, if
the readings are taken after a minute, the quotient will givo
 the average efficiency during the minute. If instead of a
 minute an indefinitely short period of time is occupied, then
the quotient obtained will give the true efficiency at that time.
Now, if by mechanism or otherwise a curve can be drawn in
which the ordinates represent the true efficiency, while the
abscissae are time, then an inspection of the curve will show
exactly how well the machines have done their work at every
moment, and the highest points will indicate the time at which
the best results have been obtained. What is wanted in
practice is not a curve giving the true efficiency as above de
scribed, because work is not put into an engine uniformly, but
intermittently, but a curve showing the average efficiency for
 the last few seconds or minutes as the case may be ; and it is
this that the mechanism I am going to describe accomplishes.
 If one of the integrals represents time, and the other work done
in an engine, then the curve gives the continuous value of the
horse-power per hour ; or if one integral represents turns of a
dynamo-machine, while the other represents electric current
or electric energy, then the curve gives current-quantity or
current-energy per turn. Or, generally, if two things are
turning, either or both at a variable rate, a dividing machine will
give the over-varying value of the quotient of one by the other.
    I have made use of two principles in the construction of
dividing machines, which may therefore be classed under two
heads. In the first class a pointer, if at a wrong position on the
scale of quotients, moves towards its right place with a speed
proportional to its distance from it : its motion is therefore
of a logarithmic nature. In machines of the second class a
pointer, if at a wrong position on the scale of quotients, changes
its speed of moving towards its right position with a speed
proportional to its distance from it : its motion therefore is of
an harmonic nature. In either case the movement of the

                    for calculating Efficiency.                195
pointer may be made to trace a diagram on a travelling band
of paper. I shall describe one logarithmic, and three har
monic dividers.
                        Logarithmic Divider.
    For this a pair of wheels incapablo of steering are required—
that is, wheels which when turned while their edges aro in
contact with a surface aro compelled to move forward, but
which at the same time are perfectly free to move laterally.
Disks with smoothly milled edges very imperfectly fulfil these
conditions; but an outside smoke-ring, such as is described in
the smoke-ring integrator on p. 79, Phil. Mag. Feb. 1882,should
answer this purpose well. Let two such smoke-rings be mounted
 on a common axis, but so that each may revolve independently
 of the other ; let there be a disk so supported that its plane
 is parallel to the common axis, and so that its own axis would
 if continued meet the other at a point midway between the
 two smoke-rings ; moreover, let the axis of the disk be carried
 by an arm in such a manner that it is capable of moving in a
 direction parallel to the plane of the disk, but inclined at a
 small angle to the common axis of the smoke-rings. Fig. 1
 shows the arrangement in its central position : A A is the
 common axis, S Bt are the smoke-rings, and D the disk ; the
 dotted line shows the line of travel of the. axis of the disk. If
 while the disk is in its central position tho two rings S St are
 caused to revolve at equal speeds in opposite directions, then
 the disk merely turns, and there is no further result. Let the
 direction of motion be that shown by the arrow.
     Now let the ring Sx begin to revolve faster than S, then the
 centre of tho disk U would, if free, begin to move downwards
 with a speed equal to half the excess; but it is incapable of
 moving vertically downwards; yet it may move down the slope
 indicated by the dotted line. Now, as the rings S Sj in no
 way interfere with the lateral movement of the disk, its centre
 will move down the slope till it reaches such a point that the
 ratio of the distances of the point from the two rings is equal
 to the ratio of the speeds. It will bo necessary to show that
 what is true when the produced axis of D intersects A A, is
 equally true when it has so far moved up or down the slope
 as to cause a considerable displacement. Let the centre have
 moved down to c, fig. 2, and let S Si. be the points on the
 disk touched by the two smoke-rings, and let cp bo the per
 pendicular on S S, from c. Now, if S Si are turning with
 speeds proportional to the lengths Bp and Sxp, then the
 centre will have no tendency to move up or down. The
 motion of S about e as a centre may be resolved into two:—
 one, an upward motion, proportional to Bp (and this motion

196               Mr. C. V. Boys on Apparatus
must, from the mechanical construction, be the same in the
disk and in the ring); and the other, a lateral motion, propor
tional to p c, with which the ring in no way interferes. In
a similar way, the motion of Sx may be resolved into two—
a downward motion proportional to &ip, and a lateral motion
proportional to p c. The downward motion must be common
to the disk and ring, while the lateral motion is free. It is clear
then, if the rings move with speeds in the ratio 8p : S,p, that
the centre c will have no up or down tendency ; and if the rings
are not moving with speeds in the ratio Sp : S>ip, that the centre
e will move up or down the slope with a vertical speed propor
tional to the distance of the point p from a point which does
divide S Si in the ratio of the speeds of the smoke-rings. If
6 is the inclination of the dotted line, then r will move along
this line with a speed equal to cosec 6 times its vertical
speed, and p will travel along S Si with a speed equal to cot 8
times the vertical speed of c. Should one disk ever stop and
change the direction of its motion, then c must move along
the slope till it is immediately under the ring, and move
beyond till it arrives at such a position Cj that Bpi'. $npi is
the ratio of the speeds.
    Let the two smoke-rings be turned by two integrating
machines as already described, then either or both may be
going at a variable speed. There must at every moment be
some point x in the line S Si such that S x : Si x is the ratio of
the speeds. This point will sometimes coincide with P, at
 which times C will be stationary; it will generally, however, be
 distant more or less from P, in which case P will pursue it with
 a speed proportional to its distance from it. If the arm which
 carries C carries also a pencil bearing against a uniformly
 travelling band of paper, then the curved line drawn will
 show what has been the efficiency, horse-power per hour, or
 whatever it was set to find during any period of time. The
 travelling band would have to be ruled across with lines show
 ing time, and longitudinally with lines showing ratios, the
 scale being of the kind shown in fig. 3.
    If the slope or the direction of motion had been in the op
 posite direction to that shown, then p, instead of approaching
 its places, would have fled from it with a speed proportional to
 its distance from it.
    I think it possible that the logarithmic divider might be
 applied to solve some difficult problems ; for while in action
 the inclination of the path of the centre c to the line S S1? or
 the position of either ring on their common axis, may bo
 changed in any way without interfering with the freedom of
 the motion of c.

                    for calculating Efficiency.              197
                       Harmonic Dividers.
   All harmonic dividers depend on the steering-power of
wheels, an action which renders wheels of ordinary construc
tion useless in the case of the logarithmic divider. The steer
ing action, however, is not determined by any direct effect,
as in the case of my cart integrating-machine, or in the more
familiar case of a common bicycle, but depends on an inter
mediate action, and is in this respect exactly similar to the
steering arrangements in that most beautiful and ingenious
machine the " Otto " bicycle. In this the rider produces a
difference in the speeds of two wheels, one on each side of
him; the angular deviation therefore is the integral of the dif
ference in speed between the two wheels, while the linear
deviation from the original straight course is the integral with
respect to the distance run of the sine of the angular devia
tion. The method of adapting this principle is exactly analo
gous to the case of the disk-cylinder integrator. That machine
was developed in this way :—Take a cart integrator running
on fixed ground, remove the whole of the cart except its
steering-wheel, which fix in position, then give it movable
and cylindrical ground to run on ; a disk-cylinder integrator
will be the result. In this case do away with the whole of
 Otto's machine except tho two wheels, fix them in position,
 and give them each a movable floor to run on. Fig. 4 is a
 side view, and fig. 5 is a plan, of a machine of this kind.
 A Aj are the two steering wheels mounted independent]}- on a
 common axis ; B 1$! are a pair of disks geared together by their
 edges, and they form the movable floors for the disks A A to
 rest upon, ccj are the supporting wheels of a frame F, and
 are capable of running on rails parallel to the common .axis of
 AAj. The frame F carries a block D swivelled on a vertical
 axis passing through the centre of both F and D. The axes
 of B Bx are supported by D. If A A{ are caused to turn with
 speeds proportional to their distances from the centres of B B,
 and in the same direction, B Bt will revolve at equal speeds in
 opposite directions, and neither D nor F will be affected; but
 if either A or Ax is made to revolve a little faster than is due
 to its central distance, D will begin to turn in its swivel-
 frame. But no sooner does D begin to twist, than the disks
 A Au which previously were describing circles on B Bx, tend
 to move in spiral paths, the faster one receding from, and the
 slower one approaching, the centres of the disks B Bj on which
 it is moving. But as A Aj are incapable of any movement but
 rotation, while the disks B B, can, from the nature of their
  support, accommodate themselves to every kind of movement

  198               Mr. 0. V. Boys on Apparatus
  except one of lateral translation, therefore the combination
  c, F, D, B, and Bx will move longitudinally till the central
  distances of A Ax are proportional to their speeds; but, unfor
   tunately, by this time the obliquity of the block D has become
. a maximum, and therefore its rate of longitudinal travel is a
  maximum also. It therefore travels on and introduces an
  error of position on the opposite side, which is corrected as
   before; and so the frame F oscillates on either side of its cor
  rect position. The motion may be considered more exactly
  in this way:—The rate at which D twists is proportional to
  the error of F, while the rate at which F corrects its position
  is proportional to the amount of twist of D: this expressed
  mathematically gives the equation           = —y, the solution of
  which is y = sin x or y = cos x. The motion of both D and F
  therefore is harmonic. An exactly analogous case is that of
  a heavy body moving under the influence of a force which
  varies with the displacement, the movements of F being equi
   valent to that of the heavy body, while the rate at which D
  twists represents the force. Of course in the dividing-machine
  described we have nothing to do with inertia or with a resist
  ing forco ; but the movements are the result of an action of
  pure rolling, and it so happens that they follow exactly the
  same law as the movements of a vibrating heavy body. This
  view of the subject removes all difficulty in discovering what
  will be the action during either slow or very rapid variations
  in the ratio of the velocities. Let the dynamical equivalent
  be a heavy magnetic needle balanced in a magnetic field.
  Then the direction of the field corresponds to ratio of veloci
  ties, and tho motions of the needle to the motion of the
  frame F. As has been shown in the case of a constant ratio,
  an error of position of F at starting causes F to oscillate on
  either side of its correct place, just as a displacement of a
  magnetic needle causes it to oscillate. Now suppose F to be
  in its correct position and tben the ratio to change slowly (that
  is, slowly compared with the time of an oscillation); then the
  frame F will move slowly also, always being in the correct
  position, because during a slow change in the direction of the
  magnetic field a balanced needle follows the change without
  oscillation. Next suppose the ratio to alternate rapidly—that
  is, rapidly compared with the time of an oscillation, as, for
  instance, is the case when a steam-engine is made to do work
  uniformly, for work is put in intermittently and taken out
  gradually; then the dividing-machine will steadily show the
  mean value, and will take no account of the rapid variations

                     for calculating Efficiency.                199
in ratio, because a heavy magnetic needle subjected to rapidly
alternating currents, which produce rapid variations in the
direction of the magnetic field, is unaffected by theso currents,
but steadily maintains its position in the mean direction of the
field. The most complex possible case is a combination of
rapidly alternating and slowly changing ratios with occasional
sudden changes. The first two are properly considered by
the machine, while the sudden changes merely cause the framo
 F to oscillate on either side of its correct position. As in the
 case of the logarithmic divider, so here; a curvo may be drawn
on a travelling band of paper by a pencil attached to the
 frame.
    A more simple arrangement is shown in fig. G, where the
disks B Bj and the frame and block are replaced by a sphere
 S with its axis horizontal mounted in a horizontal ring R, and
 where this ring is supported in a crutch c which is capable of
 moving round on a vertical axis. Thus, when R is hori
 zontal, the sphere can turn independently round three axes at
 right angles to one another. Then, if the disks A A, touch
 the sphere in points 90° apart, the ratio of their speeds will be
 measured by the tangent of the inclination of R, while the de
 viation of c will correspond to the obliquity of the block D in
 the last machine.
    The most simple harmonic divider that I can imagine is
 made by mounting, as shown in fig. 7, two iron cones with
 their bases adjacent, and with the lowest generating line in
 each horizontal and in one straight line. Then, if a mag
 netized steel reel is hung on and the two cones are turned, the
 reel will travel about and find the ever-varying value of the ratio
 of their speeds. The method of attaching a recording-pencil
 is too obvious to need description. If the two cones wore
 placed so that their bases were turned away from one another
 instead of being adjacent, then the reel would change its speed
 of moving away from its correct position with a speed propor
 tional to its distance from it. This kind of action could only
 exist, of course, for a very short time.
    Whether dividing-machines are likely to be of general value
  for practical or experimental purposes, it is difficult to say;
  but there can be little doubt that cases might arise in which
  some machine such as 1 have described might be used with
  advantage.

                                 [   200    ]
XXIII. On the Electrical Resistance of Gases. By E. Edlund,
   Professor of Physics at the Swedish Royal Academy of
   Sciences*.
                                     § I-
THE resistance opposed by gases to the propagation of
       electricity has shown itself to be different in several
respects from that produced by solid or liquid conductors. I
shall in this memoir take these differences into consideration,
and endeavour to show how they are to be explained.
   1st. In order that the current may traverse a solid or liquid
conductor, there is no need of a certain amount of electromo
tive force. However slight the electromotive force may be,
the current will nevertheless pass, although of course it
becomes less intense as the force is diminished or the resist
ance increased. Ouly when the force is equal to nil will the
current become equal to nil. With gases, on the contrary, the
circumstances change. For the current to be able to traverse
a gas the source of electricity must have a certain amount of
electromotive force, or be capable of producing a certain elec
trical tension, the amount of which depends moreover on the
chemical nature, the density, and the temperature of the gas,
but never falls below a certain limit in given circumstances.
For any electromotive force below that limit the gas is a per
fect insulator.
   2ndly. The quantity of heat produced by an electric current
in its passage through a solid or liquid conductor is, as is
known, proportional to the square of the intensity of the cur
rent. In gases, on the contrary, the amount of heat is pro
portional to the first power of the intensity of the current,
and not to its square. This remarkable property of gases was
first observed by G. Wiedemann t; and later it was completely
demonstrated by Naccari and Bellati that the quantity of heat
evolved is really proportional to the quantity of electricity
which has passed %.
   3rdly. For solid and liquid conductors the quantity of heat
developed, under conditions in all other respects equal, by a
given current, is inversely proportional to the cross section of
the conductor; while the quantity of heat developed in a column
of gas is independent of the section of the latter. This propo
sition has in like manner been demonstrated experimentally
by G-. Wiedemann, as well as by Naccari and Bellati.
   4thly. In a solid or liquid conductor the resistance is in-
  * Translated from a copy, communicated by the Author, ofthe memoir
forming No. 7, vol. vi. of the Bihang tiUK. SvendiaVet.-Akad. Handlingar.
  t Pogg. Ann. cxlv. p. 237.
  \ BeMatUr su den Ann. der PA. und Ch. ii. p. 720 (1878).

                On the Electrical Resistance of Gases.                 201
  versely proportional to the section of the conductor. Q. Wiede
  mann has proved, by experiments *, thai the tension which is
  necessary upon the electrodes in order to force the electricity
  of a Holtz machine to traverse a cylindrical tube filled with
  rarefied gas is independent of the radius of the tube—which
  means, in other terms, that the electrical resistance of the gas
 is independent of the section of the tube. In two experi
 ments, one with a tube 16 millim. and the other with a tube
  0-5 millim. in diameter, Schulzf found only an insignificant
 difference in the electrical tension requisite to compel the elec
 tricity of a Holtz machine to pass through the tube.
     5thly. With solid and liquid conductors, the difference
 between the electroscopic tensions on two points situated at a
 certain distance the one from the other is proportional to the
 product of the resistance between those points multiplied by
 the intensity of the current. Warren De la Rue and Hugo
 MiillerJ, have, on the contrary, proved experimentally that
 the difference between the electroscopic tensions at two points
 situated at a distance from one another in a column of gas is
 totally independent of the intensity of the current. These
 physicists caused the current of a battery composed of a great
 number of elements to vary between very wide limits ; and
 yet it was impossible to perceive any variation in the above-
 mentioned difference. With the aid of a galvanic battery of
 great electromotive force, Hittorf has also proved, although
 in another way, that the difference between the electric ten
sions of the electrodes conducting to the column of gas is inde
pendent of the intensity of the current §. When for the
 column of gas between the electrodes a liquid conductor was
substituted, the difference became, as might have been ex
pected, proportional to the intensity of the current. From
this Hittorf draws the conclusion, somewhat prematurely, that
the resistance of the column of gas must be in the inverse pro-
Eortion of the intensity of the current, to which circumstance
  e attributes a fundamental importance for the conductivity
of gases.
     6thly. Several years since, Edm. Becquerel proved ||, by
experiments, that gases begin to be conductors when heated
to the temperature of redness, after which their conductivity
increases in proportion as the temperature rises above that
point. If the temperature is sufficiently elevated, they even
let the feeble current of a single element pass. The conducti-
   * Pogg. Ann. clviii. p. 63 (1876).       t Ibid, cxxxv. p. 264 (1868).
   t Comptes Rendu*, lxxxvi. p. 1072 (1878).
   § Wied. Ann. vii. p. 673 (1870).
   || Ann. de Ch. et dc Ph. [3] xxxix. p. 377 (1853).
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 80. March 1882.                      R

202                      Prof. E. EJlund on the
vity moreover increases as the density of the gas diminishes.
The fact that gases heated to redness become conductors was
at first questioned, although erroneously, by Beetz* and 6.
Wiedemannt, but has since been confirmed in the most com
plete manner by Hittorf %.
    But Becquerel's experiment has furnished another result,
to which I will call special attention. When, keeping the same
battery, the intensity of the current was modified by introdu
cing a rheostat of greater or less resistance, the resistance of
the gas was shown to be dependent on the intensity of the
current. For example, i and ij designating the current-inten
sities, let E be the electromotive force, r and rj the resists
ances of the solid or liquid conductor, z and Zi the gas resist
ances, corresponding to t and t1} we get, according to Ohm's
                   E          .      E
formula, i=             and u=            . When the current does not
                  r+z
pass through the gas, and M and Mj designate the resistances
necessary in order that the current-intensities may become the
                                             E           E
same as before, we shall havei=jj and i\= jj-, whence we
 get M— r=z and M, — r1=z1. Putting the calculation thus,
 it will be seen that the resistance of the gas was nearly pro
 portional inversely to the intensity of the current which had
 passed.
     The observation numbers obtained also appear to indicate
 that the resistance of the gas increases with the number of the
 elements of the battery employed, although the intensity of the
 current be maintained constant by introducing a suitable rheo-
 static resistance. We will not now dwell upon this almost
 incomprehensible result (as Becquerel himself remarks), seeing
 that W. Do La Bue and H. W. Miiller § have quite recently
 found, in their investigations, which, however, were executed
 by other processes than those of Becquerel, that the resist
 ance of gases at one and the same currenWntensity is inde
 pendent of the number of the elements.
      The above-mentioned differences between solid and liquid
 conductors, on the one hand, and gases on the other, are ex
 plained without difficulty if the unitarian theory of the nature
 of electricity explained byme|| be taken as the starting-point
 In order, however, to furnish the proof of what I advance, it
 is necessary first to cite some propositions of that theory.
    • Foiitchrilie iter rhysih, ix. p. 479 n&53).
    t Die Lehre vom Oalvanismus, 2nd ed. vol. i. p. 839.
    t Popg. Ann. Julelband, p. 234 (1874).
    § Phil. Trans, clxix. p. 230 (1878).
    || TMorie des Phinomenes Elcctriqua, Mem. Roy. Ac. Sciences, Sweden,
 vol. itf. no. 8 (1874).

                  Electrical Resistance of Gases.               203
                                §2.
    (a) According to the unitarian theory, the galvanic current
in a closed circuit consists in the free aether present in the
circuit being set in translatory motion. The intensity of tho
current is determined by the quantity of aether passing, in the
unit of time, through any section of the conductor ; and the
velocity of the aether, for equal intensity of current, is inversely
proportional to the magnitude of the section. The galvanic
current may therefore be compared to the current of an ordi
nary gas in a system of tubes ; and the properties belonging
to a current of this latter kind are therefore to be met with,
mutatis mutandis, in tho aether-current. Thus, let us imagine
a tube, of which one half has the section 1, and the section of
the other half is n times as great ; let us suppose, secondly,
that this tube is filled with a fluid (liquid or gaseous) having a
translatory motion impressed by forces acting at one of the
extremities of the tube. Now, if we wish to stop or diminish
at any point the motion of the fluid by a counterpressure (for
instance, by means of a piston or otherwise), in order to attain
the same effect we must cause to act in the widest part of the
tube n times as much pressure as in the narrowest. The dimi
nution of the velocity of the motion by means of the counter-
pressure does not depend on the absolute value of the latter,
but on its value in comparison with the unit of section. If
the counterpressure upon the unit of section is as strong in
the widest part of the tube as in the narrowest, the diminu
tion of the intensity of the current is equal in the two cases.
 It will always be so, whatever the resistance, provided that
the fluid employed possess sufficient fluidity to produce equal
 pressure in all directions.
   What has just been said finds its direct application in the
galvanic current. Whatever opinion may be held upon the
nature of electricity, all agree that it is a fluid which the ex
treme mobility of its particles permits to communicate pres
sure in all directions. Galvanic resistance impedes the motion
of electricity; it therefore acts as a pressure in the opposite
direction distributed uniformly over all points of the section
of the conductor. Now, if two resistances (two wires, for
instance, each of a different metal, and with different sections)
produce an equal diminution in the intensity of a given cur
rent, their resistance is said to be equal. Wre know, likewise,
in conformity with the foregoing, that the counterpressure
opposed by each of them, on the unit of section, to the propa
gation of the current is in like manner equal. It is therefore
exclusively the counterpressure on the unit of section that can
serve for the determination of the galvanic resistance. This
                                 E2

 204                  Prof. E. Edlund on the
 is a consequence of the laws of hydrodynamics ; and it is im
 possible to give any other interpretation to the fact if we will
 continue to admit that the electric material is a fluid.
    Now let us suppose a single conducting wire or a liquid
 column /, of which the section is 1, and also a number n of
 other conductors, /0»/ij/s) &c-> of the same material, section,
 and length as the preceding, placed side by side. Let us then
 suppose that a current i passes through the conductor /and
 afterwards simultaneously through the conductors /o,/i,/?, &c.
 placed side by side. Each of these latter will therefore
 have to be traversed by     J a current = -n i. Now we know
 by experiment that the resistance to be overcome by the cur
 rent in order to pass simultaneously through the n conductors
/(,,/), ft, &c constitutes - of the resistance to be overcome
 when the current passes through /. According to the above
 account, the counterpressure upon the unit of section of the n
 conductors will be likewise - of the counterpressure in the
 single conductor /, the resistance being determined exclusively
by the amount of the counterpressure upon the unit of section.
 It hence follows, therefore, that in each of the conductors
f0,/i,fi, &c. the resistance will in the present case be - of
 what it is in f. We therefore find ourselves confronted by
 the unexpected result that galvanic resistance is proportional
 to the intensity of the current. It must, however, be observed
 that this demonstration refers only to solid and liquid, and not
 at all to gaseous bodies, to which the above experiment is not
 applicable.
    The above-mentioned result is in direct opposition to the
 opinion hitherto generally admitted, namely that the resistance
 is independent of the intensity of the current. But if that
 opinion is still to be maintained, it will be necessary, in con
 sequence of the foregoing, to assume that the fluid which we
 call electricity is governed by quite different laws of motion
 from those to which the other fluids known to us are subject.
 It has moreover been demonstrated in the above-mentioned
 memoir, that although the formulated proposition may contra
 dict the common opinion, it is by no means contrary to the
 experimental results upon which that opinion has been believed
 to be founded.
    In consequence of the results of experiment, as also from
 the theoretical consideration above given, we have, then, as

                  Electrical Resistance of Gases.             205
the expression of the resistance r0 in a conductor of length 1
 and section a, traversed by the current i,
                                 ki
where k is a constant dependent on the chemical and physical
nature of the conductor, as well as on the temperature. The
constant k is evidently the resistance in a conductor of sec
tion 1 and length 1, passed through by the current 1 ; - is the
intensity of the current on the unit of section ; r, or, in other
terms, what we have hitherto named the galvanic resistance,
is nothing else but the resistance per unit of intensity of
the current. In order to distinguish this resistance from the
others, in the following we call it the principal resistance.
   (b) Electromotive force, like all other motive forces, is
measured by the acceleration which it can impart, in the unit
of time, to the unit of mass. Taking this for granted, which
 we are warranted in doing under all the circumstances, Ohm's
law can be without difficulty deduced from ordinary mecha
nical principles. We will nevertheless previously show that
the electromotive force is independent of the intensity of the
current.
   Electromotive force acts with equal intensity upon every
point of the electromotive surface of contact ; consequently
the total value of this force increases proportionally to the
extent of that surface. Besides, it is evident that the force
not only acts upon the aether molecules which are at the con
tact surface itself, but also extends to those situated at a very
little distance from that surface. Now let us designate by E
the quantity of motion which the electromotive force can com
municate to the mass of aether on each unit of surface in the
unit of time. Let us, in the first place, imagine a current
sufficiently powerful for the unit of mass to pass, in the unit
of time, through each unit of the surface of contact; then each
unit of mass will have received the acceleration E. If the
extent of the surface of contact be called w, wE will in this
case constitute the total value of the electromotive force. Let
us suppose, secondly, the surface of contact passed through,
in unit of time, by a mass of aether p times as great as before,
and which can then be expressed by pn. The aether possessing
the same density in a feeble as in an intense current, the velo
city will in this case be p times as great. Each particle of the
mass of aether therefore undergoes the action of the electro
motive force during a space of time constituting - of the time

206                        Prof. E. Edlund on the
of action in the former case. The acceleration acquired
                         E
amounts to only —. On multiplying by the mass pn, we
shall have the total electromotive force equal to raE. Thus the
electromotive force can be expressed by nE, whether the cur
rent be strong or weak.
    If r signifies the totality of the principal resistance, and if
i designates the intensity of the current, the total resistance
will bo ri—which in this case signifies nothing else but the
counterpressure, upon the unit of section, opposed by the
resistance to the propagation of the current. We shall there
fore have nri for the total value of the counterpressure upon
a surface of contact of n units magnitude. Designating by
 L the total length of the circuit, we thus obtain the equation
of motion,
                               di
                            L —-=?iE — nn'*,
                               at
whence
                             . E /,        nrt\
As soon as the current has become constant we have
                                     . E
                                    i= —
                                         r
    It follows from this that the electromotive force represented
in Ohm'6 formula is independent of the extent of surface of
 the electromotor—which, we know, is conformable to expe
rience.
    (c) Let us imagine a closed galvanic conductor, of which
 the length is I and the section everywhere equal to a, com
 posed of the same material throughout its length, and passed
 through by a constant current of intensity i. If 8 is the mass
 of ajtber in motion per unit of volume, and h the velocity of
 the motion, we shall shall have i=a8h. To calculate the me
 chanical work done by the current during the unit of time, we
 shall first consider a current-element comprised between two
  * The total length L of the circuit being equal to the sum of all its parts
    Ja, l3) llt &c, and these having respectively the sections «„ av <i„ at, &c,
the total volume of the conductor will be a^+aJ2-\-a3l3 + &c. By mul
tiplying this sum by the mass of aether i in the unit of volume, weobtain
the entire mass of the sether in motion. Now, if the augmentation of the
velocity during the time dt is respectively dhlt dht, dh3, the total mass of
eether will receive, during the time in question, an augmentation of the
quantity of motion which will be expressed by (aj^^+ajjdh^a^dh^
+ . . . )8. Now fia, Sh,—8a2 Sht=Sa3 8A,=8t, whence, consequently, the
total augmentation of the quantity of motion of the oether will be LoV.

                 Electrical Resistance of Gases.              207
planes situated at distance 1 from each other. The resistance
upon the unit of section being r0, and the magnitude of the
section a, the resistance upon the entire section will be r0a= ki.
In the time-unit this element is repelled the path-length h,
whence the work done will be kih.        Now h—^-, in which
                                                    ba
expression S is a constant, as we have seen above. The mecha-
                                                     jfct2
nical work of this element will therefore be k—. If this
                                             kit' .
quantity be multiplied by b, the product g^- will be equal to
the work of the entire current. If, lastly, this expression be
multiplied by the thermal equivalent of the unit of work, and
if the constant 8 be made to enter into k, the quantity of heat
produced by the current during the time-unit will be equal to
AHt2
      , which is known to be in accordance with experiment.
   The calculation can be effected with equal facility, on the
same principles, in the case in which the section and the nature
of the conductor vary from one part to another.
   (d) With respect to the production and distribution of free
aether at the surface of a galvanic conductor, these can best be
explained in the following manner:—
   Let us imagine a tube in which a mass of gas is set in
motion by a force acting at one extremity, while the gas can
issue freely at the other. Let us assume, further, the resist
ance of the tube to the motion of the gas to be, as is in reality
the case, proportional to the length of the tube. If x be the
distance between a certain section-plane and the open extre
mity of the tube, the resistance undergone in that plane by the
motion can be put proportional to x. We neglect altogether
 the influence which may be exerted upon the resistance by the
difference of density and velocity of the gas. Let D' denote
the density of the gas at the above-mentioned plane, and D its
density at the open extremity of the tube. Every one knows
that, from the moment the motion in the tube has become
constant, the excess D' — D is proportional to x. The density
of the gas therefore goes on increasing from the open end of
the tube to that at which the force acts. Suppose now the
two extremities of the tube joined so as completely to enclose
the moving mass of gas. The gas will evidently undergo in
one portion of the tube an expansion equal to its increase of
density in the other ; and at the transition-point between the
two portions it will have the same density as if it were at rest.
If the tube is everywhere equal, this transition-plane (neutral
plane) will divide the tube into two equal parts. At equal

208                  Prof. E. Edlund on the
distances from this plane the condensation pn one side will be
eqnal to the expansion on the other. If the resistance is
greater in one part of the tube than in the other, the neutral
plane will be displaced towards the part presenting the greater
resistance; and the amount of the displacement will be that
which is requisite in order that the resistance of the whole of
 this part (from the above-mentioned plane to the place where
 the force acts) may become equal to the resistance of the other
 part. If D is the density of the gas at the neutral plane, W
 the density in a plane situated on the side where the gas is
 condensed, D'— D will be equal to am', in which a is a con
 stant, and m' is the resistance from the neutral plane to the
 plane in question. If D" represents the density of the gas in
 a plane situated on the other side of the neutral plane, D — D"
 will in like manner be equal to am", if m" is the resistance
 between these two planes.
    These well-known propositions have a direct application to
 the circulating aether. It possesses the properties of ordinary
 gases, in that the mobility of its molecules is considerable, so
 as to permit it to exert equal pressure in all directions. The
 fact that an electrified body is endowed with the same optical
 properties as in its normal state shows, as I have remarked in
 the above-mentioned memoir, that the elasticity of free aether
 is proportional to its density. Therefore what has been said
 in this investigation with regard to ordinary gases may also
 be applied to the aether. The only difference will be that the
 aether, whether compressed or expanded, will place itself at
 the surface of the galvanic conductor, since the aether mole
 cules repel each other.
     Let us suppose a galvanic circuit in which an electromotive
  force E excites the motion of the aether in one direction. The
 aether will therefore become denser on the side of the electro
  motive force towards which the current goes, and be ratified
  on the other side.
     The neutral plane will have a position such that the galvanic
  resistance from this plane to the seat of the electromotive force
  will be equal in amount on both sides. Now let i denote the
  intensity of the current, D the density of the aether at the
  neutral plane, or, what amounts to the same, the density of the
  aether when it is at rest ; let D', D" be its density at any two
  planes on the condensation side, and Jy0, D"0 its density on
  the expansion side ; and, lastly, let m', m", m'0, m"0 be the
  respective principal resistances from the neutral plane to the
  planes above mentioned. As the resistance is proportional to
  the intensity of the current, we shall evidently have
       jy-D = m'i, D"-T> = m"i, -(D'0-D) = m'0t,
               -(D"„-D) = mV.

                     Electrical Resistance of Gases.                    209
    Now D'-D, D"-D, D'o-D, and D"0-D are nothing else
but the differences between the electroscopic tensions in the
respective planes, the first two being positive, and the last two
negative.
    We obtain, then, the conclusion that the difference between
the electroscopic tensions of two planes is proportional to the
intensity of the current, multiplied by the principal resistance
between those planes.
    These deductions of Ohm's law, of the development of heat,
and of the distribution of electroscopic tension at the surface
of the conductor, are applicable only to the case in which there
are solid and liquid bodies in the circuit, since only for those
bodies is it proved that the total resistance is proportional to
the intensity of the current.
                                      §3.
    The fact that electromotive force, or electric tension, need
 not exceed a certain limit in order that the current may be
 able to pass through a solid or liquid conductor, depends, then,
 according to the unitarian theory, on this—that the effective
 resistance opposed by a conductor of that sort is proportional
 to the intensity of the current. If the electromotive force is
 little, the intensity of the current will also be little, and con
 sequently the resistance will become so feeble that the elec
 tromotive force will be able to overcome it. Experiment
 teaches us that it is quite otherwise with gases. To compel
 the current to pass through a column of gas a determined
 electric tension upon the electrodes between which that column
 is situated is necessary ; if the tension is below the above-
 mentioned limit, the current will not pass. It is true that the
 insulating property exhibited by the gas must not be attri
 buted to its effective resistance alone ; in fact experiments
 have led to the admission of the rise, at the electrodes, of elec
 tromotive forces obstructing the propagation of the electricity
 by the gas. If the gas is nevertheless sufficiently dense, ex
 periment has shown that the tension necessary for bringing
 about a discharge is proportional to the distance between the
  electrodes. The electromotive forces which have their seat
  upon the electrodes having no connexion with the distance
  which separates the latter, it follows that, when the gas has
  sufficient density, it is chiefly its resistance that constitutes
  the true cause of the discharge not takingplace if the electric
  tension remains below a certain limit*. We arrive, therefore,
     * The resistance of the gas diminishes when it is highly rarefied, while
 the electromotive forces which originate upon the electrodes are seen to
  increase ; but it is not necessary to take that circumstance into conside
  ration here.

210                   Prof. E. Edlund on the
at the result that the resistance opposed by a gas to the pro
pagation of electricity cannot be proportional to the intensity
of the current, as is the case with solid and liquid conductors.
It is quite as impossible to admit, with Hittorf, that the resist
ance of gases is in inverse proportion to the intensity of the
current ; for in that case the resistance in a column of gas
through which an infinitesimal current passes would be infi
nite. Now, at the discharge of a condenser, or the closing of
a galvanic pile, the current is at first excessively slight. If
Hittorf's hypothesis were true, the resistance of the gas would
at first be excessively great, and the current could not begin
to circulate. Consequently the resistance of a gas cannot in
any case be inversely proportional to the intensity of the cur
rent. It is in the nature of things that the effective resistance
of a column of gas should be proportional to the length of the
latter. Therefore, if I denotes the length of the column, and
»• the resistance in the unit ef length, the resistance will be
proportional to rl ; and from what has just been said, r is
neither directly nor inversely proportional to the intensity of
the current or to the tension of the electrodes. Quite the con
trary, experiments show that the tension necessary for the dis
charge is proportional to I, whence it follows that r is inde
 pendent of the tension.
   If we admit, in accordance with what has been said above,
that the resistance of gases is independent of the intensity of
the current, all the differences above stated, between gases, on
the one hand, and both solid and liquid bodies, on the other,
can be accounted for by the unitarian theory.
    If the resistance or counterpressure opposed to the propaga
tion of the current, by a column of the gas of the length 1 and
section 1 be called k, the total counterpressure in a similar
column having the section a will be equal to ka, not to ki as is
the case with both solid and liquid conductors. On multiply
ing this expression by the velocity h of the electricity, tne
product will be proportional to the mechanical work which is
accomplished in the column during the unit of time. Now
i=8ah, an expression in which, as has been said above, 8 is a
constant. We obtain, then, for the work done in a column of
length 1 and section a the expression      to which the quantity
of heat developed in the same column must be proportional.
The quantity of heat developed in a column of gas will there
fore be proportional to the intensity of the current, but inde
pendent of the section of the column.
   The resistance being determined by the counterpressure
which the conductor opposes, on the unit of section, to the

                  Electrical Resistance of Gases.               211
propagation of the electricity, and this counterpressure being,
in gases, independent of the intensity of the current, it is self-
evident that the resistance of a column of gas must be inde
pendent of its section.
   The difference of electroscopic tension between two points
in the conductor situated at u certain distance from each other
is, according to the foregoing, proportional to the resistance
between the same points. In solid and liquid conductors,
therefore, the difference of tension will be proportional to ri,
if r denotes the principal resistance between the points, and i
the intensity of the current. For gases, on the contrary, the
same difference will be proportional to kl, in which k has the
signification which has just been mentioned, and I denotes the
distance between those points. The difference of electroscopic
tension between two points in a column of gas must, then, as
has already been proved by experiment, be independent of the
intensity of the current ; and it can be predicted that it will
also be independent of the section of the column, which, how
 ever, has not yet been confirmed by experiment.
    If r designates the principal resistance in the part of a closed
circuit composed of solid and liquid conductors, R the resist
ance of a column of gas introduced into the circuit, E the
 electromotive force, i the intensity of the current, and L the
total length of the conductor, the differential equation of
motion of the aether will be
                       L ^ = nE — nit — nri.
                         at
    From this equation we get, for the case in which the cur
rent has had time to become constant,
                            . E-R•
                            i=
                                  r
    The resistance R of the gas has therefore in reality its place
 in the numerator, although, according to the ordinary formula
 of Ohm, it ought to be in the denominator. Of course E must
 be greater than R for a current to be possible.
    If, when gas is introduced into the circuit, i and ij denote
 two different current-intensities answering to the resistances
 r and rx of the solid and liquid conductors introduced into the
 circuit, and if M and Mj are the resistances necessary in order
 to produce the same current-intensities when the gas is ex
 cluded from the circuit, we get
                          ._E-R_E
                          l~ r ~ M

212               Captain Abney on the Violet
and
                         .   E-R       E
whence
                     tt _ r _ M _ M-r_
                     7 — Vx ~~     — Mj— rj
   If, as was done in the calculation of Becquerel's experi
ments, M— r and Ml—ri were made to signify the resistance
of the gas at two different current-intensities, the resistance of
the gas would be found inversely proportional to the intensity
of the current, although in reality it is independent of that
intensity.
 XXIV. On the Violet Phosphorescence in Calcium Sulphide.
            By Captain W. de W. Abney, F.R.S.'
IN some investigations in photography it became necessary
      that I should study the phenomenon of phosphorescence
exhibited in calcium sulphide, such as is employed in Bal-
main's paint. And as one or two points of interest arose which
have not (as far as I am aware) been described before, I
have thought it might be of interest to lay the subject before
the Society.
    The phosphorescent light, which is a peculiar violet, can be
generated, if I may use the term, by day-light or candle-light
—by the former fairly brightly, and by the latter only feebly,
for reasons which will appear. In order to gain strong phos
phorescence, the light from a magnesium-ribbon or the electric
light should be employed. Mr. Warnerke has shown that \
inch of ribbon of the former is sufficient to excite phospho
rescence to the maximum point that can be obtained from
light of that brilliancy. Light of greater brightness, how
 ever, seems to excite it even more strongly. In a communi
cation made to the Society by Lieut. Darwin, R.E., he gave
the formula for the decrease of phosphorescence after exci
tation, from which it will be seen that it very rapidly dimi
nishes in brilliancy.
    My first experiment was to determine the spectrum of the
emitted light ; and this I observed with a small spectroscope ;
and the emission-spectrum is shown in I, figure opposite. It
will be seen that to the eye the greatest luminosity is between
G and F, and a feebler one extending from between E and F
   * Communicated by the Physical Society, having been read at the
Meeting on January 28, 1882.

             Phosphorescence in Calcium Sulphide.            213
as far as the eye can recognize colour of low intensity towards
the red. It became a matter of curiosity to know if any rays
lay beyond the violet ; and for this purpose an Iceland-spar
prism and quartz lenses to the collimator and camera were
brought into requisition, together with extremely sensitive
photographic plates. Glass was spread with a layer of this sul
phide and held together by paraffin as a substratum ; the phos
phorescence was excited by the electric light, and the tablet
held in front of the slit. The exposure lasted one minute, when
the phosphorescent tablet was again excited, and used as a
source of light as before. After forty such excitations the pho
tographic plate was developed ; and a band (shown in II.) was
registered, which absolutely coincided with the band already
registered in the visible spectrum. There was no trace of any
 radiation having wave-lengths in the ultra-violet. Whether
 there is any radiation below the red is a moot point ; but from
 the gradually increasing brightness of the spectrum in the
 yellow, it seems probable that there is such.
    The next point to ascertain was the part of the spectrum
 which excited phosphorescence. A tablet similarly prepared
was exposed to the spectrum of the electric light, which
showed carbon-bands strongly just above H, and also in the
 violet near G. A sensitive photographic plate was placed
in contact with the tablet, and allowed to remain in contact
40 seconds, after which it was developed. Ill shows the
                JT        c       r    S   J)  C   A
locality of the spectrum by which phosphorescence was ex
cited. This agreed absolutely with the visual observations.
The exact locality was fixed by the carbon-bands above alluded
to, and also by comparing it with a sensitive photographic
plate exposed in the ordinary manner. It will be noticed that
the ultra-violet rays do not seem to cause phosphorescence' in
this case.
   It now remained to register those rays which destroy the
phosphorescence. Tbis was effected in the following manner :—
A tablet was first excited, and after half a minute exposed to
     i

214                Notices respecting New Books.
the spectrum : those rays which destroyed phosphorescence
were distinctly visible, as were also those which excited it.
The tablet was placed in contact with a sensitive plate and de
veloped. The wave-lengths were determined by placing a
liquid in front of the slit and noting the place where the
known absorption-bands in the infra-red region occurred,
which is here shown by these localities remaining of the same
luminosity on the tablet surrounding the impressed spectrum.
The rays which destroy phosphorescence of this description
are shown in IV. It will be noted that in the infra-red
region is a portion which does not destroy it. When the wave
lengths of this are compared with the wave-lengths of the exci
ting portion about G and H, it is found that they are octaves
one to another. (In the figure the infra-red region is much
compressed, owing to the spectrum used being a prismatic
spectrum.)
   This fact appears remarkable and worthy of note. My own
impression is that another band below this may also be traced;
but as it was not shown upon the photographic plate, I have not
mapped it. Such a band would probably be another octave
below the second band. It should be noted that the infra-red
band apparently is of the same luminosity as the general lumi
nosity of the plate, and that these rays only feebly excite the
plate.
   I have endeavoured to make out any spectral difference in
the light excited about H and about G, and have failed to
obtain evidence as to any alteration in colour. It seems in
different whether phosphorescence be excited by the indigo or
by the violet rays.
   I am at present engaged upon other phosphorescent material.
               XXV. Notices respecting New Books.
  Legons sur VElectricite et le Magnetisme. Par E. Mascabt el J.
          Joubeht. Tome I. Paris : G. Masson. 1882.
f"I^HIS is a work whose value is not to be judged on its absolute
 X merits, though these are in many places of a high order. Like
the former treatise by M. Mascart, it is to be looked on as intended
to fill an almost absolute gap in modern French scientific literature.
The nation that once could boast of Fourier, Lagrange, Laplace,
and Poisson, has never since been without worthy representatives
in'the front ranks of mathematicians. Galois, Cauchy, Leverrier,
and Chnsles are names never to be forgotten ; and the veteran
Liouville, with De .Saint-Venaut, Hermite, and others, still uphold
in that department the prestige of the Academy of Sciences. But
the successors of Ampere and Sadi C'arnot—masters of the still
higher art of applying mathematical reasoning to new fields of

                     Notices respecting New Boohs.                   215
physics—must now be sought in Britain and in Germany rather
than in France ; the newer great branches of Applied Mathematics
have been, till recently, almost ignored there. The Theory of Heat
has remained, so far as France is concerned, almost confined to the
region so thoroughly and so charmingly explored by Fourier ; the
real value of Carnot's wonderful treatise was first pointed out by
Thomson. That treatise has supplied the Second Law of Thermo
dynamics, and some of the grandest scientific generalizations ever
made. But this was not done in France. Ohm's little adaptation
(to electricity) of one of the merest elements of Fourier's great
work has been developed in Britain and in Germany into one of
the most extensive and most rapidly growing branches of physics
 — profoundly valuable alike in theory and in practice—which, till
quite recently, was practically known only in its beggarly elements
to the most illustrious of French scientific men. Some detached
portions of Faraday's splendid discoveries were no doubt developed
 in France, but only as isolated facts ; the grand chain of deductive
 reasoning by which he was led to them, and by which he coordinated
 them, was almost completely ignored. Where shall we seek for a
 modern French work containing any thing new on Vortex-motion,
on Discontinuous Fluid-motion, on the Kinetic Theory of Gases,
or on the theories of Anomalous Dispersion or of Fluorescence ?
Where for a contribution to the more modern treatment of the
size of the grained structure of matter ? The best of recent French
scientific men seem to have been content to work only on some
 of the lines of some of their more illustrious predecessors. Fizeau,
Foucault, and Cornu are worthy successors of Fresnel ; but Ampere
 has had no successor in France. All countries appear to pass
through these peculiar phases of arrested development. Newton's
grand achievements effectually paralyzed, for a century at least,
the progress alike of pure mathematics and of the true theory of
 light, so far as his own countrymen were concerned. Young's bril
liant career made ample amends for this in the matter of the Theory
of Light ; but we had to take our mathematics from France and
Germany in the first quarter of the present century. It would
 seem that it is next to be Germany's turn for a partial eclipse of a
 similar kind. Gauss and Riemann have made possible the exist
 ence there of names as great as their own—Helmholtz and Kirch-
 hoff, for instance ; but the men of the rising generation seem to be
 satisfied, like the French for the last fifty years, or like the British
 for a century after Newton, merely to swear by (and comment
 upon), while infinitesimally extending, the words of their own pre
 sent Masters. It is this self-containedness, so to speak, that arrests
 the growth of science in a nation. The human family, in its every
 branch, needs all the help it can get from the other branches ; and
 the real reason for France's present deficiency in the theories of
 Heat and Electricity is its fatal neglect of every thing not written in
 French.                                                         ,
    The recovery in France, first seriously set afoot by the lamented

21G                Notices respecting New Books.
 Yerdet, seems now really likely to progress ; and all men of science
 will hail with satisfaction the well-conducted efforts which M.
 Mascart has made to promote it. "What an enviable position he
 occupies ! To be the first, or practically the first, to instruct his
 countrymen in the great life-work of Clerk-Maxwell ! to open to
 them the storehouses filled to overflowing with marvels by Helm-
 holtz and Thomson ! to show them, once for all, that great as may
 be the services of an individual, or even of a race, science progresses
 with almost infinitely greater rapidity by the mutual action between
 individuals and between races—the more widely different they are
 the better !
    After what we have said, it would be improper to formally criti
 cise the work before us. Almost all of its contents have been long
 known to those whom they concern, alike here, in Germany, and
 even in Italy. "When Babbage, Herschel, and Peacock introduced
 the more modern mathematics into England, they contented them
 selves with modestly translating Lacroix's work ; and we might be
 tempted to think that a translation of Clerk-Maxwell's 'Treatise on
 Electricity ' would have been a greater boon to France than the pre
 sent work. But a large amount of the matter of that work is here ;
 and that, after all, is the chief question. It is too much overlaid,
 however, with details of small contributions to the science, whose
 place might advantageously have been supplied by theorems of a
 higher value. There is therefore, here and there, rather a super
 fluity of sack! But the authors seem to have mastered fully the
 leading features of the most modern treatment of the subject; and
 they have put these in forms (always clear and neat as it is the
 peculiar privilege of their countrymen to be able to do, while) some
 times considerably improved from those in ordinary use either here
 or in Germany. One great defect, however, we cannot pass over.
 This is the absolute want of references to the various original
 sources of information, though of course the authors are named.
 This is totally indefensible. Without occasional, and often fre
 quent, study of original memoirs, little good progress can be made ;
 and a few additional pages would have added infinitesimally to the
 cost of so large a work, while enormously increasing its value.
    We do not suppose that the work is likely to have much circula
 tion out of France ; but that is of little moment. Let us hope that
 M. Mascart's countrymen will avail themselves of this excellent
 opportunity of attaining the higher level of this fascinating subject,
 which is at present temporarily occupied by some of their neigh
bours. Once raised to that level, they are very unlikely (if the past
furnishes any criterion) soon to fall again below it. There seems
to be little doubt that it is from the point of view furnished by
electrical phenomena, properly coordinated and comprehended, that
the next really great advances in physical science are to be looked
for. He who discovers the true mechanism of friction, of thermo
electric currents, and of electric inertia, will take a step of quite as
important a character as that which Newton took with regard to
Gravitation or Huyghens with regard to Light.

                      Notices respecting New Books.                217
  An Old Chapter of the Geological Record with a New Interpretation,
    or Rock Metamorphism {especially the Methylosed kind), and its
    resultant Imitations of Organisms : with an Introduction, giving an
    Annotated History of the Controversy on tJie so-called Eozoon eana-
    dense, and an Appendix. By Professors W. King, Sc.D. S/c, and
    T. H. Kownet, Ph.D. Sf-c. London : Van Voorst.
 The present volume is the latest outcome of the Eozoon contro
 versy. It commences with an introduction of fifty-seven pages,
 more than one fourth of the whole book, giving an epitome
 of the literature (already formidable) which the discovery, rather
 less than a quarter of a century since, of this supposed fossil has
 already evoked. The different publications are arrauged in chrono
 logical order, with abstracts of their principal contents. This is a
 valuable part of the authors' work, and will form a useful compen
 dium of the literature of the subject. It would, however, have
been still more valuable had it not been annotated, or if Messrs. King
and Eowney had been able to refrain from passing sarcasms, which
are often, to say the least, in bad taste, and occasionally, from their
obvious unfairness, arouse in the reader's mind a feeling of scepti
cism as to whether the authors could possibly do justice to the
views of an adversary. They may no doubt plead in extenuation
that they are not the only sinners in this respect, perhaps that they
were not the first to import bad temper into a scientific discus
sion ; at the same time, they would certainly have improved their
position, if they had preserved their equanimity in the historical
part of their work, and reserved their sneers and retorts for the
more controversial portion.
    The work itself discusses, after two or three preliminary chap
ters on " ophites " in general, some wider questions concerning
mineralized and methylosed metainorphic rocks. By the former of
these terms is meant a rock which has had " the original substance
of its members crystallized into minerals of various kinds ; " by the
latter, one which has had " the same minerals altered or replaced by
chemical reactions." The distinction—which, however, is perfectly
well known to all petrologists, though the authors seem to treat it
as if it were a discovery—is undoubtedly an important one, though
in practice it is often by no means easily maintained ; and we may
consequently doubt whether it was worth while cumbering the lite
rature of science with another word of foreign origin. The work
next passes on to discuss the origin of ophites. Here the authors
point out that serpentinization is effected in certain deposits with
out the intervention of mineralization ; that many ophites were
originally sediments, others igneous rocks ; and discuss the origin
of hemithrene and other related calcitic rocks. Then comes a
chapter on the minerals characteristic of ophites and related rocks,
especially of peridote, followed by some on the origin of crystal
line limestones, dolomites, &c., and on the age of ophites.
    A lengthy appendix follows, treating of various questions, some
of them rather remotely connected with the subject-matter of tho
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 80. March 1882.                S

218                 Notices respecting New Books.
book. One of these also exhibits the authors' fondness for " com
fortable words " from tongues not generally understood by the
vulgar, as it is entitled Thalassa and Xera in the Permian Period.
We are doubtless glad to learn that Messrs. King and Eowney
understand Greek, or at any rate know enough of it to use an
English-Greek lexicon ; but we fail to see why, in this matter, plain
English would not have equally well expressed their meaning.
    The work is illustrated by nine plates and some woodcuts. The
latter are only diagrammatic ; the former are far from well executed.
Whether this is the fault of the authors or of their lithographers
we are, of course, unable to decide ; we may, however, say that in
other cases where we have found our leaning (to which we confess)
towards the organic origin of Eozoon somewhat shaken by their
assertions and arguments, we have felt our faith is refreshed by
turning to their illustrations, which represent structures, like those
 upon which Dr. Hahn* has lately expended so much pains, which
 to our eyes have only a rough general resemblance to those unques
tionably organic, or claimed as such, in the best specimens of Eozoon.
     The book, we may add, is not well edited. A long list of corri
genda is given ; and there are several other mistakes which have
 altogether escaped the authors' notice. Some are no doubt merely
 printer's errors ; but others are sufficiently grave to show a want of
 due care in passing the work through the press.
     We do not purpose in our present notice to enter into the vexed
 question of the nature of Eozoon canadense, further than to say
 that the present work contains a very full statement of the authors'
 reasons for believing it to be only a mineral structure ; and a large
 amount of curious and instructive matter is brought together which
 deserves to be well considered by those who incline to the other
 view.
     We pass on, then, to some questions of a more general nature
 raised by the present work. First, as to the classification of
 ophites in the opening chapter, which is " offered indeed," as they
 state, " more for practical purposes than as being a natural one,
 though it is not altogether devoid of the last character." It is as
 follows : —
                            A. Silacid Ophites.
     Serpentmytes.
     Talc schist, Kensselaeryte (potstone).
     Sepiolytes, Magneso-argillyte ("Argille magnesienne," DeUsse).
     * In reference to this we may, in passing, note a paragraph in the
  American journal ' Science,' which states (vol. ii. p. 410) that Dr. Hahn
  exhibited his slides to Mr. C. Darwin, who had no sooner " peered through
  the microscope on one of the finest specimens, when he started up from
  his seat and exclaimed 'Almighty God ! what a wonderful discovery !
  wonderful ! ' and after a pause of silent reflection he added, ' Now reaches
  life down 1 ' " A story so circumstantial one would think must needs be
  true; but we have the beet authority for characterizing it as simply
  fabulous.

                    Notices respecting New Books.                       219
                          a. Sttb-silacid Ophites.
    Chlorargillytes.
    Agalmatolytes.
    Chlorite-schists, Hydro-phlogopite schists.
    Talc gneisses (Protogines).
    Peridolytes* (Lherssolyte, Dunyte, Pieryte, Ossipyte, Ac.)
    Ophi-euphotides.
                      B. SlLO-CAHBACID OPHITES.
    Ophi-calcites.
    Ophi-magnesites.
    Ophi-dolomites.
                      b. Sub-sUo-farbacid Ophites.
    Malacolophytes.
    Hemithrenes.
    Calci-micaschists.
       &c.     &c.
    Putting aside all questions as to the nature of Eozoon, we con
fess ourselves entirely at a loss to understand the principle of this
classification. Clearly it is neither petrological nor mineralogical.
 In a work purely chemical, an arrangement which depends solely
 on chemical composition might be allowable. In certain cases also
 it might be of advantage to pay regard solely to mineral consti
tuents ; but inasmuch as the scope of the authors' work is, to say
the least, distinctly petrological, we must protest against one which
groups together rocks which not only differ markedly in structure,
but also, by the authors' own admission, are sometimes of igneous,
 sometimes of sedimentary origin. Further, we are at a loss to de
 termine what principle underlies the above classification. At first
 we supposed it to be chemical, and that Ophite, in the authors'
minds, was equivalent to " a rock characterized by the presence of
minerals containing silicate of magnesia," i. e. in which this is an
important constituent ; but we are baffled by finding among the
members (and that, too, next the " Peridolytes,''—i. e. rocks con
sisting mainly of silicate of magnesia), talc-gneisses (Protogines).
In the latter, if the authors use the word Protogine in the ordinary
sense (i. e. to designate such a rock as we find in the heart of the
Mont Blanc massif), even the presence of talc is disputed by some
authorities, and in any case it is certainly subsidiary ; for the per
centage of magnesia, in all the analyses which we have seen, is
extremely small. Such a classification, then, rests on no principle
whatever, and is only calculated to throw the student into hopeless
confusion, traces, indeed, of which are to bo detected in the book
itself. The authors do not appear to have clearly made up their
   * We are Rt a loss to understand why the authors persistently write
this word as above. The recognized textbooks always have it Peridotite,
or (to follow another spelling of the authors in which they are not always
consistent) Peridotyte ; and as it is named from the mineral Peridote, this
seems the only possible orthography. Is this an example of methyhsif?

220                 Notices respecting New Books.
minds as to what is meant by the word serpentine. For this there
is, no doubt, excuse in the fact that few names have been used more
vaguely : the unfortunate accident that the same name has been
applied to a mineral and a rock (an accident which the authors
themselves attempt to remedy in the case of dolomite, and should
in very consistency have done in this also) has tended much to cause
this confusion. It has been augmented by the general neglect of
petrology by English geologists ; we had almost written the con
tempt, all but expressed for it, by not a few of the more eminent
among them. It has been further augmented by the fact that rocks
which chemically, mineralogically, and sometimes petrologically,
widely differ from true serpentines, to the unaided eye resemble the
latter ; so that a rock which is only serpentinous may often, at
first sight, be mistaken for a serpentine,—this being a rock consist
ing chemically of about 39 per cent, of silica, 36 per cent, of mag
nesia, with probably about 12 per cent, of water, and 7 per cent, of
iron oxides,and rather variable quantities (usually not exceeding, and,
except in the case of the first, almost always less than 2 per cent.)
of alumina, lime, nickel, &c.—a rock, in short, which, chemically,
 lithologically, and petrologically may be represented by the serpen
 tine of the Lizard. There being then such a type in not, a few regions,
 a nomenclature which neglects it, and a classification like the above,
appear to us as objectionable and as fatal to all progress in petro
logy as it would be to put a basalt with a clay slate, because
examples might be found containing about the same proportion of
alumina : indeed we are much perplexed at not finding the former
rock inserted in the above classification, seeing that it certainly
contains a considerable percentage of magnesia.
    An instance of the confusion which the above hazy definition of
ophites has caused in the miuds of the authors themselves (or pos
sibly a proof of their inability to view a question judicially) may
be found in their introduction (p. xliv), where they state they are
unable to understand how a writer can " believe in the organic
nature of Eozoon " and yet assert " that he has never seen a ser
pentine which was not intrusive." To this they append the remark,
it " is a puzzle to us, as it must be to Eozoonists, considering that
their doctrine is based on the sedimentary or aqueous deposition of
eozoonal serpentines. But is not eozoonism full of inconsistencies ? "
Any careful reader will see at a glance that the guarded statement
in the last clause is not equivalent to saying " there is no serpen
tine which is not intrusive." The context also of the letter quoted,
and every paper which we can remember published by the author
cited, always uses the term serpentine in the strict sense mentioned
above. Further, there is no more inconsistency in believing that
serpentine (mineral) may occur sometimes in a rock of igneous,
sometimes of "aqueous" origin (assuming that the mineral in the
eozoonal " ophicalcites " is serpentine) than in stating that quartz-
crystals are found both in trachytes and in the interior of organisms
in Cretaceous deposits. Indeed, if we remember aright, the above
author has been at some pains to show that, even in the true ser

                    Notices respecting New Boohs.                       221
pontine rock, the mineral is a secondary product. This confusion
is continued in the authors' speculations as to the origin of such
serpentines as that of the Lizard. It has been shown during
the last few years by several independent observers that, che
mically and microscopically, there are the strongest reasons for
believing that these serpentines are in all cases altered peridotites.
The process of transition from the wholly unaltered olivine rock to
that in which every characteristic structure of the olivine has been
obliterated has been laboriously traced and described : yet Messrs.
King and Bowney simply reiterate their opinion, that it has been
derived by methylosis from a " dolerite (wacke or melaphyre) like
that of Bufauro in the Tyrol " *. No suggestions are made as to the
means by which the large percentage of silicate of alumina (neces
 sarily present in the felspar of a dolerite, and usually a very obsti
nate constituent, declining to yield to this kind of methylotic action)
has been removed ; and but little confirmatory evidence is adduced
 beyond the vague statements of authors who lived before the micro
 scope was applied to petrology. In the same hasty way, the bron-
 zite crystals in the Lizard serpentine are held to be pseudomorphs
after black augite ; and a chemical and microscopical demonstration
 that they cannot be distinguished (allowing for partial hydration)
from varieties of eustatite is cited as confirmatory of their idea
 that the " crystals are pseudomorphs of chlorite after augite."
    We do not deny the possibility of the alteration of augite into a
mineral which might be mistaken for enstatite or bastite ; but after
a considerable experience in the microscopic study of augite and its
changes, we could not accept the statement without a clear demon
stration.
    The above case, however, is simply illustrative of a tendency
 which runs through and vitiates the whole work, viz. to postulate
 the very points which are of vital importance to the argument, and
 which are denied by not a few authorities at least as experienced as
 the authors themselves. The following are a few instances of
 begging the question :—Augite and hypersthene are placed among
 mineral species "common to ordinary metamorphics." The authors
 are surely aware that at any rate normal augite cannot be called
 common in metamorphic rocks, and that the metamorphic origin
 of any important mass of hypersthene rock is a matter of dispute.
 The " green marble of Connemara" is assumed to be post-Archsean,
 and the Upper Gneiss series of Scotland Lower Silurian ; but the
    * The authors' remark about the opinion that " ophite, or its essential
 component serpentine," has originated from peridotic rock, is in itself a
 proof of their hasty way of looking at an adverse opinion. "It cannot be
 denied that the common occurrence at Snarum ot pseudomorphs of ser
 pentine after peridote, and the frequent association of the two minerals in
 other places, may betaken as good evidence in favour of this view; but
it would he just as reasonable to assume that basalt, because it usually
 contains a large proportion of peridote, was generated out of masses of this
 mineral." Jitst as reasonable ! Is there any evidence of the replacement
 of olivine by a lime-felspar, accompanied, too, as it would here be, by an
entire change of the intimate structure of the rock ?

222            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
age of all the metamorphic rocks of Scotland and Ireland must be
regarded, after the conflicting statements of the last few years, as
still an open question ; and, though the authors are more cautious
here, we may extend the remark to their comments as to the Alpine
gneisses and schists. While on that topic, we may note that they
appear to be ignorant that the metamorphism of the great dolo-
mitic masses of the Tyrol differs greatly from that of the Alpine
gneisses and schists. Indeed, unless it be proved that the magne-
sian constituent is the result of methylosis, these masses are no
more metamorphic than most of the British Carboniferous lime
stone. In fact they are just as much and just as little metamor
phosed as the Permian dolomites (on which, by the way, the authors
make some valuable remarks which are a real contribution to the
perplexing history of this rock). A similar want of caution cha
racterizes the following remark :—" Studer long ago discovered am
monites and belemnites in a similar but less crystalline deposit (that
is, a crystallized limestone associaled with gneiss on the Jungfrau),
lying between gneisses at Mettenberg, near Grindelwald " (p. 32).
Those who know the region will hesitate to accept the apparent
induction without clearer evidence than is generally produced in this
and, we may add, other cases. Some also of the citations of opi
nions, apparently favourable, are only true when the word "ophite "
is used in the vague sense iu which the authors employ it.
   We had purposed to comment upon two other subjects mentioned
by the authors—the "striping of triclinic felspars," and the secondary
origin of peridote ; but space will not allow us to say more than
that the former structure, although evidently a puzzle to them, is
generally held to be the result of twinning, and that their argu
ments on the latter question appear to us as ingenious and as un
convincing as those by which lJaubuisson proves that basalt is of
" aqueous origin."
Journal and Proceedinys of tlve Royal Society of New South Walts.
    1880. Vol. XIV. Edited by Prof. A. Litersedch:. 8vo, 392
   pages. With ten Plates. Sydney, 1881.
In this volume, astronomy, meteorology, botany, organic and
inorganic chemistry, lithology, mineralogy, palaeontology, and the
study of local water-supply are all and each made sources of in
formation to the world at large, as well as to the Society in parti
cular, by some twelve of its energetic members. There is also an
elaborate report on morbid psychology, treating of the causation
and prevention of insanity, by one of its medical members.
         XXVI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
     ON THE FORMATION OF PEROXIDE OF HYDROGEN DURING
                COMBUSTION. BY ALOIS SCHULLER.
WHEN determining the heat of combustion of hydrogen*, I re
      marked during the combustion of oxygen in hydrogen, besides
the usual very small flame, a second, much larger, blue so-called
                 * Schuller, Wied. Ann. ii. p. 873 (1877).

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles          223
  flame, the closer investigation of which led to the conclusion that
 during the combustion of oxygen and hydrogens under certain cir
 cumstances, peroxide of hydrogen is also produced. As this sub
 ject has not, to my knowledge, yet been thoroughly discussed, I
 will briefly communicate the experimental results which up to the
 present time I have obtained.
    As previous experiments had already indicated that the blue
 flame is conditioned by accidental circumstances, I sought before
 all things to ascertain these. It then appeared that the flame is
 not visible when hydrogen burns in oxygen, but only on the com
 bustion of oxygen in hydrogen, provided that both are free from
 atmospheric air,—and, further, that it comes out better when to
 one of the gases a little sulphurous acid is added, while it disap
 pears if the gases are passed over potassium hydrate. In conse
 quence of this I removed the sulphuric acid (from which the gases
 appear to have taken up a trace of sulphurous acid) from the gas
 holder. The blue flame was now no longer visible ; but it immedi
 ately became so after the addition of sulphurous acid. The different
 experiments all led to concordant results, whether a smaller or a
 larger combustion-space (from 5 to 500 cub. centim.), or gases pro
 duced by electrolysis or otherwise were employed. All this shows
 that the blue flame stands in connexion with the sulphurous acid
 contained in the gases.
    During these experiments the water formed each time was also
examined. A trace of sulphuric acid was found in it as often as
the blue flame was visible, which was absent whenever the latter
did not appear. Besides this, the water usually took up some per
oxide of hydrogen, which was proved by iodide-of-zinc starch and
sulphate of iron, by permanganate of potassium, and by the so-
called perchromic-acid reaction.
    These in themselves interesting facts formed the subject of
further experiments. First of all I convinced myself that, under
certain conditions, H202 is produced both when H burns in O and
when O burns in H, but that the amount differs very much, ac
cording to the conditions of the experiments. Of essential import
ance is the velocity with which the burning gas penetrates that
 which surrounds the flame : if this velocity is very inconsiderable,
traces only of H2 02 appear, while with considerable excess of pres
sure striking reactions are obtained. Thus, in one ease, during
the combustion of oxygen in hydrogen at the temperature of the
room, I obtained water containing 0"0008 gram H2 Oa in 1 gram,
therefore nearly 0-001 of the whole ; and it appears to me very
probable that under more favourable conditions considerably more
might be produced. The presence of SOa, while, on the one hand,
it conditions the blue flame, diminishes the amount or prevents the
occurrence of peroxide of hydrogen ; at the same time the corre
sponding amount of sulphurous is converted into sulphuric acid.
These, as well as other experimental results, indicate that the blue
light has its origin in the combination of HaOa and SOa to form
HaS04.

224           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
   These circumstances explain, on the one hand, why in the above-
mentioned calorimetric measurements no peroxide of hydrogen
could be demonstrated (for in the slow combustion no more appears
to have been formed than was necessitated by the minute quantity
of sulphurous acid contained in the gases), and, on the other, why
the amount of sulphuric acid contained in the water was so small ;
it appears to have arrived in the combustion-space not as sulphuric,
but as sulphurous acid.
   The same circumstances seem also to explain the green edge
shown by the hydrogen-flame when iodine is present. The simul
taneous formation of iodic acid, which has been pointed out by G.
Salet*, may probably be connected with the occurrence of peroxide
of hydrogen.
   After these facts it appeared probable that in the third case of
the combustion also, viz. during the explosion of oxyhydrogen,
besides water, peroxide of hydrogen is produced, which supposition
was confirmed by experiment. It could be demonstrated in all the
experiments made in relation thereto : a scarcely perceptible quan
tity of the water formed in the explosion gave the iodine reaction ;
and a drop was sufficient to show strikingly the perchromic-acid
reaction.
   During explosion the peroxide of hydrogen appears to be formed
in still larger quantity than in ordinary combustion ; but I have
not yet succeeded in carrying out a reliable quantitative determina
tion, because all the tubes employed, of the length of about 1 metre,
were shattered. These unsuccessful experiments, however, led to
an in other respects interesting result :—All the tubes were very
strong, so that one of the weakest required a continued pressure of
100 atmospheres to burst it. To this must be added that it was
always only the part most distant from the place of ignition that
was burst, even when, with 3 millim. thickness of wall, its bore
was only 3-4 millim. in diameter—whence it follows that very pure
oxyhydrogen, such as I employed, occasions in long tubes, in the
part furthest from the place of ignition, a pressure of hitherto un
suspected magnitude. This holds good even when the tubes are
narrowed by one or two coils of cord to 2 millim. internal diameter ;
but a slight content of air modifies the result considerably. I
believe that this can be accounted for as follows :—In consequence
of the considerable pressure arising at the place of ignition, the still
unburnt gas is driven with great velocity along the tube ; hence
the slowly spreading ignition meets continually with more and
more powerfully compressed gas ; wherefore the pressure in the
corresponding part of the tube increases more and more, till finally,
at the end of the tube, the most violent action takes place. In my
experiments the pressure there was much greater than it can have
been, according to Bunsent, in the most favourable case of simul
taneous ignition of the entire mixture.
  * Comptcs Xendus de I'Acade'mie dcs Sciences, Ixxx. p. 884 (1876).
   t Bunsen, Gaeometrieche Methoden, (1876) p. 256; cf. (1877) p. 331.

                   Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.               225
    The driving forward of the oxyhydrogen gas here supposed has
also been assumed by Mallard and Le Chatelier*, in order to explain
the increase of the velocity of propagation of the ignition observed
by them.
    From what has been adduced, it follows, inter alia, that in pre
cise determinations of the heat of formation of water the H2Oa
formed must also be taken into account, and, further, that, in the
case of explosion, the loss of heat occasioned by the breaking must
be taken into consideration.—Wiedemann's Annalen, 1882, no. 2,
 vol. xv. pp. 289-292.
              ON THE LAW OF RADIATION. BY J. VIOLLE.
    The intensity of a simple radiation emitted by incandescent pla
 tinum is very accurately represented by the formula
                             I=mT3(l+€*-T)T,
 as I have previously pointed out, and as is proved by the following
 Table, which contains the values calculated by means of this for
 mula for a portion of the measurements before mentioned :—
        . BK~ f e =01-00045.
        A=656|a=        041495 ^-W5aJ\a = 100044.           „, / e=0-04467
                                                        *~ ^ \a= 100043.
   t.
        Calculated Differences  Caloulated Differences
                      from the intensities.            Calculated Differences
                                            from the intensities.   from the
        intensities. observed.              observed.              observed.
      0
   775                              005         0
   954        i           0         1           0            1         "6
  1045        31        -02         3-4      -0-2            36      - 01
  1500      153           0       218        -1           324        + 17
  1775     501           -6       812         +3         1365           0
    But if the attempt be made to represent by the same formula
 the numbers of Dulong and Petit relative to the radiation of their
 thermometer between 80° and 240°, good results are not obtained.
 Nor does the celebrated formula of those two physicists, lama1,
 agree with the measurements obtained with incandescent platinum ;
 and the expression l = mT*, recently proposed by M. Stephan,
 giving for the relative intensities at 9546, 1045°, 1500°, and 1775°
 the numbers 1, 1-33, 4*36, and 7*73, cannot be adopted.
    On the other hand, a very satisfactory representation of the
 whole of the measurements is obtained by means of the formula
                                 I=mT6TJ«T,
 in which T represents the absolute temperature, m a constant
 coefficient, 6 the number 0-9999938, « = 1-03550 -13 X, X being
 the wave-length in millimetres.
    In fact, if we apply this formula, first, to the platinum radiation,
 we Bhall have :—
                  • Comptei Rendus, xciii. pp. 146, 147 (1881).
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 80. March 1882.                      T

226            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                                 X=656.                         X=5892.
          t.                           Differences                     Differences
                    Calculated          from the       Calculated       from the
                     intensities.       obserred.      intensities.     observed.
         775                                                004           -o-oi
         954             "i                  0              1               0
        1045              30               -0-3             3-2           -0-4
        1500           161                 +7            219                0
        1775           507                   0           807              -2
                                X=535.                           X=482.
         t.                                                            Differences
                    Calculated        Differences      Calculated
                    intensities.        from the       intensities.     from the
                                        observed.                       observed.
         954                1                0
        1045                3-4           -03
        1500            311               +4               142              i
        1776           1371               +6               807              5-7
   The calculations were made with the values of a which appeared
to accord best with the observations. These values,
             1-02713,           1-02772,         1-02838,           1-02935,
satisfy the formula a= 1-03550— 13 X, with the respective differ
ences
         -0-00016, +0-00012, +0-00015, -0-00012.
   The experiments of Dulong and Petit are equally well repre
sented by the same formula, assuming a=l-01161,—that is to say,
supposing X=1838, which ia perfectly admissible according to the
measurements of M. Mouton, who has determined the wave
lengths up to 2140. We have, in fact :—
                                  Velocity of cooling.
              Excess.        Determined Calculated by               A.
                              by Dulong my formula.
                               and Petit.
                  o
                 80                1-74            1-71          -0-03
               100                 2-30            235           +005
               120                 302             310           +0O8
               140                 388             397           +0-09
                160 .,             4-89            4-96          +0-07
               180 ..,             610             610              0
               200                 740             7-39          -0-01
               220                 881             8-84          +003
               240 ...            10-69           10-46          -0-23

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.           227
    The differences are not, in general, greater than those existing
 between the numbers calculated by Dulong and Petit from their
 formula and the observed numbers.
    From the whole of these facts it appears to me to follow that,
between 0° and 1775°, the law of radiation can be represented by
 the formula
                              I=mT6TJaT.
 Comptes Bendus de VAcademic des Sciences, t. xcii. p. 1204.
           ON WHKATSTONE S BRIDGE. BY K. F. SLOTTE.
    The length of the platinum wire belonging to this apparatus,
 which cannot be exactly determined by measurement, can, it is well
known, be ascertained indirectly by comparing and exchanging
 resistances*. The following procedure is a modification of this
method which may not be without advantages.
    Let s be the length of the wire, a and b that of its two divisions
when two resistances u>, and wa are inserted and the galvanometer
shows no current. Then is
                     •fj _ a — s + a—b _s + dt                      ...
                     w2 b s— {a—b) s— d\'
in which a—b is put = d.. If now the resistances wl and if, be
exchanged and the movable contact shifted till again no current
passes through the galvanometer, this displacement, taken as posi
tive or negative according to whether a is more or less than b, is
equal to d,, which quantity can be directly determined by reading
it off upon the scale of the apparatus.
    If in the same manner t«a be compared with a third resistance
tfj, and, again, w, with wv and if the displacements corresponding
to d, be denoted respectively d, and ds, then we have
                             w3_«+d,                               .„
                             ^-1=1;                                (2)
                            w, = !±^
                            ^     s-d,                             (3)
                                                                   K '
From (1), (2), and (3) we get
                      n - (»+<*,)(*+<*,)(»+<*,)
                          (.—dX—dys-dj
and finally, by solving the last equation,
                                    dtdmd.
                                      i
                                    +da+d,
   Three determinations effected by this method, in which w2 was
chosen approximately equal to ^w,^,, gave for s the values 1118-11>
1118-75, 1118-6 millim.—"Wiedemann's Annalm, 1882,no. 1, vol. XT-
p. 176.
            * See G. Wiedemann, Galvanismus, [2] i. p. 264.

228             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
      ON THE COMBINATION OF CARBONIC ACID AND WATER.
                          BY S. WROBLEWSKI.
   If carbonic acid be sufficiently compressed in contact with water,
in a space kept at zero, the portion of the acid not absorbed liquefies,
and two distinctly separate liquids are obtained :—water, more or
less saturated, below ; and liquid carbonic acid, lighter, above.
The pressure being slowly lessened, the carbonic acid volatilizes,
and the whole returns to the original state. But if we compress
the carbonic acid almost to liquefaction and then allow the gas to
expand a little, so as to produce a trace of solid substance either in
the water or on the sides of the tube, the following phenomenon is
observed :—Every time that the pressure while being augmented
passes through a determined point (which I will call the critical
pressure), the tube becomes covered with an opaque rime ; and
every time the same point is passed through in diminishing the
pressure, the rime disappears. The critical point, at zero tempe
rature, is at, the pressure of 12-3 atmospheres. The phenomenon
can be reproduced at pleasure, if the pressure be not too much
diminished, and consequently the ice does not completely disappear.
The latter can be preserved as long as we please, if the pressure
remains greater than that above indicated.
   The phenomenon is likewise produced at higher temperatures
than zero. The value of the critical pressure rises with the tem
perature. At *
      e            atm.       0         atm.       '„          atm.
      0-48 it is 12-7         36       17-9         6-1       23-3
      27 .... 16 7            5-3      21-8         6-8 ... . 26-1
   No such result is obtainable by experimenting with water and
air. At zero, with the strongest expansion possible with my appa
ratus, a little ice is seen to form in the water, which soon melts
without producing any rime.
   The explanation of the above-described phenomenon appears to
me necessarily to involve the existence of a hydrate of carbonic
acid, readily dissociable, and capable of being formed by pressure,
like M. Ogier's chlorhydrate of phosphuretted hydrogen. The
critical pressure would be the dissociation-tension of the formed
hydrate. The proportion of water and acid seeming to have no
influence on the value of the critical tension, it is probable, from
M. Debray's researches, that there is only one hydrate of this acid,
containing equal volumes of carbonic acid gas and aqueous vapour.
In order that it may readily crystallize, a portion of substance
already crystallized must be present ; the expansion of the gas,
which determines a local lowering of temperature, serves to pro
duce this effect.— Comptes Reiulus, Jan. 30, 1882, p. 212.
   * The numbers are the means of the pressures at which the rime begins
to disappear and to form.

                      PhiLMag.S. 5. Vol. 13. PL V.
Ifintorn Brrfa lith .


   LIEBIG'S EXTRACT OF MEAT AND MALT WINE
                                (COLEMAN'S).
                   A Delicious Beverage and Tonic,
    Made from Port Wine, Liebig's Extract of Meat and Extract of Malt ; Nutri
tious, Strengthening, Stimulating, Flesh-forming, Health-restoring, Suitable for
the Robust in Health as well as the Invalid. Strongly recommended by the
Medical Faculty. An Immediate Benefit is experienced after taking it ; the
Frame is Invigorated, and no ill effects follow.
  LIEBIG'S EXTRACT OF MEAT AND MALT WINE (COLEMAN'S).
                                 TESTIMONIALS.
   Sir,—A short time since I was induced by the novelty of the title to send for
a bottle of your Liebig's Extract of Meat and Malt Wine. I was perfectly
acquainted with the value of the Extractum Carnis, and not quite a stranger to
the invigorating and fortifying properties of malt wine, and therefore felt a
natural curiosity to test them when combined.
    Men who work hard as I do—not muscular hard work, but that which is quite
as exhausting, viz. brain work—very often experience the need of, and have some
times an almost irresistible craving for, a "pick me up;" and very often the
panacea for a time for lassitude, and that state of mind which renders work
irksome, are alcoholic stimulants, the use of which must sooner or later end
disastrously.
    The man who can furnish a remedy, sure, certain, and harmless, for the lassi
tude which follows constant brain-work is a benefactor of his species, and may
 be said to have added many years of usefulness to the lives of useful men.
    Your extract is a success, and, when more generally known, will be used bv
 all toilers of the mind.                             Yours faithfully, O. D. RAY.
    Thorpe Hamlet, Norwich, Feb. 23, 1881.
                                                 Queen's Crescent, Haverstock Hill,
                                                       London, March 5, 1881.
    Pkab Sir,—Some time since, being greatly fatigued with over-work and long
 hours at business, my health (being naturally delicate) became very indifferent.
 I lost all energy, strength, and appetite, and was so weak as to be scarcely able
 to walk.
    As you are aware, I sent for a dozen of your Extract of Meat and Malt Wine,
 which in a few days pulled me up marvellously. Three or four glasses of it daily
 have quite altered and restored me to better health than ever, " without the assist
 ance of a doctor."
    I am now giving it to my son, twelve years of age, whom we have always
 thought consumptive, and from a puny ailing boy he seems to be fast growing
 into a strong healthy lad.
     Enclosed you have cheque. Please send me two dozen of the " Extract."
  With thanks for your prompt attention to my last.
                                    Yours truly, I am, Sir, GEORGE A, TYLER.
                                     Mineral Wat.T Hospital, Bath, Sept, 22, 1881.
     Gentlemen,—Referring to yours respecting your Liebig's Extract cf Meat
 and Malt Wine, I have much pleasure in testifying to its excellent qualities. It
 is highly nutritious, stimulating, and health-restoring.
     Every claim you make for it I can fully endorse, and I shall be pleased to
  recommend it as an incomparable tonic.
                         1 am, Gentlemen, yours faithfully, EDWD. J. VOYSEY'.
    Pints, 27s. per dozen ; Quarts, 50s. per dozen. Carriage paid to any
   Railway Station in Great Britain. Sample Bottle sent for 33 stamps.
                           P.O. Orders to be made payable to
                 COLEMAN AND CO.,
                     MUSPOLE STREET, NORWICH.
                      CHEQUES CROSSED LONDON AND PROVINCIAL BARK.
     Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Vendors in the United Kingdom, in
  Bottles, 2ft 9d. and As. 6d. each. Ask for Coleman's Liebig's Extract of
  Meat and Malt Wine, and " See that you get it."

               CONTENTS op N° SQ.—Ftfth Series.
    XVIII. Electro-optic Experiments on various Liquids.           By John
 Ki.k i:, LL.D., Free Church Training College, Glasgow                  page 153
    XIX. Researches on Chemical Equivalence.—I. Manganous and
Nickelous Sulphates. By Edmund J. Mills, D.Sc, F.E.S., and J.
H. Bicket                                                                      169
    XX. Researches on Chemical Equivalence.—II. Nickelous and
Cadmic Sulphates. By Edmund J. Mills, D.Sc, F.E.S., and Beb-
tbam Hunt                                           ;                          177
    XXI. Chemical Symmetry, or the Influence of Atomic Arrange
ment on the Physical Properties of Compounds. By Thomas Cab-
nbllet, D.Sc, Professor of Chemistry in Firth College, Sheffield . . 180
    XXII. Apparatus for Calculating Efficiency. By C. Vebnon
Boys, A.E.S.M., Demonstrator of Physics in the Normal School of
Science, South Kensington. (Plate V.)                                          193
    XXIII. On the Electrical Resistance of Gases. By E. Edluhd,
Professor of Physics at the Swedish Eoyal Academy of Sciences . . 200
    XXIV. On the Violet Phosphorescence in Calcium Sulphide.              By
Captain W. de W. Abney, F.R.S                                                  212
    XXV. Notices respecting New Books :—MM. E. Mascabt and
J . Joubebt's Lecons sur I'Electricite et le Magnetisme.—Professors
King and Rowney's Old Chapter of the Geological Record with
a New Interpretation, or Rock Metamorphism (especially the Methy-
losed kind), and its resultant Imitations of Organisms.—Journal and
Proceedings of the Royal Society of New South Wales                      214-222
    XXVI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
       On the Formation of Peroxide of Hydrogen during Combustion,                .
          by Alois Schuller                                                    222
       On the Law of Radiation, by J. Violle                         '.        225
       On Wheatstone's Bridge, by K. F. Slotte                                 227
       On the Combination of Carbonic Acid and Water, by 8.
          Wroblewski                                                           228
      It is requested that all Communications for this Work may be addressed,
         post-paid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office, Red
         Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

Vol. 13.                         APRIL 1882.                                No. 81.
          Published tlie First Day of every Month.—Price 2a. 6df7X ^
                         AW 13 1882
                                       THE                     \V.
              LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL                                     MAGAZINE,
                                       AND
               JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
     Being a Continuation of TillocKs 'Philosophical Magazine?
       Nicholson's 'Journal? and Thomson's 'Annals of Philosophy.''
                                   CONDUCTED BY
         SIR ROBERT KANE, LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.A. F.C.S.
         SLR WILLIAM THOMSON, Knt. LL.D. F.R.S. &c,
                                        AND
         WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S
                            FIFTH          SERIES.
                          N° 81.—APRIL 1882.
                                WITH A PLATE.
     Illustrative of Mr. J. B. Hannay's Paper on Examination of Vacua.
                                  LONDON:
       PRINTED BY TAYLOB AND FBANCIS, BED LION COUBT, FLEET 8TBBBT,
  Sold by Longmans, Green, Reader and Dyer; Kent and Co. ; Simpkin, Marshall and
    Co. ; and Whittaker and Co. ;—and by A. and C. Black, and Thomas Clark, Edin
    burgh ; Smith and Son, Glasgow :—Hodges, Foster and Co., Dublin :—Putnam,
    New York : —and Asher and Co., Berlin.

     ROYAL INSTITUTION OF GREAT BRITAIN,
                ALBEMARLE STREET, PICCADILLY, W.
          LECTURE ARRANGEMENTS AFTER EASTER 1882.
                        Lecture Hour, Three o'clock p.m.
   Edward B. Tylor, Esq., P.C.L., F.R.S.—Four Lectures on the History of
Customs and Beliefs ; on Tuesdays, April 18 to May 9. Half-a- Guinea the Couree.
   Professor Arthur Gamgee, M.D., F.R.S.—Four Lectures on Digestion ; on
Tuesdays, May Hi to June 6. Half-a-Guinea.
    Professor Dkwar, M.A., F.R.S. —Eight Lectures on the Chemical and Phy
sical Properties of the Metals ; on Thursdays, April 20 to June 8. One Guinea.
   Frederick Pollock, Esq., M.A.—Four Lectures on the History of the
Science of Politics ; on Saturdays, April 22 to May 13. Half-a-Guinea.
   David Masson, Esq., LL.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of Rhetoric and English
Literature, University of Edinburgh.—Four Lectures on Poetry and its Literary
Forms ; on Saturdays, May 20 to June 10. Half-a-Guinea.
        Subscription (to Non-Members) to alt the Courses during the Season,
                          Two Guineas. Tickets issued daily.
   Members may purchase not less than Three Single Lecture Tickets, available
for any Lecture, for Half-a-Guinea.
   The Friday Evening Meetings will be resumed on April 21st, at 8 oclock
p.m. I*rofessor Dewar, M.A., F.R.S., M.R.I., will give a Discourse on "The
Experimental Researches of Henri Ste. Claire Deville, Hon. M.R.I.,'' at 9 p.m.
Succeeding Discourses will probably be given by Professor Abel, Professor R.
Grant, Mr. A. G. Vernon Ilarcourt, Sir Frederick J. Bramwell, Sir Henrv S.
Maine, Mr. H. H. Statham, and Professor Burdon Sanderson. To these Meetings
Members and their Friends only are admitted.
   Persons desirous of becoming Members are requested to apply to the Secretary.
When proposed, they are immediately admitted to all the Lectures, to the Friday
Evening Meetings, and to the Library, and Reading Rooms; and their Families
are admitted to the Lectures at a reduced charge. Payment:—First Year, Ten
Guineas; afterwards, Five Guineas a Year ; or a composition of Sixty Guineas.
            THE LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
 Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science.
  A Journal devoted to Physics, Astronomy, Mechanics, Chemistry, Mineralogy .
                 and the Allied Sciences. Monthly , price 2s. 6d.
    ( omplete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following prices :—
    A »et of the First Series, from 1/98 to 1826 (wanting a few plates), in 68
 rolumes. Price .£15.
    The Second Series, from 1827 to 1832, in 1 1 volumes. Price £2 4s.
    The Third Series, in 37 volumes, from 1832 to 1860.       „ ,£6.
            Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
    The Annals and Magazine of Natural History.
         Including Zoology, Botany, and Geology.—Monthly, price 2s. 6d.
    Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following prices s—«
      The First Series, in 20 volumes, from 1838 to 1847. Price .£10.
       The Second Series, in 20 volumes, from 1848 to 1857. „ £10.
       The Third Series, in 20 volumes, from 1858 to 1867.      „ .£12.
           Taylor aud Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                         rAD VERT1SEMENTS continued on 3rd page of Cover.

                                 THE
          LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
   PHILOSOPHICAL                            MAGAZINE
                                 AND
        JOURNAL                  OF       SCIENCE.
                       [FIFTH SERIES.]
                          APRIL 1882.
              X-XVII. An Examination of Vacua.
             By J. B. Hannay, F.R.S.E., F.C.S.*
                              [Plate VI.]
 THE discovery detailed in a paper read before the Royal
        Society f, that solids are capable of absorbing and fixing
 large quantities of gases, led me to an examination of various
 surfaces in contact with gases. It soon became apparent
 that not only is there a closely adherent layer of gas on
 every surface, as shown by Crookes and Liveing and Dewar,
 but that the gas seems even at ordinary pressures to penetrate
 into, or combine with, tho surface of the glass, and that it is
 with extreme difficulty that even a portion of this gas is
driven off, the greater portion remaining fixed even to the
 softening-point of the glass. Experiments soon led me to the
conclusion that the estimates made as to the real extent of the
evacuation of spaces were fallacious; and a serious examination
of the extent of evacuation was attempted. There was also
in my mind the wish to test, if at all possible, the idea
held by Euler, and advocated by Grove and others, that
radiation may be propagated by ordinary matter, and not by
the luminiferous aether. The idea was, to evacuate a space as
perfectly as possible and subject it to intense cold, and then
test whether or not it would pass radiant energy. As jt was
evident that the pressure of mercury vapour is quite appre
ciable at ordinary temperatures, and is in itself quite sufficient
                 • Communicated by the Author,
                 t Proc. Koy. Soc. No. 214, 1881.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 81. April 1882.          U

230        Mr. J. B. Hannay's Examination of Vacua.
for the propagation of radiation, and as the apparatus would
require to be heated to a high temperature, mercury as
an evacuating agent was abandoned, and fusible metal sub
stituted. The " barometric height" of fusible metal is about
41 inches, so that all apparatus had to be constructed on
that scale.
   The fusible metal was composed of 50 per cent, bismuth and
25 per cent, tin and lead respectively; and its fusing-point was
94°. Increase of tin or lead raised the fusing-point; but a con
siderable increase of bismuth (10 per cent.) only raised the
fusion-point a few degrees. A variation of 3 per cent, in any of
the constituents made little difference. About 30 lb. of the metal
was prepared. A portion was heated in a piece of combustion-
tubing over the blowpipe, but gave off no perceptible vapours.
Pure hydrogen was passed over 20 grms. of the metal in a
porcelain boat in a combustion-furnace at a red heat, but
after eight hours it had lost only 5 milligrammes, showing
that fusible metal is quite fixed, as the empty boat might
lose that weight when heated so long. A portion was placed
in one end of a piece of combustion-tubing connected with a
Sprengel pump, the end containing the metal being slightly
elevated. The tube was then evacuated, and the portion away
from the metal heated until no more gas was given off, and
the McLeod gauge showed an exhaustion of a millionth of an
atmosphere. The fusible metal was then gentlv fused and
allowed to run down to the end which had been heated.
The blowpipe was again applied and the metal strongly
heated; but it gave off no appreciable amount of gas. The
metal was therefore held to be free from dissolved gases; and
being found to be suitable for the work required of it, an
attempt was made to work a Sprengel pump with it. Although
its melting-point was 94°, it was not thoroughly liquid till
115° or thereby; so it was determined to work at a temperature
of from 120° to 150°, to ensure free flow of the metal. After
several experiments a bath was constructed as in fig. I. It
was made of strong sheet iron with double sides and three
sets of windows. Its dimensions are, length of bath 6 ft., length
of feet 10 in., inside space 10 in. by 8 in. It had a strong
iron tube with four arms running down one side, set in a step
at the bottom of the bath, and bolted to the top by a nut, so
that it could be removed and the glass apparatus attached for
experiment. It was found that, when fitted with a loosely
fitting lid, the heat from one of Fletcher's heaters was sufficient
when passing from below to maintain the interior at a tem
perature of 300°. The windows were simply pieces of glass
made so as to be easily removed to gain access to the
interior.

           Mr. J. B. Hannay's Examination of Vacua.         231
    After some preliminary trials the apparatus shown in
fig. II. was constructed. The bulb A, which is connected
with B by a ground joint, has its lower extremity ground to
fit the upper part of the bulb C. D is a tube leading to the
mercury Sprengel. E are the bulbs to be evacuated. F is a
narrow tube which allows the metal to run very slowly into
the pump G. The stopcocks and ground joints were lubri
cated with Mr. Crookes's invention, burnt india-rubber, which
is the only substance of use at high temperatures. I think it
acts better at high than at low temperatures, because it soon
hardens up on the outside to a hard varnish-like body which
is quite impervious to gases. The india-rubber must be the
pure variety, such as is used for toy balloons.
   The modus operandi is as follows :—The apparatus being
fixed inside the bath with the joints all made, the stopcocks a
and d are closed and b and c left open. The ordinary
mercury-pump is then set in motion till a good vacuum is
obtained. During the evacuation the stopcock d is slightly
opened, the point being dipped in fusible metal, and the metal
allowed to rise till it is just inside d, and the cock then
closed.
   The fusible metal is poured into C through a, care being
taken to open a only very slightly at first. It was found
that the fusible metal adheres to the glass, and that no air is
admitted with the metal, as would be the case with mercury.
When all the metal is in C, the connexion with the Sprengel
pump at D is sealed off'. The metal is now running very slowly
down through F, and acting as a Sprengel pump through (r,
evacuating the bulbs E. The stopcock b is closed, so that the
metal collects in B. When B is nearly full the metal is
transferred to the top by the following method :—b and c are
opened, transferring the metal from B to A, and then closed,
and A disconnected from B; it is then raised and adapted
to C, the upper part of M'hich beyond the stopcock a is
 filled with fusible metal. The tube below d also being full,
 no air is allowed to get in; d and a are then opened, when the
 metal runs into C. A is now returned to the bottom for a
 new charge. There is great difficulty in handling the bulbs,
 owing to the heat, but with flannel and proper clamps the
 work can be got through. During the evacuation the bulbs
 E are heated nearly to the softening-point, so as to free them
 from air ; and after an hour or so, B is allowed to fill up full
 and the metal to pass up into E, sweeping any residual gas
  into the upper tube H, where it is imprisoned by freezing
  the metal by a blast of cold air.         B is then emptied,
  and the exhaustion again proceeded with, E again heated

232       Mr. J. B. Hannay's Examination of Vacua.
and filled up, and the residual air again imprisoned in H
by a new layer of frozen metal. After the first heating
the residual gas does not show itself, as the metal goes
right up into contact with that formerly frozen there. It
seems that if the quantity of gas is very small, it only
forms a layer or coating on the glass, and does not form
a bubble. This seems to show that the McLeod gauge only
measures the excess of residual gas over that required to
saturate the glass surface. When sufficient exhaustion was
supposed to have been attained, the bulbs E were sealed off;
and here it was found that the whole work had been futile,
because, on melting the tube through the metal just below
the barometric height, in order to detach the bulbs, the
appearances shown in figs. III. and IV. were seen. A large
amount of gas was given off whenever the glass became soft
enough for sealing. Fig. III. shows the sweating of the gas-
bubbles when just softening. Fig. IV. shows a tube melted
all round for some distance and the large amount of gas
driven off. It must be remembered that this tube had been
evacuated so far that it gave no residual gas on passing up
the metal.
   Some further attempts were made to get the bulbs eva
cuated again, when it was intended to heat the tube at the
point of sealing till it was soft previous to sealing, allow
ing it in fact to be sucked in till it was nearly closed,
pumping away the gases, so that none would come off' on
melting for the final sealing. Experiments showed that when
once the glass was melted in a good vacuum no further gas
would come off on remelting. It was found, however, that
the stopcocks were all leaky, having warped by the long
heating (the operation takes a whole day) ; and after fighting
with this form of apparatus, it was abandoned for that shown
in fig. V. Here, instead of stopcocks, the tubes were bent
round like safety-funnels, and narrowed very much at the
bends ; and the stopping was effected by a blast of cold air
kept blowing on the joint to be closed, and stopping the blast
whenever it was required to be opened—the heat of the bath
remelting the frozen plug. The transference of the metal
from bottom to top was effected as in the other apparatus. In
this the bulbs E were connected with the Sprengel pump by
HD, but were afterwards separated by passing metal up into
H, sweeping out residual air and freezing it in H, before the
final evacuation with the fusible metal was begun. This
form was adopted in order that the residual air might be
subjected to no pressure, but have a free space to pass out
into, thus avoiding condensation on the glass. Some progress

           Mr. J. B. Hannay's Examination of Vacua.           233
 was made with this method ; but a new difficulty arose. The
 fusible metal expands very much after solidification, and often
 bursts the tube containing it ; in fact it always bursts it if
 allowed to cool far enough ; but, as its principal expansion-
 point is 35°, or 60° below its freezing-point, it was hoped
 that by keeping the temperature between 50° and 70° a good
 stoppage would be obtained. I may mention that the expan
 sion of the metal at 35° is so great that, if allowed to solidify
in a common deep goblet, it invariably splits it ; but it may
be allowed to cool and solidify in a shallow stew-pan with
safety. After working for some weeks in vain attempts to
regulate the temperature of the stoppers, the difficulty was
found to be so great that (some point being momentarily
overlooked) the apparatus was invariably broken. When it
is remembered that working at such high temperatures the
glass often cracks, being extremely brittle and having little
tenacity, it will be understood that failures were often due
to this cause ; but when something had gone wrong, and
I could not get the metal out without cooling the apparatus, I
have often had to stand by and see two days' glass-blowing
slowly disintegrated without being able to save a tube.
   It became manifest that frozen stoppers would not do, at
least where many were required, and stopcocks were not
reliable when in communication with the vacuum; so a new
apparatus was constructed, where the stopcocks were under
pressure, and therefore not liable to leakage, and where leakage
could only take place to the unimportant side of the appa
ratus. The pumping action was also abandoned, and the
apparatus shown at fig. VI. used. Tho tube A was attached
to a mercury-pump, and the cocks a, h, and c closed. When
evacuating, b was slightly opened, and dipped into a pot of
metal so that it filled up to the inside of the stopcock,
which was then closed. When a good vacuum had been
obtained, the tubes B and 0 were heated and allowed to be
sucked in till nearly closed. The same was done with the
tubes above and below the bulbs E ; and they were also heated
nearly to the softening-point. B was then sealed off, and the
metal poured through F into D till nearly full, and C then
also sealed off from the Sprengel pump. Some metal was
left in F, and new burnt india-rubber applied to a.
   The bulbs E were then strongly heated and c opened, so
that the metal rose and swept the residual air into H, where it
was frozen by cold air. No leakage can take place by b or c,
as they are under more than an atmosphere of pressure, while
leakage by a is of little consequence, but seldom occurred. The
tube at the bottom of D was frozen by the same blast as was

234       Mr. J. B. Hannay's Examination of Varna.
used for H. e and b are now opened, and the metal run out
of E, which is again heated, and new metal passed round
from D, which holds sufficient metal for six fillings of E.
The residual air, if there is any, is always imprisoned by a
off; but even after all this treatment, a little air was seen to
come off when quite melted. The best evacuation obtained
in this way was tested as follows. One bulb was placed in a
freezing-mixture of calcium chloride and snow, and the other
interposed between a standard candle and radiometer kindly-
lent me by Sir W. Thomson; but no retarding effect further
than that due to the glass was observed, as on admitting air to
the bulbs no acceleration took place.
   It was found that, by increasing the proportion of lead in
the alloy by 20 per cent., the expansion on solidification was
greatly reduced, and enabled the freezing method of stoppage
to be used : this raised the melting-point to 108°. The last
apparatus was now modified, so as to dispense with stopcocks,
and a new attempt made. The bulbs were also reconstructed for
testing the conducting-power of the vacuum for electricity, one
bulb being made as shown in fig. VII. In this the platinum
wires were led into cups filled with fusible metal, so that no
leakage along the platinum wire was possible. Wires were
led into the cups from the outside, insulated with asbestos
and shellac, and the spark from a strong Holtz machine made
to pass. At the highest exhaustion obtained by the Sprengel
PumP> 23000000 °^ an atmosphere measured by the McLeod
gauge, the spark passed as a flash illuminating the glass
surface inside ; but on exhausting as above with fusible metal,
no power I could obtain would cause a spark to pass through
the vacuum. A Leyden battery of 12 jars was tried, and a
coil giving a 12-inch spark, but with no effect. Mercury
vapour seems, therefore, to conduct the spark. An attempt
was made to detach the bulbs, but they were fractured. It
was found that it was by no means necessary to keep the
fusible metal in a vacuum, as it dissolves no gases ; and as the
great length of the apparatus rendered its construction trouble
some and its fracture easy, a new apparatus was made as
shown in fig. VIII.
   This was constructed to obtain a simple torricellian vacuum,
a movable iron bucket below being provided, so that the
metal could be raised and lowered. The tube, from the bulbs
downwards, was 48 inches long ; and the lower end was turned
into a spiral, with the termination turned inside the spiral, so
that the end could nowhere touch the tube. I need not describe

           Mr. J. B. Hannay's Examination of Vacua.       235
the treatment, as it was similar to that before employed.
The vacuum obtained by this method would not pass a spark.
The metal used in this experiment had extra lead added to it,
so that it could be frozen.
   The bulbs were detached in the following way. The metal
was passed up for the last time and frozen, and the tube
melted through the metal at a, leaving a good column of
frozen metal Detween the bulbs and the seal, so that any gas
given off could not get into the former. The metal was then
lowered out of the bulbs, and again frozen above b, where the
tube was again melted through, and the air given off kept
imprisoned by the solid metal above b. This vacuum was
tested by the radiometer, but gave no retardation beyond
that due to the glass ; it would not, however, conduct a
spark. To test whether the glass had been really freed from
gas by this process, a pair of bulbs were evacuated as before,
and the metal passed fully half up the upper one. The bulb
was then heated to softening, so that its sides were sucked in
in several places just below the surface of the metal; and it
was invariably found that a sweat of gas-bubbles was formed
between the glass and the metal, showing that the glass still
retained air. The only method by which a real vacuum
might be obtained (putting aside glass vapour), would be by
having the bulbs made of hard glass outside and soft glass
inside, so that the inside might be fused and its gas layer
driven off, without collapsing the bulbs; but I am not suffici
ently skilled in glass-blowing to make such bulbs. As I have
been unable to get them made, the experiment has not been
tried.
    The work, as far as it goes, shows that no conclusions can
be drawn as to the nature of properties of high vacua, after
such vacuous space has been cut off, by sealing one of the
tubes by fusion ; and it is doubtful whether the measurements
by the McLeod gauge represent the true density of the
residual atmosphere. The object of this investigation—the
testing of Euler's hypothesis—has not been fulfilled, although
nearly six months' work was spent upon it, the accidental
 breakages making the testing of a method a matter of a
 month's work. I must record my hearty thanks to my two
 assistants, Messrs. Campell and McConeclry, for the unwearied
aid they have given me in this troublesome investigation.

                           [    236   ]
XXVIII. Interference Phenomena in a neto Form of Refracto-
             meter. By Albert A. Michelson*.
IN an experiment undertaken with a view to detecting the
      relative motion of the earth and the luminiferous aether
('American Journal of Science,' No. 128, vol. xxii.), it was
necessary to produce interference of two pencils of light which
had traversed paths at right angles with each other. This was
accomplished as follows:—The light from a lamp at a (fig. 1)
                              Fig. 1.
was separated into two pencils at right angles, b c and b d, by
the plane-parallel glass b; and these two pencils were returned
to b by the mirrors c and d, whence they coincide along b e,
where they are viewed by a small telescope at e. It is evi
dent that, so far as the interference is concerned, the apparatus
may be replaced by a film of air whose thickness is bc—bd,
 and whose angle is that formed by the imago of d in b, with c.
    The problem of interference in thin films has been studied
 by Feussner; but his equations do not appear to give the ex
 planation of the phenomena observed. In particular, in the
 Annalen der Physik und Chemie, No. 12, 1881, on page 558,
 the conclusion drawn from the preceding equations is that the
 interference-fringes are straight lines; whereas in the above
 apparatus they are in general curves, and there is but one case
 —that of the central fringe in white light—which is straight.
    I have therefore thought it worth while to attempt the solu
 tion of the problem for a film of air for small angles of inci
 dence, and neglecting successive reflections (which in the
                  • Communicated by the Author.

       Interference Phenomena in a new RefTactometer.         237
above-described instrument do not exist) ; and though the
solution is not perhaps adapted to the general problem, it
accounts satisfactorily for all the phenomena observed in the
special case. Let 0 »», 0 m2 (fig. 2) be two plane mirrors
                              Fig. 2.
 whose intersection is projected at 0, and whose mutual incli
 nation is <f>. The illumination at any point P (not neces
 sarily in the plane of the figure) will depend on the mean dif
 ference of phase of all the pairs of rays starting from the
 source and reaching P, after reflection from the mirrors—a
 pair of rays signifying two rays which have started from the
 same point of the source.
    If the area of the luminous surface is sufficiently large, the
 illumination at P will be independent of the distance, form, or
 position of the surface. Suppose, therefore, that the luminous
 surface coincides with the surface 0 wti. Its image in 0 mt
 will also coincide with 0 mx ; and its image in 0 m2 will be a
 plane surface symmetrical with 0% with respect to Oms;
 and for every point p of the first image, there is a correspond
 ing point p' of the second, symmetrically placed and in the
 same phase of vibration. Suppressing, now, the source of light
 and the mirrors, and replacing them by the images, the effect
 on any point P is unaltered. Consider now a pair of points
 p, p'. Let $ be the.angle formed by the line joining P and »
 (or p') with the normal to the surface, 3 and <f> being both
 supposed small,
                      A = Pjl/ — Pp =.pp'. cos S.
 The difference between this value of A and the true value is
  2Pp . sin2 ^, where yfr is the angle subtended by pp! at P.
 If S is a small quantity, ijt is a small quantity of the second

238     Mr. A. A. Michelson on Interference Phenomena
                 ¦Jr .
order, and sin2^ is a small quantity of the fourth order; con-
sequently 2Pp . sin2-^ may he neglected. We have therefore,
to a very close approximation, A =pp' cos 3, or, substituting
2t for pp', 2t being the distance between the images, at the
point where they are cut by the line Pp,
                            A = 2< cos d.
                               Fig. 3.
f'V
   Let c d ef, c' d' eff (fig. 3) represent the two images, and
let their intersection be parallel with cf, and their inclination
be 2<j>. Let P be the point considered; P' the projection of P
on the surface; and PB the line forming with PP' the
angle 3. Draw P' D parallel to ef, and P' U at right angles,
and complete the rectangle BDP'C. Let P'PC = i, and
DPF=^. Let PP'=P; and call the distance between the
surfaces at the point P', 2t0. We have then
              t = t0 + CP', tan </>= t0 + P tan <f> tan i,
and
              A = 2(t0 + P tan <f> tan i) cos 3,
or
               A = 2 (<o + Ptan<fttapO                        m
                       v/l+tan2i+tan20                        K }
   We see that in general A has all possible values ; and there
fore all phenomena of interference would be obliterated.
   If, however, we observe the point P through a small aper
ture a b (the pupil of the eye, for instance), the light which
enters the eye from the surfaces will be limited to the small
cone whose angle is b P a ; and if the aperture be sufficiently
small, the differences in A may be reduced to any required
degree.

                in a neio Form ofRefractometer.                  239
   It is proposed to find such a distance P that, with a given
aperture, these differences shall be as small as possible, which
is equivalent to finding the distance from the mirrors at which
the phenomena of interference are most distinct.
   The change of A for a change in 6 is
             BA        2(,0+Ptan»tan^
             30           (l + tan2i+tan20)» '         '   *  '   U
   The change of A for a change of i is
^A
dA_o_    (l + tan2i+tan^)^^-(<0
                              cos1 1    v + Ptan^tani)^  ' cosn
 3i~                     (1 + tan2 i + tan2 $)i
For ^ =0 we have
      30                   6=0 (or A=0).
For ^=0 we have
       (1+ tan2 1 + tan2 0)P tan p = (<0 + P tan p tan i) tan t,
or
                    (1 + tan2 6) P tan <f> = t0 tan t,
whence
                       P=r-^itanicos20.
                            tan 9
Hence the fringes will be most distinct when 6=0 and
                       P=ta^tani                                  W
   This condition coincides nearly with that found by Feussner.
    If the thickness of the film is zero, or if the angle of inci
dence is zero, the fringes are formed at the surface of the
mirrors. If the film is of uniform thickness, the fringes appear
at infinity. If at the same time # = 0 and t0=0, or 0=0 and
i'=0, the position of the fringes is indeterminate. If i and <f>
have the same sign, the fringes appear in front of the mirrors;
if i and <f> have opposite signs, the fringes appear behind the
mirrors.
   To find the form of the curves as viewed by the eye at E,
call T the distance between the surfaces at E', the projection
of E. From P draw PR parallel to DP', and RS parallel to
CP', let RS = c, and let SE = D. We have then t0= T + ctan
whence, since c=Dtani,
                    A=2 TJ^D + P)ton£tan^
                            \/l + tan2i+tan20 ' ' ' ' \ >

240       Mr. A. A. Michelson on Interference Phenomena
    If, on a plane perpendicular to EE' at distance D from E,
we call x distances parallel to P'C, and y distances parallel to
P'D, counted from the projection of E on this plane, then,
putting tan$=K and D + P=S, we have for the equation to
the curves,
                       A g DT+SKa
or
       Ay=(4SJK2-A2)^ + 8TSKD^+(4Ta-A2)D1. . (6)
    If, numerically,
                A<2SK, the curve is a hyperbola.
                A=2SE,        „     „    parabola.
                A>2SK,        „     „    ellipse.
                K=0,          „     „    circle.
                A=0,          „     „    straight line.
All the deductions from equations (4) and (6) have been ap
proximately verified by experiment.
     It is to be noticed that in the most important case, and that
most likely to occur in practice, namely that of the central
fringe in white light, we have A=0, and therefore also t0=0;
and in this case the central fringe is a straight line formed on
the surface of the mirrors. Practically, however, it is impos
sible to obtain a perfectly straight line ; for the surface of the
mirrors is never perfect.
     It is also to be noticed that the central fringe is black ; for
 one of the pencils has experienced an external, the other an
 internal reflection from the surface of b (fig. 1). This will
 not, however, be true unless the plate g (which is employed to
 compensate the effect of the plate b) is of exactly the same
 thickness as b and placed parallel with b. When these con
 ditions are not fulfilled, the true result is masked by the effect
 of " achromatism " investigated by Cornu (Comptes Rendus,
 t. xciii. Nov. 21, 1881). This remark leads naturally to the
 investigation of the effect of a plate of glass with plane parallel
 surfaces, interposed in the path of one of the pencils.
     The effect is independent of the position of the glass plate,
 provided its surface is kept parallel with the corresponding
 mirror. Suppose, therefore, that it is in contact with the
 latter, and let c d (fig. 4) represent the common surface. Let
 t = hi= thickness of the glass, i= angle of incidence, r= angle
 of refraction, n = index of refraction, \ = wave-length of
 light. Let ef represent the image of the other mirror, and
             hk
put ?f0= y

                in a new Form ofReftactometer.                    241
   It can readily be demonstrated that the path of the rays in
the in strument is equivalent to that given in the figure, where
                                Fig. 4.
one of the rays follows the path q n m h, and the other the path
rolh. Suppose the mirrors cd and ef parallel. Then, as
has been previously shown, the curves of interference are
concentric circles formed at an infinite distance. Therefore
the rays qn, ro, whose path is to be traced, are parallel, and
from the point h they coincide. Their difference of path is
                        2nm— 2hl— op ;
and their difference of phase is
            ,   2nm     2hl     op
                 \       \      \
                2n0 . t   2n.t       2t
                                        (?<0tan i— tan r) sin i ;
                \cosi    \cosr
whence
                2t
           (f>= — [ty cost— ncos r].                              (7)
    Let it be proposed to find the value of n0 which renders
 any particular ring achromatic. The condition of achroma
 tism, according to Cornu, is
                              ,7\ U»
                              ^=0
 which gives
                           dn             dr dn\ _ _
              4>+2t cos r^r—ii sinr
                                         dn dk)~

242      Dr. Hopkinson on the Refractive Index and Specific
We have
                                 sin t
                            n= -—>
                                 sin r
whence
                           dr          sin' r
                           dn ~     sin i cos r
whence
                               cosr d\
By Cauchy's formula we have
whence
Substituting, we have
                                          , ^- + ncos'r
            n0 cos i — n cosr = . 1 cos rk      cos i cos r
or, finally,
                           2(n -«.) + * cos* r
                                cost cosr
    If the angle t is small, the value of n0 will vary very little
with i ; consequently there will be a large number of circles,
all nearly achromatized. Under favourable circumstances as
many as one hundred rings have been counted, using an ordi
nary lamp as source of light.
    The difference of path of the two pencils which produce
these rings in white light may exceed a thousand wave-lengths.
XXIX. On the Refractive Index and Specific Inductive Cajt
    of Transparent Insulating Media. By J. HOPKINSON. .
    F.R.S.*
ONE of the deductions from Maxwell's electromagnetic
        theory of light is, that the specific inductive capacity of
a medium is equal to the square of its refractive index. An
other deduction is, that a body which is opaque to light, or,
more generally, to radiant energy, should be a conductor of
electricity. The first deduction appeared so clear an issue
that many experimenters have put it to the test. The results
   * Communicated by the Physical Society, having been read at the
Meeting on February 25, 1882.

      Inductive Capacity of Transparent Insulating Media.            243
may be briefly summarized thus:—Some bodies (such, for
example, as hydrocarbon oils * and paraffin-wax) agree with
Maxwell's law so well that the coincidence cannot be attri
buted to chance, but certainly points to an element of truth
in the theory: on the other hand, some bodies, such as glass t
of various kinds, fluor-sparj, Iceland sparj, and the animal
and vegetable oils§, have specific inductive capacities much
greater than is indicated by their refractive indices.
    How do these latter results really bear on Maxwell's theory ?
The facts are these. Taking the case of one substance as
typical, the refractive indices of light flint-glass are very accu
rately known, the period of disturbance ranging from 4.Q x 1014
second to yTg x iqu second ; the specific inductive capacity is
known to be about 6*7, the time of electrical disturbance being
from x7^uo second to a few seconds. If from the observed
refractive indices we deduce by a formula of extrapolation the
refractive index for very long waves, we find that its square
is about one third of 6"7. There can be no question about the
accuracy of the observed refractive indices; and I have myself
no doubt about the specific inductive capacity ; but formulae
of extrapolation are always dangerous when used far from the
actual observations. If Maxwell's theory is true, light flint-
glass should be perfectly transparent to radiations having a
wave-periodof,let us say,jy^jj0 second; because this glass is sen
sibly a perfect electrical insulator, its refractive index for such
waves should be about 2'6. Are there any facts to induce us
to think such a thing possible ? It is well known that in some
cases strong selective absorption of light in the visible spec
trum causes what is known as anomalous dispersion ; that is
to say, the body which presents such selective absorption of
certain rays has a refractive index abnormally low for waves
a little shorter than those absorbed, and an index abnormally
high for waves a little longer than those absorbed ||.
     Light flint-glass is very transparent through the whole
visible spectrum, but it is by no means transparent in the infra
red. If the absorption in the infra-red causes in light flint-
glass anomalous dispersion, we should find a diminished refrac-
   * Silow, Pogg. Ann. 1875, p. 382 ; 187C, p. 306. Hopkinson, Phil.
Trans. 1881, part i. p. 371.
  t ' Cavendish Researches,' edited by Clark Maxwell ; Schiller, Pogg.
Ann. 1874, p. 635 ; Wullner, Sitz. k. bayer. Akad. 1877, p. 1 ; Hopkinson,
Phil. Trans. 1878, part i., 1881, part ii.
   \ Romich and Nowak, Wiener Sitz. Bd. lxx. part 2, p. 380.
   § Hopkinson, Phil. Trans. 1881, part ii.
   II 'Theory of Sound,* by Lord Rayleigb, vol. 1. p. 125.

244               Mr. C. V. Boys on Water-pipes
tive index in the red. We may say that we have a hint of
this; for if we represent the refractive indices by the ordinates
of a cnrve in which the squares of the reciprocals of the
wave-lengths are abscissae, this curve presents a point of
inflection*. In the part corresponding to short waves it is
concave upwards ; in the part corresponding to long waves
it is concave downwards: the curvature, however, is very
slight. Does it not seem possible, looking at the matter from
the purely optical point of view, that if we could examine the
spectrum below the absorption in the infra-red, we should find
the effect of anomalous dispersion, and that the refractive index
of such long waves might even be so high as 2-6 ? To test
this experimentally in a conclusive manner would probably
not be easy. Perhaps the best chance of finding how these
long waves aro refracted would bo to experiment on the rays
from a thermopile to a freezing-mixture. Without an actual
measurement of a refractive index below all strong absorption,
it cannot be said that experiment is in contradiction to the
Electromagnetic Theory of Light; for a strong absorption
introduces a discontinuity into the spectrum which forbids us
from using results on one side of that discontinuity to infer
what they would be on the other side.
XXX. Water-pipes that do not burst with Frost. By C.
    Vernon Boys, Demonstrator of Physics, Normal School of
    Science, South Kensington^.
 DURING the severe weather of last winter, Mr. L. S.
         Powell proposed to me a scheme for preventing the
 possibility of water-pipes bursting through frost ; and I have
 since learnt that Mr. Mangnall, of Manchester, independently
 hit upon the same idea. As far as I can remember, there
 were some letters in the ' Times ' describing the use of india-
 rubber pipes containing air inserted in the service-pipes. This
 would obviously prevent pipes from bursting; for the pressure
 is of a nature that is relieved by a comparatively small expan
 sion; and this the india-rubber tube allows to take place in the
 surrounding water when it collapses. There is, however, one
 serious objection to this, which is the possibility of the detach
 ment of one end of the flexible tube, in which case a rush of
 water might cause it to accumulate in one place and obstruct
 the passage.
    * Proceedings of Royal Society, 1877.
    + Communicated by the Physical Society, having been read at the
 Meeting on November 12, 1881.

                     that do not burst with Frost.              245
    Mr. Powell's plan is to make the piping elliptical—either
 before it is laid, in which case it may be made of that form ori
 ginally or by passing round pipe through rollers, or afterwards,
when suitable hand-squeezers will effect the result without the
necessity of removal. As will afterwards be seen, it is not
necessary that the pipe should be elliptical throughout ; if
left round under staples and in other inaccessible places, the
adjacent elliptical portions ensure safety. The principle, of
 course, is obvious. As is well known, the Bourdon pressure-
gauge depends on the fact that the area of an elliptical pipe is
less than that of a circle of equal perimeter : therefore during,
increased pressure its section becomes more circular; increased
circularity of section produces diminished curvature in the form
of the pipe ; and so the movements of the end of the pipe are used
to measure pressure. Thin brass is used for this purpose, and is
so elastic that it returns to its original form when the pressure is
removed ; and so an indefinite number of increments and de
crements of pressure may be measured by it. The case of the
elliptical water-piping is different. Here there is not a defi
nite pressure to withstand, but a definite increase of volume ;
and, moreover, if this increase of volume is resisted, a practi
cally infinite force arises to break down the resistance. The
question then is, how best to allow of this increase of volume.
The method of the indiarubber pipes I have already mentioned.
The other plan is to make them of an elliptical or other-than-
ronnd section. There is, however, far more in this suggestion
than one would be likely to see at first. Consider the case of
a round pipe in which water is beginning to freeze. Increase
of volume must take place somewhere. No pipe can be abso
lutely uniform in strength everywhere. So wherever a place
occurs which happens to be a little weaker than the rest, no
matter how little, that place will stretch, and necessarily
stretch more than other places. But when a round pipe
stretches, two things happen—its diameter increases and its
thickness decreases ; therefore, as the strength of a tube to
resist bursting is inversely as the diameter and directly as the
thickness, each of these effects makes the stretched portion
still weaker than the neighbouring parts ; therefore a round
pipe under the action of frost is in a state of unstable equili
brium ; tho consequence is, knobs form on the pipe, and ulti
mately burst.
   Now consider the'ease of an elliptical pipe, of such strength,
of course, as to stand the ordinary water-pressure. As before,
suppose some portions are weaker than others. When expan
sion takes place they will suffer most, and will begin to give
way. But an elliptical pipe on giving becomes more circular,
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 81. April 1882.            X

246              Mr. C. V. Boys on Water-vipes
and this the more easily as its section departs more from the
circle; so the very fact of its becoming more circular makes it
less ready to change its form. In a very little while, there
fore, though originally weaker, it will become as strong as
neighbouring portions : therefore an elliptical pipe under the
action of frost is in a state of stable equilibrium, and, instead
of giving way in the bulbous manner of a circular pipe, it uni
formly becomes more circular. Now the expansion of water
in becoming ice is known; and therefore it is easy to calculate
by compound interest how many complete freezings (that is,
freezings from one end of the pipe to the other) any given
section of piping will stand before it becomes round. Of
course, in practice, the whole length of a pipe does not get
frozen; yet if it were originally all of it elliptical, the unfrozen
portions would be effective in preventing the more exposed
Earts from bursting ; because as soon as the exposed portions
  ave become rounder than the rest, the latter, and not the
former, will yield. If two places in the pipe become com
pletely frozen through and then the intermediate portion
freezes, it is true that parts beyond the frozen ping will have
no effect.
   Mr. Powell and I tried a series of experiments on the sub
ject to see if, in practice, the pipes benaved as we expected.
We obtained a quantity of $-inch lead pipe, about -fc inch
thick, and some thin composition pipe of the same size. The
piping was cut into lengths of about three feet ; half of them
were squeezed into an approximately elliptical form, and the
rest left circular in section. The degree of ellipticity was
such that, the major axis was a little more than twice the minor
axis. One end of each pipe was squeezed together and soldered.
Into the other ends brass plugs cut with a sharp thread were
screwed while hot, having been previously smeared with a
cement ofrosin, beeswax, and red-ochre. After these plugs were
inserted and while still hot, the lead was, as an additional pre
caution, squeezed over a narrower portion of the plug above
the screw-thread. In each plug a hole had been drilled and
tapped. Through these holes the pipes were filled with water;
and then iron screws, with washers of leather boiled in bees
wax and tallow, were used to make a tight joint. The pipes
were then all laid together in a long box, and surrounded with
a freezing-mixture. When a short test-pipe of the same dia
meter showed that tho water was completely frozen, the pipes
were removed and thawed. The round composition pipe was
burst. The round lead pipe was swollen in an irregular
manner. The elliptical piping had become slightly rounder,
but was perfectly uniform in shape from end to end, which

                    that do not burst with Frost.             247
 was not the case when it was put in the freezing-mixture.
The most noticeable thing, however, was the fact that all the
unburst pipes had become good water-hammers, and this
showed that leakage could not have occurred. The screws
were removed, the pipes filled, again screwed up and refrozen,
and this was repeated till all were burst. The round lead and
the thin elliptical composition pipe burst at the third freezing,
and the elliptical lead pipe at the sixth. Judging from the
fact that it required three freezings to burst the round pipe,
one might be led to suppose that a round pipe would last
equally long under ordinary conditions, which is certainly not
the case. The reason is that, under ordinary conditions, a
greater length freezes at a time and more slowly; and a slight
inequality arising, the expansion from a greater volume of
water is concentrated on the w eaker places, which therefore
give way during the second, if not the first, freezing of the
water.
   It might be thought that, as the outer layers of ice are
below the freezing-point when the pipe is being cooled, they
would not act as a plastic body and accommodate themselves to
the changing form of the pipe; but no doubt can remain as to
their behaviour in this respect when the pipe is cooled in air;
for in the freezing-mixture, where the rate of cooling must be
much more rapid, such accommodation takes place perfectly,
even thin composition pipes changing their form and becoming
round. The apparent plasticity of the ice may depend on
fracture and regelation; for if the outer layers are below the
freezing-point, and a bursting-pressure is brought to bear on
the compound pipe formed of lead and ice, it might yield, the
lead bending and the ice cracking, and so allowing the water
to penetrate the cracks and freeze in them. Whether this
action takes place or not does not much matter : the result, as
in the somewhat different case of glacier-motion, is much the
same.
   If the pipe is made of such a form that it will not become
round till it has been completely frozen, say, three times, it
will take a great many frosts to burst it, as those parts that
do not freeze easily will protect the more exposed portions ;
so absolute security may be relied upon till ordinary round
pipes have burst once or twice ; and then the now nearly round
ones may be squeezed back to their original form. The choice,
then, is between two evils ; either burst pipes, with the usual
 damage and cost of repair, or the trouble of inspection every
 second or third time that the neighbours find that the " thaw
has burst theirs.
   We thought it possible that iron might be sufficiently elastic

248                 Dr. J. Kerr's Electro-optic
to return to its original form ; and so we froze water in two
f-inch iron gas-pipes, one round and one which had been flat
tened when red-hot. The round pipe burst the first time;
the flat one did return slightly when thawed, but not enough
to prevent its bursting during the second operation.
   No doubt most people will not consider this proposal of
Mr. Powell's a satisfactory cure for burst pipes ; they would
like something which could be fixed in their houses and which
would be always safe without further attention. But till such
a discovery is made, I think elliptical pipes give the best solu
tion of a problem which has troubled every householder.
   As the subject of this paper is of physical as well as general
interest, I hope that it may be considered not unworthy of the
attention of the Physical Society.
XXXI. Electro-optic Experiments on various Liquids. By
  John Kerr, LL.D., Free Church Training College, Glasgow.
                       [Concluded from p. 169.]
                      Sulphides, (C„H2,1+i)sS.
13. npiIESE aro purely negative, and rise in power as n
            increases ; they are weaker than the corresponding
oxides, but much stronger than tho hydroxides.
   Ethyl sulphide, not a clean liquid, required the jar and 10
to 20 turns of the plate. The effect was purely negative,
strengthened by compression parallel to lines of force, and
extinguished by tension.
   Butyl sulphide, tried as a nonconductor, gave a very faint
effect, which was barely characterizable as negative. Tried
then as a conductor, with increasing charges of the jar, it gave
a set of brilliant effects, always purely negative.
   Amyl sidphide,a feeble photogyre, hardly separating the red
and blue at extinction, was rather stronger than the last. It
acted well as a nonconductor, giving a clear effect which was
purely negative. As a conductor, with increasing charges, it
gave increasingly brilliant effects, always negative by both
tests.
   Ethyl disulphide was also examined, and was found to be
purely negative, like tho protosulphide, but much stronger.
As a nonconductor it gave a pure and moderately strong effect ;
and as a conductor, with increasing charges of the jar, it gave
a fine series of restorations, all purely negative, extinguished
perfectly by tension parallel to lines of force.

                Experiments on various Liquids.                249
                    Mercaptans, C„H2a+1HS.
   14. These are purely positive, and rise in power as n in
creases ; they are stronger than the corresponding fatty acids.
   Ethyl liydrosulphide acted very well in the plate cell as a
conductor, without the jar. The effect from extinction was not
very faint, and was slow enough to be characterized as purely
positive.
   Butyl liydrosulphide is distinctly stronger. As a noncon
ductor, it gave a faint but clear effect, which was purely posi
tive ; and as a conductor, with increasing charges of the jar,
it gave a set of increasingly brilliant effects, which were all
strengthened by tension parallel to lines of force, and all weak
ened to perfect extinction by the proper compression.
   Amyl liydrosulphide, not a clean sample, acted very like the
last, but was rather stronger. As a nonconductor (spark
\ inch) it gave a good though faint effect, which was purely
positive ; and as a conductor, with moderate charges of
the jar, it gave an intense restoration, which was always
extinguished perfectly by the proper compression parallel
to lines of force.
                   Formates, CH(C„H2n+1)02.
   15. These are active only as conductors, and certainly posi
tive ; but the effects aro faint and impure, the flame restored
in the polariscope being distorted and streaky. This form of
disturbance was noticed already, though in a milder form, in
the allyl and ethylene alcohols.
   Methyl formate, with moderate charges of the jar, gave an
effect which was faint and not at all pure, but certainly posi
tive, strengthened by tension parallel to lines of force, and not
sensibly affected by compression.
   Ethyl formate, with good charges of the jar, acted rather
better. Tho effect was strengthened by tension parallel to
lines of force, and much weakened by compression.
   Amyl formate acted very like the other two. With mode
rate charges, the effect was pretty strong and distinctly positive,
strengthened by tension, and either weakened or not affected
by compression. When the discharges were intense, the dis
turbance masked the regular effect completely.
                   Acetates, C2H3(C;lH2ll+1)Os.
   16. These are distinctly positive, and otherwise like the
formates ; but the effects aro purer.
   Methyl acetate required the jar. With moderate charges
the effect was very abrupt but certainly positive, strengthened

  250                Dr. J. Kerr's Ekctro-optic
 by tension, and not affected by compression. The Ruhmkorff-
 discharges gavo afterwards an effect which was more purely
 positive, weakened regularly by compression ; but the liquid
 was now very much disturbed, and there was a large heat-
 effect after a few discharges.
    Ethyl acetate acted hardly so well as the last. With mode
 rate charges of the jar, there was a large deformation of
 tho flame, and the regular effect was very faint, uot seizable
 indeed without the hand compensator ; but it was clearly
 positive, strengthened by tension, and darkened by compres
 sion.
    Butyl acetate acted much better. As a conductor, without
 the jar, it gavo a clear effect which was purely positive by
 both tests ; and with these feeble discharges the disturbance
 of the flame was hardly noticed.
    Amyl acetate acted still better, but not without the jar.
With moderate charges it gavo a good effect, which was
purely positive, strengthened by tension, and extinguished by
 compression. With strong discharges the effect was still very
 fine, and purely positive by both tests, the deformation of the
flame being hardly sensible.
                   Butymtes, C4H7(C„H2B+i)02.
    17. The regular effects in these compounds are purely po
sitive and undisturbed, much stronger and finer than in
the acetates.
    Methyl butt/rate acted well as a conductor, with or without
tho jar, giving a series of fine effects with increasing charges,
and without any apparent disturbance. Tho effect, weak or
strong, was purely positive, extinguished always by the proper
compression parallel to lines of force.
    Ethyl butyrate, an impure sample, was hardly so strong
as the last, requiring the jar and five or more turns of tho
plate. With good charges tho effect was strong, and purely
positive by both tests.
    Ethyl isobutyrate was much stronger, acting well as a non
conductor, and reminding me of the weaker hydrocarbons,
amylene &c. With strong charges of the jar it gave a strong,
slow, and very fine effect, purely positive by both tests, and
without sensible disturbance.
   Isobutyl isobutyrate gave a fine and purely positive effect
as a nonconductor. There was no sensible disturbance even
when tho electric force was strongest. The action improved
evidently for a time as the experiment proceeded, and appeared
to be at last as strong as that of benzol.

                 Experiments on various Liquids.                251
                   Valerates, C5H9(C„H2,l+i)02.
   18. These are clearly positive, acting better than the acetates,
but not so well as the butyrates.
   Methyl valerate, with strong charges of the jar, gave a faint
effect which was distinctly positive, strengthened by tension,
and weakened by compression. The effect was very impure,
the flame being much deformed.
   Ethyl valerate was much stronger, and its action was almost
perfectly pure. As a nonconductor, it gave a clear, but very
faint, restoration from extinction. As a conductor, with in
creasing charges, it gave a series of fine offects, all purely
positive, strengthened by tension, and extinguished by com
pression.
   Amyl valerate, a much stronger photogyro than either of
the other two, acted only as a conductor, and required the jar.
The regular effect, not strong in any case, was always purely
positive by both tests.
                  Benzoates, C7H5(C)1H2„+1)02.
   19. These are purely positive, and about as strong as the
butyrates.
   Methyl bensoate acted clearly as a conductor ; but the effect
without the jar was too abrupt to be characterized. With
small charges of the jar the effect was positive by one test,
strengthened by tension, and either weakened or not sensibly
affected by compression.
   Ethyl benzoate, as a nonconductor, gave a faint but very good
restoration, which was purely positive. Tried then as a con
ductor, with and without the jar, it gave an intense and very
slow effect, always purely positive by both tests.
   Amyl benzoate, not a clean sample, acted only as a conduc
tor. With moderate charges of the jar, it gave an intense and
slow effect which was always purely positive, the extinction-
bands being brought in very finely by compression parallel to
lines of force.
                      Nitrates, C„rIi»+iN03.
   20. These are weak insulators in comparison with most of
the preceding ethers : they aro clearly but not very purely
positive.
   Ethyl nitrate as a conductor, without the jar, gave a resto
ration which was distinct, but very faint and abrupt. With
moderate charges of the jar, the effect was seen to be positive,
strengthened by tension, but not affected by compression.
With strong charges the effect was still very abrupt, neither
pure nor very strong, but certainly positive.

252                 Dr. J. Kerr's Electro-optic
   Butyl nitrate is stronger, giving a sure trace of effect as a
nonconductor. Tried as a conductor, with moderate charges
of the jar, it gave a strong restoration which was certainly
positive, strengthened by tension, but not affected by com
pression. With very strong charges the effect was brilliant,
but still too abrupt, being absolutely unaffected by compression
parallel to lines of force ; but the contrast between the effects
of tension and compression was always perfectly clear.
   Amyl nitrate, a feeble photogyre, is very like the last, cer
tainly, but not quite purely, positive. With strongest charges
of the jar, the effect was still unmanageably abrupt for the
second test ; and the liquid was sensibly disturbed.
                      Nitrites, CnH2n+1N02.
   21. Ethyl nitrite was in solution (10 p. a), and, when tried
with strong charges of the jar, gave a very faint effect which
was apparently positive.
   Amyl nitrite acted well with moderate charges of the jar.
Although the liquid was disturbed sensibly by discharge, the
regular effect was seen to be certainly positive, strengthened
by tension, and either weakened or not affected by compression.
                   Other compounds of C, H, 0.
   22. Aldehyd, C2H40, is negative, and hardly so strong as
ethyl alcohol. With Ruhmkorff-discharges, and with precau
tions against permanent heat-effects, it gave a good restoration,
regular though very faint, which was clearly strengthened by
compression but not by tension.
   Acetone, C3HG0, is stronger than the last, clearly positive,
but a very feeble insulator. With good charges of the jar it
gave a clear effect, not characterizable. With separate dis
charges of the coil, it. gave a fine but still faint restoration
from extinction, which was strengthened by tension, but not
affected by compression.
    Valeral, C6H10O, is stronger than the last, and clearly posi
tive. With moderate charges of the jar it gave a good but
abrupt effect, strengthened by tension, but not affected by
compression. With the coil, the effect was very strong, still
not affected by compression ; but the contrast between tension
and compression was regular and perfectly clear, proving the
liquid to be purely positive, but a very weak insulator.
   CEnanthol, C/HuO, is still stronger, and purely positive.
As a conductor, without the jar, it gave a clear though faint
restoration. With moderate charges of the jar, the effect was
good though still faint, strengthened by tension, and extin
guished by compression. With strong discharges, the effect

                Experiments on various Liquids.               253
 was more intense but not so pure, the liquid being much
 disturbed.
    Benzoyl hydride, or oil of bitter almonds (C7 H5 0, H), is
 positive, and a very weak insulator. Without the jar, it gave
 a clear restoration, too abrupt for the hand-compensator.
 With moderate charges of the jar, the effect was still extremely
 quick but certainly positive, strengthened by tension, and not
 affected by compression.
    Ethylene monacetate, GjH803, ranks with the other acetates
 and the formates as very impurely positive. With weak dis
 charges of the jar, the effect was too faint to be characterized,
 or even regularly seized ; and with strong discharges of the
 coil, the liquid was very much disturbed. With moderate
 charges the effect was to all appearance positive, but very
 impure at the best.
    Methyl salicylate, or oil of wintergreen, C8 H8 03, is purely
 positive. As a conductor, without the jar, it gave a sensible
but very faint restoration. With strong charges of the jar,
the effect was pretty strong and certainly positive, the contrast
between tension and compression being clear and regular,
though there was no weakening in any case by compression.
    The effect was examined afterwards more closely with the
Ruhmkorff-discharges, and with a special eye-piece described
in one of my former papers—an acute prism of glass, revolving
regularly round the line of vision, and exhibiting the progress
of the phenomenon in time as an extension in space. Viewed
in this way, the effect was strengthened by tension as formerly,
and was also extinguished regularly and perfectly by com
pression. I have .already referred to this form of experiment
as one that would afford a clear proof of the purity of positive
or negative character of a dielectric, in cases where the hand-
compensator gives a sensible increase of intensity when con
spiring with the electric strain, but no sensible decrease when
opposing it.
    23. Beeswax is purely negative, as aro also all the fused
fats that have been examined, with the exception of sperma
ceti, which is strongly positive.
    Palm-oil, cacao-butter, lard, and tallow were tried succes
sively in the fusion-cell as examples of the fats. There was
generally a little disturbance by movements in the liquid; but
the optical effects were distinctly and regularly negative,
strengthened by compression, and neutralized by tension.
    Spermaceti was then tried in the same way, and was found
to be purely positive, like sperm-oil among the fixed oils ; but
it was much stronger than was expected, stronger indeed than
any of the negative fats. As a nonconductor, and with a half

  254               Dr. J. Kerr's Electro-optic
  or quarter turn of the plate, it gave a strong and purely posi
 tive effect from extinction, without sensible disturbance of any
 kind.
     A thing noticed in most of the fused fate, and strikingly
 apparent in the case of spermaceti, was the sluggishness of
 rise and fall of the electro-optic action. When strong electric
 force was applied, the optical effect rose gradually to ite full
 intensity, through 1 or nearly 2 seconds ; and again, when the
 apparatus was discharged, the light fell to sensible extinction
 still more slowly, through 20 or more seconds. This was evi
 dently a thing of the same kind as the gradual rise and fall
 of effect which I observed long ago in glass ; but the electric
 stress in that case was much more intense, and the duration
 of the phenomenon much greater, extending even to 20 or 30
 minutes.
    Beeswax, purified but unbleached, was tried in the same
 way as the fats, and was found to be purely negative, and
almost as strong as spermaceti.
    White wax, a colourless and very clear plate in the fusion-
 cell, gave a finer and stronger effect, still purely negative.
                   Other Compounds of C, H, N.
    24. Aniline, 06 H7 N, is purely negative. Two samples
were examined. One of them, tried with plate machine and
strongest charges of the jar, gave a faint effect which was
purely negative, strengthened by compression, and extin
guished by tension. The other sample, which was much
deeper in colour, gave no trace of effect with the jar ; but
with the Ruhmkorffs coil it gave intense restorations, which
were purely negative by both tests.
    Allylamine, C3 H5 NH2, is very feebly negative. With
the Ruhmkorft'-discharges, the restorations from extinction
were perfectly clear ana regular, but very difficult to charac
terize. Upon the whole, the effect appeared to be certainly
negative ; but it was very faint, and somewhat impure at the
best.
    Capronitrile, C6 Hu N, is feebly but clearly negative. Was
tried in the same way as allylamine, and acted rather better,
the restorations from extinction being very pure and regular,
but still rather difficult to characterize. On the whole, the
effect was clearly negative, strengthened by compression, and
not affected by tension.
    Benzonitrile, C6 Hfl ON, is purely and strongly positive.
Tried as a conductor, without the jar, it gave an intense and
very fine effect, which was strengthened by tension parallel to
lines of force, and extinguished perfectly by compression.

                Experiments on various Liquids.                255
This dielectric reminded me of nitrobenzol ; but the action
was much less abrupt, and therefore more easily characterized.
   Azobenzol, C12 H0 Ni2, fuses at 65° C. into a clean and trans
parent liquid of a deep red colour. Tried in the fusion-cell
as a conductor, with increasing charges of the jar, it gave a
series of fine and increasingly brilliant effects, all purely posi
tive.
   Diphenylamine, Ci2 H Nn, fuses at 54° C. into a transparent,
colourless, and very volatile oil. Tried in the fusion-cell as a
conductor, with moderate charges of the jar, it gave a pretty
strong effect which was purely positive. With strong charges,
the regular effect was masked in some degree by movements
in the liquid.
   Dimethylaniline, C8 Hn N, is purely positive. Tried in the
plate cell as a conductor, without the jar, it gave a good
restoration, which was too quick to be characterized. With
small charges of the jar, the effect was very strong and purely
positive, strengthened by tension, and extinguished by com
pression.
    Conine gave no trace of effect, even with the strongest dis
charges of the coil. My sample was almost opaque, and cer
tainly far from pure.
                 Compounds containing CI or Br.
   25. Benzyl chloride, C7H7C1, is clearly positive, but acts
only as a conductor. Tried with the jar, it gave no effect
with 5 turns, a good effect with 10 or more turns; strengthened
always by tension, and sensibly weakened by compression.
My sample was not very clean.
    Chlorolenzol, C7HG012, is purely positive. Acted well,
though feebly, as a nonconductor, giving an effect which was
strengthened by tension and extinguished by compression.
   Ethylene chloride, C3 H4 Cls, is uncertain. It did give a
faint and apparently regular effect with strong discharges ;
but the disturbance (as in the formic ethers) was excessive,
and made the determination of the sign impossible. The re
sults obtained with the next liquid make it probable, if not
certain, that the failure in the present case was due to im
purity of the sample.
   Ethylene bromide, C2 H4 Br2, is purely and strongly positive.
Tried as a nonconductor (spark | inch), it gave a fine steady
restoration, which was strengthened by tension, and extin
guished perfectly by compression. As a conductor, with in
creasing charges of the jar, it gave a series of fine effects,
which rose through a large range of intensity, always purely
positive.

 25G                 Dr. J. Kerr's Electro-optic
    Chloroform, C H Cl3, is purely negative and pretty strong.
 As a nonconductor, it gave a fine and purely negative resto
 ration from extinction. As a conductor, with increasing
 charges, it gave a set of increasingly brilliant effects, always
 purely negative, extinguished perfectly by tension parallel to
lines of force. With strong discharges, there was a fine exhi
 bition of extinction-bands, narrow and strong, brought in by
 tension parallel to lines of force.
    Bromqform, as was expected, is also purely negative, but
 weaker than chloroform. As a conductor, with the jar, it
 gave a clear effect with 5 turns, strong with 10 or more turns,
and always purely negative.
    Acetyl chloride, C2 H3 OC1, is purely negative. As a con
 ductor, with strong charges of the jar, it gave an effect from
extinction which was merely strong enough to be characterized
 as certainly negative, being strengthened by compression,
 and weakened by tension. With the coil afterwards, there
 was a certain disturbance produced in the liquid by each dis
 charge ; but the regular effect was clearer and stronger than
 formerly, and always negative by both tests.
    Chloral, Cs CI 3 OH, is positive. As a conductor, with the
jar, it gave a good restoration with 10 or more turns of the
plate. The effect was regularly strengthened by tension, but
 not sensibly affected by compression.
    Chlorjncvin, C(Jl3NOa, is purely negative. Tried as the
last, it gave a clear effect with 5 turns, strong with 10 or more
 turns ; and the restored light was always strengthened by
compression, and always extinguished by the proper tension.
    26. Carbon tetrachloride is purely positive, like the dichloride
(formerly examined), but much weaker. Tested for insulation,
it gave a good spark (5 inch) from the prime conductor.
The optical effect was not proportionably strong, not visible
indeed from puro extinction ; but with the assistance of the
hand-compensator it was brought out very clearly, and was
found to be purely positive. There was no advantage obtained
by trial of the liquid as a conductor, with or without the
jar.
   Sulphur chloride is purely positive. As a conductor, with
strong changes of the jar, it gave a faint but good eft'ect,
which was strengthened by tension, and clearly weakened by
compression.
   Phos)>horus trichloride is purely negative, and stronger
than the last. As a conductor, with small charges of the jar,
it gave a moderately strong restoration from extinction ; and
the effect was regularly strengthened by compression, and
extinguished by tension.

                 Experiments on various Liquids.                257
                 Other Compounds and Solutions.
   27. Amyl sulphocyanide, C6HUNS, is positive. As a con
ductor, without thejar.it gave distinct restorations, too faint and
quick to be characterized. With strong charges of the jar,
the effect was strong, and always distinctly positive though
very abrupt, strengthened by tension, and not affected by
compression.
   Allyl sulphocyanide, or oil of mustard-seed, C3H5CNS, is
positive. With strong charges of the jar it gave a clear
effect, which was too abrupt for the hand-compensator, but
apparently positive. With the Ruhmkorff-discharges the
effect was stronger and still very abrupt ; but it was certainly
positive, strengthened by tension, and not affected by com
pression. With very strong discharges the liquid was con
siderably disturbed.
    Thialdine, C„ Hj3N S2, fuses into a transparent plate at 43°
C. In the fusion-cell, with moderate charges of the jar, it
gave a clear effect, pretty strong but very abrupt, certainly
negative, being regularly strengthened by compression, and
not affected by tension.
    Oil of sage is purely positive. The initial extinction was
imperfect, tho liquid being a weak photogyre. With small
 charges of the jar, there was a good and purely positive re
 storation from extinction.
    28. Several aqueous solutions were tried in tho plate cell,
but with no results worth mentioning, except in the two cases
 of CI and S03.
    Chlorine in water is feebly but purely negative. The water
 was distilled specially for the experiment, saturated with tho
gas, and then examined immediately. With strong dis
 charges of the coil, there were distinct restorations from ex
 tinction, very faint but perfectly regular, clearly strengthened
 by compression, and clearly weakened by tension. The effects
 were to me barely visible ; but they wero as distinct as any
 very faint effects could be; they wero also recovered re
 gularly on repetition of the experiment, and with two succes
 sive charges of the liquid.
    Bromine in water had been examined some time before, and
 had been entered in my note-book as very apparently, but very
 feebly, negative.
    S02 in water is also puroly negative. The experiment was
 made immediately after a similar one with water alone ; and
 the contrast between the two was perfect, water being regu
 larly and purely positive, and S02 in water as regularly and
 purely negative, but rather feebler. The solution of sulphurous

  258                Dr. J. Kerr's Electro-optic
  acid was not noticeably stronger or weaker electro-optically
  than the chlorine solution.
                             Stimmary.
     29. The principal results of the experiments are briefly
 summed up in the following statements, the numbers of the
 corresponding articles being attached in each case for re
 ference.
     The elementary bodies bromine, phosphorus, sulphur, all
 in the liquid state, are purely and strongly positive (3).
     The hydrocarbons aro nonconductors and purely positive,
 without known exception. The induction effected up to this
 time is a mere beginning in such an immense field ; but it
 includes examples of the alcohol radicals or their hydrides, of
 the benzol series, of the olefines, the paraffins, and* the tere-
 benes ; also cinnamol and naphthalin. Among the hydro
 carbons, great density is generally accompanied by high
 electro-optic power (4).
    The common alcohols are negative as a class. From the
 higher members downwards, the negative electro-optic power
 diminishes regularly, till it passes, in the last step of the series
 (ethyl to methyl), from feeblo negative to feeble positive,
 Distilled water also is distinctly positive (5).
    Of the series of fatty acids, those liquid at ordinary tem
 peratures are in constant opposition of sign to the correspond
ing alcohols ; they are also very much stronger. Of those
 that are solid at ordinary temperatures, two have been ex
amined in a state of fusion, and are found, on the contrary, to
be strongly negative ((5, 7).
    Of other alcohols and acids, the ally], benzyl, cinnyl al
cohols are negative ; the diatomic glycol and the triatomic
glycerin are feebly and impurely negative ; phenol is distinctly
positive, though in its chemical relations rather an alcohol
than an acid ; the oleic and lactic acids are both positive, the
former strong, the latter very feeble (8).
    The oxides of ethyl and amyl are purely negative, and
stronger than the corresponding alcohols. Amyl oxide is a
moderately good insulator, and one of the best negative dielec
trics yet known (9).
    The haloid ethers are purely positive, and rise in power
from one series to another in the order I, Br, 01 ; they
generally rise also in power from lower members upwards,
borne of them show an extraordinary increase of insulating and
electro-optic powers as the experiment proceeds. Amyl chloride
is one of the best positive dielectrics known ; amyl bromide
also is very strong (10, 11, 12).

                Experiments on various Liquids.               259
   The sulphides of the alcohol radicals are purely negative
and weaker than the corresponding oxides, but much stronger
 than the alcohols. From lower members upwards they rise
in electro-optic power (13).
   The hydrosulphides are purely positive, and stronger than
the corresponding fatty acids. From lower members upwards
they rise in power (14).
   Of the compound ethers, all that have been examined are
clearly positive ; and they include examples of the formates,
acetates, butyrates, valerates, benzoates, nitrates, and nitrites.
The optical effects are pure in the butyrates, but more or less
disturbed in the others, impure in the acetates, very impure
in the formates (15-21).
   The following table contains a few additional bodies which
are found to be electro-optically active. The optical effects
are neither impure nor very weak, except in the cases that are
so marked. The positive and the negative dielectrics appear
always in the left-hand and right-hand columns respectively.
                Compounds of C, H, 0 (22, 23).
     Acetone (wk).                    Aldehyde (wk).
     Valeral.                         Palm-oil.
     CEnanthol.                       Cacao butter.
     Benzoyl hydride.                 Lard.
     Methyl salicylate                Tallow.
     Ethene monacetate(imp.).         Beeswax.
     Spermaceti.
                  Compounds of C, H, N (24).
     Benzonitrile.                    Aniline.
     Azobenzol.                       Capronitrile (wk).
     Diphenylamine.                   Allylamine (wk).
     Dimethylaniline.
            Compounds containing CI or Br (25, 26').
     Chlorobenzol.                    Chloroform.
     Benzyl chloride.                 Bromoform.
     Ethylene dibromide.              Chlorpicrin.
     Chloral.                         Acetyl chloride (wk).
     Carbon tetrachloride.            Phosphorus trichloride.
     Sulphur chloride.
            Other Comjmtnds and Solutions (27, 28).
     Amyl sulphocyanide.              Thialdine.
     Ally] sulphocyanide (wk).        CI in water (wk).
     Oil of sage.                     S02 in water (wk).

 260                 Dr. J. Kerr's Electro-optic
                        Concluding Remarks.
    30. Bodies under electric stress are birefringent, with refer
ence to line of electric force as axis.—This property has now
been exemplified in such a number and such a variety of
dielectrics, that it ought to be admitted as a general property
 of matter. There do occur cases (in the formic ethers <fcc.)
in which the purity of electro-optic double refraction is lost :
but these are no true exceptions to the general statement ;
they are merely cases of disturbance, cases in which the
regular effect is masked, wholly or partly, by the presence
of other effects. Gross movements and heat appear to be
the principal causes of disturbance.
   Dielectrics are divisible into two classes, the positive and the
negative, corresponding to the two so-named classes of vniaxal
crystals.—This also has been abundantly confirmed by experi
ment, not as a rough adaptation of the notions and terms of
Optics to our present subject, but as an exact physical truth.
Except in cases of impure action or of mixed optical effects,
cases which are comparatively rare in fact, the experimental
contrast between the two kinds of dielectric is always as pure
to sense, and under any tests yet applied, as is the contrast
between quartz and Iceland spar. The two finest examples
of the positive class are carbon disulphido and amyl chloride ;
and these are far superior in power to any negative dielectric
yet discovered. As interesting examples of the negative class, I
select the following four, arranging them (according to my
samples) in the order of descending powers :—amyl oxide,
chloroform, capryl alcohol, aniline.
   Among bodies yet examined, (lie positive dielectrics are more
numerous than the negative.— Of 13 amyl compounds, 10 are
purely positive, and 3 purely negative; and similarly in other
cases. Br, P, S, the only elements yet examined, are all
purely positive.
    The electro-optic and chemical characters of compounds are
closely connected.—The hydrocarbons are positive, the fixed
oils and fats negative, the fatty acids positive, the alcohols
negative, &c.
    The electro-optic character of a chemical compound is not de
termined by its empirical formula.—Isomeric bodies are some
times electro-optically similar, and sometimes not. This is
shown in the lour following sets of isomers or polymers :
propionic acid, methyl acetate, ethyl formate—all positive ;
butyl alcohol and ethyl oxide, both negative ; aldehyde,
butyric acid, ethyl acetate—the first negative and tho other
two positive ; allyl alcohol, acetone, caproic acid, methyl
valerate—the first negative and the others positive.

                 Experiments on various Liquids.               201
    Every chemically homologous series of bodies yet examined
 exhibits a certain constancy of electro-optic character.—Thus,
 the oxides, hydroxides, and sulphides of the alcohol radicals
 are negative ; while the hydrosulphides, the iodides, bromides,
 chlorides, butyrates, benzoates, &c. are positive.
    Through each of these homologous series, there is generally a
progression of electro-optic power, the higher members being the
 stronger.—The common alcohols and the fatty acids (liquid at
 ordinary temperatures) afford very good illustrations. The
two series of bodies are negative and positive respectively ;
and in each of the series, from member to higher member, there
is a regular increase of absolute electro-optic power. The pro
gression is not maintained in the higher parts of the acid
series, the palmitic and stearic acids being (as the other fats
are) strongly negative.
    This progression, in singular cases, takes the form even of a
change of sign.—The only examples yet known are afforded
by the two last mentioned series, which begin thus :
           methyl alcohol + \           f — formic acid
            ethyl alcohol — J          \ + acetic acid
   This occurrence of contrary changes of sign at corresponding
points of the two series is surely a very remarkable fact.
The two following inferences are perhaps worthy of notice.
    Oxygen is probably a negative dielectric.—Putting ?i = 0 in
the general formulas of alcohol and acid, we obtain H20 and
02 as the starting-points of the two series. Water and oxygen
should therefore have the same signs as methyl alcohol and
formic acid respectively. As far as water is concerned, the in
ference is confirmed already by experiment.
    Our terms "positive" and "negative," borrowed originallyfrom
Physical Optics, appear now to be terms intrinsically appropriate
to the subject.—For in the acids we see a regular increase of
positive power showing itself at one point of the series as a
passage from — to +, and, again, in the alcohols a regular
increase of negative power showing itself at one point as a
passage from + to — .
    31. Electro-optic double refraction is brought about by a
special state of the dielectric, a state of essentially directional
strain, which is a concomitant and a condition of the main
tenance of electric stress. This appears to me to be a principle
that must underlie any admissible explanation of the phe
nomena. The carefully grounded and very valuable concep
tions of Faraday and Maxwell point in this one direction ;
and the simple facts of the case are, of themselves, quite deci
sive. What clearer manifestations of directional strain could be
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 81. April 1882.            Y

262           Prof. S. P. Thompson on the Electric
desired than those that are presented here ? There is, first,
the directional transmission of electric force from limit to limit
of the field ; there is, secondly, the special dioptric action of
the force-transmitting medium, an action precisely similar to
that of glass directionally strained by tensions or pressures;
and there is, finally, the directional rupture of the dielectric
when the intensity of the transmitted force reaches a critical
value characteristic of the medium.
   I insist upon the essentially directional character of electric
strain, in opposition to a theory of electro-optic action which
has been advanced by Professor Quincke*.
   Electro-optic double refraction may be attributed to a quasi-
crystalline and uniaxal structure, which is maintained by
electric stress in the medium. I advanced this view of the
phenomena in my first paper on the subject ; and I still believe
that it contains a germ of the truth. I think indeed that, to
any one engaged with the facts of Electro-Optics, there is
no theoretical conception that can present itself more naturally
than that of an electrically induced structure, a regular
arrangment of polarized molecules, roughly illustrated by the
common " magnetic curves."
XXXII. On the Electric Resistance of Carbon under Pressure.
      By Professor Silvanus P. Thompson, B.A., D.ScJ
§ 1. ~["T has often been stated that the electric resistance of
       -L carbon decreases when subjected (1) to an increase
of temperature, (2) to a mechanical compression. The first
of these statements has been verified by so many authorities
that there can hardly be any question of its correctness. The
second I believe to be wholly misleading ; for some careful
experiments that I have lately made lead to the conclusion
that the effect of mechanical compression upon the electric
resistance of dense carbon is almost, if not quite, nil, and
that what has been mistaken for an increase in electric con
ductivity is in reality merely better contact at the points of
junction with the circuit.
    § 2. A preliminary experiment to test whether the alleged
decrease of resistance by pressure was due to a true increase
in specific conductivity or to better end-contact, was made in
the following manner :—A thin cylindrical rod of Carre's
dense artificial carbon (such as is used in electric lamps) was
taken, its length being 72 centimetres. At a point about one
   * Phil. Mag. for July 1860, p. 37.
   t Communicated by the Physical Society, having been read at the
Meeting on February 25, 1882.

                Resistance of Carbon tinder Pressure.          263
  fourth of its length from the end a groove was filed round it,
 and around it was bound tightly the end of a clean thin copper
 wire. It was placed vertically                    of copper in an
 upright frame, so that pressure could be applied longitudinally
 at the top ; a flat piece of copper was placed upon the top of
 it and pressed lightly upon it. The point at which the thin
 wire was bound round it was then about 18 centim. from
 the lower end. The upper and lower portions were then
 connected up with a Wheatstone's bridge, provided, as in
 KirchhofF's pattern, with a wire of German silver stretched
 over a divided scale, the resistances of the two parts of the
 wire right and left being (when balance was obtained in the
galvanometer) proportional respectively to the resistances of
the two portions of the carbon rod. The relative, not the ab
solute, resistances of the two portions were therefore being
measured. Two bichromate cells supplied the requisite cur
rent, the galvanometer being a short-coil astatic instrument
of simple form.
    On trying the resistances, it appeared that the resistance of
the longer part, which was uppermost, was somewhat greater
in respect to that of the lower and shorter part than would
have been expected from their relative lengths ; the ratio of
their resistances being 81 : 19, or about 4*25 : 1, whereas
their lengths were as 3 : 1 almost exactly. After taking the
rod out of its place and putting it back again under light
contact at the top as before, the ratio was found to be 82 : 18,
or 4*55 : 1. The rod was thus removed and replaced several
times; and the ratio of the resistances was found to differ some
what every time, the figures varying from 4*7 : 1 to 3'92 : 1.
Pressure was now applied at the top of the rod, and the ratio
of the resistances was again measured. With a load of 5 kilo
grammes (as much as it was judged the rod would bear with
out risking breaking it), the ratio of the resistances was found
to be much more constant and much nearer to the ratio of the
lengths of the two portions, being 75-3 : 24"7, which is not very
different from 3:1. It was therefore clear that the previous
values had been greatly affected by the differences in contact
at the two ends; the lower contact having less resistance than
the upper, in consequence of the superincumbent weight of
the rod and connexions—about 19 grammes in total.
    § 3. Another rod of Carre's carbon was next examined, and
its actual resistance measured in ohms. Its length was 42'6
centim., its diameter 048 centim. To prepare it for the ex
periment, it was electroplated with a thin coating of copper
to the length of about 1 centim. at each end, the extremities
being afterwards scraped bare of copper so that end-contacts

264     On the Electric Resistance of Carbon under Pressure.
should be made against the carbon itself. Copper wires were
then carefully soldered to the copper coating at about 0-5 cen-
tim. from the ends. The object of this arrangement was to
render possible a comparison between the resistance of the rod
when there was merely end-contact—which might be more or
less perfect according to the pressure—and the resistance of
 the rod as measured when there was a perfect contact through
 the deposited coatings of copper. The rod was then laid in a
 horizontal frame, where it reposed on two Y-shaped bearings—
 one end pressing against a lever-arrangement for the purpose
 of putting on a measurable amount of pressure, the rod being
 fixed at the other end by abutting against a brass set-screw.
 A copper piece was introduced between the lever and the ex
 tremity of the rod, in order to provide an end-contact; and
 arrangements were made whereby the rod could be connected
 up in a Wheatstone-bridge, the connexion being made at
 pleasure either through the end-contacts or through the
 copper-plated junctions.
    The resistance of the rod between the copper-plated junc
 tions was then measured, the rod being free at both ends. It
 was found to be 0'56±O007 ohm. The end-contacts were
 then made to touch lightly (the circuit through them remain
 ing open). The resistance through the copper-plated junctions
 showed no change. Pressure was then applied to the rod lon
 gitudinally, and augmented until it began to show lateral
 distortion, the effective force along the rod being 4150 grms.,
 equivalent (if the area of cross section of the rod be taken as
 0'18 square centim.) to 23,055 grms. per square centimetre.
 Yet, even under this pressure, not the smallest change could
 be detected in the resistance between the copper-plated junc
 tions. If there was any, it was certainly less than 0'005 ohm,
 or less than 1 per cent, of the whole resistance.
     The circuit was now made through the end-contacts by
  moving the set-screw until the lightest possible contact was
  obtained, the connexions through the copper- plated junctions
  having been thrown out of circuit. The resistance thus deter
  mined was l'l ohm. Pressure was applied as before. The
 resistance fell to 0-72 ohm when the pressure of 23 kilo
  grammes per square centimetre was reached. On releasing
  the pressure, the resistance again rose until contact became as
  light as possible. The resistance attained 1*08 ohm, when it
  rose abruptly to infinity as the set-screw ceased to touch the
  end of the rod. The battery and galvanometer used through
  out were the same as described above.
     Nothing could be more significant than these observations.
  When perfect contact was ensured by electroplating, pressure

             On the Determination of Chemical Affinity.         265
   produced no effect on the resistance of the carbon rod, or one
  inappreciably small. When circuit was made by pressing
  pieces of copper and brass against the rough ends of the car
  bon rod, contact was only imperfectly obtained, and the resist
  ance varied with the pressure because increased pressure
  brought about better contact, or contact at a greater number
  of points.
     The bearing of these observations upon the theory of the
  carbon rheostat, the carbon relay, the carbon transmitting-
  telephone, and the carbon microphone is obvious.
    University College, Bristol,
         February 1882.
  XXXIII. On the Determination of Chemical Affinity in terms of
     Electromotive Force.—Part V. By C. E. Alder Wright,
     D.Sc. (Lond.), F.R.S., Lecturer on Chemistry and Physics
     in St. Mary's Hospital Medical School*.
  On the Relationships between the Electromotive Force of aDaniell
       Cell and the Chemical Affinities involved in its Action.
 102. TN accordance with the theorem stated in § 61, the
        J- E.M.F. that would be requisite to break up a given
 electrolyte under given conditions into the "nascent" products
 of electrolysis would be a constant amount, were it not that
 the secondary physical and chemical actions of the electrodes,
 and of dissolved gases, &c. upon the nascent products give
 rise to the development of an amount of heat, the energy
 equivalent to which diminishes the work that would otherwise
 be done by the current whilst effecting electrolysis ; so that
 the E.M.F. corresponding to the net electrolytic work actu
 ally done is less than the constant amount that would be
 requisite in the absence of these interfering circumstances ;
 under certain conditions, the diminution in the work is so
 great that work is gained instead of spent, when the cell
becomes an electromotor. Experiment shows that, catteris
paribus, the amount of diminution is less the more rapid the
rate of current-flow; so that in a decomposing cell, in which,
on the whole, work is spent during the passage of the current
in doing electrolysis (the heating effect due, in accordance
with Joule's law, to the resistance proper of the cell being left
out of consideration), the counter E.M.F. setup (representing
the work so spent) is of + sign, and increases in magnitude
with the rate of current-flow ; whilst in an electromotor, in
which, on the whole, work is gained during the passage of the
current, the counter E.M.F. set up is of — sign (i. e. is a
   * Communicated by the Physical Society, having been read at the
Meeting held February 11, 1882.

266       Dr. C. R. A. Wright on the Determination of
direct E.M.F.), and decreases in magnitude with the rate of
current-flo\7.
   This decrease in magnitude, although a phenomenon well
known under the name of "polarization of the cell," has never
theless been less thoroughly investigated than is desirable.
Thus, for instance, in the case of a given Daniell cell it is un
known to what relative extents the diminution is due to each
of three entirely different possible causes, viz. :—first, the for
mation, in consequence of the electrolytic actions going on, of
a stronger zinc-sulphate solution roundthe zinc plate, and of a
weaker copper-sulphate solution round the copper plate, than
wero there originally ; secondly, the more or less incomplete
action as regards setting up E.M.F. of the energy gained by
the solution of the zinc, and displacement thereby of copper
from the copper-sulphate solution; and, thirdly, the somewhat
analogous want of completeness in transformation into E.M.F.
(and quantity of electricity jointly) of the energy gained by
the transformation into ordinary copper of the nascent metal
thus set free. In order to refer briefly to this possible want
of completeness in development of E.M.F., it will be conve
nient to term that portion of the energy due to the various
actions taking place in the cell that does contribute to the
 setting-up of difference of potential, the "adjuvant " portion of
this energy; whilst the remainder is spoken of as the "non-
adjuvant " energy. Of course the non-adjuvant energy in
practice makes its appearance in the form of heat developed
ab initio, and not in accordance with Joule's law—t. e. not due
simply to the passage of a current through a resistance.
   As regards the possible non-adjuvancy of energy thus indi
cated, it is to be noticed that whilst the observations of nume
rous experimenters agree in showing that, under certain con
ditions, at least an approximate equality subsists between the
electromotive forces actually developed in a Daniell cell, and
in various analogously constructed cells, and those corre
sponding to the net chemical changes taking place therein
(viz., in the case of a Daniell cell, the displacement of copper
 from copper sulphate by zinc), this approximate equality
does not exist under all conditions even in a Daniell cell, inas
much as, first, considerable discrepancies exist between the
values obtained by different observers working under different
 conditions, and, secondly, the same cell exhibits values vary
ing with the rate of current-flow through so-called " polari
 zation;" whilst, on the other hand, with certain forms of cell
the maximum E.M.F. developed falls considerably short of
that corresponding to the net chemical action. These discre
pancies and amounts of falling short appear to be in certain
cases considerably greater than can bo accounted for by the

       Chemical Affinity in terms of Electromotive Force.       267
formation of solutions of zinc and copper sulphates &c. of dif
ferent densities through " migration of the ions," thus indica
ting considerable extents of non-adjuvancy.
    In order to obtain further information upon these points, a
large number of observations have been made upon various
forms of Daniell cell and allied combinations ; the general results
of which are that, with the normal Daniell combination (zinc,
zinc sulphate, or dilute sulphuric acid, copper sulphate, copper),
the amount of non-adjuvant energy with suitable plate-surfaces
and with feeble rates of current-flow is insensible, but becomes
very considerable with more rapid rates of flow, or with certain
impure forms of metallic plate-surfaces—the non-adjuvancy
being partly due to incomplete development as E.M.F. of the
energy due to the solution of the zinc, but more especially to
the imperfect development as E.M.F. of that due to the trans
formation of nascent into ordinary copper ; whilst the forma
tion of solutions of densities different from those of the fluids
originally employed also contributes to the diminution in the
effective E.M.F. of the cell. With certain other forms of cell,
 more or less non-adjuvancy exists under all circumstances.
 In the following paper only those experiments referring to the
 normal Daniell cell are described, the remainder being post
poned to a later occasion.
Experiments made to determine the total fall in E.M.F. through
     so-called Polarixation, occurring in variously arranged Daniell
     Cells for definite amounts of increase in the rates of Current-
    flow.
     103. A gravity Daniell cell was constructed (fig.          with
 two zinc plates, A and B, supported so that
 their upper surfaces were in the same hori
 zontal plane, by means of stout wires passing
 through an indiarubber cork, C, the under
 surfaces of the plates, and the wires between
 the cork and plates, being covered with gutta
  percha. This cork fitted into the lower end
  of a wide glass tube some 4 or 5 centim. in
 diameter and 12 or 15 long ; at the other end if
  was a precisely similar cork arrangement, D,
  carrying two copper plates, E and F, of which
  only the lower surfaces were uncovered with
  gutta percha. The plates A and E were each
  of such size as to expose precisely 2*5 square
  centim. of surface, whilst the plates B and F
  each exposed double that area. In order to
  arrange the cell as a gravity battery, a con
  centrated zinc-sulphate solution (sp.gr. nearly
   1*4) was run into the cell until half full, and

268        Dr. C. R. A. Wright on the Determination of
then a cold-saturated solution of copper sulphate (sp. gr.
somewhat below 1*2) was carefully floated on the top of the
zinc-sulphate solution. In some experiments this disposition
of the plates was reversed, the copper plates being lowest and
the zinc plates highest ; in these cases saturated copper-sul
phate solution was first poured in, and then a lighter zinc-
sulpliate solution. To avoid the almost inevitable contamina
tion of the zinc-sulphate solution with faint traces of copper
sulphate which occurs when the former is poured on to the
latter, no matter how carefully done, it was found more satis
factory to fill the cell half full of the zinc-sulphate solution, and
then slowly to introduce the copper sulphate at the base of the
cell through a U-tube passing through the cork C, the end
inside the cell being drawn out to a point and bent downwards,
so that the copper-sulphate solution flowed in gradually and
lifted up the zinc-sulphate solution without passing into it as
a jet and so more or less impregnating it with copper.
    It is evident that, since A and B, E and F are respectively
in the same horizontal planes, the resistance of the column of
 fluid between the plates, R, must be sensibly the same, whether
the smaller pair of plates, B and F, or the larger pair, A and E,
 be employed to generate a current; either of which can at plea
 sure be done by simply connecting the mercury-cups G H I K,
 attached to the appropriate plates, with the extremities of a
known external resistance. By measuring the difference of
 potential E subsisting between the ends of this resistance the
 current passing, C, is known ; hence if R be known, the
 E.M.F. of the cell, e, is known, being given by the equation
                               e=E + CR.
    The value of R can be deduced, with a fair amount of pre
 cision, from the results of two series of observations with
 varying currents, made, first, with the smaller, and, secondly,
 with the larger pair of plates, in the following way:—By divi
 ding the actual current-strengths by 2'5 and 5*0 (the super
 ficies in square centimetres of the plates respectively), two
 series of values of E for corresponding " current-densities "
  (rates of flow per square centimetre of plate surface) are ob
 tained, by interpolation from which, for a given current-den
  sity D, two values, Ej and Es, are deduced for the smaller and
  the larger pair of plates respectively. The E.M.F. with the
  smaller pair, elt is manifestly
                          e, = E1 + 2-5DR,
 whilst that with the larger pair is
                           <>3 = E3 + 5-0DR.

       Chemical Affinity in terms of Electromotive Force.               269
It is evident that, when the density of the current is the same,
and the surfaces of the two copper and of the two zinc plates
are respectively in the same conditions, the effect on the
E.M.F. caused by the passage of a current must be sensibly
the same, inasmuch as the same amount of zinc is dissolved
and of sulphate of zinc formed, and the same quantity of cop
per is deposited and of copper sulphate decomposed, per square
centimetre of plate surface ; so that et must sensibly =e2.
    Hence, since
                         E1 + 2-5CR=E2 + 5-0CR,
it results that
                               R_ Ej — E2
                                     T5D •
By contrasting in this way the values of the E's obtained with
various current-densities, a set of values for R are obtained,
fairly concordant when the observations are carefully made and
the plates of such materials as to remain in the same condition of
surface throughout the experiment, or nearly so, so that on in
troducing a given external resistance into the circuit, sensibly
the same values for the E's are uniformly obtained. With
sulphate-of-zinc solution surrounding the zinc plates, and with
amalgamated plates (copper as well as zinc), this permanence
is more readily ensured than when dilute sulphuric acid is used
 (with amalgamated zinc plates), or when the copper plate is
 not amalgamated, but only freshly coated with electro-deposited
 metal. Indeed, to obtain a sufficient number of readings when
 dilute sulphuric acid is employed, it is preferable to discharge
 the cell after an hour's use and recharge it, amalgamating the
 plates afresh, and filling up with the same solutions as before
 to exactly the same levels (ensured by suitably marking the
 glass), so that the resistance of the cell may vary as little as
 possible, the temperature being so adjusted as to be sensibly
 the same on the average throughout. Thus the following
  series of values was obtained as the average result of four sets
  of readings alternately with gradually increasing and gradually
  diminishing external resistances, with a cell containing nearly
  saturated copper-sulphate solution, freshly electro-coated cop
  per plates, amalgamated zinc plates, and dilute sulphuric acid
  of 1-045 sp. gr., the plates being reamalgamated and reelectro-
  coated respectively for each successive series—all the observa
  tions being reduced to the same standard as that adopted
  throughout this paper, viz. the average reading at 15*5 of a
  large number of Clark's cells taken as 1*457 volt*.
    * The exactness of this value depends not only on how far the average of
  these cells is identical with the average of those which served as the basis

270         Dr. C. R. A. Wright on the Determination of
              Smaller plates.                       Larger plates.
        0,.         D,."          E,.          Or         Da.        E2.
    •001738      •0006952        •869      •00385      000770       •770
    •000960       0003840        •960      •001854    ¦0003708      •927
    •000509      ¦0002036       1018        000999     0001998      •999
    •0002112     •00008448      1-056      •0005195   •0001039     1039
    •0001075     •00004300      1-075      •0002136   •00004262    1-068
    •000054.1    •00002172      1085        0001085   ¦00002170    1-085
    •0000273     •00001092      1092        0000546   •00001092    1-092
    •00001057    •00000423      1097       •0000262   •00000524    1-097
    •00000533    •00000213      1100       •0000108   •00000216    1100
     00000215    ¦00000086      1-103      •00000535  •00000107    1103
    ¦00000107    •00000043      1103       ¦00000215  •00000043    1-103
    •00000052    •00000021      1103       •00000105  •00000021    1-103
    104. From these figures the following values for R are de
duced—the first four determinations only of each series being
employed, on account of the smallness of the differences be
tween Ex and Ea in the other cases:—
of Clark's valuation (Proc. Roy. Soc. xx. p. 444), but also on the exactness
with which the B.A. unit of resistance is determined. If this latter be too
small—as appears probable from the experiments of Joule, and of the
writer and Mr. Rennie (Phil. Mag. March 1881, p. 169), from the results
of Rowland, and from the recent experiments of Lord Rayleigh and Prof.
Schuster—the true value of an average Clark's cell is below 1-457 to
the same proportionate extent: thus, if the B.A. unit be really 0-99
earth-quadrant the E M R of m aTen™ Clark,8 cell ;8 Qnl qqqx V457
     second
 X 10" = 1 '442 X 10" C ,G .S. unite. In view, however, of the fact that the
question of the amount aud even of the direction of the error (if any) in
the B.A. resistance unit is not yet absolutely settled, it is assumed in this
paper that there is no error at all.
   For analogous reasons the value ofJ is assumed, as previously, to be
42 X 10° ergs, the evidence in .support of its having a higher value still
being not inconsiderable ; although the probability is that, if the B.A.
resistance unit be only 0-99 ea-t'1"3ua^H.ti J is close to 41-5 x 10*. The
                                      second
value of x (the electrochemical constant denned in § 7) deduced in § 9 as
the most probable, viz. '000105, is also adhered to, notwithstanding that
Mascart's recent experiments {Compter liendus, xciii. p. 50) tend to indi
cate that this value is too large, -0001044 representing his final result : this
value is 0-8 per cent, lower than -00010527, the mean value deduced from
Kohlrausch's experiments. If J be taken = 41-5 X 10°, and x he assumed
 = -0001048 (mean of Mascart and Kohlrausch's results), the value of *J,
the factor for reducing gram degrees to C.G.S. E.M.F. unite, becomes
4349, or 1*4 per cent, less than 4410, the value hitherto assumed, and still
retained in this paper.
   Prof. S. 1'. Thompson applies the term ''Faraday coefficient" to the
numerical value y (Journ. Soo. Arte, xxx. p. 84) ; should this term be
generally accepted, the letter F might gracefully be used instead of x to
indicate the factor, just as J is used to indicate the Joule coefficient.

        Chemical Affinity in terms of Electromotive Force.                  271
                                            B2.
     D.                                                   Ei— E2. R_ E,-E2
                                                                       2-5XD'
            Observed. Interpo
                         lated. Observed. lated.
                                                Interpo
 •000770                  •847        •770                 •077    4-00 ohms.
  •0006953 •869                                   •799      070    4-03 „
  •0003840 •960                                   •921     •039    4 05 „
  •0003708                •965        •927                 •038    411 „
  •0002036 1-018                                  •997      021    4-12 „
  •0001998               1019         ¦999                 •020    4 04 „
  •0001039               1-050       1-039                 ¦on     4-24 „
  0000845 1-056            ...         ...       1-0*7     •009    4-28 „
                                                  Average          4*11 ohms.
   Taking 4*11 ohms as the average value of R, the following
numbers are calculated from the above observations, the values
of Ej and E2 being obtained by interpolation:—
   Values from observations with        Values from observations Average
           smaller plates.                  with larger plates.    value of Fall.
                                                                   E.M.F.
                               e1=E,                               of cell.
    D.      B,. 2-5 xDE. 4-2-5DH.          E2. 50 xDE. 4&0DR.
    0      1103                 1-103     1103               1103    1-103    0
 •000001   1-103                1-103     1103               1-103   1103     0
 ¦000002   1-100                1.100     1-100              1100    1-100  •003
 •000005   1-096                1-096     1-097    •001      1-098   1097   •006
 •00001    1-092   •66i         1093      1-092    ¦002      1-094   1094    009
 •00002    1-086   •002         1-088     1-086    •004      1090    1089    014
 ¦00005    1072    ¦005         1-077     1065     •010      1-075   1076    027
 ¦0001     1-051   •010         1-061     1041     •021      1062    1-062   041
 ¦0002     1-019   •021         1040       •999    •041      1040    1040    063
 ¦0004       ¦957  •041          •998      •916    •082       •998    ¦998   105
 •0007      •868 . -072          •940      •798    •144       •942    •941  •162
   It is evident that the values of ex and e3 accord so closely
that their average may fairly be taken as representing, with
but little error, the E.M.F. of a cell containing copper and
zinc plates in the condition of those experimented with in this
instance*.
    105. In various other analogous experiments the concord
ance was usually not quite so close as in this example, a
smaller number of readings (one or two sets only) being made;
   * It might appear at first sight that a third valuation of the E.M.F. of
the cell might be deduced as follows :—Since e1 = E,+2-5DR, and also
e2=E2+5-0DR, it results that e,=e2 = 2E, -E2 ; but it is evident that this
value is such that e, is the arithmetical mean between e2 and 2E,— E2,
and hence that the average of the three values must be identical with ex,
and therefore less exact than the mean of ex and e2.

 272        Dr. C. R. A. Wright on the Determination of
 but the discrepancy was in no case so great as materially to
 influence the general character of the curve representing the
 variation in the value of the E.M.F. with varying currents, ob
 tained on plotting the results by making the currents abscissae
 and the electromotive forces ordinates. The following table
 (p. 273) exhibits, side by side, the values obtained in various
 acses selected as specimens : in numerous other cases not quoted,
 the curves obtained were considerably similar to those indicated
 by the figures given in the table and represented in fig. 2. The
                                    Fig. 2.
                       Microamperes per iquare centimetre.
 resistance of the cell, It, is stated in ohms, and the electromo
tive forces in volts; the "maximum E.M.F." indicates the
average value of the highest E.M.F. observed throughout the
 various series of readings, this value being always observed
 when either no current at all circulated, or a current of less
 magnitude than about 8 microamperes* per square centimetre.
The copper plates were uniformly surrounded by nearly satu
 rated copper-sulphate solution (sp. gr. T175); the zinc plates
 were sometimes surrounded by nearly saturated zinc-sulphate
 solution (sp. gr. about 1*4), and were then lowest ; in other
cases they were highest, and were then surrounded either by
zinc-sulphate solution of sp. gr. 1*10, or by dilute sulphuric
 acid of sp. gr. 1*045.
   * In accordance with the nomenclature adopted by the recent Interna
tional Electrical Congress, the term ampere is used throughout this paper
to indicate what in the former papers ofthis series was designated a weoer,
viz. 0-1 C.G.S. current-unit ; so that a microampere = -0000001 C.G.S.
current-unit =10-7 ampere.

                                                                        O.G.S.
                                                                        unite.                                                     EMa.xMi.mFum.             rzionucdsing
                                                                                                                                                           suFluid                            Copper
                                                                                                                                                                                              plates                                                 platesZino
0007 0005 0003 •0002 ¦0001 00005 •0 0 2 ¦00001 0 0 05 ¦0 0 02 ¦0 0 01
                                                                                                                  Cur ent-density.
                                                                      Microamperes.
7000 5000 3000 2000 1000 500 200 100
                                               50 20 10
                                                                                                                                                 sp.1-42. solution,Zinc-sulphate
                                                                                                                                                 gr.                                                         electro-
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Freshly                                                 scraped
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   bright.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  covered.                                                                      Pure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                metal
     149 •lOfi 082 052 •038 025 •018 000                                                                                             1008 11-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I.
                                                                                                                                                 gr.1'42. solution, Zinc-sulphate
                                                                                                                                                 sp.                                                         electro-
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Freshly
                                                                                                                                                                                                  covered.
     179 •130 101 •009 049 032 021 010                                                                                             1093 130
                                                                                      in
                                                                                      aOlembocstrueocnmrtveis.vde
                                                                                      Fall
                                                                                    EFof
                                                                                                                                                 gr.1-10. solution,Zinc-sulphate
                                                                                                                                                 sp.                                                         electro-
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Freshly                                   bright.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    scraped
                                                                                                                                                                                                 covered.                                                            zinc Com ercial
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  plate
     151 •107 ¦085 •056 044 028 019 013 006 -001                                                                                   1091 9-5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        m.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ja
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                n by film
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      iinm ersiocopper
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       weak
                                                                                                                                                                                                            electro-
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Freshly                   cop er-sulphate                            Coated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               overwith
                                                                                                                                                 gr.1-10. solution,Zinc-sulphate
                                                                                                                                                 sp.                                                                       solution.
     ¦156 •110 •0S7 060 046 028 •018 Oil ¦006 001                                                                                                                                                covered.
                                                                                                                                   1050 54
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IV.
                                                                                                                                                 gr.1-42. solutionZ,inc-sulphate| amalgamated.thoroughly Electro-metal
                                                                                                                                                 sp.                                                                                                             amalgamated Pure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               metal
          •174 134 •083 048 023 •01     1 005
                                                                                                                                   1-094 1115
                                                                                                                                                 sp.
                                                                                                                                                 gr.1045.phuric
                                                                                                                                                           acid,                                                                                                  amalgamated. Pure
•162 ¦125 ¦084 •063 041 ¦027 014 •009 •006 003                                                                                                                            Dilute covered. electro-Freshly
                                                                                                                                                                          sul                                                                                                  metal
                                                              0                                                                    1103 411                                                                                                                                             VI.
                                                                                                                                                 sp.
                                                                                                                                                 gr.1-045.phuric
                                                                                                                                                           acid,                  |amalgamated.thoroughly |  Electro-metal                                      [amalIgamated.
     ¦212 160 120 •082 050 028 016 008                                                                                                                                    Dilute
                                                                                                                                                                          sul                                                                                                   metal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pure
                                                                                                                                   1-0% 4-2                                                                                                                                             vn.

274       Dr. C. E. A. Wright on tlie Determination of
   It is noticeable that whilst experiments Nos. I. and II. show
that the curves obtained are by no means necessarily identical
even when the conditions are sensibly the same (owing appa
rently to differences in the character of the copper deposited
during the action of the cell), experiments Nos. I., III., and IV.
indicate that but little difference in the curve is brought about
by using commercial instead of pure zinc, or by altering the
surface of the zinc by covering the bright metal with a film of
copper (although more or less marked depressions in the maxi
mum E.M.F. are occasioned thereby); on the other hand,
experiments V. and VII., as compared with the others, indi
cate that amalgamating the copper renders the rate of fall in
E.M.F. sensibly more rapid. But little difference, on the
whole, is apparently occasioned in the curves by the use of
zinc-sulphate solution (whether stronger or weaker than the
copper-sulphate solution), as compared with dilute sulphuric
acid ; what difference is brought about is of this kind—that
the sulphuric-acid curves slightly underlie the zinc-sulphate
curves.
   In none of the experiments made was any measurable de
pression of the E.M.F. of the cell brought about when the
current flowed at a rate not exceeding 8 microamperes per
square centimetre; and in several cases this rate of flow might
be doubled before any depression greater than '001 volt (Ol
per cent.) was occasioned. As a rule, when the current-
density was from 30 to 50 microamperes per square centimetre,
a diminution in the E.M.F. of from 0-5 to 1 per cent, was
brought about ; whilst diminutions of 10 per cent, and upwards
were occasioned when the current-density exceeded 3000.
Supposing the same values to hold for ordinary Daniell cells
(which is probably not quite the case, as the zinc and copper
plates are usually unequal in size), it results that, with cells of
ordinary dimensions (e. g. holding a litre and exposing a sur
face of 500 square centimetres), no appreciable diminution in
the E.M.F. would be brought about when the current does
not exceed 500 x 8 = 4000 microamperes ("004 ampere) ;
whilst diminutions of several tenths per cent, would be occa
sioned with currents of fivefold magnitude ('02 ampere),
and diminutions of 10 per cent, and upwards when the cur
rent exceeds 500x3000=1,500,000 microamperes (1*5 am
pere).

         Chemical Affinity in terms of Electromotive Force.    275
Experiments made to determine the maximum Electromotive
    Forces of variously arranged Daniell Cells containing Zinc-
    sulphate solution around the zinc, and the maximum pro
    portion of the Fall in the E.M.F. of the Cell with gradually
    increasing currents, that could be due to accumulation round
     the plates offluids of different densities through the migra
     tions of the ions.
     106. A long series of experiments was next made with the
object of determining how far the very considerable diminu
tion in the E.M.F. of a Daniell cell, above shown to exist
when moderately strong currents are generated, can be ac
counted for by the strengthening of the solution of zinc sur
rounding the plate, and the weakening of the copper-sulphate
solution round the copper plate, which necessarily take place
in consequence of the migration of the ions accompanying the
passage of the current. Inasmuch as the use of dilute sul
phuric acid introduces complications, these observations were
made in the first instance with zinc-sulphate solutions only
round the zinc plates ; later on (§ 111), similar experiments
with cells containing sulphuric acid are described.
     It results from the experiments of'Moser(Annalender Physik,
 iii. p. 21G) and H. F. Weber (Phil. Mag. [5] viii. pp. 487 &
 523), that when a stronger solution of zinc (or copper) sul
 phate diffuses into a weaker one of the same salt, plates of
 zinc (or copper) placed in the two solutions acquire different
 potentials, that in the stronger solution being at the higher
 potential: the potential difference reckoned per a ^constant
  difference in specific gravity of solution (e. g. a difference of
  0*1) is not constant, but depends on the actual values of the
  specific gravity, being less the stronger the solutions. The
  maximum value obtained (in the case of zinc-sulphate solu
  tions containing respectively 60 and 1 per cent, of crystallized
  salt) was only "036 Daniell, or about "040 volt ; whence it
  would seem that if the effect produced by zinc-sulphate solu
  tion in diffusing into copper-sulphate solution is of the same
  order of magnitude as that produced by diffusing into another
  zinc-sulphate solution of strength equivalent to that of the
  copper-sulphate solution, the effect on the E.M.F. of a Daniell
   cell, due to migration of the ions, cannot possihly materially
   exceed *04 volt; whilst, whatever the magnitude of the effect,
   it must tend to diminish the E.M.F. of the cell, since it par
   tially equalizes the difference of potential between the zinc
   and copper plates set up by the chemical action alone. In
   order to find out the actual magnitude of the diminution due
   to this diffusive action in various cases, a number of determi

  276         Dr. C. R. A. Wright on the Determination of
  nations were first made of the E.M.F. set up in various forms
  of Daniell cell when generating currents of magnitude not
  exceeding 8 microamperes per square centimetre (and usually
  when generating no current at all),</ie zinc- and copper-sulphate
  solutions being in any given case of the same specific gravity*.
  The average values being thus fixed, the observations were
  then repeated, using solutions not of the same specific gravity.
  It is particularly noteworthy in this connexion, that the E.M.F.
  of a Daniell cell was found to be sensibly independent of the
  strength of the solutions when both are of the same specific gra
  vity—i. e. the deviations observed from equality were less than
  the experimental errors.
     The cells employed were constructed of two small beakers
  —one containing zinc-sulphate solution and plates of zinc
 (scraped bright, covered with electro-deposited metal, or
 amalgamated with pure mercury), and the other copper-sul
 phate solution and similar copper plates. The two beakers
 were connected, in the way described by Raoult (Ami. de Chim.
 et de Phys. 4th series, ii. p. 317, and iv. p. 392), by means of
 an inverted Y-tube, the ends of which, dipping into the two
 beakers respectively, were covered over with thin bladder, the
 tube being filled with the zinc-sulphate solution. Each one
 of the zinc and copper plates used was soldered to a platinum
    * Although two solutions of zinc and copper sulphate, respectively of
 the same specific gravity, are not absolutely chemically equivalent to ona
 another (i. e. do not contain precisely equivalent percentages of the two
 salts), yet the difference in specific gravity between any two solutions of
 equivalent strengths is so small that, for all practical purposes, it may be
 assumed that when the specific gravity is the same the solutions are of
 equivalent strengths. Direct determinations of the specific gravities of
 various solutions of equivalent strengths (made by dissolving known
 weights of the air-dry pure salts to known weights of aqueous solutions),
 gave the following results : —
    Percentage of Specific gravity Equivalent percentage Specific gravity
    CuS04, 5HsO.        at 18°.         of ZnS04, 7H,0.
           1             1-006                1-15               1-007
           3-75          1023                 4-3                1026
           7-5           1017                 8-6                1053
          15             1098                17-2                1107
         22-5            1-156               25-9                1163
         30              1-214               34-5                1-223
   The 30-per-cent, solution of copper sulphate was slightly supersaturated,
and deposited crystals on standing in a closed vessel; saturated zinc-
sulphate solution has a specific gravity upwards of 1-4. It is noteworthy
that these figures indicate that when given bulks of water and of either
zinc- or copper-sulphate solution are mixed, an increase in bulk occurs, thus
agreeing with J. Thomsen's result that dilution of a solution of either salt
is accompanied by heat-absorption (§ 113).

         Chemical Affinity in terms of Electromotive Force.  277
  wire fused into a piece of glass tubing, forming a mercury-
  cnp; the soldering and the whole length of the platinum wire
  being thickly covered with gutta percha, so that only zinc (or
  copper) was exposed to the fluid. The plates were then con
  nected with a series of mercury-cups in such a way that, by
 simply moving a double switch connected at one end with two
  mercury-cups in connexion with the electrometer-quadrants,
  and dipping at the other end into two of the series of cups,
  any required pair of zinc and copper plates could be brought
  into connexion with the electrometer. Fig. 3 shows the
  arrangement used for two pairs of plates, and fig. 4 that for
               Fig. 3.                            Fig. 4.
 three pairs. In the former the two zinc plates, z^ and       are
  connected with mercury-cups Nos. 1 and 3 (No. 1 being also
  connected with No. 5), whilst the two copper plates, c1 and e2,
 are connected with cups Nos. 2 and 4 respectively. Cups
 Nos. 6 and 7 are connected with a standard cell (the error of
 which, in reference to the average taken as 1'457 volt, is
 known). By means of a double switch any pair of the series
 of cups 1 to 7 can be connected with cups 8 and 9, which
 are connected with the electrometer through the usual rever-
 sing-gear; so that when Nos. 1 and 2, 2 and 3, 3 and 4, and
 4 and 5 are thus connected, the electromotive forces due to
the combinations ZiCu c^, z2c2, c2Zi are respectively read off;
whilst when 6 and 7 are connected (as represented in the
figure) the electrometer-scale is standardized. In actually
taking readings a double set was always employed, the switch
being successively used to connect the four combinations and
the standard with the electrometer, and then to connect them
   PML Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 81. April 1882.            Z

278        Dr. C. R. A. Wright on the Determination of
again in reversed order; so that, by taking the averages of the
two sets, any error due to running down of the electrometer
during the readings might he eliminated (in practice the run
ning down during the period was insensible, the variation
being usually at most only 2 or 3 per cent, during the whole
day, and often much less). When three pairs of plates were
used, the three zincs were connected respectively with cups
1, 3, and 5 ; whilst cup No. 2 was connected with No. 4,
and also, by means of a movable wire, with either of three
other cups, Nos. 10, 11, and 12, with which respectively the
 three copper plates were connected : so that when No. 2 was
 connected with 10, as represented in the figure, the com
binations CiSj, CiZ2, and c\Zi could be read off by connecting
 the double switch with 1 and 2, 2 and 3 (or 3 and 4), and 4
 and 5 successively; and similarly for the other combinations.
    107. The ultimate results of upwards of a hundred series of
 valuations of the electromotive forces of various combinations,
 mostly lasting over four hours, were as follows:—
    (1) With the stronger solutions used (specific gravities 1*100
 to 1"175) the E.M.F. set up after the first few minutes remained
 sensibly constant for several hours (the temperature being
 constant), never differing from the final average of the four
 average sets of readings made in each of the first four hours
 by amounts outside the limits of observational error. For
  instance, the following values were obtained in one experi
  ment, in which the temperature throughout was close to 18°,
  the specific gravity of the solutions being T175:—
                             Average E.M.F. determined during the
        Combination.                                                  Final
                                                                     average.
                             1st hour. 2nd hour. 3rd hour. 4th hour.
    Amalgamated zinc— '        1112      1-113     1-114     1-114    11132
    Bright zinc—electro- '      1-110    1-109     1-112     1-110    1-1102
                           \
    Amalgamated zinc— '        1119      1-122     1122      1120     1-1207
       bright ooppcr . . .
    Bright zinc—bright         1-117     1-115     1-118     1-118    1-1170
     Very similar results were obtained in all the other cases.
  After twenty-four hours the E.M.F. usually diminished to a
  greater or less extent. These changes are referred to later on
  (§ 108), being probably due to oxidation of the metals by dis
  solved air.
     (2) With weaker solutions (sp. gr. 1-0065 to 1-050) the
  E.M.F developed during the first half hour or so was usually

        Chemical Affinity in terms ofElectromotive Force.                   279
 slightly lower than the value attained subsequently; which
 value remained sensibly constant for several hours, and then
 fell to a greater or lesser extent, as with the stronger solutions.
 Accordingly, in such cases the lower readings during the first
 half hour or so were not taken into account in the final ave
 rage. For any given combination of plates, the final average
 thus obtained with weaker solutions was sensibly identical
 with that obtained with the stronger solutions*.
    (3) The combinations that gave the most constant results
 on repetition of the experiments were those containing amal
gamated zinc and either electro-copper or amalgamated cop
per; next to which were those with electro-deposited zinc and
these same kinds of copper plates. Combinations containing
either bright zinc or bright copper (i. e. rods of fused metal
or sheets of rolled metal filed, scraped, or sand-papered to
perfect brightness) exhibited a considerably wider range of
variation. By comparing various bright copper plates with
one and the same amalgamated zinc plate, or various bright
zinc plates with one and the same electro-copper plate, it was
found that differences, amounting nearly to O'OIO volt in the
   * The conclusion that the E.M.F. developed by a given pair of plates
immersed, the one in zinc-sulphate, the other in copper-sulpnate solution,
is sensibly independent of the strength of the solutions when both are of
the same density (or, at least, that the variation in E.M.F. caused by
variation in strength of the solutions is not outside the limits of experi
mental error), is further corroborated by the results of still more direct
experiments on the matter. Three cells were arranged, containing solu
tions respectively of the specific gravities TOIO, 1'090, and 1-175, each
containing a recently electro-coppered plate and a freshly amalgamated
zinc plate. A number of readings were taken of the potential-differences
subsisting between the plates in each case; and then tho plates were ex
changed—the pair from the first cell being placed in the second, that origi
nally in the second being transferred to the third, and so on. After a new
set of readings had been taken, the plates were again exchanged and a
third set of readings taken ; so that each pair of plates was read in each
cell. The following figures were finally obtained, all readings taken
during the first half hours after immersion of the plates being rejected :—
   Specific gravity 1-010.   Specific gravity 1090.     Specific gravity 1-175.
 1st pair of plates 1-1127 2nd pair of plates 1-1122 3rd pair of plates 1-1125
 2nd       „ „ 1-1130 3rd „              „     1-1115 1st     „      „ 1-1118
 3rd       „ „ 1-1140 1st „              „     1-1135 2nd „          „ 1-1133
       Mean         1-1132
    In each case the value found as the mean for the three pairs of plates
differs from the general average 1-1127 by an amount so small as hardly,
if at all, to be outside the limits of experimental error.
                                      Z2

280       Dr. C. R. A. Wright on the Determination of
 most extreme instances, were observable in each case with
 different bright plates as compared with one another. On the
 other hand, on comparing various electro-copper or amalga
 mated copper plates with one and the same zinc plate, or
 various amalgamated zinc plates with one and the same copper
 plate, the extreme ranges of fluctuation were found to be not
 more than half those observed with bright plates, and usually
 did not exceed + "001 as compared with the average.
    (4) As the ultimate average result of all the determinations
 made, it was found that an amalgamated zinc plate gave, when
 opposed to a given copper plate, an E.M.F. lower by *002 volt
 than a bright zinc plate, and lower by "001 volt than an
 electro-zinc plate. The actual differences in various experi
 ments ranged in the former case between +•006 and —•004,
 the bright zinc plate sometimes giving a higher value, and
 sometimes a lower value, than the amalgamated plate—more
 frequently the former. (In the example quoted above, the
 bright zinc plate gave a value lower by "0030 when opposed
 to an electro-copper plate, and by "0037 when opposed to a
 bright copper plate.) With electro-zinc as compared with
 amalgamated zinc, the difference ranged between + '004 and
  — '003, the electro-zinc sometimes giving a higher and some
 times a lower value than the amalgamated zinc, more usually
 the former.
    (5) Similarly, the effect of substituting a bright copper plate
 for an electro one in any given combination was uniformly to
 cause an increase in the E.M.F. by an amount varying between
 •001 and "010 volt, and averaging, on the whole, *006. (In the
 example quoted above, bright copper gives a higher value
 than electro-copper by "0075 when opposed to amalgamated
 zinc, and by -0068 when opposed to bright zinc.) The effect
 of amalgamating a copper plate was found to be, on the whole,
 to give an E.M.F. lower by "001 than that given under the
 same conditions by a freshly electro-coppered plate, the actual
 difference ranging between +"002 and —'003, the amalga
mated plate sometimes giving a higher value and sometimes a
lower one than the electro-plate, more frequently the latter.
It is worthy of notice that no sensible difference was obser
vable whether the plate amalgamated were previously of bright
rolled metal or of electro-metal ; so that, on the whole, the
effect of amalgamating a bright rolled plate was to depress
the E.M.F. by -006 + '001 = -007.
   (6) The average results of all the experiments made are
contained in the following tabular statement : increase in
E.M.F. is indicated by the + sign, and diminution by the —
sign:—

         Chemical Affinity in terms of Electromotive Force.              281
   Variation in the E.M.F. due to the use of zinc-
       and copper-sulphate solutions of different
       strengths between the limits of sp. gr. 1*0065             Less than
       and 1*175, both solutions being of the same                  + *001.
       specific gravity in any given case ...
                                                    Maxi Mini Range. Ave
                                                    mum. mum.           rage.
 Effect of substituting for fresh electro-copper :—
     Bright rolled copper sheet                     +•010 +•001 •009 + 006
     Amalgamated copper (surface wet with 1 +¦002 -•003 •005 -•001
 Eflect of substituting for fresh electro-zinc :—
                                                    +•005 -•005 010 + •001
     Amalgamated zinc (surface wet with fluid 1 + ¦003 -•004 007 —001
 Electromotive force of combinations :—
     Amalgamated zinc—Amalgamated oopper ... 1*115 1-110 •005           1113
                                                     1-116 1-111 005    1-114
                                                     1-124 1-115 ¦009   1120
                                                     1116 1110 •006     1114
                                                     1-118 1*111 •007   1115
                                                     1124 1-114 •010    1121
                                                     1119 1-109 •010    1-115
                                                     1-121 1-110 ¦Oil   1-116
                                                     1-126 1-112 014    1122
   108. The above figures are, as already stated, derived from
the observations made during the first four hours after setting
up the cells, the values registered during the first half hour or
so with weaker solutions being rejected on account of their fre
quently being lower than the sensibly constant values attained to
subsequently. When the cells were allowed to stand for twenty-
four hours, or for longer periods, a greater or less fall in the
E.M.F. was usually noticed: by taking out any pair of the plates
{e. g. the amalgamated zinc and the electro-copper plates) and
replacing them by a freshly prepared similar pair, it was found
that the value rose again to sensibly the same value as on the
previous day when only set up a few hours; so that by taking
out first one and then the other of the pair of plates, determi
nations could be made of the amount of the total fall attribu
table to alterations of either plate separately. The actual
values thus obtained fluctuated considerably. As a general
rule, it was found that bright copper plates gave the same
value after twenty-four hours' immersion as they did at first ;
but occasionally the value was lowered by *002 to *004.
Electro-copper plates usually gave values less by *002 or *003

282       Dr. 0. R. A. Wright on the Determination of
after twenty-four hours than at first ; and in some instances,
when the pink electro-metal was sensibly browned or disco
loured by oxidation, either all over or here and there in spots,
the diminution was even greater, sometimes as much as "010.
Amalgamated copper plates, if the surface were still white and
brilliant after twenty-four hours, gave the same value as at
first ; but if the mercury had sunk into the copper, and brown
spots of oxidized metal were here and there visible, the E.M.F.
was a few thousandths of a volt lower than at first. With the
zinc plates greater diminutions were, as a rule, observed. In
some cases amalgamated plates showed little or no diminution
after twenty-four hours; but generally a diminution of "002 to
•005 was observed ; whilst with bright and electro-zinc plates
diminutions of from "001 to *015 were noticed. On the whole,
after twenty-four hours the E.M.F. was sometimes unchanged,
and sometimes less by "020. Apter forty-eight hours the fall
was more perceptible still, the few combinations that had not
appreciably altered during twenty-four hours always showing
a decided fall after a longer period. It is noticeable in this con
nexion, that cells after Daniell's construction, but containing
other metals than copper, did not always give the same results
as normal Daniell cells. Thus, for instance, whilst colls con
taining cadmium sulphate and cadmium plates behaved like
copper Daniells, in that the E.M.F. was sensibly steady for
some hours after first setting up, and only exhibited a mea
surable fall after several hours had elapsed, and not always
then, analogous cells containing silver sulphate and silver
plates invariably showed a perceptible fall in less than an hour
after first setting up, the diminution becoming progressively
greater as a longer time elapsed. That this diminution was
due to a change (presumably oxidation by dissolved air)
induced on the surfaco of the zinc plate was rendered evident
by the fact that, on taking out from such a zinc-silver cell the
zinc plate after the lapso of an hour or more, and opposing it
to electro-copper in an ordinary zinc-copper Daniell, an E.M.F.
was indicated considerably less than the value given by a fresh
zinc plate, and usually just about as much less as represented
the fall in E.M.F. observed with the zinc-silver cell at the end
of the period during which it was observed, as compared with
the E.M.F. at the beginning of that period, when it was newly
set up.
   109. It is further to be noticed, that all the above-mentioned
figures were obtained with cells the nature of the construction
of which was such that diffusion of copper-sulphate into the
zinc-sulphate solution, and consequent deposition of copper on
the surface of the zinc, did not take place at all during the
whole time that the observations lasted. With ordinary

        Chemical Affinity in terms of Electromotive Force.      283
gravity-cells it is almost impracticable to prevent traces of
copper reaching the zinc after some twenty-four hours at
latest : the effect of the deposition of even the faintest traces of
copper on the zinc surface is to cause a considerable fraction
of the energy due to the solution of the zinc to become non-
adjuvant, and thus materially to diminish the E.M.F. Thus,
for instance, the following figures were obtained with one cell,
and similar ones in numerous other cases:—
   E.M.F. of gravity-cell newly set up: zinc plate")        . .»„
      wholly free from copper                            J
   After 8 hours: faint tarnish visible on the zinc .       1*095
     „ 24 hours: slight film of copper on the zinc .        1*070
    „ 48 hours: thick film of copper on the zinc .          1*045
   In much the same way, the presence of even small quantities
of impurities in the zinc causes an appreciable diminution in
the E.M.F. In all the above-described observations, some of
the purest zinc that could be bought was employed, being
fashioned into plates and rods by melting in a porcelain
crucible, pouring out on a fire-clay tile, and cutting into slips
with a chisel, &c. When commercial sheet or cast zinc was
used, or when pure zinc was amalgamated with imperfectly
purified mercury, the E.M.F. developed when such zinc was
opposed to a given copper plate was often very materially less
than the value obtained with pure zinc, or pure zinc and
pure mercury. Thus, whilst values varying between 1*111
and 1*116 were obtained with pure amalgamated zinc opposed
to fresh electro-copper as above described, values varying
from 1*080 to 1*109 were obtained with commercial zinc
amalgamated with pure mercury, and with pure zinc amal
gamated with impure mercury, similarly opposed.
   It is abundantly evident from the above-described results
(not to speak of those detailed later on), that " the E.M.F.
of a Daniell coll " is a unit of comparison subject to decidedly
wide limits of fluctuation ; but that it is possible to reproduce
a standard cell of tho kind within a maximum limit of
variation of about + 0*25 per. cent., by using Eaoult's form of
construction together with a recently electro-coppered or
amalgamated copper plate, and a pure zinc plate amalga
mated with pure mercury, tho zinc- and copper-sulphate
solutions used being both of the same specific gravity, the
precise value of the specific gravity being immaterial. Even
when made, however, such a standard cell cannot be relied
on for more than a few hours. It will bo shown in a
subsequent paper that whilst Latimer Clark's mercurous-
sulphate cell is subject to an even wider range of fluctuation
in E.M.F. than the best forms of Daniell cell, its permanence

 284        Dr. C. R. A. Wright on the Determination of
is very far superior, a well-constructed cell giving absolutely
the same value (when used in conjunction with a quadrant
electrometer only) for months and months together.
   110. The above described experiments having given results
indicating the average values of the electromotive forces
developed with different characters of plates when the specific
gravities of the solutions surrounding the plates are the same,
further series of observations were made with cells in which the
zinc- and copper-sulphate solutions were not of the same
specific gravity, the mode of operating being otherwise the
same as before. As predicable from Moser's figures, and as
previously observed by H. F. Weber, it was found that when
the copper-sulphate solution was the more dense of the two,
the E.M.F. was higher than with solutions of equal density,
and vice versa when the zinc-sulphate solution was the stronger.
The average results of various observations, mostly lasting
over four hours as before, are contained in the following table ;
in every case the zinc plate employed was of pure metal and
amalgamated with pure mercury.
Effect of increasing the strength of the Zinc-sulphate solution
              relatively to that of the Copper-sulphate.
                               Average E.M.F. at 18° of
    Specific gra                      combination.
     vity of solu                                        Rat io of differ
      tions used.                                        ence in E.M.F.
                     Nature of          Previously
                      copper             found for       to difference in
                       plate. Ob solutions of Differ specific gravity.
    Zinc Copper                served. equal spe ence.
     sul sulphate.                       cific gra
   phate.                                   vity.
                                                   •015
    1-145 1-010 | Electro.      1-099
                      Bright 1107
                                            1-114
                                            1120    013
                                                   •014    ^ =-105
                      Electro.  1102        1114   •012
    1-175 1-050 [ Bright. 1108              1-120  •012
                                                   ¦012
                                                   ¦018
    1-260 1-050 | Electro.      1096
                      Bright. 1103
                                            1-114
                                            1-120  ¦017
                                                   ¦0175 ^=¦083
                      Electro.              1-114  •037
   #1-895 1-010 f Bright 1-077  1-086       1120   •034
                                                   •0355 ^=¦092
                      Electro.  1-097       1-114  •017
   #1-395 #1-175 | Bright. 1104             1-120  •016
                                                   •0166 ^=¦075

       Chemical Affinity in terms of Electromotive Force.          285
Effect of increasing the strength of the Copper-sulphate solu
            tion relatively to that of the Zinc-sulphate.
                    Electro. 1129     1114     •015
     1010 1-090 | Bright.    1-135    1-120     •015
                                                •015    ^ =0-188
                                                •018
     1O10 •1-175 | Electro.  1-132
                    Bright. 1141
                                      1-114
                                      1-120     •021
                                                ¦0195   •185- lla
                             1126     1-114     ¦012
     1050 »M75 | Electro.
                    Bright. 1133      1-120      013
                                                •0125   '—-100
                                                         •us — 1U"
                                                •009
     1-090 #1-175 | Electro. 1123
                    Bright. 1-128
                                       1-114
                                      1-120     •008
                                                •0085    —=•100
                                                        ¦0085  1UU
   It is evident from these figures that the accumulation
round the zinc plate of zinc sulphate, and the exhaustion of
the copper sulphate in the solution round the copper plate,
even if carried out to the utmost possible extent, could not
diminish the E.M.F. of a Daniell cell by more than -03 to -04
volt ; whilst it is hardly probable, even with tolerably rapid
currents, that the accumulation would suffice to diminish
the E.M.F. by more than half that amount—a diminution
almost negligible in comparison with the much larger amounts,
0-1 volt and upwards, found above to be due to this cause of
diminution and non-adjuvancy jointly.
   It is noticeable in passing that the above figures show that
when two solutions of zinc and copper sulphates interdiffuse,
the E.M.F. set up (like that produced by the interdiffusion of
two zinc-sulphate, or of two copper-sulphate solutions, as studied
by Moser) is of such a character that the stronger solution
acquires the higher potential ; the actual value of the E.M.F.
developed also is less for a given difference in specific gravity the
stronger the solutions, and, so far as the two sets of results can
be compared, agrees fairly with the values deducible from
Moser's experiments—indicating that the difference between
the E.M.F. set up when two different solutions of j^o^er
sulphate diffuse into a constant C0PPer I sulphate solution is
                                          zinc \
substantially the same as the E.M.F. set up when these two
               zinc
different copper sulphate solutions diffuse into each other.
          * Solution almost saturated at ordinary temperatures.

286       Dr. 0. R. A. Wright on tlie Determination of
Moreover the effect of a given alteration in the strength of
the zinc-sulphate solution (every thing else remaining the
same) is sensibly equal in amount, but opposite in sign, to
that of a similar alteration in the strength of the copper-
sulphate solution; it is evident that only when this is the case
can the E.M.F. of the cell be the same whether the solutions
be strong or weak. It will be shown in a future paper that
this property, though not absolutely peculiar to the normal
Daniell cell, is still rather the exception than the rule with
analogous voltaic combinations.
   Experiments loith Daniell Cells containing dilute Sulphuric
                               Add.
    111. In all the above described experiments, the solution
surrounding the zinc plate was one of pure zinc sulphate.
Various previous experimenters, notably H. F. Weber, have
found higher values for the electromotive forces of Daniell
cells containing dilute sulphuric acid than for those containing
zinc-sulphate solution (vide § 113): a priori a higher value
might be anticipated, because a notable amount of heat is
evolved on further diluting even weak sulphuric acid; so that
the total energy gained in the cell is not merely that due to
the displacement of copper from copper sulphate by zinc, but
also that gained in the dilution of the sulphuric acid through
the diffasion which necessarily goes on. On trying experi
ments of the same kind as those just described with cells con
taining dilute sulphuric acid of various strengths (the zinc
being amalgamated), it was found that not only was there a
considerable want of permanence in the E.M.F. set up, the
values perceptibly decreasing after a period of time (varying
in different cases from half an hour to several hours) had
elapsed since setting up the cells, but, further, that two cells,
apparently set up in identically the same way, exhibited much
 greater differences in their readings during the period before
the E.M.F. began to diminish, than were observed in the zinc-
 sulphate cells examined as above described. On the whole,
 however, the average values obtained distinctly pointed to the
 conclusion that, when the acid and copper-sulphate solutions
 are of the same specific gravity, the E.M.F. rises with
 strength of the solution ; and that when they are not of the
 same specific gravity (the acid not being stronger than spe
 cific gravity 1*18), the E.M.F. is sensibly that due to a cell
 containing liquids both of specific gravity equal to that of
 the acid in the cell examined, corrected by the addition (or
 subtraction) of a quantity representing the difference in spe
 cific gravity of tho solutions multiplied by the numerical value

       Chemical Affinity in terms of Electromotive Force.                 287
deduced from the zinc-sulphate cell experiments, representing
the difference in E.M.F. produced hy a variation in the specific
gravity of the copper-sulphate solutions equal to that between
the acid and copper sulphate in the cell examined: i. e, if, for
example, the E.M.F. of a cell containing both liquids of sp.
gr. 1*100 be E, that of a copper-cell containing acid of sp. gr.
1-100 and copper-sulphate solution of sp. gr. 1*010 will be
E — (1-100— 1*010) xa, where a is the factor expressing the
diminution per unit difference of specific gravity in the E.M.F.
between the limits of sp. gr. 1*010 and 1*100 for copper-
sulphate solution. Similarly, that of a cell containing acid of
sp. gr. 1*100 and copper-sulphate solution of sp. gr. 1*175
would be E + (1*175 — 1*100)/?, where /9 is the corresponding
factor for a difference in specific gravity between the limits
1*100 and 1*175.
   Thus, for instance, the following values were obtained with
a cell containing fluids both of sp. gr. 1*175, the temperature
being close to 18° throughout.
   Period since setting up.   During
                             1st hour. 2nd hour. 3rd hour. 4th hour. Average.
                                1161     1-102      1-103     1-160   11615
 Bright      „       ,          1-107    1-108      1-168     1*106   1-1672
In most cases, however, a distinct fall of upwards of *005 volt
occurred in less than four hours.
   A number of similar series of observations (upwards of
thirty) with various other cells, in which the fluids were
always of equal specific gravity, gave the following results,
the observations being only continued as long as the E.M.F.
remained sensibly constant—u e. for a period of time varying
from thirty minutes to four hours, and averaging about two
hours. In all these experiments electro-copper and amalga
 mated pure zinc plates were employed.
          Specific gravity    Eloctromotive force set up, in volts.
             of fluids.
                            Maximum.       Minimum.       Average.
               1010            1-143          1121           1-129
               1050            1150           1-128          1-139
               1090            1155           1-137          1148
               1-175           1-179          1-101          1169
    Evidently, even with the weakest acid, the E.M.F. is sen
 sibly above that developed with zinc-sulphate cells—viz. 1*114;

288         Dr. C. R. A. Wright on the Determination of
whilst with stronger solutions the difference is yet more
marked.
    112. A number of analogous observations were made with
cells containing dilute sulphuric-acid and copper-sulphate
solutions, not both of the same specific gravity: the average
results were as follows:—
                                       Approximate
 Specific gravity of Excess ofspe correction
      solutions.                                 for Average Observed
                     cific gravity of excess of spe
                                                                            E.M.F.
                                                                   corrected for
                       copper sul cific gravity E.M.F. excess of specific
           Copper       phate over       of copper observed. gravity       of cop
  Acid. sulphate. acid solution. sulphate.                          per sulphate.
  1010       1-050         +•040          -0008         1-147           1-139
  1010       1090          + •080         -0015         1135            1-120
  1010       1-175        +  •165         -0-019        1-137           1-118
                                                     Average....     - 1126
  1050       1-175        + ¦125          -0012         1-148           1136
  M75        1-050        -•125           +0-012        1-168           1-180
  1175       1-090        -085            +0008         1-164           1-170
                                                                 .. - 1-175
    The final averages representing the E.M.F. corrected to
the uniform specific gravities 1*010, 1*050, and 1*175 respec
tively, do not differ from the values directly obtained as just
described for these specific gravities by amounts outside the
limits of experimental error in this class of the various expe
riments made.
    A peculiar result was obtained with cells containing sul
phuric acid of sp. gr. 1*265, and nearly saturated copper-
sulphate solution of sp. gr. 1*175. The E.M.F. was consider
ably depreciated, the average value in four sets of experi
ments with electro-copper and amalgamated pure zinc plates
being only 1*084 (maximum 1*095, minimum 1*067). On
standing a few hours, copper-sulphate crystals formed at the
junction of the two fluids, showing a much less degree of solu
bility of the salt in the acid fluid formed than in pure water.
Relationships between the maximum E.M.F. developed by a
    Daniell Cell and the Energy due to the net Chemical action
    taking place therein.
    113. The above-described results afford a ready explanation
of the discrepancies between the valuations of the E.M.F. of
a Daniell cell that have been made in absolute measure by
various observers, amongst the more important of which may
bo cited those of Bosscha (Fogg. Ann. ci. p. 517, 1856),
von Waltenhofen (Pogg. Ann. exxxiii. p. 478, 1868),

        Chemical Affinity in terms of Electromotive Force.   289
Kohlrausch (Pogg. Ann. cxli. p. 456, and Ergiinz. vi. p. 35),
H. F. Weber (Phil. Mag. 1878, [5] v. p. 189), and J. Thorn-
sen (Wied. Ann. xi. p. 246, 1880), all of which valuations
he between 1*088 and 1*132 volt when reduced to that unit
(and, in the case of Bosscha's results, corrected for an error of
about 8 per cent, in the value of the coil used by him). To
these may be further added the electrostatic valuations of
Sir W. Thomson and Latimer Clark, both of which lie near to
1*11 volt. Favre ( Comptea Rendus, lxix. p. 35) and Eaoult
(Ann. Chem. Phys. [4] ii. p. 338, and iv. p. 392) obtained by
methods involving calorimetric measurements numbers repre
senting the " galvanic heat " of a Daniell cell, and equivalent
to considerably smaller electromotive forces, their valuations
(23993 and 23900 gramme-degrees respectively) corresponding
to 1*058 and 1*054 volt. In these instances, and in the case
of the lower values obtained by other observers, doubtless the
" polarizations " produced by the passage of the tolerably
powerful currents employed were considerable. The highest
values were obtained with cells in which dilute sulphuric acid
was used; thus, H. F. Weber found that a perceptibly higher
value was obtained with such a cell than with one containing
zinc-sulphate solution, viz. 1*1317 and 1*1286 (mean = 1*1301),
as compared with 1*0954. That this should be the case is
predicable from the nature of the heat-evolutions taking
place when zinc is dissolved in acid of various strengths. Let
an amount of heat, Hu be evolved when a gramme-equivalent
of zinc oxide is dissolved in sulphuric acid of given strength,
S04H2, m H20 ; and let H2 be the heat evolved on its solution
in acid of a different strength S04 H2, n H3 O, n being less
than in. Let the solution S04Zn, ?iH20, resulting in this
latter case, evolve hi of heat on the addition of (m—n) H20,
so as to form the solution S04 Zn, m H20; and let the heat
evolved on the addition of this quantity of water to S04H2,
n H2 O, so as to convert it into S04 H2, in H20, be Ii^. Then,
if the zinc oxide were dissolved in the stronger acid, and
the zinc sulphate diluted, the heat-evolution would be H3 + Aj ;
whilst if the acid were diluted first, and the zinc oxide were
then dissolved in it, the total heat evolved would be H4 + /i2.
 Since of necessity the two amounts of heat, H2 + ht and
Hj ¦+¦ h2, must be equal, it results that H2=Hj— A, + /<2.
Now /<2 is a considerable positive quantity in all cases ;
 whilst Thomson's results on the heat evolved on solution of
 salts in water (Dent. chem. Ges.Berichte, 1873, p. 710) indicate
that when the solution is accompanied by heat-absorption
 (as is the case with zinc sulphate), a further heat-absorption
takes place on diluting a stronger solution of the salt with
water, so that hi has a negative value. Hence, on both

290       Dr. C. R. A. Wright on the Determination of
accounts, H2 is greater than Hx ; that is, the work gained in
the synthesis ZnO, S03 x aq. increases as x diminishes. Since
the net chemical action in a Daniell cell is equivalent to
the result of the actions (Zn, 0) + (ZnO, S03 x aq.)— (On, 0,
S03yaq.), it finally results that the chemical action taking
place in the cell develops an amount of energy which in
creases, cceteris paribus, as x diminishes, i. e. is greater the
more concentrated the acid surrounding the zinc.
    On the other hand, when the zinc plate is surrounded by
zinc-sulphate solution instead of sulphuric acid, the effect of
variation in the strengths of the copper- and zinc-sulphate
solutions will be comparatively but small when both are of
the same degree of molecular concentration (which, as shown
above, is very nearly the case when they are of the same
density). If S04 Zn, jiH20 evolves, as before, hj on addi
tion of (m— n)H20, and S04Cu, nH20 evolves h3 on a
similar addition, and if H3 and H4 are respectively the heats
evolved when zinc displaces copper from Cu S04, nH20, and
Cu S04, ?mHsO, it results that, if zinc disp'ace copper from the
stronger solution and the resulting S04 Zn,nH20 be diluted to
Zn S04,mH20, the heat evolved will be H3 + hi ; whilst if the
copper- sulphate solution be first diluted and then the zinc
displaces the copper, the heat-evolution is H4 + h3. Since, of
necessity, H3 + hi = H4 + h3, it follows that H3 = H4 + /i3 — hv
Now, since the solution of zinc and copper sulphates (crystal
lized) is in each case accompanied by heat-absorption, it results
that h3 and hx are both negative, and hence that h3—hx is
negligible if h3 is any thing like comparable with /ij in magni
tude ; so that in this case the energy developed by the net che
mical action taking place in a Daniell cell must be practically
independent of the degree of concentration of the solutions.
    114. The earlier calculations of J. Thomson, referred to in
 §16, as to the heat evolved in the displacement of copper
 from copper sulphate by zinc, are for various reasons probably
 less accurate than the later results obtained by him (Joum.
prak. Chetn. [2] xi. p. 412, and xii. p. 271) ; these different
 values may be thus contrasted, the values being gramme-
degrees per gramme-molecule :—
 Values from experiments by An
   drews, Dulong, Hess, Favre and    Values from later experiments
   Silbermaun, and J. Tbomsen.              of J. Tbomsen.
  Zn, 0, S03 aq. = 108460                      106090
  Cu, 0, S03 aq. = 56216                         55960
       Difference = 52244                        50130
 Corresponding in volts (per                    . 1-105
gramme-equivalent) to 1*152 }

         Chemical Affinity in terms of Electro-motive Force.             291
    The earlier value is deduced from observations in which
the heat of formation of copper oxide from the metal by
combustion is involved, the copper being in a more or less
compact state, filings &c; the latter involves the determination
of the heat-evolution during the precipitation of spongy copper
from copper sulphate by iron. Leaving out of sight other
sources of difference between the two values, this affords a
reason why the former value should be the higher, since heat
is evolved in the transformation of spongy into compact
copper *. On the whole, it is evident that the net che
 mical change taking place in a Daniell cell (i. e. the displace
 ment of copper from copper sulphate by zinc) corresponds to
 an E.M.F. which is a little higher than T105 volt by an
 amount which is the greater the more compact the copper
 precipitated, and is approximately constant when the zinc
 plate is surrounded by zinc-sulphate solution of the same
 equivalent strength as the copper-sulphate solution surrounding
 the copper plate, but is influenced by the strength of the
 dilute sulphuric acid when the fluid surrounds the zinc plate.
  The amount of this influence can be approximately calculated
  from Thomson's determinations of the heat developed in the
  formation of the solutions of strengths indicated by H2S04,
  nH20 where n varies (Deut. chem. Ges. Bericlde, iii. p. 496).
  Thomsen finds in gramme-degrees per gramme molecule :—
          n          gramme-degrees.          n           gramme-degrees.
          9                 14940            199                 17056
         19                 16248            399                 17304
         49                 16676            799                 17632
         99                 16850           1599                 17848
  From which table the values for any intermediate values of
  n can be obtained by interpolation. In the experiments
       * That this is so is shown by the circumstance that if a current be sent
   through a deconiposing-cell containing copper-sulphate solution and
   copper electrodes, of ¦which the positive one is of compact rolled metal, a
   considerably higher difference of potential is set up, under any given
   conditions and with a steady current, than is set up -when the + electrode
   is replaced by one covered with freshly electro-deposited metal. The more
   spongy texture of the latter corresponds to a greater heat-development
   during solution than that taking place with the compact metal, and hence
   to a diminution of the work that has to be done by the current in passing ;
   with not very powerful currents the difference often exceeds "02 or -03
   volt, corresponding to 450 to 700 gramme-degrees per gramme equivalent.
    In a somewhat similar way, but using the mercurial calorimeter, Favre
    found {Comptes Hetidtts, lxxiii. p. 1258) that electro-copper gave out
    about 1000 gramme-degrees more heat than rolled metal per gramme
    equivalent ; this would correspond to an E.M.F. of -044 volt.

292       Dr. C. R. A. Wright on the Determination of
leading to the valuation 50130 gramme-degrees for the heat
developed during the precipitation of a gramme molecule of
copper by zinc, Thomson used fluids containing altogether 800
molecules of water to one of zinc sulphate, &c. Hence, were
the acid used in the synthesis Zn, 0, S03 aq., to be H2 S04,
17 H20 (corresponding nearly to the sp. gr. 1*175), instead
of H2 S04, 800 H20, the heat-development would be greater
than 106090 by 17632-15986 = 1646 gramme-degrees per
gramme molecule (15986 being the neat of dilution of
sulphuric acid when >j = 17, deduced from the above table):
this corresponds to 823 gramme-degrees per gramme equivalent
 = •036 volt; i.e. the E.M.F. corresponding to the heat-
development during the displacement of copper from copper
sulphate by zinc would be greater than 1*105 volt by "036,
or would be 1*141 volt. To this amount should also be
added the value of the E.M.F. equivalent to the heat-absorption
during the dilution of ZnS04,17H,0 to Zn SO„, 800 H20.
In a similar fashion it is calculable that to the value 1*105
should be added the amounts "023, "019, and "008 volt when
sulphuric acid of sp. gr. 1*090, 1*050, and 1*010 respectively
surrounds the zinc, giving the sums 1*128, 1*124, and 1*113
respectively. Hence, finally, the following tables of values
result:—
           Zinc surrounded by Zinc-sulphate solution.
Electromotive force corre
 sponding to net chemical      Electromotive force observed.
         action.
                          Bright zinc opposed to bright") ^-\22
                             copper                          J
                          Bright zinc opposed to electro- ) ^-HQ
                             copper                          J
                          Bright zinc opposed to amal {•1-115
       1*105 + x,            gamated copper . .. .
where x is a small Amalgamated zinc opposed to 1*120
quantity varying with        bright copper ....
the physical condition Amalgamated zinc opposed to 1*114
of the copper depo           electro-copper ....
sited.                    Amalgamated zinc opposed to
                             amalgamated copper .             i- 1*113
                          Electro-zinc opposed to bright
                                                                 1*121
                             copper
                          Electro-zinc opposed to elec
                            tro-copper                           1*115
                          Electro-zinc opposed to amal
                                                                 1*114
                            gamated copper . . .

       Chemical Affinity in terms of Electromotive Force.       293
           Zinc surrounded by dilute Sulphuric Acid.
                                                  E.M.F. observed
                                    Calculated   with electro-copper
         Strength of acid.         electromotive opposed to amalga-
                                       force.       mated zinc.
 H3S04, 358H20= sp.gr. 1-010 1 VllS + x+y               1-129
 H2S04, 67HaO= „ 1-050 l-124 + .r+y                     1-139
 HsS04, 37H20= „ 1-090 l-128 + *+y                      1-148
 H2S04, 17H20= „ 1-175 1-141 + x+y                      1-169
where y is a small quantity corresponding to
the heat absorbed on dilution of the zinc sul
phate to ZnSO4,800H2O.
   It is hence evident that in all cases the agreement between
the E.M.F. actually developed and that due to the net che
mical and physical actions taking place is so close, that what
differences exist lie within the limits of experimental error ; so
that, finally, the conclusion may be drawn that,under favourable
conditions, the E.M.F. of a Daniell cell is that due to the net
resultant of the various physical and chemical actions taking
place, the whole of the energy being adjuvant, viz. that
gained by the displacement from copper-sulphate solution of
copper by zinc, together with that gained by the transfor
mation into ordinary electro-metal of the "nascent" copper
first thrown down by the action ; whilst under other conditions
the E.M.F. falls below this amount, even after making
allowance for the effect of the migration of the ions in
causing solutions of different specific gravities to accumulate
round the plates, indicating non-adjuvancy of one or other
or both of these component portions of the total energy gained.
Experiments made with a view to find whether the Fall in
   E.M.F. on increasing the Current-density is mainly depen
   dent on changes taking place in connexion with the actions at
   the surface of the Zinc or at that of the Copper plate.
   115. In order to trace out somewhat more completely, if
possible, how far that amount of fall in the E.M.F. of a
Daniell cell taking place as the current generated increases,
which is not due to the accumulation of solutions of zinc and
copper of different densities round the plates, can be attributed
to actions taking place at one or the other plate respectively,
the experiments described above (§103, 104) were repeated,
with the difference that, instead of two sets of readings only
being made (viz. when the two larger and the two smaller
plates respectively were opposed), four sets were made—(1)
when the two larger plates were opposed, (2) with the larger
zinc and smaller copper, (3) with the two smaller plates, and
   Phil Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 81. April 1882.            2A

294       Dr. C. R. A. Wright on the Determination of
(4) with the smaller zinc and larger copper plates opposed.
By interpolation from the direct observational results, the
differences of potential between the plates for any constant
current-value were then calculated in each of the four cases.
By comparing the values thus obtained in cases (1) and (2)
and in (4) and (3), two sets of differences were obtained,
indicating the effects produced by halving the area of the
copper plate, every thing else being the same throughout,
saving that with results (1) and (2) the larger zinc plate,
and with the other pair of results the smaller zinc plate, was
opposed to the two copper plates respectively : although this
modified the actual values obtained in each of the original
sets of readings, yet it produced practically no effect on the
differences. In just the same way, by comparing the inter
polation values in cases (1) and (4) and in (2) and (3), two
corresponding sets of differences were obtained, indicating
the effects produced by halving the area of the zinc plate;
as before, the two sets substantially coincided.                    Various
experiments of this kind were made with different plate-
materials and fluids surrounding them : whilst the numerical
values obtained were found to be to some extent variable
with these conditions, yet, on the whole, it was always found
that the effect of halving the area of the copper plate notably
exceeded that of halving the area of the zinc plate. For
instance, the following numbers were obtained in one set of
observations with a cell containing bright pure zinc plates
surrounded by zinc-sulphate solution of sp. gr. 1*42, and
freshly-coated electro-copper plates surrounded by copper-
sulphate solutions of sp. gr. 1-175, the larger plates exposing
a surface of 5"0 square centimetres, and the smaller ones expo
sing 2*5 square centimetres.
                    Effect of halving the area of the copper plate.
          Larger zinc plate opposed. Smaller zinc plate opposed.
 Current,                                                             Mean
in micro                                                              differ
 amperes.             (2)                           (3)                ence.
           Larger Smaller Differ        Larger Smaller Differ
           copper. copper. ence. copper. copper. ence.
     100    1-082 1-078        •004      1-076     1073      •003      0035
     200    1-071 1-060        •005      1064      1060       004      •0045
     600    1-061 1-055        •006   1  1-052     1047      •005     ¦0055
   1,000    1-045 1036         •009 1 1-035        1020      •009 , O090
   2,000    1026 1015          •011      1011       •999     •012 1 -0115
   5,000     •964     ¦947     •017       •950      ¦929     021      •0190
  10,000     •876     •843      033       •854      •820     034       0335
  20,000     •729     ¦672     •057       •608      •639     •059
                                                                    i 0580

         Chemical Affinity in terms of Electromotive Force.                              295
                           Effect of halving the area of the zinc plate.
                                              1
            Larger copper plate opposed. Smaller copper plate opposed.
 Current,                                                                            Mean
in micro                                                                             differ
amperes.       (1)        (4)       Differ I Larger(2)         (3)                    ence.
             Larger Smaller          ence.                   Smaller Differ
                                                                         ence.
              ziuc.;     zinc.                    zinc.       zinc.
     100      1082       1-076        006         1-078       1073       •005          0055
     200      1071       1064        •007         1066        1060       ¦006         •0065
     500      1-061      1052        O09          1055        1047       •008         •0085
   1,000      1045       1035         010         1-036       1026       •010         •0100
   2,000      1020       1011        •013        1015          ¦999      •016         ¦0145
   5,000       •96-1      •950        014     1    -947        ¦029      •018         ¦0160
  10,000       •876       •854       ¦022 i -843               •820      •023         •0225
  20,000       •729       ¦698       •031          •672        •639      •033         •0320
    116. In precisely the same way, the following mean differ
ence-values were obtained in two other analogous experiments,
in the first of which the zinc plates were amalgamated and
immersed in zinc-sulphate solution sp. gr. 1*42, the copper
plates being also amalgamated and immersed in copper-
sulphate solution sp. gr. 1*175; and in the second of which
electro-copper plates and copper-sulphate solution sp. gr.
1"175 were employed, conjoined with amalgamated zinc plates
immersed in dilute sulphuric acid sp. gr. T045. The above
mean difference-values are also exhibited in the table.
                Amalgamated zinc Amalgamated zinc Bright zir.o and
                 and amalgamated and electro-copper electro-copper—
                  copper—zinc sul- —dilute sulphuric                 zinc-sulphate
      Current,' phate solution,                  acid.                 solution.
     in micro-
      amperes.; Effect of halving Effect of halving Effect of halving
                             of                 area of                 area of
                 Copper. j Zinc.        Copper. I Zinc.           Copper.      Zinc.
          100       ¦001       •001        ¦001          001        ¦0035      ¦0055
          200       ¦004       ¦002        •002         •003        •0045      •0065
          500       •009       •003        •003         005         0055       •0085
        1,000        015       •004         005         •007        •0090      •0100
        2,000       •024        005        •011         •010        •0115      •0145
        5,000       •040       •009        ¦020         •015        0190        0160
       10,000       •049        017        •041         •020        •0335      •0225
       20,000       ¦058       •026                     •032         0580       0320
    Much the same kind of result was obtained in various
 other similar experiments ; the effect of halving the area of
 the copper plate was, especially with the stronger currents,
 much more marked than that of halving tho area of the zinc
                                           2A2

296      Dr. C. R. A. Wright on the Determination of
plate. The actual value of the depreciation produced with
the stronger currents in either case, moreover, clearly indi
cates that the diminution cannot psssibly be solely due to the
formation of stronger zinc-sulphate solution round the zinc
plate, and weaker copper-sulphate round the copper plate, in
the case of the smaller areas, than are produced with the
larger ones; and hence the conclusion is arrived at that
when, by reason of the production of a current, the E.M.F. of
a Daniell cell is diminished, and the energy developed becomes
proportionately non-adjuvant, the non-adjuvancy is ascribable,
not merely to actions taking place at the surface of the zinc
plate, but also, and more particularly, to those taking place
at the surface of the copper plate. In the former case, the
energy gained during the conversion of the metallic zinc of
the plate into solution of zinc sulphate makes its appearance
under such conditions partly as heat from the very com
mencement of the action, and is never wholly manifested as
electric action expressible in volt-coulombs. In the latter
case, the effect of the chemical action of the cell is to set
free copper, which, in its transformation from the condi
tion in which it is first set free (nascent copper) to the con
dition ultimately assumed (more or less compact electro-de
posited soft coherent metal), causes a gain of energy which,
like that due to the solution of the zinc, is partly manifested
as heat ah origine, and is never, under such conditions,
 obtained wholly as electric action. The actual proportion of
the energy due to the solution of the zinc or to the agglome
 ration (or allotropic modification) of the copper which is thus
 non-adjuvant, is variable within certain limits with the con
ditions of the experiment, the nature of the plate- surfaces and
 of the liquids in the cell, &c, but, cceteris paribus, is greater
 the stronger the current: with very feeble currents (of
 density not exceeding some 8 microamperes per square centi
 metre), the proportion of non-adjuvant energy is too small to
be measurable.
                       Summary of Results.
    117. The above-described experiments, and the conclusions
 to be drawn from thein, may be thus summarized :—
    1. When a Daniell cell is constructed with equal-sized
plates of pure zinc and pure copper (either compact bright
metals, amalgamated plates, or plates covered with electro-
deposited metal) immersed respectively in solutions of pure
zinc and copper sulphates of the same specific gravity,
and is made to generate a current not exceeding in density
some 8 microamperes per square centimetre, an E.M.F. is set

       Cliemieal Affinity in terms of Electromotive Force. 297
up varying within certain small limits according to the
precise condition of the surfaces of the metals as regards
polish, oxidation, &c, but always lying fairly close to 1415
volt, and practically identical with the E.M.F. corresponding
to the energy gained in the net chemical change ensuing,
viz. the displacement of copper from copper-sulphate solution
by zinc; so that under these conditions practically all the
energy gained is adjuvant, whether due to displacement of
copper by zinc, or to transformation into ordinary metal of
the " nascent " copper thus set free.
   2. When impure zinc, or pure zinc amalgamated with
impure mercury, is used, a greater or less amount of the
energy gained is non-adjuvant, even under conditions such as
would with pure zinc cause all the energy to be adjuvant.
The source of this non-adjuvancy evidently lies in the nature
of the actions taking place at the surface of the zinc plate ;
the maximum E.M.F. that such a cell can generate is more
or less considerably below 1*115 volt, in some instances by
severalper cent.
   3. When the density of the current exceeds 8 micro
amperes per square centimetre, the E.M.F. of the cell falls
more or less below 1*115 volt, owing to three causes, each of
which produces an effect in the direction of diminishing the
E.M.F. First, according as the current density is greater
or smaller, a greater or lesser degree of non-adjuvancy of the
energy gained in the conversion of metallic zinc into zinc-
sulphate solution is brought about. Secondly, a greater or
lesser degree of non-adjuvancy is similarly brought about in
the energy gained by the transformation into ordinary copper
of the "nascent" metal liberated at the surface of the copper
plate ; other things being equal, this source of non-adjuvancy
distinctly predominates over the other source just mentioned.
Thirdly, the passage of the current causes a weaker solution
of copper sulphate to be formed round the copper plate, and a
stronger one of zinc sulphate to be produced round the zinc
plate, than were originally used ; this sets up an inverse
E.M.F., and diminishes the effective E.M.F. of the cell.
The maximum possible diminution due to this cause does not
exceed "04 volt ; whilst with a current the density of which
amounts to "003 ampere per square centimetre and upwards,
the total diminution due to this cause together with the non-
adjuvancy amounts to several times this maximum possible
value. The diminution due to these various causes jointly
constitutes what is sometimes spoken of as the " polarization '
of the cell.
   4. When the solutions of zinc and copper sulphate em

298         On the Determination of Chemical Affinity.
ployed are not of the same specific gravity, the E.M.F. of
the combination differs from that which would have been set
up had both been of the same specific gravity by an amount
which increases with the difference in specific gravity of the
two solutions: if the copper-sulphate solution is the stronger, the
E.M.F. is increased, and vice versa. The amounts of increase
and decrease are sensibly the same as the electromotive forces
generated when two copper-sulphate or two zinc-sulphate
solutions interdiffuse, the specific gravities of which are iden
tical respectively with those of the two fluids actually present in
the cell examined. So long as the two solutions are of the
same specific gravity, the E.M.F. set up is, catena paribus,
sensibly independent of the actual value of this specific
gravity ; at least the fluctuations observed are not outside the
range of experimental errors.
   5. When dilute sulphuric acid is used instead of zinc-
sulphate solution, its specific gravity being the same as that
of the copper-sulphate solution, an increase in the E.M.F. of
the cell is produced which sensibly corresponds with the
increase in the " heat of formation of zinc sulphate when
sulphuric acid is employed of the strength used in the cell, as
compared with acid diluted to a larger extent (H2 SO<, 800
H20). If the copper-sulphate solution differs from the acid in
specific gravity, the latter not exceeding 1*18 in specific gra
vity, the E.M.F. is raised above or lowered below what it
would have been had the copper sulphate been of the same
specific gravity, by an amount which is sensibly the same
as the E.M.F. generated by the interdiffnsion of two copper-
sulphate solutions the specific gravities of which are iden
tical respectively with those of the two fluids actually present
in the cell examined.
   6. Owing to the diminution in the E.M.F. of a Daniell
cell when generating a current, the fluctuations in the maxi
mum values obtainable with any given cell with the physical
condition of the surfaces of the plates and the time that has
elapsed since its construction, the tendency to deposition of
copper on the zinc by diffusion and the. consequent dimi
nution in E.M.F., and the variation in E.M.F. according as
dilute acid of different strengths or zinc-sulphate solution is
used to surround the zinc plate, it results that " the E.M.F.
of a Daniell cell " is a very variable standard of E.M.F. and
one singularly devoid of permanence. By taking suitable
precautions in the construction of a cell (using pure zinc
amalgamated with pure mercury, amalgamated or electro-
copper, and pure zinc- and copper-sulphate solutions of the
same specific gravity), a cell may be obtained the E.M.F. of

                    Notices respecting New Booh.                  299
which does not differ more than +025 per cent, from 1*118
or 1*114 volt, according as amalgamated or electro-copper is
used; but such a cell cannot be kept many hours without
altering in value materially, and is in practice a very far less
convenient standard than the mecurous-sulphate cell of
Latimer Clark ; for, notwithstanding that the limits of varia
tion between two cells of this latter kind, similarly prepared,
are somewhat greater than those of the best form of standard
Daniell cell, it nevertheless possesses the valuable property of
remaining sensibly constant (the temperature being the same)
for many months, and even one or more years, as will be
more completely shown in a future paper.
              XXXIV. Notices respecting New Books.
Boorlcee Hydraulic Experiments. By Captain Allan Cunningham,
    R.E. Vol. I., Text pp. 399+xvi. Vol. II., Tables—(1) Detailed
    Tables, (2) Abstract Tables, pp. 15G + xii; pp.49. Vol. III.,
    Plates, hi. Roorkee: Thoinason College Press, 1880, 1881.
f"|~*<HE3E volumes give an account of experiments, on Flow of
  3. "Water in a Canal, which lasted about four years (December
 1874 to March 1879, with some intermissions). We can hardly be
 expected to go through this mass of calculation, but will endeavour
 to put our readers en rapport with the results arrived at by Captain
 Cunningham in his valuable labours, as here carefully digested and
 served up for all whom they may concern. The mode of perform
 ing each experiment is given in great detail, not by any means a fault
 in investigations of this nature. In condescension, however, to the
 weakness of that bugbear, the general reader, a brief preface, or
 resume of contents is attached to each chapter, giving "the gist of
 the chapter without experimental or argumentative detail." What
 ever data or results appear to the author to be doubtful are indi
 cated by a query (?) attached. River-experiments on a small scale
 are well known not to be applicable to large bodies of water.
 India, with its many large canals, affords favourable opportunities
 for such experiments, as our author observes, " with a fair expecta
 tion of a practically useful result."
     The objects contemplated by Captain Cunningham were shortly
  these :—(1) discovery of a good method of discharge-measurement ;
  (2) testing the applicability of known mean-velocity formulas ; (3)
  discovery of a good approximation to mean velocity : all three for
  large canals. The main results which are stated to have been arrived
  at are :—Loaded tube-rods give a rapid and sufficientlyclose approxi
  mation to mean velocity past a vertical ; with good arrangements
  discharge-measurements obtained by the method advocated under
  similar conditions may be expected not to differ more than 3 per
  cent. ; none of the known mean-velocity formulae appear to be of
  really general applicability; central mean velocity-measurement

300                Notices respecting New Books.
appears to be the best means of rapid approximation to mean (sec
tional) velocity, but the redaction must (at present) be effected by
a coefficient to be found by previous special experiment at each site.
Besides these the author enumerates several minor results of in
terest. Enough has been said to show that the work is a highly
technical one ; but though it is caviare to the general, it appears to
be a most carefully compiled account of a series of experiments
of great interest in its special department ; and every thing has
been done, in the way of tables, plates, and description, to put stu
dents of this particular branch in a position to follow the lines on
which the experiments were carried out.
Experimental Researches into the Properties and Motions of Fluids,
    with Theoretical J)eductio>is therefrom. By W. Ford Stanxet.
    London: E. and F. N. Spon, 1881, pp. 550 + xvi.
" I had taken for the amusement of my leisure an experimental
examination of the undulatory theory of light, which I could not
satisfactorily comprehend. In following up my experiments for
two years, I found my eyesight impaired, and was advised that it
would be necessary to leave these experiments, and also close
application to reading, for some years, which I did very reluc
tantly. One branch of experiment, somewhat relative to my
former studies, however, appeared open to me. The theory of
undulation of light was generally introduced to our conception by
philosophers by similitudes of the motions of water-waves and
sound-waves ; I thought I would investigate experimentally, as
 far as possible to me, to be assured our conceptions of "these
 motions were real, upon inductive principles, similar to those I
 had been employiug for investigation of light. In this subject,
 taking no preconceived theory whatever for my experiments, I
 soon became absorbed in observations of the motive effects evident
 in the directions taken by impressed forces in fluids under various
 conditions of resistance ; wherein it appeared to me quite evident
 that there was yet an immense amount of work to be done in
 researches in the motions of fluids, before theoretical principles of
 the sciences of hydrodynamics and acoustics could be fixed upon
  mechanical principles with any great precision. It was therefore
 clear to me that in this direction I might, if I had the ability,
 enter upon fields of research quite as new as in my former
 studies."
     This quotation will serve a double purpose : it will show that the
  author's style requires the aid, which he himself states that his
 book lacked, " of some well-read or well-instructed student " to
 prune it ; and also how the present work has come into existence,
  in being the record of a very great number of apparently carefully
  performed experiments.
     There is an immense deal of matter, accompanied by numerous
  plates, which may possibly in skilled hands be worked up, in some
 future treatise on hydrodynamics, into a more elegant form. In the

                    Notices respecting New Books.                  301
meanwhile, Mr. Stanley deserves our thanks for having carried on
these researches, and for having, to the best of his ability, put
them on record.
   It was the author's idea to divide his book into four sections ;
the fourth however, on sound-motions in fluids, is for the present
kept in abeyance, though we are told that it is written. It would
now, of course, have to discuss the recent discoveries of telephones,
microphones, phonographs, et id genus omne.
   The first section treats of theoretical conditions of the fluid
state and motive properties of forces in fluids. Here, in the
second chapter, Mr. Stanley goes against the theory accepted
from Segner to Clerk Maxwell, and takes the view that the surfaces
of liquids are extensile, and not tensile. He, however, modestly
enough thinks that he may have insufficiently worked out this
subject, "although my experiments in this, as in most other
subjects taken, are ten times the number given." Throughout
there is the same diffidence. Thus, again, in his eighth chapter,
on resistance of solids, he remarks that " it is very incomplete on
certain points for want of sufficient research into the works of
others, and more experiment ; therefore it may be considered to be
in a certain degree speculative."
   The fifth chapter discusses the projection of fluids within like
fluids, the principles of conic resistance, and planes of fracture and
tension. This contains many matters of interest, amongst others
the interesting experiments of Tait and O. Reynolds on smoke-
rings, with some of the author's own experiments.
   The second section is devoted to the discussion of cosmical
phenomena ; and herein he follows to some extent ideas put forth
by Dr. Carpenter and other writers.
   The third section is concerned with waves, experiments on which
were made before the writer was acquainted with Scott-Russell's
experiments. " As I was working for the demonstration of
principles only, I do not regret the want of this knowledge at first ;
for if I had possessed it at the time it would have materially
curtailed the interest I took in my experiments. ... I have,
however, replaced Mr. Russell's work for my own, where it
appeared more demonstrative."
   Mr. Stanley has received very little help, except from books,
references to which are given throughout ; he, however, warmly
thanks Professors Fuller and Stokes for " valuable occasional critical
notes " on the earlier portion. The book is well printed and
illustrated.

                              [   302    ]
        XXXV. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
NOTE ON MR. J. J. THOMSON'S INVESTIGATION OF THE ELECTRO
   MAGNETIC ACTION OF A MOVING ELECTRIFIED SPHERE. BY
   GEORGE FRANCIS FITZGERALD, FELLOW OF TRINITY COLLEGE,
   DUBLIN, ETC.
TN the April number of the Philosophical Magazine for the pre-
    sent year Mr. J. J. Thomson has given an interesting investiga
tion of the electromagnetic action of a moving electrified sphere.
   On the fourth page (loc. cit. p. 232) of this investigation, he
makes an assumption, which he does not justify, in order to make
the components of the vector-potential of electromagnetic induction
satisfy the condition
                           dF + dG + dK_Q
                           dx dy        dz
As it seemed very likely that they ought to satisfy this condition,
I thought it worth while bringing before the Society a justification
of his assumption, which, however, leads to slightly different equa
tions from his, though his final result is unaffected.
   Mr. Thomson has not touched the question of the discontinuity
at the surface of the sphere, nor what becomes of the displacement
when the sphere passes over a point. We may assume that the
point remaius in its displaced position (and this is practically what
Mr. Thomson assumes) ; but if we do, the above condition is not ful
filled. We may assume that it returns to its original position, so
that no permanent displacement takes place in the track of the
sphere as would occur on Mr. Thomson's assumption. This, how
ever, does not satisfy the condition either ; and I have been led to
assume that the particle does return to its original position, but that
in some way or other the discontinuity at the surface acts as if a
moving quantity of electricity acted like an element of an electric
current. This may seem like begging the question ; but it is only
doing explicitly what Mr. Thomson does implicitly. It is evidently
impossible that the electromagnetic action of moving electricity can
be due entirely to the electromagnetic action of the displacement-
currents in the dielectric ; for in the case of a plane moving parallel
to itself there are none of these displacement-currents, and yet that
is the only case that has been experimentally verified.
   To show that my assumption leads to equations satisfying the
condition, and leading to practically the same results as Mr. Thom
son's, does not require much work.
    Consider an elementary volume dx ds . cos 0, where ds is an ele
ment of the surface of the sphere, and 0 the angle the radius makes
 with x. The displacement in this volume is =2, the superficial
density, while after the time dt it is zero on my assumption.
   * From the Scientific Proceedings of the Royal Dublin Society, vol. iii.
part 4, having been read November 21, 1881. Communicated by the
Author.

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.              303
 Hence calling the displacement D, we have
                          dt= — S . dx ds . cos 0.
                       dt
Hence
                          D=_a . $ .tfs.cose.
                                     dt
         dx
    Now ~r=p, the velocity of the sphere which is supposed to be
         dt                                            ....
moving along x. Hence the components of D are f, g, h; and
observing that ds=a2 dpdty, where cos 8=/i, and a is the radius of
the sphere, while 4n-a2. S = e, the total quantity of electricity on the
sphere,
                     fdx dy dz= — ^- dfi dip,
                      g dx dy dz= ~        008 <P dp <fy>
                      h dx dy dz= — 5L p sin <p dp d<f>.
   Hence the components of the electromagnetic potential are at a
point at a distance
   These are the components of the electromagnetic potential due
to this superficial change of displacement that I have assumed.
When integrated over the surface of the sphere, they give at a
point distant E from its centre, and whose polar angles are a and e,
                *"       3E     5E3(C09a
                 Gr,=        —      cos a . sin a . cos e,
                                5E
    If we add to these the components calculated by Mr. Thomson
as due to the external displacement-currents, and given by him (loc.
cit. p. 233), namely
                 Fe=i&(5R3_3a2)(COs2a~^
                 G„=        (5E2— 3a2) cos a sin a cos e,
                H„= j^si (5E1— 3a2) cos a sin a cos e,

 304           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 we get, as the resultant values of the components produced by the
 displacements assumed,
               Gd=     ^3(E2—aa) cos* sin* cose,
              Hd=     ^.(B2— a2) cos a sin a sine,
 which, however, do not satisfy the condition
                    du      dy      dz
    Now it is very easy to calculate the action of the superficial
moving electricity if it be assumed to act like an electric curreut.
Each element of the surface will act as if it had an electric I .p on
it : and the .v components of the electromagnetic potential will evi
dently be the same as the electrostatic potential, while the y and
z components will vanish. Hence
                         F.-ig?,      Gc=Hc = 0.
    My assumption is that the complete components are
              F = FC+Fd, G=GC+Gd, H = HC+H„;
and it is easy to see that they can be put into the form
                       H       6 Lv          ' dx* E  EJ
                               o            ax ay a,
                              6 v         ' dxdx E '
and these satisfy the condition
                           dF,clG + >m=Q
                           dx dy         dz
   These may be further simplified by assuming a function
                        *=-?(*+"s)r
                        F        03? + dx
                        G=           dy'

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.           305
   We hence easily see that, in the general case where the sphere is
moving with component velocities p, q, r, we must take
      *= " ? { Pv+w+r'+'^i +i i +r cfj } H :
or, calling
                        d , . d , d         d
                      P dx +q dy +r dz     dd'
and observing that
we have
                      x~ff                 E>
and then we have
                           F_      , dx
                          G= ^ . dX
                               -R+d?
                            ~ E + <k"
   From these it appears at once that the magnetic effect of the
displacement-currents is nil. For the components of the magnetic
forces a, /3, y are
                           «=— - —
                                dz   dy '
                           l3=     —
                             _ rfF_rfG.
                               dy dx '
 and x disappears from this, and there only remains the magnetic
 action due to the current that I have assumed to represent the
 moving superficial electricity. The effect of this is obviously the
 same as if the whole quantity of electricity were moving at its
 centre : and this is the same as Mr. Thomson's result (I. c. p. 236).
    It is to be observed that Mr. Thomson has intentionally omitted
 the self-induction of these displacement-currents on one another ;
 and it may legitimately be omitted when the motion is compara
 tively slow ; but a complete solution of the question would be most
interesting.
    It may be worth while remarking, that no effect except light has
 ever yet been traced to the displacement-currents assumed by Max
 well in order to be able to assume all currents to flow in closed
circuits. It has not, as far as I am aware, beeu ever actually de
 monstrated that open circuits, such as Leyden-jar discharges, pro
 duce exactly the same effects as closed circuits ; and until some
 such effect of displacement-currents is observed, the whole theory
 of them will be open to question.

 306          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
ON A VIBRATORY MOTION AT THE ORIGIN OF A JET OF VAPOUR.
                         BY M. TH. VAUTIER.
   In the course of some researches which 1 have commenced upon
the flow of gases aud vapours, I have observed a singular pheno
menon, which was first signalized in 1826, by an engineer of Fou-
chambault's iron-works :—When a jet of gas or vapour flows, under
pressure, through au orifice, if a plate be placed normal to the axis
of the jet, at a certain height, it is repelled ; but when the plate is
lowered parallel to itself, it is attracted, and spontaneously sup
ports itself at about 0-2 millim. from the orifice, oscillating about a
position of equilibrium and emitting a sound.
   I have succeeded, by means of a very simple arrangement, on
fixing some plates in that situation, in making them give forth
sounds high, intense, as prolonged as I pleased, and directly register
those vibrations. I have obtained in the tracings, undulations of
remarkable regularity and amplitude.
   I have directly registered the vibrations, thus kept up by a jet of
vapour, of a plate giving a note close to the ?«*0=7250 single vibra
tions per second. An electrodiapason simultaneously registered its
vibrations. Pressure in the boiler, 4*5 atm. ; diameter of the orifice,
2-7 millim. Diameter of the plate, 0 millim.; thickness, 1"5; dis
tance from the orifice, 0-2 ; amplitude of the vibrations, 07. Thus,
then, we have a chronograph directly registering j^-^ of a second.
   The sound which I get is intenser than that of the diapasons
which give the same note, and of which it has not, up to the pre
sent, been possible to sustain the motion electrically in a practical
manner, and, consequently, to register it continuously. The appa
ratus which I have prepared traces, as long as I please, in sharp
outline, regular vibrations of sufficient amplitude to be subdivided
in the usual manner. This subdivision is facilitated by the fineness
of the tracing, which is obtained by means of very sharp styles,
which, pressed lightly upon sheets of mica either smoked or not,
leave a thin stroke engraved upon those surfaces.
   Hitherto, at least to my knowledge, it has been found possible
at most to register, directly and continuously, the thousandth part
of a second, which is afterwards divided. The apparatus which I
use registers directly the seven-thousandth of a second ; and the
tracing, very thin, favours the usual divisions. The results obtained
by me quite recently permit me to expect to register sounds of still
higher pitch. I purpose to apply this chronograph to the measure
ment of some rapid phenomena. — Comptes Rendu* de VAcademic des
Sciences, March 6, 1882, t. xciv. p. 642.
      ON THE COMPRESSIBILITY OF GASES. BY M. E. SARRAU.
   1 . In a memoir on the compressibility and expansion of carbo
nic acid, very important when regarded from the thermodynamic
point of view, M. Clausius has proposed for this gas the following
relation between the pressure (p),ihe volume (v), and the absolute
temperature (T):—

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.            307
    The eminent physicist has verified, with the aid of Andrews's
experiments, that this relation represents exactly the transforma
tions of gaseous or liquid carbonic acid ; and he thinks that the
same formula, with suitable values of the constants E, K, a, /3,
must be correct for all gases.
    Among the consequences resulting from this formula must be
noticed those concerning the critical point. Indeed it follows, from
the interpretation given by M. Clausius of the results of his for
mula, that when the critical point is reached the function p satis
fies the two conditions c~=0, ^{- = 0. Bv combining: these con-
                            dv     dv          J         b
ditions with the relation (l)we get three equations, from which we
deduce the following values of v, T, p corresponding to the critical
point :—
i-e=3* + 2/3; Tc = (|)l(|)\a + ^)-i; 1>c=6-t(KB)l(a+j8)-t(2)
     2. I proposed to myself to verify M. Clausius's relation for other
 gases than carbonic acid, making use of the extensive experiments
 of M. Amagat, in which the temperature varied from 15 to 100°,
 and the pressure from 25 to 320 metres of mercury.
     The numerical determination of the coefficients being not without
 difficulties, it is not needless to indicate the course which I have
 uniformly pursued to accomplish it. Let p and^j' be the pressures
 corresponding to one and the same value v at two different tempe
 ratures T, T'; we have the two relations
             = i^L .        k        ,_ irr _      k
          P v-a T(v + ftf P v-u T'(v+(}f
  Putting
           x_ T,s-T2         (_     /     T"—T2
                pT-pF y V TT(p'T-pT)
  we deduce from the above two equations, by successively eliminating
  K and B,
                        v— a        v+P
                          E      ' v/K J                             K '
      Therefore knowing two corresponding values of v and * suffices
  for obtaining B and a, and two corresponding values of v and y for
  obtaining K and /3 ; but if we take a superabundant number of
  simultaneous values (v, x) and (v, y), we can verify the exactness
  of the relations (3) and make all the equations contribute to the
  calculation of the coefficients. M. Amagat's experiments do not
  give directly the pressures which at different temperatures corre
  spond to the same volume ; I obtained them by interpolation. The
  mode of calculation adopted employs for the values of the coeffi
  cients the units employed by M. Amagat. The pressures are ex
  pressed in metres of mercury, or, dividing by 0-760, in atmospheres.
  The unit of volume is not specified ; but without knowing this we
  can determine the values possessed by the constants by taking for
  unit the volume of the gas under the atmospheric pressure and at
   aero. In fact, in consequence of the change of unit, v must be re-

 308           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 placed by      e being a conveniently chosen factor.           Eelation (1)
 thus becomes :—
                            _ BcT _ Ke3
                         P    v-ea,^ T(v + £f}f
    The volume of the gas under the normal pressure at zero being
 taken as unit, it follows from the properties of perfect gases that
 Be becomes               T^e factor e is therefore determined.
    3. The Compressibility and Critical Point of Oxygen.—The cal
 culation, applied to two series of experiments on oxygen *, leads to
 the following values :—
      logE=l-23676; log K= 7-08-124; *=4-19 ; /3=3-23.
    If with these coefficients, and employing measured volumes, we
 calculate the corresponding pressures, we find the numbers in the
 following Table, from which the accuracy of the formula can be
appreciated :—
         Temperature 14°-7.                  Temperature 100°-2.
              Pressure.                             Pressure.
                     Oalcu- Differ                         Calcu Differ
 Volume. Measured, lated. ence. Volume. Measured. lated. ence.
              atm.      atm.   atm.                 atm.      atm.    a'm.
  40-90 . 1134 1136 -0-2                                    1419 -0 8
  32-78      1411 1411          00      35-97 ,    181-1    181-4    -0-3
  25-67      181-1 180-5 +0 6           27-52     240-9 241-5 -0-6
  19-56               241-7 -0-8        20-20 . 3421 342-8 -0-7
  14-59 ... 3421 344-3 -2-2             17-16 .   418-9 418-1 -t-0-8
  12-74      418-9 4148 +4-1
   Adopting for the unit of pressure the atmospheric pressure, and
 for the unit of volume the volume of the gas at zero under the
 pressure of the atmosphere, the four constants of the formula are,
for oxygen,
     B=0-003663, K=0-547.5, a=0-000890, /3=0-000686 ;
 and for the critical point the values of the variables, calculated by
the formula) (2), are
           ^=0-004042, <c=-105°-4, ^=48-7 atm.
    These numbers lead to a remarkable consequence. M. Baoul
Pictet measured the density of solid oxygen at the temperature of
about —110°, under the pressure of 470 atmospheres. If we seek,
by means of the formula, the corresponding value of v, we find
0-00136. Applying this result to the unit of weight, and taking
the litre as unit, we find 0-00136 x 697-2=0-948. The density,
therefore, is very close to unity, in accordance with the valuation
of M. Baoul Pictet. In an early commuuication I will make known
the results relative to the other gases investigated by M. Amagat.
— Comptes Rendus de VAcadimie des Sciences. March 6, 1882,
t. xciv. pp. 639-642.
                   * Comptts Rendus, Nov. 15, 1880.



       LIEBIG'S EXTRACT OF MEAT AND MALT WINE
                                  (COLEMAN'S).
                      A Delicious Beverage and Tonic,
       Made from Port Wine, Liebig's Extract of Meat and Extract of Malt ; Nutri
    tious, Strengthening, Stimulating, Flesh-forming, Health-restoring, Suitable for
    the Robust in Health as well as the Invalid. Strongly recommended by the
    Medical Faculty. An Immediate Benefit is experienced after taking it ; the
    Frame is Invigorated, and no ill effects follow.
      LIEBIG'S EXTRACT OF MEAT AND MALT WINE (COLEMAN'S).
                                   TESTIMONIALS.
       Sib,—A short time since I was induced by the novelty of the title to send for
    a bottle of your Liebig's Extract of Meat and Malt Wine. I was perfectly
    acquainted with the value of the Extractum Carnis, and not quite a stranger to
    the invigorating and fortifying properties of malt wine, and therefore felt a
    natural curiosity to test them wben combined.
       Men who work hard as I do—not muscular hard work, but that which is quite
   as exhausting, viz. brain work—very often experience the need of, and have some
   times an almost irresistible craving for, a "pick me up;" and very often the
   panacea for a time for lassitude, and that state of mind which renders work
   irksome, are alcoholic stimulants, the use of which must sooner or later end
   disastrously.
      The man who can furnish a remedy, sure, certain, and harmless, for the lassi
   tude which follows constant brain-work is a benefactor of his species, and may
   be said to have added many years of usefulness to the lives of useful men.
      Your extract is a success, and, when more generally known, will be used by
  all toilers of the mind.                              Yours faithfully, O. D. RAY.
      Thorpe Hamlet, Norwich, Feb. 23, 1881.
                                                  Queen's Crescent, Haverstock Hill,
      Deab Sib,—Some time since, being greatly fatigued     withMarch
                                                        London,          5, 1881.
                                                                  over-work   and long
  hours at business, my health (being naturally delicate) became very indifferent.
  I lost all energy, strength, and appetite, and was so weak as to be scarcely able
  U> walk.
     As you are aware, I sent for a dozen of your Extract of Meat and Malt Wine,
  which in a few days pulled me up marvellously. Three or four glasses of it daily
  have quite altered ana restored me to better health than ever, " without the assist
  ance of a doctor."
     I am now giving it to my son, twelve years of age, whom we have always
  thought consumptive, and from a puny ailing boy he seems to be fast growing
  into a strong healthy lad.
     Enclosed you have cheque. Please send me two dozen of the " Extract."
  With thanks for your prompt attention to my last.
                                    Yours truly, I am, Sir, GEORGE A. TYLER.
     Gentlemen,—Referring to yours   Mineral         Hospital,
                                              Water jour
                                          respecting           Bath,Extract
                                                          Liebig's    Sept. 22,
                                                                             cf 1881.
                                                                                Meat
 and Malt Wine, I have much pleasure in testifying to its excellent qualities. It
 is highly nutritious, stimulating, and health-restoring.
     Every claim you make for it I can fully endorse, and I shall be pleased to
 recommend it as an incomparable tonic.
                        I am, Gentlemen, yours faithfully, EDWD. J. VOYSEY'.
   Pints, 27s. per dozen ; Quarts, 50s. per dozen. Carriage paid to any
  Railway Station in Great Britain. Sample Bottle sent for 33 stamps.
                          P.O. Orders to be made payable to
                COLEMAN AND CO.,
                   MUSPOLE STREET, NORWICH.
                     CHEQl'8 CROSSED LONDON AND PROVINCIAL BANK.
   Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Vendors in the United Kingdom, in
Bottles, 2*. 9rf. and 4s. Qd. each. Ask for Coleman's Liebig's Extract of
Meat and Malt Wine, and " See that you get it"

             CONTENTS op N° 81.—Fifth Series.
   XXVII. An Examination of Vacua.           By J. B. Hannay, F.R.S.E.,
F.C.S. (Plate VI.)                                                    page 229
   XXVIII. Interference Phenomena in a new Form of Refracto-
meter. By Albert A. Michelson                                                236
   XXIX. On the Refractive Index and Specific Inductive Capacity
of Transparent Insulating Media. By J. Hopkinson, D.Sc, F.R.S. 9 1^
   XXX. "Water-pipes that do not burst with Frost. By C. Vebsow
Bois, Demonstrator of Physics, Normal School of Science, South
Kensington                                                                   244
   XXXI. Electro-optic Experiments on various Liquids.           By John
Kerb, LL.D., Free Church Training College, Glasgow                           24S
   XXXII. On the Electric Resistance of Carbon under Pressure.
By Professor Silvanus P. Tnonpsoif, B.A., D.Sc.                              262
   XXXIII. On the Determination of Chemical Affinity in terms of
Electromotive Force.—Part V. By C. R. Alder Weight, D.Sc.
(Lond.), F.R.S., Lecturer on Chemistry and Physics in St. Mary's
Hospital Medical School                                                       265
   XXXIV. Notices respecting New Books :—Captain A. Cuttniwg-
 ham'b Roorkee Hydraulic Experiments.—Mr. W. F. Stanley's Ex
perimental Researches into the Properties and Motions of Fluids,
with Theoretical Deductions therefrom                                  299, 300
   XXXV. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
     Note on Mr. J. J. Thomson's Investigation of the Electromag
        netic Action of a moving Electrified Sphere, by George
        Francis Fitzgerald, Fellow of Trinity College, Dublin, Ac. . . 302
     On a Vibratory Motion at the Origin of a Jet of a Vapour, by
        M. Th. Vautier                                                        306
     On the Compressibility of Gases, by M. E. Sarrau                         306
*,* It is requested that all Communications for this Work may b« addressed,
       post-pnid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office, Red
       Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

Vol. 13.        iAY 9 188,        MAY 1882.                                  No. 82.
           Published the First Day of every Mouth.— Price 2s. ^fl.
                                        THE
               LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBl
   PHILOSOPHICAL                                    MAGAZINE,
                                        AND
                JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
      Being a Continuation of Tilloch's 'Philosophical Magazine,'
       Nicholson s 'JournalJ and Thomson's 'Annals of Philosophy.'
                                    CONDUCTED BY
          SIR ROBERT KANE, LL.D. F.R.S. M.RI.A. F.C.S.
          SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, Knt. LL.D. F.R.S. &c.
                                         AND
          WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.RA.S. F.C.S.
                             FIFTH          SERIES.
                             N° 82.— MAY 1882.
                            WITH THEEE PLATES.
      Illustrative of Messrs. Eoherts and W. Wbightson's Paper on the
         Fluid Density of certain Metals, Mr. W. Le Conte Stevens's on
         Physiological Perspective, and on an Adjustable and Eeversible
          Stereoscope, and Dr. W. Spottiswoode's on a Separator and a
          Shunt for alternate Currents of High Tension.
                                   LONDON:
        HUNTED BY TAYLOB AND FBANCI8, EKD LION COUBT, FLEET STBKKT,
   Sold by Longmans, Green, Reader and Dyer ; Kent and Co. ; Simpkin, Marshall and
     Co. ; and Whittakerand Co. ;—and by A. and C. Black, and Thomas Clark, Edin
     burgh ; Smith and Son, Glasgow : —Hodges, Foster and Co., Dublin :—Putnam,
     Sen York : —and Asher and Co., Berlin.

                   UNIVERSITY OF LONDON.
                    Now ready, price 4s. (post-free, 4s. 7\d.).
                   THE CALENDAR for the YEAR 1882.
 Containing the Regulations for each Examination, the Examination Papers set
         during the past year, Lists of Graduates, and other information.
              Taylor and Francis, Publishers to the University,
                       Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                    TAYLOR'S SCIENTIFIC MEMOIRS.
   Part 6, containing the following important papers—M. Melloni on the
Polarization of Heat, C. F. Gauss on the General Theory of Terrestrial Mag
netism, W. Weber on the Bifilar Magnetometer, Dr. Schleipen on Phvto-
genesis, having been reprinted, a few complete Sets are now on sale, price £"6 Id.
           Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                            Demy 8vo, cloth, price 15s.
                       THE SCIENTIFIC PAPERS OF
                                     THE LATE
            SIR CHARLES WHEATSTONE, D.C.L., F.R.S., &c.
                 Published by the Physical Society of London.
           Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                              New Edition, price Is.
            TABLE OF CORRECTIONS FOR TEMPERATURE
to Reduce Observations to 32° Fahrenheit for Barometers, with Brass Scale*
         extending from the Cistern to the top of the Mercurial Column.
                       By JAMES GLAISHER, F.R.S.
           Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
           THE LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science.
  A Journal devoted to Physics, Astronomy, Mechanics, Chemistry, Mineralogy.
                and the Allied Sciences. Monthly, price 2s. 6d.
   Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following prices:—
   A set of the First Series, from 1/98 to 1826 (wanting a few plates) , in 68
volumes. Price
   The Second Series, from 1827 to 1832, in 1 1 volumes. Price £2 4s.
   The Third Series, in 37 volumes, from 1832 to 1850.         „ £6.
           Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
   The Animla and Magazine of Natural History.
       Including Zoology, Botany, and Geology.—Monthly, price 2s. 6d.
   Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following prices :—
     The First Series, in 20 volumes, from 1838 to 1847. Price .£10.
     The Second Series, in 20 volumes, from 1848 to 1857. „ jflO.
     The Third Series, in 20 volumes, from 1858 to 1867.        „ £12.
          Taylor aud Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, EC.
                       {AD VERTISEMENTS continued on 3rd page of Cover.

                                  THE
         LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL                               MAGAZINE
                                  AND
      JOURNAL                    OF         SCIENCE.
                        [FIFTH SERIES.]
                            MA Y 1882.
               XXXVI. Physiological Perspective.
                   By W. Le Conte Stevens*.
                         [Plate VIII. figs. 1-5.]
                     1. Breivster's Experiment.
SIR DAVID BREWSTER, in his essay ' On the Know
      ledge of Distance given by Binocular Vision ' (1844),
and in his subsequent volume on the Stereoscope (1856),
describes the binocular union, by optic convergence, of simi
lar pictures regularly recurring on large surfaces. The
result of viewing, by cross vision, flowers twelve inches
apart, on a papered wall at three feet distance, he describes
partially as followsf:—" The whole papered wall, with all its
flowers, will be seen suspended in the air at the distance of
six inches from the observer. At first the observer does not
decide upon the distance of the suspended wall from himself.
It generally advances slowly to its new position ; and when it
has taken its place it has a very singular character. The
Burface of it seems slightly curved."
   The geometric explanation of the position of the phantom
wall, as given by Brewster f, is easily understood. Let R
and L (fig. 1) be the optic centres of the right and left
eyes respectively, and A, B, C, A', B', C, equidistant points
on the wall. If the right eye is directed to A and the left to
A', the intersection of visual lines is at a. The points b and
c are determined in like manner ; and if the interocular line
        * Communicated by the Author,
        t Brewster on the Stereoscope, London, 1856, p. 91.
        X Ibid. p. 05.
  Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 82. May 1882.               2B

310               Mr. W. Le Conte Stevens on
RL be parallel to the wall, it follows that the phantom
surface must be a plane S S' parallel to the wall. This expla
nation fails to account for the apparent curvature S" Sw ;
and on actually trying the experiment it will be found that
the convexity is very slight unless the optic convergence be
strong.
                     2. The Binocular Eye.
    In examining this phenomenon it is indispensable that the
observer distinguish between subjective effects and objective
realities, between a sensation and its exciting cause. In
seeing with two eyes, the sensation is the same as if both
were fused into a single binocular eye, midway between them,
whose optic centre is the point of origin in all estimates of
direction and distance. The two visual lines are subjectively
combined into a single line, extending from the yellow spot
of the binocular eye as far as the external point to which the
observer mentally refers the combined retinal picture. There
 can hence be no perceived intersection of visual lines as
assumed by Brewster. The recognition of optic convergence
 or divergence is through the muscular sense ; and the locali
 zation of objects in the field of view is the interpretation of a
 complex sens-ation, not a simple geometric determination. I
 have recently devised a refracting stereoscope *, by means of
 which the same stereograph, within a few seconds of time,
 may be viewed successively by optic divergence, with natural
 relief, and by slightly greater convergence with reversion of
 relief. The binocular image is seen either alone or accom
 panied by a pair of monocular images, as may be preferred,
 and varies in apparent distance and size according to the
 degree of muscular strain attendant upon binocular vision in
 each case. The appearance of monocular images can be easily
 secured with the ordinary lenticular stereoscope, by removing
 the longitudinal screen while the relation between the two
 visual lines is kept unchanged. The subjective effect is that
  the binocular image, in full relief, remains apparently single
  and directly in front of the binocular eye, while on each side
  of it a separate monocular image is perceived by indirect
  vision. This is true for optic divergence as well as conver
  gence; and the recognition of the subjective union of the
  eyes must underlie any attempt to explain the phenomena of
 binocular vision.
                 3. Gradation in Retinal Fusion.
     However mistaken Brewster may have been in his theory
              • American Journal of Science, March 1882.

                    Physiological Perspective.              311
of visual triangulation, he was right in laying stress upon the
 successive changes of relation between the visual lines in
attaining the illusion of binocular relief. In many cases this
is indispensable to perfect success ; but it is not a fully
sufficient explanation. When the stereoscopic displacement
on the conjugate pictures is small, the perception of relief is
instantaneous, as has been abundantly established by the
experiments Cf Dove, Helmholtz, Le Conte, and others, who
illuminated the stereograph with the electric spark. But
when the stereoscopic displacement is large, if a pair of
properly constructed diagrams be employed, the superposed
external images may be made apparently to spring into full
relief only by play of the eyes, and to flatten out into a
confused network of intersecting and partially coalescent
lines by making the gaze rigidly fixed. The perception of
relief is then confined to those parts where the displacement
is small. The fact that this residual relief is always more
or less perceptible, indicates that the generally accepted
theory of corresponding retinal points cannot be interpreted
mathematically. The so-called minimum vixibile is not a point;
but corresponds to a retinal area whose diameter is variously
estimated from "003 mm. to "005 mm. It is impossible to
perceive separately an object whose retinal picture is smaller
than this. But it may be quite possible for the quality of a
retinal sensation to be modified while the additional im
pression, apart from that which it modifies, would be imper
ceptible. This indeed is quite comparable to our perception
of musical quality by the ear. Through the auditory nerve
it has always been possible to distinguish between notes of
the same fundamental pitch from different sources. It was
reserved for Hemholtz to analyze by instrumental aid what
had previously eluded analysis by the unaided ear, and show
that minute modifications upon the sensations that had been
regarded as identical were due to additional impressions that
were separately imperceptible without resonators. The sensible
coalescence between a fundamental and the overtones which
give it character, or between the sensations produced by two
well-trained unisonant voices, each with its attendant over
tones which make them produce slightly dissimilar sound-
images, is in no way more remarkable than the sensible
coalescence of slightly dissimilar light-images, with the pro
duction of new and recognizable quality. Whether the com
plete analysis of such complex images will ever be made is
for the future to develop.
   Wheatstone therefore was correct in his theory of mental
fusion of retinal images, so far as this goes ; but it does not
                             2B2

312              Mr. W. Le Conte Stevens on
go far enough. Brewster was right in considering it inade
quate, and emphasizing the fact that while the foreground is
seen single the background must be double ; but the quali
fying statement is necessary that this is perceptible only when
the stereoscopic displacement is considerable. Beturning to
the comparison with sound-perceptions, two strings of different
material may be mistuned so as to produce beats ; but by
successive alterations of tension they may be made sensibly
unisonant, with alternately higher and lower pitch, yet the
resultant quality in each case is perceived to be different from
that of the sound from either string alone. In like manner,
with retinal sensations, we may pass from sensible coalescence
with distinctions of relief in the foreground, while the back
ground is double, to similar coalescence in the background,
leaving the foreground double. The simultaneous relaxation
of muscular tension produces the impression of greater distance
of the new points thus combined by modified fusion ; for in
normal binocular vision the internal rectus and ciliary muscles
become relaxed in withdrawing the attention from a very
near body and bestowing it upon one that is distant.
           4. Physiological and Physical Perspective.
   Wheatstone and Brewster thus separately emphasized the
importance of phenomena that are complementary, not con
tradictory. "Wheatstone's theory of binocular perspective was
based mainly upon physiological considerations; and he indi
cates that he regards convergence of visual lines as invariably
accomplished in all binocular vision, though he cites some
exceptional cases in which it seems not to determine the
apparent position of the object viewed. Brewster's theory
was distinctively geometric ; he considered variation of relation
between visual lines to be important because the successive
points in the field of view were to be determined by their
intersection ; and hence he concludes that " we see distance."*
 Subsequent investigation now proves that the localization of
what is viewed in the stereoscope is in no way dependent upon
such intersection, but that binocularly we simply estimate
distance as in monocular vision. The estimate is indeed for
short distances far more definite, in both normal and stereo
scopic vision, than when a single eye is emploj^ed, because the
muscles of the two eyeballs are called into associated action,
independently of the sensible coalescence of slightly dissimilar
retinal images in the binocular eye. Certain muscular con
tractions are habitually associated with certain motions of the
body viewed, or certain relations between its different parts.
                * Brewster on the Stereoscope, p. 60.

                    Physiological Perspective.                313
If the binocular examination of the stereograph necessitate
these contractions, the corresponding judgment which follows
is dependent upon the observer's ability to interpret nerve-
impressions, muscular as well as retinal, and not on the
mathematical relation between his visual lines. For the
apparent relation between objects in the binocular field of
view, as influenced by the temporary condition of the muscles
of the eyes, I have proposed the name of physiological per
spective *, in contrast with what is suggested by the ordinary
elements, whose total effect may be called physical perspective.
The judgment suggested by the former may either coincide or
conflict with that suggested by the latter. The result is
either enhancement, or partial reversion, or total reversion,
according to the arrangement of conditions. The convexity
of the spectral wall which Brewster observed, and which is
inexplicable on his theory of visual triangulation, is an illus
tration of both physiological and physical perspective ; and
by varying the conditions reversion is easily produced. In
discussing it, any reference to corresponding retinal points
must be understood in the modified sense already explained,
and not mathematically.
                 5. A New Mode of Stereoscopy.
   Brewster's experiment may be performed more satisfactorily
by constructing on cardboard a pair of perfectly similar
figures, each consisting of a series of concentric circles.
Combining the images of these by bringing the card quite
near and crossing the visual lines at an angle of at least 60°,
the binocular image appears suspended in mid air, diminished
in size, more especially so in a direction parallel to the inter-
ocular line, but convex toward the observer, to whom the
appearance is that of a miniature elliptic buckler. The ex
periment is quite straining upon the muscles of the eyes. A
far easier method is to cut the card across at the middle, and
incline the two halves so that at the edges in contact the two
faces shall form a dihedral angle of 120°, or less, opening
toward the observer. If the interval between the two centres
be equal to the observer's interocular distance, or slightly
exceed this, he may easily secure binocular combination with
the visual lines parallel or divergent; and the convex shield
is seen, larger than in the previous experiment, and sensibly
a little more distant than when either picture is viewed
separately as in ordinary vision. If there be difficulty in
relaxing the muscles of the eyes sufficiently, the cards may
be properly held in front of the semi-lenses of an ordinary
           • American Journal of Science, Nov. 1881, p. 361.

314               Mr. W. Le Conte Stevens on
stereoscopes, though vision with the unaided eyes is preferable.
The visual result is thus obtained without strain, and by optic
parallelism or divergence, either of which conditions makes
Brewster's theory of intersection inapplicable. By reversing
the inclination of the cards to the parallel visual lines, the
apparent convexity is changed into concavity. We have thus
stereoscopy obtained from a pair of perfectly similar conjugate
pictures, and capable of reversion at will without conscious
motion of the eyes or removal of the stereograph.
    This is, so far as I have been able to learn, a new
phenomenon in binocular vision. Brewster's unexplained
observation had apparently passed into oblivion on account of
the exceeding strain upon the eyes which it involved. The
curvature of the phantom wall, in a plane passing longitu
dinally through the observer's body, has lately been redis
covered by Professor Joseph Le Conte, and shortly afterwards
its curvature in all directions by mj'self. On working out
the explanation, which would not have been possible except
by rejecting Brewster's theory of triangulation, I at once
devised a simple attachment for my adjustable stereoscope,
capable of use however with any such instrument, if so
arranged that the stereograph may bo rested upon a cross
bar, instead of sliding within a box. Let MN (fig. 2) be
euch a cross bar, in front of the eyes whose optic centres are
 at 0 and 0'. A pair of extra short bars PQ and P'Q' are
 pivoted at C and C, over which rest the centres of two
 similar series of concentric circles whoso horizontal diameters
 are included between E and D, E' and IX, respectively, the
 plane of each card being perpendicular to the page. The
 central visual lines CO and CO' are parallel, but for obvious
 reasons made very short in the diagram. The retinal pro
 jections of ECD and E'C'D' are ecd and e'dd' respectively.
 Because the triangles EOD and E'O'D' are oblique, their
 medians divide the angles at 0 and C unequally ; hence
 dc>ce and d'd <dd. The retinal images in the two eyes are
 hence dissimilar; and this dissimilarity may be made so great
 by increasing the angles NCD and MC'E', that the binocular
 image becomes indistinct if the eyes are not made to play
 rapidly over the picture. If the attention be momentarily
 withdrawn from C and C to D and D', the visual lines
  become divergent to an extent measured by the difference of
  the angles dOc and d'O'd. The associated contraction of
  the external rectus muscles which this necessitates, at once
  produces the sensation that habitually accompanies recession
  of the object binocularly viewed. The same is true if the
  attention be restored to C and C, and then given to E and

                     Physiological Perspective.                315
E'. Tho binocular image of the horizontal diameters must
hence be perceived as a curve, convex toward the observer.
   Each circle, obliquely viewed, must be seen approximately
as an ellipse, the ratio of whose axes is readily calculable if
the angle of inclination be known. But the retinal ellipses
are no longer concentric (figs. 3 and 4), the extent of retinal
displacement depending on the extent of minor axis in
each. If the successive vertices be connected, we have two
curved lines, ACB and A'C'B'. If these be binocularly
combined and externally projected, since C'C is less than A'A
and B'B, optic diver;         becomes necessary in transferring
the attention from C and C to A and A' or B and B'. The
binocular image of the vertical diameters must hence be per
ceived as a curve convex toward the observer.
   Let F and G (fig. 3) be points symmetrically situated
with regard to the vertical diameter, and hence equidistant
from D and E respectively. When the card is revolved, as in
fig. 2, the distance O E exceeds 0 D, and hence the visual angle
subtended by E G is less than that subtended by D F. Every
ellipse therefore is distorted ; but since the distortion is equal
and opposite on the two retinas, it is perfectly corrected in
the binocular combination of each pair of curves. To each
eye separately the effect is the same as if every major axis
were bent, and every point of each curve, above and below
the horizontal axis, were correspondingly displaced : F and
G' are elevated, F' and G depressed; hence F and F' differ
in retinal latitude as well as longitude, but are nevertheless
binocularly combined. This confirms the views of Wheatstone
in opposition to those of Brewster.
   If a pair of small circles whose vertical diameters are a b
and a'b' be viewed above the large circles, the visual lines
directed to their centres are similarly oblique to their vertical
diameters. They are therefore retinally projected as approxi
mate ellipses ; and when these are thence externally projected,
their upper vertices are further apart, and their lower vertices
nearer together, than their centres. The binocular combi
nation is hence an ellipse whose plane is oblique, the upper
vertex being further from, and the lower vertex nearer to, the
observer. A pair of small circles below the large ones are
binocularly combined with opposite obliquity.
   No explanation is now needed to show that if the planes of
the cards be revolved into the positions P" Q" and P"' Q'"
(fig. 2), the binocular combination of the concentric circles
must present a concave surface, and the obliquity of the plane
of each pair of conjugate small circles, when binocularly
viewed, must be reversed in sense.

316                  Mr. W. Le Conte Stevens on
    Brewster's remark about the phantom wall, that " it generally
advances slowly to its new position," is now easily under
stood. At that time the nature of focal adjustment by action
of the ciliary muscle in each eye was not known. When E
and E' (fig. 2) are binocularly viewed, since E 0 exceeds
E'CK, there must be dissociation between the two focal adjust
ments which are generally adapted to the same distance. To
this must be added the necessary dissociation between axial
and focal adjustments, the former being for an infinite distance,
the latter for the distance 0 C, when C and C are binocularly
viewed. To untrained eyes this unusual muscular action is
not always easy, and cannot be secured without effort that
may consume several seconds of time. The result is momen
tary confusion ; and many persons are hence unable to decide
at first whether the surface appears convex or concave. De
spite these difficulties, the image soon becomes clearly defined
when the experiment is performed with axial parallelism.
With strong axial convergence, as in Brewster's experiment,
the dissociation is far more difficult, on account of the extreme
muscular tension made necessary.
          6. The Theory of Associated Muscular Action.
    The theory of visual triangulation seems to have been first
put forth in 1604 by Kepler", who said that the distance be
tween the two eyes is the base which we employ in measuring
the distance of objects, that in so doing we learn to estimate
distances with a single eye, and hence that the magnitude of
a heavenly body as perceived in the eye would serve as a base
for distances relatively slight. Brewsterf, in opposition to
Berkeley J, elaborated the idea still further, making it the
foundation of his theory of the stereoscope, which has kept its
place in our textbooks of Physics to the present day. The
retention of this theory, in the face of facts to the contrary, is
explicable only in consideration of the circumstances attendant
upon normal binocular vision, and the great authority attached
to Brewster's views on account of his discoveries as a physi
cist. Probably neither he nor his followers undertook to
ascertain whether the limit of optic parallelism was ever passed
in the actual use of the stereoscope. In 1861, two Germans,
Rollet and Beckerfj, published a mode of securing binocular
fusion of similar images with the visual lines slightly diver-
   • Paralipomena, 1604, pp. G2-66.
   t Brewster on the Stereoscope, p. 50.
   % ' An Essny towards a New Theory of Vision ' : Dublin, 1709.
   § Wiener Sitzungsberichte, May 10, 1861, xliii. ; or Helmholtz, Ojrtique
Physiulogique, p. 827.

                         Physiological Perspective.                     317
gent, the possibility of this having been already mentioned by
Burckhardt*, but with no reference to the possibility of ste-
reoscopy from these similar pictures. In 1862, Brewster's
theory was criticised by Professor C. F. Himcs, of Pennsyl
vania, who described his experiments in stereoscopy from dis
similar pictures with optic divergence, and called attention to
the necessity of modifying the current theory f. Helmholtz
related experiments in optic divergence \, but, unfortunately,
did not enter fully into an analysis of tho visual results. My
own attention was drawn to this subject by the discovery of
my power to secure stereoscopy with the unaided eyes by
voluntary optic divergence. In a paper read before the New-
York Academy of Sciences on the 6th of June 1881, I
rejected Brewster's theory ; and the phenomena which he had
explained by visual triangulation I referred to the associated
action of the muscles of the eyes, applying this to both con
vergence and divergence. It has been very gratifying, there
fore, to find my views confirmed by Brigade-Surgeon Tyler
 Oughton, A.M.D., in two able articles published in the London
'Lancet,' of October 22 and December 31, 1881. These
 articles were quite independent of my own, each writer having
been unknown to the other. In 1877 Mr. Oughton had
 referred certain phenomena of " erect vision " to the sensation
 of muscular contraction. My experiments in stereoscopy with
 perfectly similar pictures, by optic convergence, parallelism,
 or divergence, with direct or inverse relief at will—experi
 ments capable of ready accomplishment by any one with un
 trained eyes—still further show that there is no longer any
 room for tho application of geometry to the physiology of
 vision, beautiful and tempting as may be the theory of visual
 triangulation.
     It is but due to add that the theory of associated muscular
 action in relation to the stereoscope was virtually stated by
  Professor Huxley § in 1868, and in such a way as quite plainly
  to indicate its applicability to the phenomena of optic diver
  gence. That he did not elaborate it in refutation of Brewster's
  theory was probably due to the fact that the fallacy and wide
  spread of this theory had not been brought specially to his
  attention.
     * Verhandlung. d. riaturforsch. Ges. zu Basel, i. p. 145 ; or Helmholtz,
  Opt. Phi/s. p. 827.
    t American Journal of Photography, September 1, 1802; also British
  Journal of Photography, 1864.
     % Optique Physiulogiqiie, pp.616 & 828; also 'Popular Lectures on
  Scientific Subjects,' p. 307 (transl. 1873).
     § ' Elementary Physiology,' p. 286 (Macmillan and Co.).

 318               Mr. W. Le Conte Stevens on
          7. Voluntary Control of the Focal Adjustment.
    Experiments in stereoscopy sufficiently show the office of
 the rectus muscles in modifying the interpretation put upon
 retinal sensations. It' the visual lines be kept as nearly
 parallel as possible, and the observer's distance from an object
 regarded be kept constant, the retinal sensation may still be
 modified by direct voluntary contraction of the ciliary muscle.
 It is accompanied by contraction of the pupillary opening ;
 and this can be approximately measured by an assistant. The
 experiment is straining, but can be performed with very little
 associated contraction of the rectus muscles. Within two
 seconds of time the pupillary opening of my eye has thus been
 often changed to one tenth of its previous area, the contrac
 tion of the iris quickly following that of the ciliary muscle.
 The visual effect is first a slight enlargement of the retinal
 image as it grows dim ; this is due to the production of diffu
 sion-circles, which encroach upon the surrounding retinal area
 as well as upon the image. The object then apparently dimi
 nishes in size to a marked extent. As its absolute distance
 and diameter, however, are constant, the retinal image cannot
 be diminished except by encroachment of diffusion-circles.
 The apparent diminution is far greater than can be explained
 on this ground, and can only be referred to an error in judg
 ment induced by abnormal muscular conditions that have been
 voluntarily imposed. The experiment has been many times
 repeated ; and the uniformity of results leaves no room to attri
 bute the illusion to accidental circumstances. The apparent
 distance of the object to which the gaze is directed becomes
 indeterminate. Ciliary contraction suggests the idea of its
 nearness ; but the dimness resulting from imperfect focaliza-
 tion suggests its remoteness. The impression of its contrac
 tion in area is unmistakable and striking. Since the con
tractions of the ciliary and internal rectus muscles are usually-
 associated in normal vision, the considerations just expressed
 explain why so acute an observer as Wheatstone* should have
noticed the apparent decrease in size of the image when strong
convergence of visual lines was produced by pulling forward
the arms of his reflecting stereoscope, but failed to note the
corresponding variation in apparent distance ; though he ob
serves that it seems changed in position, but does not say
whether the change is that of increase or decrease of distance.
         8. Effect of varying the Locality of the Image.
   When strong muscular tension is voluntarily induced, the
modification of retinal sensation seems to be greatest at the
            • Philosophical Magazine, 1852, pp. 607 & 608.

                    Physiological Perspective.                319
yellow spot, and to diminish toward the margins. Let a pair
of circles, A and A' (fig. 5), be drawn, a few inches apart, and
below A a third circle, A", equal to each of the others. Bring
ing the face as near to the page as is consistent with distinct
vision, let the right eye be directed to A' and the left to A.
A diminished elliptic binocular imago is seen directly in front,
apparently in mid air ; on each side of which is a monocular
image, sensibly circular, or but slightly elliptic, distinctly
larger than the binocular image, but smaller than either circle
seen by normal vision. Even though distinct vision is attained
under these conditions, the ciliary muscles are strongly con
tracted, consensually with the internal rectus muscles. On
closing the right eye, relaxation follows, while the direction of
the visual line for the eye remaining open is easily kept un
changed. The right monocular image disappears; the elliptic
image apparently recedes and moves to the right, growing
larger in doing so; but an interval of one or two seconds may
elapse before normal monocular vision is restored, and now
both circles have recovered their original size. The experi
ment is very easy.
   This process can be reversed, and made as gradual as is
desired, by slowly increasing the convergence of visual lines
and carrying it beyond the point necessary for binocular com
bination. As soon as double vision is produced, the two inte
rior images are perceived to be smaller than the exterior ones.
 They continue to grow steadily smaller and apparently nearer
to the observer, until they coalesce in front ; but the diminu
tion continues after they have been made to pass each other.
On the usually accepted theory, the apparent contraction is
referred to the illusive estimate of diminished distance deter
 mined by the crossing of the visual lines at the moment the
binocular combination is secured. But the falsity of this is
additionally shown by regarding the circle A" while A and A'
are binocularly combined. Although necessarily seen only
monocularly with each eye, the left-eye image appears directly
under the binocular image and of the same size, being much
smaller than the right-eye image, which appears under the
 corresponding one of A.
                9. Physiology of Retinal Sensation.
    These experiments, taken in connexion with those on ste-
 reoscopy, conclusively show that not only is convergence of
 visual lines not necessary for binocular vision and for the loca
lization of objects in the field of view, but that even change in
 such localization and in apparent magnitude can be secured
 without binocular fusion, as a consequence of muscular tension

 320              Mr. W. Le Conte Stevens on
 alone. They indicate a closer relation between the nerves of
 the ciliary muscle and those of the retina than has been com
 monly supposed. Through the sympathetic system of nerves
 the mere action of light on the retina excites reflex muscular
 contraction of the iris. Without the agency of light, this
 may be effected by ciliary contraction alone. It is by no
 means impossible that through this same sympathetic system
 the impression conveyed to the brain may be modified by such
muscular contraction, while the retinal area impressed remains
 unchanged. The interpretation is unconscious and indepen
 dent of the will ; it is dependent upon the excitement of
 several different nerves. The thing interpreted is the product
 of forces from without that operate in accordance with well-
 known mathematical laws. The velocity of propagation of a
 nerve-impression has been approximately determined bvHelm-
holtz; but beyond this there has been little success in bring
 ing the physiology of sensation within the domain of mathe
matics.
    That the interpretation of retinal impressions should be more
readily modified by association with muscular action when
they are produced upon central rather than marginal portions
of the retina, is entirely in accordance with the empiristic
theory, which Helmholtz, Briicke, and other German physio
logists have upheld. In all ordinary vision the attention is
habitually given almost exclusively to objects corresponding
to retinal images on or near the yellow spot. If any condi
tions are imposed that tend to induce misinterpretation of our
sensations, it might be expected that the most sensitive parts
of the retina would be most affected. It is impossible to
prove that there is any peculiar necessary relation between
the nature of a retinal sensation and the distance of the object
pictured, or any innate power to recognize distance. Visual
experience begins in infancy, long before the power to ana
lyze sensations ; and, in our interpretation of these, associa
tion is the chief determinant. Strong ciliary contraction is
habitually, though unconsciously, associated with nearness of
the object viewed; and this is pictured upon or very near the
yellow spot of the retina. No one whose eyes are perfectly
healthy has any consciousness of possessing a retina except in
relation to external objects of sight, or a ciliary muscle except
in relation to variation in distance of the point upon which
attention is fixed through the medium of a simultaneous
retinal sensation. We might expect, therefore, that unusual
muscular conditions would cause misinterpretation regarding
the whole field of view, but especially those parts which cor
respond to the central portion of the retina. This reasoning

                      Physiological Perspective.                       321
applies to variations resulting from tension in the rectus
muscles, external and internal, as well as from ciliary change.
            10. Binaural Audition and Binocular Vision.
   The discoveries in relation to binaural audition, made during
the last few years independently by Professor Silvanus P.
Thompson*, of England, and Professor Alfred M. Mayerf, of
this country, are interesting, not only as additions to our
knowledge of physiological acoustics, but also in connexion
with the phenomena of physiological perspective. The locali
zation of sounds has been found to be much affected by the
mode in which the waves are conveyed to the separate ears.
 The same tone may be perceived as coming from the back of
 the head, or from the two sides, or from a point obliquely in
 front, while the position of the true source is unchanged—the
 perception being involuntary, while the conditions are adjusted
 at will. The judgment of distance by the ear is far more un
 certain than by the eye, there being no criterion other than
 intensity of the sound perceived ; but the perception of direc
 tion may be modified by imposing unusual physiological con
 ditions, such as fatiguing one ear with a given tone and then
 listening to the same with both ears. For a fixed position of
 the eye, the perception of direction may be modified by chan
 ging the medium or pressing upon the eyeball ; while that of
 distance is subject to variable physiological conditions, largely
 controllable by the will. Although the binaural estimate of
 direction and distance may be made less uncertain by properly
 adjusting the position of the head to the wave-fronts of the
 successive vibrations, no one has attempted to apply geometry
  to the localization of sounds through binaural audition.
  Brewster's attempt to do this for binocular vision was based
  upon two assumptions, each of which has been proven incor
  rect. The first was, that " the line of visible direction does
  not depend on the direction of the ray, but is also perpen
  dicular to the retina "J. The latter clause has been disproved
  by Helmholtz§. The second was, that convergence of visual
  lines is necessary in binocular vision, whether normal or ste
  reoscopic || . The falsit}' of this has been abundantly shown by
  recent experiments, in addition to those of Burckhardt, Himes,
  and others. A third fundamental statement by him was, that
  " distinct vision is obtained only on one point of the retina "IT.
  While this opinion is still supported by many, it is incapable
      * Philosophical Magazine, Oct. 1877, Nov. 1878, and Nov. 1881.
       t ' Researches in Acoustics.'
       j Brewster on Optics, p. 246.        § Oplique Physiologique, p. 93.
       || Brewster on the Stereoscope, pp. 90-106.        % Ibid. p. 60.

322               Mr. W. Le Conte Stevens on an
of strict mathematical interpretation. His theory of visual
triangulation is inaccurate at best, and almost totally inappli
cable in the very department to which it has been most applied
—that of stereoscopic perspective.
   40, W. 40th St., New York,
        February 24, 1882.
      XXXVII. An Adjustable and Reversible Stereoscope.
                   By W. Le Conte Stevens*.
                        [Plate Vm. figs. 6 & 7.]
THE experiments which formed the basis of my recent
       papers on Physiological Opticsf were, for the most part,
made without the aid of any stereoscope, except the modifica
tion of Wheatstone's reflector, with which various values of the
optic angle were measured. As few persons, however, have
sufficient muscular control over the eyes to test my results, I
devised an instrument which renders possible for untrained
eyes quite a number of experiments which with the ordinary
lenticular stereoscope would be either difficult or impossible.
   The principal objects to be attained were as follows:—
   I. To secure ready motion to the semi-lenses, so that they
may bo adapted in position for any pair of eyes, whatever
may be the distance between the pupils, and for any stereo
graph, whatever the interval, within the usual limits, between
corresponding points on the two pictures.
   II. To secure the possibility of removing the semi-lenses at
will, so that they may be reversed in relative position, or
be replaced by prisms with their bases turned toward each
other, so that, without uncomfortable muscular strain, the left
picture may be viewed by the right eye and the right picture
by the left eye simultaneously, thus producing reversion of
relief in the binocular image, if desired.
   III. To secure ready motion to the screen, so that to each
eye either the whole stereograph, or its right half or its left
half separately, may be visible.
   IV. To secure the means of examining the binocular image
either alone or attended by monocular images, so that the dif
ference between the two kinds of vision may be noted.
   V. To secure the means of using the same instrument either
with glasses or for binocular combination of images by direct
  * Communicated by the Author.
  t Proceedings of the A merican Association for the Advancement of
Science, Cincinnati Meeting, August 1881 ; Transactions of the New York
Academy of Sciences, Oct. 24, 1881, and Feb. 12, 1882 ; American Journal
of Science, November and December 1881 ; Philosophical Magazine,
December 1881.

               Adjustable and Reversible Stereoscope.         323
vision, and to reduce to the utmost the difficulty usually atten
dant upon stereoscopic vision by the latter method.
    VI. To secure the means of producing stereoscopy from
perfectly similar pictures, by making the retinal images of
these dissimilar by oblique vision.
     It gives me pleasure to acknowledge my indebtedness to
 Messrs. E. and H. T. Anthony and Co., of this city, for every
facility that could be asked in testing such devices as pre
 sented themselves to my mind ; and the form finally adopted
gives entire satisfaction, the instrument being compact, inex
 pensive, and easily managed.
     The semi-lenses, I, I (fig. 6), instead of being cemented to
 wood or brass, are gently pressed into a pair of boxes, in the
 opposite walls of which square openings have been cut to
 transmit the light from the stereograph, which is held on the
 cross bar, a, by pressure between a pair of brass springs, and
 may be adjusted to any desired position by sliding this along
 the longitudinal bar. A pair of adjusting-screws, s, s, come
 into contact with the bases of the semi-lenses, and are opposed
 by a pair of springs, against which the thin edges press. If
 the semi-lenses are thus pushed together as near as possible,
  the rajs which enter the observer's eyes pass through the
  thicker parts, and hence are but little deviated. If they be as
  far apart as possible, the increase of deviation makes it con
  venient to employ a stereograph on which the interval between
  corresponding points is greater than on those generally pre
  pared. This interval is ordinarily limited to about three
  inches. The focal length of the semi-lenses being seven inches,
  it has been found that a stereographic interval of four inches
  can be allowed without any very objectionable coloration due
  to lack of achromatism, the visual lines of the observer being
  now parallel or slightly divergent. This divergence may be
  increased to any extent that he is willing to endure, by turn
  ing the adjusting-screws, so as to press the semi-lenses closer
  together. Binocular fusion of images is thus retained ; but
  the associated contraction of the external rectus muscles pro
   duces the illusion of slight recession of the object viewed and
   increased depth of relief. Similar effects may be obtained by
   nsing conjugate pictures separated by the ordinary stereogra
   phic interval; but they are much less noticeable, because there
   is less disturbance of the ordinary condition of the muscles.
       In front of the partition between the lens-boxes is hinged a
   pair of narrow brass screens, c, c, which, in the experiments
  just described, are pressed flat as in tig. 6. The left picture
   is thus hidden from the right eye and the right picture from
   the left eye. By folding them together, as in fig. 7, neither

 324          On an Adjustable and Reversible Stereoscope.
  picture is hidden by them from either eye. There is a second
  sliding cross bar, to which is attached by hinges a light
  wooden screen, b b, which in the same experiments is pressed
  down, as in fig. 6. By lifting this, as in fig. 7, the opening at
  the middle leaves the left picture visible to the right eye while
 the right picture is hidden from it ; and vice versa for the left
 eye. The semi-lenses may now be taken out ; and for them
 are substituted a pair of prisms, p, p (fig. 7), whose refracting-
 angle is 12° or 15°. The bases of these are pressed against
 the springs. The cross bar on which the stereograph rests (a)
 is pushed back to the end of the longitudinal bar ; and on look
 ing through the prisms the binocular image is seen in pseudo-
 scopic relief. This effect is very striking if the stereograph
 selected be one in which ordinary perspective is not strong ;
 that of the full moon has been found best. The cross bar may
 now be pulled as near as convenient, the visual lines becoming
 more convergent, but not uncomfortably so. Folding down
 the wooden screen (bb), a pair of monocular images of the
moon are seen, one on each side of the concave binocular
 image, but themselves presenting no relief. They appear
very perceptibly larger than the binocular image, but slightly
 smaller than either picture when viewed with normal vision
over the stereoscope. Since the prisms have no magnifying-
or diminishing-power, this illusion cannot be referred to the
effect of refraction, but is explicable only on physiological
grounds.
    By removing both prisms and semi-lenses the instrument
becomes a direct-vision stereoscope, for use with the unaided
eyes. To secure natural perspective, arrange the screens as in
 fig. 6, but push the cross bar as far off as possible. By now
gazing, as if through the stereograph at a very distant point,
with the muscles of the eyes perfectly relaxed, double vision
results, and the two interior images are seen to overlap and
then coalesce. For most persons this experiment is difficult
if the stereographic interval much exceeds the observer's in-
terocular distance, and it is not at first easy to secure enough
muscular relaxation. Some have found it better to draw the
cross bar up as near as possible, and then push it off" after
coalescence of images has been attained, the binocular image
being at first very dim.
    To secure the pseudoscopic effect by direct vision, arrange
the screens as in fig. 7, but push each of the cross bars out as
far as possible. Fix the gaze upon the projection (a) at the
top of the opening in the wooden screen, and keep it thus
fixed while the latter is pulled nearer. When this almost
reaches the position b b, in fig. 7, the interior images beyond

          Messrs. Cross and Bevan on Pseudo-Carbons.              325
will be seen to coalesce; and the attention can then be trans
ferred to their resultant combination. This is a hemispherical
lustrous cup, if the stereograph be that of the moon, which is
smaller and nearer than that obtained by use of the prisms. By
pulling the cross bar nearer, the cup becomes smaller, relatively
shallower, and, for obvious mathematical reasons, elliptic with
the minor axis horizontal. The wooden screen can now be
folded down, as before, and attention be given to the variable
size of the image as determined by the conditions under which
it is seen.
   The semi-lenses may be restored, and the screens arranged
as in fig. 6. The cross bar, a, is removed; and in its place is
put one upon which are pivoted a pair of revolving bars,
whose springs hold in position a pair of cards on which are
perfectly similar outline figures, such as series of concentric
circles. The production of stereoscopic effects, cither ortho-
scopic or pseudoscopic, at will, by oblique projection upon the
curved surfaces of the retinas, has been already fully discussed*
and now needs no explanation.
   40 W. 40th St., New York,
      February 27, 1882.
                 XXXVIII. On Psmdo-Carbens.
            By C. F. Cross, B.Sc, and E. J. BEVANf.
ri^HERE is a general knowledge amongst chemists that the
 -I- term " carbon " has been loosely applied to a number of
substances whose composition and properties, on the experi
 mental side, and the consideration of the condition of whose
formation, on the theoretical side, completely prove their non-
elementary nature. Notwithstanding this, a glance at the
 most modern text-books will show that coal is still spoken of
as " a form of carbon ;" charcoal also ; and the action of sul
phuric acid on sugar is still taught to consist in the resolution
 of the carbohydrate into carbon and waterf, the dehydrating
 energy of sulphuric acid being the efficient cause. It is ne
cessary therefore that these defects in our terminology and
classification should be stated, in order that they may be
 removed. In reviewing this subject we would first account
for the existence of the errors in question. Certainly the cause
would seem to lie in the inertia of the chemical mind—a desire
to know without ascertaining, a tendency to accept a simple
        • See the preceding article.
        + Communicated by the Authors.
        \ This explanation mRV be dismissed without discussion.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 82. May 1882.                2C

326       Messrs. Cross and Bevan on Pseudo-Carbons.
hypothesis framed upon similitudes, arid to forsake the rigid
requirements of the experimental method where it offers a
vista of complexity and the higher mathematics. But perhaps
we ought rather to regard the errors in question in the light
merely of a confession of postponement of a problem which
the science has not yet been in a position to attack, or in favour
of the larger number of those more immediately pressing.
Still we cannot avoid the conclusion that this has been rather
thought than expressed, at least in writing ; and whatever be
the cause, the persistent use of the terms of which we are
speaking amounts to a really grave error. At the outset, there
fore, we would propose the term pseudo-carbons for the black
substances, containing a more or less high percentage of car
bon, which are formed in various modes of resolution of the
carbon compounds,—including thereby the coals and graphites
 of " natural " origin, the charcoals &c. of pyrogenic origin, and
those substances which are formed by " carbonizing " organic
substances by chemical treatment.
    The main aspect of these various modes of resolution is un
doubtedly the accumulation of carbon; and the conclusion is
unavoidable that they are conditioned by the tendency of the
carbon atoms to unite with one another, i. e. to form con
densed molecules. This property of the element is the very
basis of its special chemistry, and of the widest significance in
 the living world; and in this its last expression (i. e. tending to
pass from the combined to the elementary condition) we see
the crowning chapter of its remarkable history. In our inter
pretation, however, of this chapter we should guard against a
spurious ideal, and ask ourselves, Are there any facts which
warrant, the conclusion that the elementary condition could be
 attained by any process of cumulative resolution of carbon
 compounds? and, further, Docs not the mathematical analogy
 of series proceeding by a definite law of development (and
that these bodies have been or can be developed through infi
nite series is an unavoidable inference) indicate its impossi
bility, except under the operation of a new cause ?
    Berthelot*, we believe, was the first to apply this mode of
reasoning to the case in question, and to regard the hydrogen
and oxygen present in these pseudo-carbons as essential con
stituents, and the pseudo-carbons themselves, therefore, as a
complex of compounds(C, H, 0) of very high molecular weight.
Mills has given us a more general view of such molecular
condensations in his theory of Cumulative Resolution t ; but
the attendant phenomena are in this group of resolutions too
complex, and as yet insufficiently investigated, to allow of
   • Ami. Chem. Phys. [5] xvii. p. 139. t Phil. Mn£. Suppl. June 18"".

           Messrs. Cross and Bevan on Pseudo-Carbons.               327
exact representation. The ultimate solution of these problems
cannot, therefore, be more than indicated; and it is thrown upon
the experimentalist to supply the requisite data. It is an
interesting fact that as early as 1805 Hatchett* published the
results of an investigation of the action of nitric acid upon
these pseudo-carbons, in which he established, as a general
property, that they are by this action converted into soluble
bodies having the astringent and other characteristics of the
tannins. His results are, it is true, of a somewhat empirical
and qualitative order ; they are nevertheless worthy of much
more attention than they have received; and their recognition
would have kept prominent the compound character of the
pseudo-carbons. It is noteworthy that Berzeliusf was suffi
ciently impressed with their importance to devote consider
able space in his treatise to their reproduction. Modern
writers, on the other hand, have ignored them, probably from
a sense of their lacking theoretical coordination. Hatchett
himself appears conscious of this, and also of some virtue in
undertaking the investigation of these bodies—the products
of the action of the acid,—from which, as he says, chemists
have doubtless been deterred, or even repelled with disgust,
by reason of the " proteus-like " changes which they undergo
whilst under experiment.
    In ignorance of his results, we were led to investigate cer
tain of these pseudo-carbons, from the altogether different
standpoint of their relationship to the carbohydrates. The
black "carbonaceous" substance which we obtained \ by the
action of sulphuric acid at 70° C. upon cellulose, we found to
be converted by the action of chlorine into a bright yellow
chlorinated substance, soluble in alcohol, and resembling in
 composition and properties the product of the action of this
 gas upon the jute-fibre substance—the latter being an un
 doubtedly aromatic derivative, having many points of resem
 blance to tetrachloroquinone, and standing in close relation
 ship to the natural group of astringents or tannins. It is
 not our intention to reproduce the long synthetical proof by
 which we sought to establish, from the chemical side, the de
 velopmental connexion of the tannins with the carbohydrates.
 Suffice it to say that the most direct point in the proof lay in
 the chemical characteristics of these pseudo-carbons; and from
 a study orthese, as yet only superficial, we are impressed with
 the relations of both to the carbohydrates, the connexions
 being completed through infinite series of naturally-occurring
    * Phil. Trans. 1805.
    t Traiti de Chimie (translated from 4th German ed., by Valerius), iii.
 p. 218.                     I Brit. Assoc. Reports, 1881.
                                    2C2

328         Messrs. Cross and Bevan on Pseudo- Carbons.
substances. The subject is one that may be safely left to de
velop itself in the minds of all who contemplate the science in
relation to plant-life, and will lead to the conviction of the
indefinitely wide potentiality of cellulose.
    Although the passage of cellulose into coal is an obvious
fact, the processes by and through which the transformation
has occurred lie outside the range of observation, and must
 remain therefore to that extent a matter of speculation. On
the negative side, however, greater certainty is attainable ;
and the statements of Zirkel* and Richtersf, which formulate
the older views of the composition of coal, viz. that it is a
 mixture of pure carbon with bituminous substances more or
 less, may be altogether dismissed. Balzer, we believe, was
 the first to combat these loose ideas; and in his excellent little
 treatise on the Formation of CoalJ, he advances, on the basis
 of a careful consideration of the origin and chemical charac
 teristics of the coal-substance, the hjpothesis that it consists
 of a mixture of complicated compounds, genetically if not
 homologously related, the most important feature of whose
 atomic structure is the union of the carbon atoms with one
another, progressive condensation in this direction being ex
pressed by decreasing susceptibility to the action of reagents.
This treatment of the subject, however imperfect its develop
ment within the narrow limits of the treatise in question, has
the merit of throwing the onus of proof of the presence of ele
mentary carbon in coals and other pseudo-carbons upon those
who have assumed it, and of opening up the question in its
objectivity. We do not propose to enter into it more fully at
present, than to say that we have obtained, by the action of
chlorine upon a (Wigan) coal, a chlorinated derivative similar
to those obtained by us from lignified fibres, and also observed
that the whole coal-substance was so profoundly modified by
the action of hydrochloric acid (diluted) and potassium chlorate
as to be subsequently entirely soluble in alkalies. Our investi
gation of these points is proceeding ; but even at this stage
they indicate very clearly the developmental connexion of the
coal with the cellulose constituents of growing plants.
    We cannot, however, leave Jklzer's brochure without noti
cing an incidental allusion § to the reducing-action of the
pseudo-carbons, notably charcoal, upon sulphuric acid, in
which he states, as a well-received fact, that the'reducing-
agents are the compound constituents of the pseudo-carbons,
and not elementary carbon. We have made a number of ex
periments upon all the pseudo-carbons, both in their normal
   • Petro<iraphic,\. p. 361.              t Chem. Centr. 1870. p. 246.
   X Vierteljahrss. Ziirch. nalurf. Ges. ivii. II. 1 (1872).   § Page 16.

           Messrs. Cross and Bevan on Pseudo- Carbons.         329
  state and after ignition in chlorine gas; and we found that the
  amount of sulphurous acid formed was inversely as the per
  centage of carbon, those which had been ignited in chlorine
  exerting no reducing-action whatever. We have not been
  able to find that this fact is at all generally recognized; and
  therefore we do not think it superfluous to state it here, espe
  cially as it is an important criterion of the position of any
 pseudo-carbon in the series.
     There is yet one other important bearing of these views
 which remains to be stated; and that is, their relation to the
 Chemical Theory of Gunpowder. If from the analysis of a
 normal ordnance gunpowder* the atomic ratios of the consti
 tuents, including the hydrogen and oxygen present in the
 charcoal, be calculated, we obtain the following numbers:—
                                         Pseudo-Carbon.
               KNO,          S        C~       H        0
                 13          7        16       7        2
 (excluding ash and water).
    Any chemical theory of gunpowder which fails to give an
 account of the H and 0, existing, as they do, in such important
 (molecular) quantity, is necessarily»incomplete. Those who
 are, by their special circumstances and experience, in a position
 to investigate this point, should certainly measure the influence
 of the hydrogen, and the compounds of which it is a con
 stituent, upon the properties of gunpowder. What, as an
 extreme case, would be the behaviour of a powder made from
 charcoal after ignition in chlorine ? Is it not at least certain
 that the character of a gunpowder would be influenced by the
 chemical constitution of its " carbonaceous " constituents ?
    On the more practical side, have we any certainty that the
pseudo-carbons used in the manufacture of gunpowder are
those best adapted to the purpose ? This is surely a matter
that should not be allowed to rest on an empirical basis ; and
we are not aware that it has received a thorough scientific
treatment. We refrain from further discussion at the present
time ot this and cognate subjects : we shall have achieved our
object if the term proposed by us as alone applicable to the sub
stances of which we have treated recommend itself to the judg
ment of chemists, and still more if the recognition which it
contains of their distinctly non-elementary character prove an
aid to classification.
                  • Karolyi, Phil. Mag. October 1863.

                              [   330    ]
XXXIX. On the Constitution of the Lines forming the Low-
   Temperature Spectrum of Oxygen. By Piazzi Smyth,
   Astronomer Royal for Scotland*.
I HAD added (at p. 140 of ray paper on " Gaseous
       Spectra") to the "small dispersion" account therein
given of the above-mentioned spectrum of luminous oxygen gas,
that two, if not four, of its very few and scanty lines
appeared, when viewed with much higher dispersion, to be
double, but that I hoped to give a more exact account of
them, after completing some arrangements then in progress
for increasing both the dispersion and magnifying-power of
my spectroscope.
    These improvements, together with a great advance in
definition, were finished last November; and almost the first
result they yielded was, to much more than confirm what I
had only suspected before, and to do so, moreover, with such
vigour and certainty as to make me inquire right and left for
several weeks, to ascertain if what I then saw was really a
new discovery, or had perhaps been known long before to
older and better spectroscopists.
    So far as I have been able to gather, the thing is new, and
promises to be important to theorists in molecular vibrations,
 on account of wbat it fulfils. To explain this, let me refer to
 Dr. Arthur Schuster's valuable paper in the Transactions of
the Royal Society, London, for 1879, " On the Spectra of
the Metalloids: Spectrum of Oxygen." Beginning his ex
position of the low-temperature spectrum (after having treated
 very fully of the exceedingly different high-temperature spec
 trum) of oxygen with the late Prof. Pliicker's account of it,
 and concluding with his own confirmatory observations, Dr.
 Schuster shows that the low spectrum had always been found to
 consist of only four, single, wide-apart lines—viz. one in the
 orange, one in the citron, another in the green, and another
 still in the indigo-violet ; and to that spectrum, containing
 only four such solitary, single, simple lines, the learned
 Doctor gave the second or alias name of the " compound-line "
 spectrum of oxygen.
     The reason for such an apparent misnomer, or lucus a non
 hieendo, was, that at the very moderate temperature of electric
 illumination at which this trifling-lined spectrum of oxygen
 appears, most other guses do give forth very compound-line
 spectra indeed—spectra with hundreds or even thousands of
    • From the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, vol. nx.
 part 1. Communicated by the Author.

          On the Law-Temperature Spectrum of Oxygen.           331
lines,arranged in peculiar bands or parcels,and known generally
as fluted spectra. Hence Dr. Schuster's name for what ho saw
in oxj-gen, while principally intended to show the physical cir
cumstances under (or temperature-level on) which it is produced,
might perhaps privately have been intended to indicate that he
had somehow an idea that if the lines were not compound they
ought to have been, and would one day be found so to be.
   That, so far as I can ascertain, is the furthest point the sub
ject has even yet reached elsewhere ; and it was at that point
that I had taken it up in 187i) and 1880, in the paper already
printed by this Society. In the regular course of that paper,
going through many gases, with single-prism power only, I
abundantly confirmed Messrs. Pliicker's and Schuster's four
wide-apart lines, as constituting in themselves alone almost
the whole and entire low-temperature spectrum of oxygen. I
did, indeed, also find a strong line in the scarlet-red, besides
two in the red or ultra-red, and two in the citron-green, of
extreme faintness, and only probably belonging to the same
spectrum. But they did not in any way alter the apparent
anomaly of the Doctor's name ; for each of these new lines was
also solitary : and what are after all nine, or, to keep within
more certain bounds, five, simple lines standing separate and
along a length where 10,000 such could take their places
without interfering with each other ?
   But when I looked last November with the improved
apparatus, what a change was there ! for of the five certain
lines no less than four were found to be triple, after a fluted
fashion too. These four truly compound lines then were—
mine in the scarlet-red, and Pliicker and Schuster's three
lines in the orange, the citron, and green respectively ; but
their last line in the indigo-violet remained persistently and
positively single. Still, with four fifths of this most scanty
spectrum now proved to consist of triplets instead of single
lines, Dr. Schuster's original and really most happy name for
it, of " the compound-line spectrum " of oxygen, was fully
justified, at the same time that the miniature scale of the
triplets seemed to make the physical nature of oxygen more
markedly different than ever from all other known gases;
for they, at the same temperature-level, generally make their
bands or compound-lino arrangements on a comparatively
enormous scale, and in multitudinous groupings.
   To those who are engaged in chemical spectroscopy it will
at once convey an idea of the small-sized triplicity of these
oxygen lines, to be told that from the first to the second of
each triplet the distance is one fifth that of the well-known
salt-line double ; and from the second to the third is between

332     Prof. Piazzi Smyth on the Constitution of the Linea
one eighth and one ninth of the same space; while the salt-
line double itself is only one eighth of the average distance
apart of the stronger flutings of the citron-band of the carbo-
hydrogen blowpipe-flame, which band has some six or seven
of such flutings within its easily perceivable breadth.
    Or, again, if we should on the black board represent the
separation of the first and second of any oxygen triplet by a
tenth of an inch, and from the second to the third by six
hundredths of an inch (when it will require a good eye from
the other side of the table to separate them), that would
indicate a scale for the whole spectrum, or from red to violet,
of 25 feet; and that0is rather more than three times as long
as the late Professor Angstrom's grand and almost universally
followed " Normal Solar Spectrum."
   For bright-line chemical spectroscopy, and especially with
the faint light of incandescent gas in a low-temperature
electric spark, it is by no means usual or easy to separate
lines so very close together as the members of one of the
oxygen triplets. A few words of explanation may therefore
be demanded of me in proof that the- resolution was real and
not an optical deception. The propriety of the demand, too,
I am quite ready to allow, knowing only too well that there
are prisms which will fringe every bright line with diffraction
repetitions, or, when out of the best focus, will double or
treble any line, and others, again, that make them so broad
and hazy that clear separation of very close lines would be
utterly impossible.
    As my gas-vacuum-tube spectroscope admits only of a
deviation range up to 45°, or that of a single white-flint
prism of 52° refracting angle, I was compelled to have
recourse to compound prisms to get up the necessary dis
persion for crucial cases, say that of seven or eight such
prisms. Now, although some beautiful compounds were
made for me both in France and this country, they invariably
 failed in the item of perfect definition. I then tried a large
 fluid bisulphide-of-carbon prism made in Paris, but failed
 in several ways. So lately I entered into a contract with
 an exceedingly skilful as well as persevering optician in
 London, viz. Mr. Adam Hilger, to make two large bisulphide
 prisms, having a clear circular aperture of 2-l inches
 diameter, a refracting angle of 104°, anti-prisms of crown
 glass square at the ends, and a central angular bored block
 of the same material to hold the fluid.
    The troubles poor Mr. Hilger had to go through were
almost overwhelming. He bored through block after block
of crown glass, only to find after an hour, or a day, or a week

     forming the Low-Temperature Spectrum of Oxygen.        333
that it fell in pieces of its own accord, until he had a heap of
tunnelled fragments large enough to make a cautionary photo
graph of. And when he had at last succeeded by his
unconquerable perseverance in securing two blocks that stood,
and the anti-prisms were to be fastened on their faces, he
tried almost every patented and unpatented cement before he
found one, or rather a particular method of using it, which
could withstand the action of the bisulphide for more than a
day or two.
   At last, however, though long after the contracted time,
he brought the two prisms here complete; and they passed
successfully through the severest trial I had prepared for
them, viz. that when a hydrogen-line was at its brightest,
shining like a ray of sunlight in a dark field, its light must
be entirely and sharply confined to the width of opening of
the slit for the time being. Not, however, until some months
after, when the telescope power was also improved, and a new
class of difficulties with the prisms had been overcome, could
the desired trial on oxygen be made. Now, whereas I had,
as mentioned already, on previous occasions with the best
compound glass prisms I could procure, seen only an uncertain
idea that some of the oxygen-lines might be double, I now
saw the real triplicity of four of the lines, and measured them
micrometrically with a degree of certainty and satisfaction
that I had never dreamt of with the older apparatus; and
this triplicity of these lines never came out more remarkably
than when the singularity of really single lines, such as those
of hydrogen impurities in the same gas-tube, was rendered
most distinctly. I will therefore now only seek to conclude
with a few words on the bearing of this tripleness of the
oxygon-lines, first, on the disputed question of the existence
of oxygen in the atmosphere of the sun, and, secondly, on the
absence of hitherto recognized oxygen-manifestations (though
oxygen is so well known to exist as a large part of the earth's
atmosphere) in the telluric rays that become visible in the
solar spectrum at sunrise or sunset.
                        Oxygen in the Sun.
   For many years it was a sort of crying wonder that the
spectroscope showed no traces in the sun of so necessary a
gas to combustion as oxygen—the expected test being, that
we should see there as dark lines all the lines which are seen
bright when oxygen gas, on being rendered incandescent in
a high electric temperature, then shows what is called its
" elemental-line spectrum." But not one of those lines could
be detected by its dark counterpart in the sun. At length

334     Prof. Piazzi Smyth on the Constitution of the Lines
Professor Henry Draper, of New York, from a series of
experiments made with extraordinary skill and power,
announced that oxygen appears in the solar spectrum not in
its dark but in its bright lines, outshining where they come
the brightness of the sun's continuous-spectrum background.
Yet, though he gallantly made a voyage from New York to
London especially to describe his experiments, and was
honourably received and attentively heard, there are some
persons there who are not convinced yet.
   Now Dr. Schuster had already compared his four lines,
though of the low-temperature oxygen-spectrum, with Ang
strom's normal solar-spectrum map, under the idea apparently
that, though the solar oxygen might have been rendered in
candescent in the very hottest central regions of the sun, it
might have its Fraunhofer dark correspondences checked off
by cooler oxygen vapour outside. But as his then knowledge
of oxygen low-temperature lines made them only four single,
simple, thin lines, the comparison was not attended with any
very certain result ; for there are so many of such lines, un
claimed for any element, strewed all along the solar spectrum.
But now that I had found four out of five lines to be triplets
of an accurate kind, could any thing further in the way of
identification be ascertained ?
    In apparently the very place of the three fainter of the
above-described triplets there is a close double of peculiarly
thin Fraunhofer lines depicted by Professor Angstrom in his
normal solar-spectrum map ; and in the place of the brightest
 of them, viz. Schuster's orange line, there is a triple* of the
 same kind of ultra thin lines ; and not one member of all
 those four groups has been claimed for any known element by
 the great Swedish physicist. Yet I am by no means satis
 fied that the degree of correspondence is conclusive, and can
 only hope that those who have the means will positively con
 front the new oxygen triples with the sun itself and inform
 us what they find.
     Oxygen of the Earth's Atmosphere in the Telluric Solar
                                 Spectrum.
    If the long silence of the spectroscope touching oxygen in
 the sun was a wonder, and perhaps something the reverse of
praise to those who used the supposed all-powerful instrument,
   * That triplicity is indeed, there hroken in upon hy a far stronger line,
 which Angstrom traces to sodium (Na) ; hut such cases of mere optical
juxtaposition aie frequent in the crowds of lines in much of the solar
spectrum, without any physical connexion being supposed to be implied
thereby.

     forming the Low-Temperature Spectrum of Oxygen.            335
what shall be said for its continued silence as to the presence
of any free oxygen in the earth's atmosphere, when some
gases that are therein do make themselves most signally con
spicuous on the solar spectrum, in the shape of dark lines or
bands, growing as the sun descends in altitude, until they
become at last more grandly thick and black than all the truly
solar markings put together ?
    Amongst these gigantic cases of Fraunhofer lines of some
kind of telluric gaseous origin, we do indeed know, by a sort
of inductive process rather than by any positive proof, that
the band too hastily called " little a and other bands and lines
near C and near D are the spectroscopic proofs of watery
vapour, as an invisible but potent gas in our atmosphere.
But what makes the far greater A or great B and the a (alpha)
band, no one pretends to know.
    At first sight it might well be suggested that they must be
formed by one or other, or both, of the two grand constituents
of the earth's atmosphere as established by the chemists, viz.
 oxygen and nitrogen. But there we are instantly met by
Angstrom's inflexible law, promulgated by him in 1853, and
repeated at p. 39 of the description of his " Normal Solar
 Spectrum " in 18G8, viz. that " a gas in the state of incandes
 cence emits luminous rays of'the same refrangibility as those
 which it can absorb"—or, conversely, when it acts by absorp
 tion, it produces dark in all the spectrum places where, when
 in a state of incandescence, it produced bright lines.
    Now we know by laboratory experiments what bright lines
 are given out by both oxygen and nitrogen in various states
 of incandescence ; and not one of those lines is in the place,
 and at the same time endowed with the physiognomy, of great
 A or great B, or of the a (alpha) band of the sunset solar
 spectrum.                                     0
    To get over this astonishing difficulty, Angstrom—who held
 that all these throe bands are of a similar visible constitution,
 viz. a thick line and then a band of thin lines stretching out
 towards the red end of the spectrum—suggested that they
 might be produced by " carbonic acid." But, over and above
  the difficulty that carbonic acid is an almost insensible impurity
  in the open air, and could hardly be expected to extinguish
  every sign of the existence of the atmosphere's two great con
 stituents, we do know the spectrum given by incandes
  cent carbonic acid in the laboratory, and it cannot claim to
  having a band in the place of either A or B or a (alpha),
  besides its series being turned in the opposite direction, or
  every band vanishing towards the violet, in place of the red,
  end of the spectrum.

 336      On the Low-Temperature Spectrum of Oxygen.
    Evidently, then, in despair, this sorely tried and now de
 parted philosopher of Upsala, but who is still our chief
 authority in this line, on page 41 of his memoir already cited,
 after acknowledging that he had, in another place, suggested
 "carbonic acid," says further, perhaps it is ozone which pro
 duces these bands. No reason is given ; but the prudent
 caution is inserted—if there is free ozone in the earth's atmo
 sphere. Or, again, he adds as a third supposition, perhaps
 they are produced by " fluorescence of oxygen," a gas which
he there states gives forth " a faint phosphorescence in a
 Geissler gas-vacuum-tube when an electric current is caused
to pass through it." But this is just as far from presenting
us with the very definite lines constituting the bands of great
A, great B, and a (alpha) of the sunset telluric solar spectrum
as before.
   Now I have not, any more than all the rest of the world at
this moment, any positive and proved means of raising Pro
fessor Angstrom out of the difficulties he eventually sunk
under. But the minute triplicity of the greater part of the
low-temperature lines of the oxygen-spectrum, described in the
beginning of this paper, may perhaps let in a chink of light
upon the difficulty, when combined with the true constituent
features of these grand telluric lines A, B, and u (alpha), as
set forth in my Lisbon solar spectrum, so recently honoured
by the Royal Society of Edinburgh with their Makdougall-
Brisbane Prize.
  Angstrom, observing these three bands when they were
thick and clumsy at sunset, pronounced their constitution to
be exactly similar in every case. I, on the contrary, obser
ving them in a high sun, when they were divested of the
rotundity of flesh, and only their thin, linear bones appeared,
found the ultimate constitution of the a (alpha) to be per
fectly different from that of A and B ; for in place of many
regular and symmetrically arranged powerful lines, it was
made up of little doublets and triplets of both inconceivable
minuteness and very irregular occurrence (see the said
Lisbon spectrum as printed in vol. xxix. of the Society's
Transactions). These Lilliputian foundation-stones of the
x (alpha) band appeared to me at the time almost ridiculous
in their smallness ; but now I recognize them as having a
close family resemblance to the triplicity of the low-tempera
ture oxygen-lines which I have been trying hereinbefore to
describe. They arc not indeed the very same; for they are in
different spectrum places ; but they do give the idea (sug
gested also by some points in both the aurora-spectrum and
coinetary spectra not yet reproduced in any laboratory elec

         On the Determination of the Specific Heat of Steam.   337
trical experiments) that there is a temperature-level in nature
for the incandescence of gases, much lower than that of the low-
temperature oxygen-spectrum of these pages. Wherefore, if
we could artificially produce that kind of ultra-low-temperature
illumination, electric probably, we might find that the a (alpha)
band in the solar sunset spectrum represented the oxygen,
while the A and B bands showed us the nitrogen gas thereof—
they two being the mighty gas constituents known so well to
every one (except tellunc-line solar spectroscopics) to exist in
the earth's atmosphere, and in such overpowering quantity as
to practically exclude every thing else except watery vapour.
   XL. Regnault's Determination of the Specific Heat of Steam.
                    By J. Macfarlane Gray*.
 REGNAULT'S experiments on the specific heat of vapours
          have been interpreted by Regnault as giving results
not at all in accordance with the deduction from the kinetic
 theory of gases, that, for matter travelling in single mole
 cules, the product of the molecular weight by the specific heat
 is a constant for all substances. I have been led, by consider
 ing the order of temperature-pressures for steam, to conclude
 that the above deduction is true for steam ; and I have no doubt,
 also for all matter travelling in single molecules. When, in
 1880, I laid my conclusions before the Physical Society as
 being corroborated by Regnault's dynamical experiments, it
 was objected that Regnault's direct thermal experiments gave
 results widely different from my conclusions ; and the report
 on my paper was that that difference proved that, in the cor
 roborations I had pointed out, I had been led away by merely
 numerical coincidence.
      I will now show that Regnault's thermal experiments have
 been misinterpreted by Regnault himself, and that he ought to
 have read the specific heat of steam, according to his experi
 ments, to be exactly in accordance with the deduction of the
 kinetic theory.
     The method of the experiments was to generate steam at
 100° C, to superheat it under atmospheric pressure to (say)
 125° in one set of experiments, condensing it in a calorimeter
 to ascertain what quantity of heat was given up, down to 0°.
 In a second set of experiments with the same apparatus, the
 temperature was raised to (say) 225°, while the steam was
  still at atmospheric pressure ; this was also condensed in the
     • Communicated bv the Physical Society, having been read at the
 Meeting on February 25, 1882.

 338       Mr. J. M. Gray on Regnault's Determination
 same calorimeter. It was found that the heat given up by the
 steam at 225° exceeded that given up by the steam at 125°by
 48*051 units of heat; and, dividing by the difference of tem
 perature (100), Regnault found 0-48051 for the specific heat
 of steam at constant pressure.
    In these experiments the superheating to 125° was, no
 doubt, intended to thoroughly dry the steam, so as to get, in
 the quantity of heat abandoned in the first set of experiments,
 the entire heat of complete gasefication, because, if still some
 moisture remained in the steam, the latent heat of evaporation
 of that moisture would be included in the difference-quantity
 supposed to be due to the specific heat of temperature-raising,
and, by that amount, the result would be too high.
    It appears to me that the completion of the evaporation of
suspended moisture cannot be accomplished between 100° and
125°; but it will be more likely to be carried on between 125°
and 225°. Particles of liquid remain at the pressure-tempe
rature whatever be the superheated temperature of the gas in
which they are suspended. The rate of evaporation of those par
ticles will therefore depend upon the temperature-difference ;
and in the lower range of temperatures but little of the mois
ture will be evaporated in its rapid passage through a worm
heated to only 25° in excess of the pressure-temperature. In
the second set of experiments the excess of temperature
was 125°.
   To test this, let similar experiments be made at 100°; and
if the resulting apparent specific heats between 100° and
125° are higher than those obtained by Begnault between
between 125° and 225°, then my argument is demolished ; but
if the results are smaller, then my suspicions have been jus
tified, and a correction is required on the results as given by
Regnault. Fortunately for my object, Regnault has left us (in
vol. i., at page 695) the data of thirty-eight reliable experi
ments on the " total heat " of steam at 100 down to 0°, giving
the mean = 636'70 units of heat. I have, with this " total
heat " for 100°, compared the results of the experiments on the
steam of 125°—in precisely the same way as Regnault worked
for the interval between 125° and 225° (these experiments are
recorded in vol. ii., pages 167-178). The results of my calcu
lations are given below. The first two series were merely pre
paratory trials to arrive at the best form of apparatus; and only
a few grammes of vapour were passed through the worm at
each of those experiments. In the third and the fourth series
ten times as much vapour was passed through on each occasion.
Regnault says:—"J'aipu opeVer ainsi sur des quantites de
vapeur beaucoup plus considerables, et diminuer l'importance

                  of tlie Specific Heat of Steam.                339
relative des corrections produites par les causes perturbatrices."
This consideration is still more important when the range of
temperature is limited to 25°—only one fourth of the range
from which Regnault deduced his result. The large calori
meter was used only in the third and fourth series.
   First series.  Second aeries.     Third series.  Fourth series.
          •280             •546             •299           •386
          •465             •591             •314           •381
          •417             •567             •340           •346
          •377                              •375           •309
          ¦463    Mean '567                 •400           •427
                                            •411           •463
  Mean -400                                 •349
                                            •413    Mean -3853
      Preparatory trials.                   •405
                                            •415
                                     Mean -3721
    That the method of calculation may be perfectly clear, I
 give the particulars for the first experiment in the fourth series.
 Superheating to 1240,81, each unit of vapour gave up 646*28
 units of heat down to 0°. Steam at 100° gave up 636' 70
 down to 0°.
                    646-28-636-70
                      124-81-100
 The quantity of vapour in this experiment was 102-62 grms. ;
 the quantity in the first of the first series was only 8-957 grms.
    The fourth series was made with an apparatus which was an
 improvement on that used in the third series ; and, taking that
 series only, adding the probable amount of moisture which
 would remain at 100° temperature (say 1 per cent, on the
 •385), the result is -389; this, on other grounds, I believe to
 be nearly correct. If, however, neglecting the other grounds
 for my opinion, we take the mean of the means of the third
 and the fourth series, we get
                         •3721 +-3853
 This is what Regnault might fairly have done.
    If we now calculate what Regnault's experiments would
 give as the kinetic-theory result,—we get the specific heat of
 hydrogen, at page 121, "mean = 3,4090;" and taking the
 molecular weight of steam = 17*96, we find the specific heat

340          Lord Bayleigh's Acoustical Observations.
of steam
                         3-409 x T^7r=-3796.
That is to say, the kinetic theory and the thermal determina
tion give almost identically the same number.
   This is, I believe, the first experimental proof that the law
of " inversely as the molecular weights " applies to compound
gases.
XLI. Acoustical Observations.—IV. By Lord Bayleigh,
   F.R.S., Professor of Experimental Physics in the University
   of Cambridge*'.
On the Pitch of Organ-pipes.—Slow versus quick Beats for comparison
  of Frequencies ofVibration. — Estimation of the Direction ofSounds with
  one ear.—A Telephone-experiment.—Very high Notes.—Rapid Fatigue
  of the Ear.—Sensitive Flames.
                     On the Pitch of Organ-pipes.
IN the Philosophical Magazine for June 1877 I described
      some observations which proved that the note of an open
organ-pipe, when blown in the normal manner, was higher in
pitch than the natural note of the pipe considered as a reso
nator. The note of maximum resonance was determined by
putting the ear into communication with the interior of the
pipe, and estimating the intensity of sounds of varying pitch
produced externally.
   A more accurate result may be obtained with the method
used by Blaikleyt, in which the external sound remains con
stant and the adjustment is effected by tuning the resonator
to it. About two inches were cut off' the upper end of a two-
foot metal organ-pipe, and replaced by an adjustable paper
slider. At a moderate distance from the lower end of the
pipe a tuning-fork was mounted, and was maintained in
regular vibration by the attraction of an electromagnet
situated on the further side, into which intermittent cur
rents from an interrupter were passed. Neither the fork
nor the magnet were near enough to the end of the pipe
to produce any sensible obstruction. By comparison with a
standard, the pitch of the fork thus vibrating was found to be
255 of Konig's scale. The resonance of the pipe was observed
from a position not far from the upper end, where but little of
the sound of the fork could be heard independently; and the
                   * Communicated bv the Author,
                  t Phil. Mag. May 1879.

             Lord Rayleigh's Acoustical Observations.         341
paper slider was adjusted to the position of maximum effect.
This observation was repeated many times, the distance be
tween marks fixed on the pipe and on the slider respectively
being recorded. The following numbers give the results, ex
pressed in fiftieths of an inch:—
           31         33       30        25         31
           25        32        31        34         29
           35        28        29        30
The extreme range being only one fifth of an inch, shows that
the observation is capable of considerable precision, corre
sponding as it does to only about 2 vibrations per second out
of a total of 255. Finally, the slider was fixed at the mean of
the above-determined positions, and the natural note of the
pipe was then considered to be 255. The error in length was
probably less than ^ inch, and the error in pitch less than
naif a vibration per second.
   The pipe was then blown from a well-regulated bellows; and
the beats were counted between its note and that of the standard
fork above referred to, the pressure being taken simultaneously
with a water-manometer. Three observers were found to be
necessary for accurate working—one to count the beats, rising
to the rate of ten per second, one to keep the bellows uniformly
supplied with wind, and one to observe the manometer. At
pressures between 4-2 inches and T53 inch the pitch of the
pipe was very well defined and considerably higher than the
natural note. Below 1 inch the pitch became somewhat un
steady, and distinct fluctuations in the frequency of the boats
were perceived, while no corresponding variation of pressure
could be detected. At about "8 inch the pitch of the pipe
falls to unison with the natural note, and with further dimi
nishing pressures becomes the graver of the two. Below '7
inch the unsteadiness is such as to preclude accurate estima
tions of pitch.
   The results are embodied in the accompanying table, which
shows the correspondence of pitch and pressure. Instead of
the actual number of beats counted, which involves a reference
to the extraneous element of the pitch of the standard fork,
the number (greater by unity) is given which expresses the
excess in the frequency of vibration of the actual over that of
the natural note of the pipe. It will be seen that at practical
pressures the pitch is raised by the action of the wind, but that
this rule is not universal.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 82. May 1882.          2D

342           Lord Rayleigh's Acoustical Observations.
   Pressure, iu Difference of                     Remarks.
     inches.    frequencies.
       42         + 110
       2-72           93
       22G            84
       l-8(>          71
       1-53           56
       1-32           4-2
       1CX5           21
        •88           1-5
         •82      +
         •75      — -1•.)
         •68          1-2
         •64          2-3
         ¦57          3-9*    About this point a discordant high note comes
                                in alongside of the normal note.
        •53           3-7
         •48          3-l»    Here the discordant note ceases.
         •46
        •40
        •391
        •38/      - 4-0
        ¦35            »      • About this point I lie octave of the normal
                                note is heard, after which the normal note
                                itself disappears.
         •30                  The normal note reappears, the octave con
                                tinuing.
        •20                   The octave eocs, mid then the normal note,
         ¦20                    after which there is silence.
                      +       Octavo comes in again, and then the normal
                                note, at a pitch which falls from consider
          11          —         ably above to a little below the natural
                                pitch. At the lowest pressures the normal
                                note is unaccompanied by the octave.
   Slow versus quick Beats for comparison of Frequencies of
                                Vibration.
   Most of those who have had experience in counting beats-
have expressed a preference for somewhat quick beats. Per
haps the favourite rapidity has been four beats per second.
There is no doubt that in the case of insufficiently sustained
sounds slow beats are embarrassing. The observer gets con
fused between the fall of sound which is periodic and that
which is due to the dying away of the component vibrations,
and loses his place, as it were, in the cycle. But it is also
possible, I think, to trace an impression that, independently of
the risk of confusion, quick beats can be counted with greater
accuracy than slow ones. It is indeed true that the number
of beats in a given time, such as a minute, can be determined
with greater relative accuracy when there are many than
when there are few ; but it is also true, as a little considera
tion will show, that in the comparison of frequencies wo are

           ' Lord Rayleigh's Acoustical Observations.       343
concerned not with the relative, but with the absolute number
of beats executed in the given time. If we miscount the beats
in a minute by one, it makes just the same error in the result
whether the whole number of beats is 60 or 240.
   When the sounds are pure tones and are well maintained,
it is advisable to use beats much slower than four per second.
By choosing a suitable position we may make the intensities
at the ear equal; and then the phase of silence, corresponding
to antagonism of equal and opposite vibrations, is extremely
well marked. Taking advantage of this, we may determine
slow beats with very great accuracy by observing the time
which elapses between recurrences of silence. In favourable
cases, the whole number of beats in the period of observation
may be fixed to within one tenth or one twentieth of a single
beat, a degree of accuracy which is of course out of the ques
tion when the beats are quick.
   In some experiments conducted by Dr. Schuster and my
self", to determine the absolute pitch of a Konig standard
fork, I had occasion to observe some very slow beats. The
beating sounds were of pitch 128. Ono of them was steady,
proceeding from an electrically maintained fork ; the other
(from the standard fork) gradually died away. In order to
be more independent of disturbing noises to which we were
exposed, a resonator was used connected with the ear by an
india-rubber tube. The standard fork was mounted at the
end of a wooden stick, so that it might not be heated by the
hand. As tho vibrations became less powerful, the prongs of
the fork were caused slightly to approach the mouth of the
resonator, so as to maintain the equality of the two component
 sounds. In this way it was possible to obtain very aefinito
 silences, and to measure the interval of recurrence with accu
racy. In one observation, extending over about two minutes,
 the beat occupied as much as twenty-four seconds, and there
 was no confusion. I have little doubt that even slower beats
 might be observed satisfactorily if both components were
 steadily maintained.
        Estimation of the Direction of Sounds with one ear.
    In my former experiments (Phil. Mag. June 1877) I found
it difficult to obtain satisfactory observations with one ear
 closed, although it was not doubtful that the power of estima
 ting directions was greatly curtailed. My desire to experi
 ment upon an observer deaf on one side has since been gratified
 by the kind assistance of Mr. F. Galton. In January 1881
 experiments were tried with him similar to those on normal
                • Proc. Koy. Soc. May 5, 1881, p. 137.
                                 2D2

344          Lord Rayleigh's Acoustical Observations.
hearers described in my former paper. It was found that
 Mr. Galton made mistakes which would be impossible for
 normal ears, confusing the situation of voices and of clapping
 of hands when to his right or left, as well as when in front or
behind him. Thus, when addressed loudly and at length by a
 little boy standing a few yards in front of him, he was under
 the impression that the voice was behind. In other cases, how-
 over, there seemed to be some clue, whose nature we could not
 detect. Bad mistakes were made ; but the estimates were
 more often right than mere chance would explain.
    After this experience it seemed unlikely that there could be
 any success in distinguishing whether pure tones came from
 right or left, and from in front or behind. The experiment
 was tried, however, with in the main the expected result.
But when the sounds were close, there appeared to be some
slight power of distinguishing right and left, which may per
haps have been due to incomplete deafness of the defective ear.
                     A Telephone-experiment.
    In Maxwell's ' Electricity and Magnetism,' vol. ii. § 655,
 it is shown that a perfectly conducting sheet acts as a barrier
 to the magnetic force:—" If the sheet forms a closed or infi
 nite surface, no magnetic actions which may take place on one
 side of the sheet will produce any magnetic effect on the other
 side." In practice we cannot use a sheet of perfect conduc
 tivity; but the above-described state of things may be approxi
mated to in the case of periodic magnetic changes, if the
 time-constants of the sheet circuits be large in comparison
 with the periods of the changes.
    The experiment is made by connecting up into a primary-
 circuit a batter}', a microphone-clock, and a coil of insulated
wire. The secondary circuit includes a parallel coil and a
telephone. Under these circumstances the hissing sound is
heard almost as well as if the telephone were inserted in the
primary circuit itself. But if a large and stout plate of copper
be interposed between the two coils, the sound is greatly en
feebled. By a proper choice of battery and of the distance
between the coils, it is not difficult so to adjust the strength
that the sound is conspicuous in the one case and inaudible in
the other.
           Very high Notes. Rapid Fatigue of the Eur.
    In former experiments with bird-calls I had often been
struck with what seemed to be the capricious behaviour of
these sources of sound, but had omitted to follow up the ob

            Lord Rayleigh's Acoustical Observations.          345
servation. In the spring of last year the apparent caprice was
traced to the ear, which very rapidly hecomes deaf to sounds
of high pitch and moderate intensity. A bird-call was mounted
in connexion with a loaded gas-bag and a water-manometer,
by which means the pressure could be maintained constant for
a considerable time. When the ear is placed at a moderate
distance from the instrument, a disagreeable sound is heard at
first, but after a short interval, usually not exceeding three or
four seconds, fades away and disappears altogether. A very
short intermission suffices for at any rate a partial recovery
of the power of hearing. A pretty rapid passage of the hand,
screening the ear for a fraction of a second, allows the sound
to be heard again. During his visit to Cambridge in March
1881, I had the pleasure of showing this experiment to Prof.
Helmholtz.
   The uniformity of the sound in the physical sense may be
demonstrated with a sensitive flame, which remains uniformly
affected so long as the pressure indicated by the manometer
does not vary. The sensitive flame may also be employed to
determine the wave-length of the sound, in the manner de
scribed in the Philosophical Magazine for March 1879, p. 154.
In the case of two bird-calls blown with a pressure of about
2£" of water, the wave-lengths were found to be respectively
1""304 and 1""28. The method was found to work easily and
with considerable accuracy, almost identical results being ob
tained from observations of the loops, where the flame is most
affected, and from the- nodes, where it is hast affected.
   By modifying the pressures with pinch-cocks, the two notes
could be brought into unison. Although both bird-calls were
blown from the same gas-bag, it was not possible to keep the
beats slow for more than a few seconds at a time ; but that
period was quite sufficient for the effects of the beats to mani
fest themselves in a striking manner by the behaviour of the
flame. In repeating these experiments, it may be necessary
to bear in mind that many people cannot hear these high notes
at all, even at first. With a shorter wave-length of about
as determined by the flame, I was myself quite unable to hear
any sound from the situation of the flame. A slight hissing
was perceived when the ear was brought up close to the source;
but it is probable that this was not the part of the sound that
agitated the flame.
                        Sensitive Flames.
   In the chapter devoted to this subject in Tyndall's ' Sound '
(third edition, p. 231) the accomplished author remarks :—
" An essential condition to entire success in these experiments

 346         Lord Rayleigh's Acoustical Observations.
disclosed itself in the following manner. I was operating on
 two fishtail flames, one of which jumped to a whistle while
 the other did not. The gas of the non-sensitive flame was
 turned off, additional pressure heing thereby thrown upon the
 other flame. It flared, and its cock was turned so as to lower
 the flame ; but it now proved non-sensitive, however close it
 might bo brought to the point of flaring. The narrow orifice
 of the half-turned cock interfered with the action of the sound.
 When the gas was fully turned on, the flame being lowered by
 opening the cock of the other burner, it became again sensi
 tive. Up to this time a great number of burners had been
 tried, but with many of them the action was nil. Acting,
 however, upon the hint conveyed by this observation, the
 cocks which fed tho flames were more widely opened, and our
 most refractory burners thus rendered sensitive." In the
 abstract of a Koyal-Institution lecture (Phil. Mag. Feb. 1867)
  a rather more definite view is expressed :—" Those who wish
 to repeat these experiments would do well to bear in mind, as
 an essential condition of complete success, that a free way
 should bo open for the transmission of the vibrations from the
 flame, backwards, through the gas-pipe which feeds it, The
 orifices of the stopcocks near the flame ought to be as wide as
 possible."
    During the preparation of some lectures on Sound in the
 spring of last year, it occurred to me that light would probably
be thrown upon these interesting effects by introducing a
 manometer on a lateral branch near the flame. In the path of
the gas there were inserted two stopcocks, one only a little
way behind the manometer-junction, the other separated from
it by a long length of india-rubber tubing. When the first cock
was fully open, and the flame was brought near the flaring-
point by adjustment of the distant cock, tho sensitiveness to
external sounds was great, and the manometer indicated a pres
sure of ten inches of water. But when the distant cock stood
fully open and the adjustment was effected at the other, high
 sensitiveness could not bo attained ; and the reason was obvious,
because the flame flared without external excitation while the
pressure was still an inch short of that which had been borne
without flinching in the former arrangement. On opening
again the neighbouring cock to its full extent, and adjusting
the distant one until the pressure at the manometer measured
nine inches, the flame was found comparatively insensitive.
    It appears, therefore, that the cause of the prejudicial action
of partially opened stopcocks in the neighbourhood of tho
flame is not so much that they render the flame insensitive as
that they induce premature flaring. There are two ways in

Electrical Resistance of Mixtures of Sulphur and Carbon.      547
which we may suppose this to happen. It may be that, as
Prof. Barrett suggests (Phil. Mag. April 1867), the mischief
is due to the irregular flow and consequent ricochetting of the
current of gas from side to side of the pipe ; or, again, the
cause may lie in the actual production of sonorous disturbance
of the kind to which the flame is sensitive, afterwards propa
gated forwards to the burner along the supply-pipe acting as
a speaking-tube. The latter explanation was the one that
suggested itself to my mind at the time, in consequence of the
observation that a hissing sound was easily audible by the ear
placed close to the half-open stopcock through which gas was
passing ; and it was confirmed when I found that a screwr
pinch-cock could be used for adjustment near the flame with
impunity, in which case no sound was perceptible.
   Subsequently further experiments were tried with various
nozzles inserted in the supply-tube. These included holes in
thin metal plates and drawn-out glass tubes. Even though
the rubber tubes were so bent that the streams issuing from
the nozzles were directed against the sides, no sound was heard,
and no loss of sensitiveness was apparent. It would seem
that mere irregularity of flow produced no marked effect, and
that, provided no sound attended it, the full pressure could be
borne without flaring.
   These observations in no way impair the value of the prac
tical rule laid down by Tyndall. In some cases I have found
a flame flare without external excitation when a neighbouring
stopcock was partially closed, and in spite of the increase of
pressure recover itself when tho stopcock was completely
opened. When the object is to investigate tho conditions of
flaring, the use of a manometer near the flame is decidedly to
be recommended.
   March 24, 1882.
XLII. The Effect of Temperature on the Electrical Resistance
    of Mixtures of Sulphur and Carbon. By Shelfohd
    Bidwell, M.A., LL.B.*
 SINCE December 1880 I have from time to time made a
       number of experiments with the object of ascertaining
whether sulphur could, under any circumstances, be made to
exhibit the remarkable property possessed by selenium, and
in a smaller degree by tellurium, of having its electrical resist
ance diminished by the action of light.
   * Communicated by the Phyaical Society, having been read at the
Meeting on March 25, 1882.

348        Mr. S. Bidwell on the Electrical Resistance
   Amongst other things, the effect was tried of mixing it with
graphite. The sulphur was heated to a temperature a little
above its melting-point (115° C), and when quite liquid a
small quantity of tolerably pure powdered plumbago was
stirred into it. The liquid mixture was then poured into
moulds and allowed to cool quickly. Sticks or plates were
thus produced of a substance which in general appearance
closely resembled crystalline selenium, its surface being dull
and slate-coloured, and its fracture metallic, not unlike that
of cast iron.
    A short stick of this substance was fitted with platinum
electrodes (platinum wires being made red hot and pressed
into the two ends), and was joined up in circuit with a
Leclanche cell and a reflecting galvanometer. The spot of
light was brought to the zero-point at the middle of the scale
by means of a magnet, and the sulphur rod exposed to the
radiation of a gas-flame which was held within a few inches of
it. The spot at once began to move, showing a considerable
change in the resistance of the rod. The gas-flame was extin
guished; and the spot slowly returned to zero. Upon exami
nation, however, it appeared that the behaviour of this sulphur
rod differed from that of crystalline selenium in two important
particulars. In the first place, the change of resistance was
clearly an effect not of light, but of temperature. Burning
magnesium produced no greater change than the gas-flame
when held at the same distance. Sunlight was found to have
a powerful effect, which was scarcely diminished when the
 light was caused to pass through red glass; but blue glass or
a cell containing water formed an effectual screen. A black
hot poker, or even the warmth of the finger, caused a greater
 deflection than a strong light which was too far removed to
heat the rod sensibly.
    Now there can be little doubt that the decrease in the
 resistance of selenium which occurs under the influence of
 radiation is totally distinct from any effect produced by tem
 perature. It is of course true that absorption of radiations
 is followed by a rise of temperature, particularly when such
 radiations belong to the red and infra-red part of the spec
 trum ; but it is not, I think, the fact that such rise of tempe
 rature is in any way connected with the remarkable variation
 of resistance under the influence of light, which, owing to
 the invention of the photophone, has lately attracted so much
 attention. The electrical effects of radiation are, in this case
 at least, no more due to rise of temperature than are its
chemical effects. The evidence in favour of this assertion
seems to me to be overwhelming; and I hope to return to it

              of Mixtures of Sulphur and Carbon.               349
upon another occasion, with special reference to the paper in
support of the opposite view read last year by Dr. Moser.
   The second point in which the sulphur rod appeared to
differ from selenium, was in the direction of the change which
the radiation of the gas-flame produced, the galvanometer
showing that its resistance was increased, instead of being
diminished as might have been expected. Here, however,
upon the supposition that the effect is due to heating, the
behaviour of the sulphur is really similar to that of selenium ;
for my experiments (agreeing with those of Prof. Adams)
show that at ordinary temperatures slight heating is always
accompanied by considerably increased resistance.
   After numerous trials, in order to ascertain what propor
tions of sulphur and graphite yielded the greatest sensitive
ness to heat, it appeared that a mixture containing 20 parts
by weight of sulphur to 9 of graphite was the most suitable.
It was also found to be more sensitive when cooled rather
quickly than when cooled slowly, though its specific resist
ance (which is always high) was generally lower in the latter
case.
   In order that the peculiar property of the substance may be
exhibited in the most effective manner, it is necessary to
arrange it in thin films, so that a large surface relatively to the
bulk may be exposed to the action of radiation. This was at
first done by spreading it as thinly and evenly as possible
upon plates of mica Laving tinfoil electrodes at each end. An
objection to this method, however, was the enormously high
resistance which it involved, amounting sometimes to several
hundred thousand ohms. I therefore adopted the device which
I generally use in the construction of selenium cells, and which
is a simple modification of a plan originally proposed by Dr.
Werner Siemens.
   Two wires, preferably of platinum, are wound parallel to
each other, and very close together, around a slip of mica,
care being taken that the wires do not touch each other at
any point. A film of the melted mixture is spread evenly
over one surface of the mica ; and the wire electrodes are thus
connected with each other through half their entire length by
a series of very narrow strips of the sulphur mixture.
   The resistance of a sulphur "cell" constructed in this
manner was 9100 ohms at a temperature of 14° C. The cell
was slowly heated in an air-bath, and the resistance measured
as accurately as possible at almost every degree. The follow
ing table sufficiently indicates the rate at which the resistance
increased.

350        Mr. S. Bidwell on the Electrical Resistance
          Temperature.               Resistance.
               14° C                   9,100 ohms.
               19°                    11,400 „
               25°                    13,700 „
               30°                    16,700 „
               35°                    20,600 „
              40°                     26,900 „
              45°                     34,000 .,
               50°                    42,900 „
               55°                    57,000 „
   Thus at 55° the resistance of the cell was more than six
times as great as at 14°.
   Upon another occasion the cell was raised to a much higher
temperature. No measurements were made with the bridge,
however, the cell being simply connected with a battery and
a galvanometer, and the deflections noted from time to time.
After passing 55°, the resistance increased with great rapidity,
until at a temperature of 100° it was sensibly infinite, there
being no movement of the spot of light when the circuit was
opened with a key. Immediately after passing 100°, the
resistance began to fall even more quickly than it had risen.
The deflection at 105° was the same as that at 85°; at 110°
the same as at 65°; at 114° the same as at 50°; and at 115°
the same as at 35°. The spot of light now became so unsteady
 (probably in consequence of the melting of the cell) that it
was not possible to carry the experiment further.
   A mixture has also been prepared in which lampblack was
used instead of graphite; but very few experiments have yet
been made with it, and the results obtained have not been
uniform. At ordinary temperatures it generally behaves like
the graphite mixtures; but its temperature of maximum resist
ance is probably lower than 100 . In one case indeed, in
which the proportions were 8 parts of sulphur to 1 of lamp
black, the resistance was found to be greatest at 15° (530,000
ohms), any change in the temperature, whether in the direc
tion of heat or cold, producing a decrease. But since no such
effect has been produced with other specimens of the same
compound, I am inclined to think that it is due to some
unnoticed peculiarity in the construction of the cell.
   With this single exception, every specimen of the mixtures,
whether made with graphite or lampblack, has at ordinary
temperatures been found to have its resistance increased by
heat.
   At first sight this appears to be a very paradoxical pheno
menon. It is now generally admitted that the resistance of

              of Mixtures of Sulphur and Carbon.               351
graphite and other forma of carbon is diminished by heat; and
it is also commonly believed that a rise of temperature inva
riably causes a decrease in the resistance of insulators such as
sulphur. The compound of sulphur and carbon with which
we have to do is certainly only a mechanical mixture (for no
chemical combination could be formed at a temperature of
150° C, which is never exceeded in making the preparation);
yet the effect which heat produced upon it is exactly opposite
to that produced upon each of its constituents.
    Some experiments were made in order to determine the
effect of heat upon the resistance of carbon and sulphur sepa
 rately ; but, although in the case of sulphur some unexpected
results were obtained, nothing whatever was observed which
 would per se account for the variations of resistance in the
sulphur and carbon mixtures.
    I believe the true explanation to be this : —The mixture does
 not consist of a uniform structureless mass of sulphur having
 particles of carbon imbedded in and completely surrounded
 by it. It is in fact an aggregation of little crystals of sulphur,
 with carbon packed between them like mortar between bricks.
 The conduction thus takes place entirely through the carbon
 particles, which may be considered as extending in a series of
 chains from end to end of the mass. Under the influence of
 heat, both the sulphur and the carbon expand ; but the expan
 sion of the sulphur is nearly ten times as great as that of the
 carbon, the net result being that the carbon particles are
 drawn apart, and have fewer points of contact with each other.
 The number of complete chains is thus diminished, and the
 resistance of the mass consequently increased.
    It is stated in Balfour Stewart's ' Treatise on Heat,' upon
 the authority of Kopp, that sulphur, after being heated to a
 certain temperature, contracts instead of expanding. This
  would account for the fact that, after attaining a certain tem
 perature, the resistance of the mixture begins once more to
  decrease; for the carbon particles would, when the sulphur
 contracts, be brought together again.
     Several experiments corroborate this explanation of the
  variation of the resistance. Thus a mixture was made con
  taining 3 parts of shell-lac to 2 of graphite. Though the
 proportion of carbon was larger than in the sulphur experi
  ments, its resistance was found, as was expected, to bo infi
  nite; for the structureless shell-lac penetrated between and
  completely surrounded the carbon particles. A mixture of
  paraffin and graphite gave the same result.
     A short rod of the usual sulphur-and-graphite compound (20
  parts to 9) was fitted with platinum-wire electrodes; and its

 352    Electrical Resistance of Mixtures of Sulphur and Carbon.
 resistance in the air at 17° was found to be 3170 ohms. The
 rod was immersed in a beaker of turpentine at the same tem
 perature, and its resistance almost immediately went up about
 800 ohms; and in five minutes it was somewhat higher.
 Though this result did not at first appear to be easily intelli
 gible, it is fully explained by supposing that the liquid pene
 trated between the sulphur crystals and surrounded the carbon
 particles. In order to increase the effect, the beaker of tur
 pentine containing the rod was placed under the receiver of
 an air-pump and the air exhausted. After remaining for a
quarter of an hour in a vacuum, air was admitted, and another
quarter of an hour was allowed for the action of the atmo
spheric pressure. At the expiration of this time its resistance
was found to havo increased to 15,600 ohms, about five times
as great as it was originally. The rod was then placed upon
blotting-paper; and three days afterwards its resistance was
 2970 ohms, the temperature of the air being 16°. This was
 200 ohms lower than when it was first made; but the tem
perature was one degree lower.
   Thinking that the oil of turpentine might possibly have had
some action on the sulphur, I repeated the experiment with
olive-oil. On first immersion, the resistance went up from
 2970 to 3150 ohms, and in six minutes to 3770 ohms. It
was then left in a vacuum for forty-five minutes, after which
the air was admitted, though the effervescence had not even
then quite ceased ; and when measured, after sufficient interval
to allow the oil to penetrate, its resistance had increased to
8140 ohms. The comparative smallness of the effect produced
in this latter experiment was probably due to the greater vis
cidity of the oil.
    Lastly, since the behaviour of the sulphur-and-graphite
mixture under the influence of heat seemed, like that of the
microphone, to depend upon the interaction of contiguous
particles of carbon, it was expected that one of the sulphur-
cells before described might be used as a telephone-transmitter.
This, upon trial, was found to be the case. With a single
Leclanche the sounds reproduced in the receiving-telephone
were feeblo ; but well-known nursery-rhymes were easily
recognized. When, however, twenty Lcclanches were used,
the sounds were much louder and the articulation perfectly
distinct. No experiments whatever have yet been made with
the view of developing this property; and there can be little
doubt that it is capable of extension. It is not impossible
that a transmitter constructed upon this principle might be
found to be of practical value; and it is entirely different, at
least in appearance, from any thing which has been made
before.

    Separator and Shunt for Currents of High Tension.         353
   The sulphur-cell might also perhaps be used as a thermo-
scope, being simpler and more easy to construct than an
ordinary thermopile.
   It has recently been proposed to use mixtures of sulphur
and graphite for making cheap resistance-boxes. It is needless
to point out that the great sensitiveness of such compounds to
small changes of temperature renders them very unsuitable
for such a purpose.
XLIII. On a Separator and a Shunt for alternate Currents of
   High Tension. By William Spottiswoode, M A., LL.l).,
   D.C.L., President of the Royal Society*.
                             [Plate IX.]
IN a former communication (Phil. Mag. 1879, vol. viii.
      p. 390 ; see also Proceedings of the Royal Institution,
March 1882) I described a mode of exciting an induction-
coil by means of an alternate magneto-electric machine. The
machine then, and at present, used for the purpose was one
by De Meritens. It answers its purpose perfectly; but it is
not improbable that other alternate machines might also suc
ceed. The method offers various advantages, several of which
are described in the second paper to which reference is made
above ; but it also presents one considerable disadvantage—
namely, that the currents produced in the secondary circuit
are alternate in direction as well as in time. For some pur
poses this is of no consequence ; but for others, such as expe
riments with vacuum-tubes, it gives rise to inconvenience by
the production of two opposite discharges of the same strength
through the tube. As these succeed one another with great
rapidity, both sets are visible together, and by their presence
they mask the very effects which are the subject of study.
    With a view to remedy this defect many contrivances were
devised ; and among them it is difficult to decide how much
is due to my assistant, Mr. P. Ward, and how much to myself.
 But it is right to state that much credit is due to him for many
valuable suggestions in principle, as well as for the instru
mental construction.
    The first object proposed was to get rid of one set of dis
charges, either by preventing its passage by means of resist
 ances, or by diverting it from the tube into a different channel.
 The main principle of which we availed ourselves for this pur
 pose was found in the known property of vacuum-tubes, that
a discharge is more easily effected when the negative terminal
                    * Communicated by the Author.

354       Dr. W. Spottiswoodo on a Separator and a
is large than when it is small. This property is doubtless well
known to most persons who have experimented in this field;
but I am not aware of any special experiments made for the
purpose of examining the subject. De La Rue and others
nave noticed that with a large negative terminal the amount
of surface covered by the glow depends upon the strength of
the current; and Goldstein has mentioned that the dimensions
of the dark space immediately round the negative terminal
depend upon the size of that terminal. Pursuing tho ques
tion of the connexion between facility of discharge and the
size of the terminals, we found not only that the facility de
pended less on the relative than on the absolute magnitudes,
but also that the size of the positive may be reduced indefi
nitely without interfering with the discharge. Indeed, when
we reflect on the appearance of the discharge under ordinary
circumstances, and consider that, whatever be the size or
shape of the positive terminal, the discharge at that end
always proceeds as from a point, then we are almost brought
a priori to the conclusion that the positive terminal itself may
be reduced to a point without affecting the discharge. The
reverse, however, is the case with the negative terminal ; for,
without entering more deeply into the question, it is clear
that, if we reduce the surface of that terminal below the extent
which would have been covered by the glow when unrestricted,
we thereby interfere with the natural development of the dis
charge. In accordance with this consideration, we found that,
when one terminal was small, in that one the discharge which
was positive passed freely, while the opposite discharge
failed altogether to pass ; and thus in this case the problem,
as it were, solved itself. The same results were obtained even
when one terminal was reduced to a mere point. Acting on
this principle, we inserted a tube, having one very small and
one largo terminal, in series with the tube which was the sub
ject of experiment ; and by means of it as an auxiliary tube
we succeeded in shutting off one set of currents from tbe
main tube.
   Another, although not more successful, accessory for the
same purpose was found in a tube furnished with a series of
 diaphragms each having a small aperture, with a tubular pro
cess leading from it and coincident with the axis of the tube.
This form of tube is known as a Holtz tube; and it possesses
 the property of allowing the passage of discharges directed
 towards the tubular processes, but of impeding the reverse
 discharges. Speaking more accurately, each of these aper
tures offers resistance to the passage of the electricity in
either direction, but more so to that in which the end of the

          Shunt for alternate Currents of High Tension.     355
tabular process is positive than to the reverse. In some cases
this is sufficient to extinguish the discharge. Advantage was
taken of this fact, by using a tube furnished with several dia
phragms, behind each of which was a terminal which exposed
a minute point of metal only. With a stronger current a
greater number of diaphragms was used in circuit ; with a
weaker current, a smaller number; and wo were thus enabled
to adjust the resistance to the strength of current employed.
When several diaphragms were used the resistance became
verv great.
    lie Holtz tube, although in some ways very convenient for
use, is not without its drawback; for the narrow tubular pro
 cesses offer some (and not inconsiderable resistance) even to
 the discharges which they allow to pass. This inconvenience
 was obviated by substituting for the Holtz tube a column of
 glycerine and water in which were inserted two terminals, one
 consisting of a fine point and the other of a plate. The rod
 which terminated in the point could be raised or lowered
 according as it was required to increase or to diminish the
 length of the column, and thereby the resistance employed.
 By mixing the water and the glycerine in various proportions,
 the resistance of the column could be varied within very wide
 limits ; and by making the mixture as weak as possible com
 patibly with the requirements of the case, the instrument, or
 electrical valve as it may be termed, could be made one of
 extreme delicacy.
     The next step consisted in turning to account the set of
  currents which had hitherto been merely shut off and not
  utilized. The arrangement whereby this was effected will be
  best understood by the diagram (Plate IX. fig. 1). A and B
  are the two terminals of the coil; C and D, two glycerine-and-
  water valves : E, a glycerine shunt ; F and G, two tubes, or
  other passages for the current!-. When the current, positive
  at A, enters C, it passes through the valve to the tube F,
  and thence to the opposite terminal B of the coil. When the
  current is negative at A, it is unable to pass through the
  valve C, and it is diverted to the tube G. The same current,
  positive at B, passes through the valve D, also to the tube G.
  JHhe complete instrument may be called a separator.
     Thus far we have succeeded in separating the two sets of
  currents, and in diverting one set, so as to make use of them
  in a second tube or other channel. We have in fact disen
  tangled the two sets; but we have done this at the expence of
  either making use of only one set, or at best of making use of
  both in two separate tubes. It is, however, but seldom that
  more than one tube is required at the same time for experi

  356   Separator and Shunt for Currents of High Tension.
  mental purposes; so that, although the last-mentioned arrange
  ment might serve for a display, it can hardly be said to give
  much promise of practical utility.
    We next devised another plan whereby both sets of currents
 can be turned to account in the same tube with much advan
 tage. If instead of two tubes we take a single tube and fur
 nish it with two sets of terminals, then, if we connect one pair
 of terminals of the separator with one pair of terminals of the
 tube, and the other pair of the separator with the other pair of
 tube, in such a way that both sets of currents enter the tube
 at the same end, we shall have a double set of discharges in
 the same direction through the tube.
    It was, however, further found that it was not necessary to
 have four terminals in the tube; for, taking advantage of the
 difficulty in effecting a discharge when the negative terminal
 is small, we fixed two very small terminals near one end of
 the tube and one large one at the other. We then connected
 the two small terminals directly with the two sides of the
 machine respectively (that is, before the currents entered the
 separator), and the one large terminal with the two sides of the
 machine after the currents had been led through the two
 branches of the separator respectively. This effected the
 object desired ; for, in the first place, there was no tendency
 in the discharge to pass from one small terminal to the other
 on account of the principle above quoted; secondly, there was
 no tendency in the current to become short-circuited at the
 single large terminal, on account of the difficulty in the pas
 sage of the current backward through either branch of the
 separator. Consequently every current issuing from the
 machine was obliged to pass to one or other of the small ter
 minals, and thence through the tube to the large terminal at
 the other end. The scheme of the connexions to the various
 parts of the apparatus will, however, be best understood by
 reference to the diagram (Plate IX. fig. 2).
    The arrangement may therefore be said to have completely
solved the problem of producing unidirectional discharges
through a tube from an alternating machine, and at the same
time utilizing all the currents from the machine. The method
has also the advantage of making the number of currents
discharged through the tube in a given time double that
which would have been discharged if one set of currents had
been merely diverted as in the arrangement first described.
   But beside shunting off, or diverting, one set of currents, it
was often desirable to reduce the strength of the whole to suit
the condition of the tube or the circumstances of the experi
ment. The readiest method of effecting this appeared to be

              Sir James Cockle on Transformation.             357
to introduce a resistance in the primary circuit. But this
proved to be wanting in the delicacy required ; and it was
found necessary to operate directly on the secondary. Mr.
De La Rue had, it is true, already constructed a platinum-
wire resistance of 1,000,000 ohms; but even this amount was
insufficient for our present purposes, while its cost was almost
prohibitory. Columns of acidulated water proved very effec
tive; but the)' were open to the objections, first, of heating
during use, and, secondly, of evaporation of the water at all
times. Both of these actions tended to diminish the resistance
of the column.
   Mr. De La Rue had also constructed a resistance, consisting
of a thin film of plumbago spread upon ebonite ; but the cur
rent heated the plumbago to such an extent that the ebonite
was burnt. The instrument in question was therefore never
used. Mr. Ward suggested the employment of slate instead
of ebonite; and accordingly he constructed the instrument
actually in use, and represented in fig. 2. The slab of slate is
about two feet in length and two inches in breadth. It is
fixed at an angle of about 30° to the horizon, the inclination
being so adjusted that a block of lead, which serves as a con
tact piece, will slide freely down the inclined plane. A fine
wire attached to the block, and passing over a pulley at the
upper end, regulates the length of the plumbago actually in
circuit. It is found most convenient to use this instrument
(which proves to be one of great delicacy) as a shunt.
   A more convenient form of this instrument consists of a
vertical rod of ground glass, porcelain, or other incombustible
nonconductor, having its surface slightly roughened so as to
hold the plumbago. One terminal consists of a double slider
 capable of being elevated or depressed, and making good con
tact, either by a spring or by gravity, with the plumbago film.
                XLIV. Note on Transformation.
    By Sir James Cockle, M.A., F.R.S., F.R.A.S., 8,-c*
54. TN my recent papers (see the Numbers for September
     -L 1881 and for January last) the details of calculation
are kept within narrow limits. There arc, however, various in
dependent sources of verification, viz. substitution, reducibility
of radicals, comparison of formulae with other results and with
each other, and, finally, an actual transformation.
   55. In art. 2 put e=a; the formula? of arts. 8, 9 hold for all
values of n. Put a,f.h = e,c/,k; the like is true, and the
                  * Communicated by the Author.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 82. May 1882.            2E

358           Sir James Cockle on Transformation.
transformed equation is free from of*. Put a, e= 1 and h, k=0;
the factors are in arithmetical progression, as, by art. 13, they
should be. Put A, E = l, 2; then art. 19 gives
      P2=0. Q2=4 + 9M-12L, R2=32 + 18N-3M,
              S2=6N+12.
Hence
              2B2=16 + 12(L-M + N) = 16 + 126,
and
              6Ca=12L-6M or C2=6 + L-N;
and the first two conditions of art. 20 are satisfied, as is the
last; for, by art. 18, i2 = 6 + 2.
   56. Since rj and % are to be taken as one-valued when the
quantities in terms of which they are expressed are so taken,
we infer that the radical in arts. 10 and 17 means the appro
priate root, not either root indifferently, and that the root can
be rationally expressed. This is the case ; irrationality has
disappeared from all our results.
   57. Multiply the products «xa2 and          wherein the factors
are in order of magnitude, into 7. If we preserve the order,
we get six configurations, viz. 7*^, «17«s, «i«jy> and y#ij9s,
&7£>s, fiiftiy- Assume that there is a value of y which will
make one of the a set and also one of the 0 set an arith
metical progression. We get nine mutually exclusive but
severally possible pairs of relations, of which one, for example,
is
                   «2 + 7=2«1, /32 + y=2/3i;
whence
               4a1-2*s=4/S1- 2/32 or 3I = 3J + U. . . (14)
Let a be taken to represent D — a, and we thus obtain by
 Boole's algorithm a result included in those of art. 50. The
same thing holds for the remaining eight cases.
   58. This last verification indicates that a factor always dis
appears from (13), and that the solution         —1 must be ex
punged from art. 53; for, by art. 36, » = 0. In the numerator
of (13) of art. 50 change D into D — 3, or, rather, omit the
transformation by which D has replaced the D — 3 which would
otherwise have remained there. A factor will disappear if
any one of the nine expressions 4w+3(J + I), 4co + 3I,
4o> + 3J, to vanishes. But these conditions coincide with those
of arts. 33, 34, and with those implied in art. 57.
    59. The introduction of the arithmetical progression, while
it affords a good verification, restricts generality. Putting
         B=A-i, A=D + a2-l, z=.v°*X-rs£.
        /(A, B, I) = (A + 2B)(A - B + j I)(A - B - 3 1),

               Sir James Cockle on Transformation.                       351)
I find that the binomial terordinal deducible from that in z
(arts. 16, 17) is
            /•(A,B,I)r+/(A + 2a>, B-»,J)*»?=0, . . (15)
from which a factor, viz. A + 2B, may be made to disappear.
   60. Getting rid of this factor, putting Z = #-Bf, and at
(which is arbitrary) = 1, and changing a? into a?, we are led to
   (D + ±I)(D-£I)Z + (D + 2o> + £J)(D + 2o>-iJyZ=0.
    61. But, the restriction entailed by the progression being
removed, we can employ both the values of u> given in art. 42,
and so obtain two equations either of which is a transforma
tion of the other.
    62. In verification I add that, by a further application of
Boole's process, these two equations may be put under the
respective forms
(D-/31)(D-ft>i + (D-«1)(D-«J)«»»=0,
(D-^1)(D-/32)w» + (D + U-«1-2)(D + U-«2-2)^ms=0,
and that one of these forms is a transformation of the other,
                     . u
viz. ^=(1 + ^) »u.
    63. If in bj= —rj2(vi + 3) we for rji substitute 3— ^'Bjand
reduce, we get
         t{i + 3o)(o) + l)}{6 + 3(o> + 2)(a) + 3)}=0; . . (16)
and from (N2— Ls)-l(Ca + £>a)=3— i^'Bj we get
       {& + 3a>(a) + l)}{6(n-l) + (®+3)(N-L)}=0. . (17)
    64. Both (16) and (17) are satisfied if b + 3w(m + l) = 0.
This is the solution which I have discussed. They are also
both satisfied if 6=0 and « + 3 = 0. This solution is inad
missible; for it would make % a vanishing fraction. There
remains the system
                  6 + 3(a> + 2)(a) + 3)=0,                 1             Qgs
                  t(n-l) + (a) + 3)(N-L)=0;/                             1 ;
 which is important, but which I shall not discuss in these
pages. The latter solution of art. 26 is not irrelevant to the
system (18).
   2 Sandringhani Gardens, Ealing,
           March 14, 1882.
                                  Erratum.
 Vol. XII. p. 196, art, 30, lines 10, 11, transpose " one is " and " two are "
                         and in line 12 dele integers.
                                    2E2

                                   [   360    ]
XLV. On the Fluid Density ofcertain Metals. By W. Chandler
   Roberts, F.R.S. and T. Wrightson, Memb. Inst. C.E.*
                                  |Plate VII.]
AT a Meeting of the Physical Society, on February 12,
         1881f, we communicated the results of certain experi
ments, made with the aid of the oncosimeter, on the fluid
density of bismuth, in which we showed that the densities in
the fluid and cold solid states are respectively 10*055 and 9"82,
the fluid density thus being 2'4 per cent, higher than the cold
solid. These determinations correspond closely with results
that had been obtained by one of us, using the " cone" method
devised by Mr. Malletf. For the sake of convenience we
here reproduce our results on bismuth.
                   Weight, in                Floating
        Diameter  troy ounces, Specific gra
                                vity of cold effect on Deduced !
 No. of of ball, including ball,             first im specific gra Remarks.
  expt. in inches. the stem dinginclu  the   mersion, vity of fluid
                   for attach       stem.     in troy    metal.
                      ment.                   ounces.
                                                                    • Bismuth ball
   81.     2         23-33       9-72            10       10-13  •      in fluid bis
                                                                        muth.
                                                                      Iron ball in
   32.     2-25       22184      6-99 (iron)     93        992          fluid bis
                                                                        muth.
                                                                      Bismuth ball
   33.     do.        3346     .9-755            1-3      1011 • in fluid bis
                                                                        muth.
   34.     do.        33-37      9-757            ¦6       9-94            do.
   35.     do.        33-53      9-774             •7      9-98            do.
                                                                   f Iron ball in
   36.      do.       22-184     7-02 (iron)    10-2      10-25 \ fluid bis
                                                                  I muth.
    Since these results were published we have extended the
experiments to the following metals—copper, lead, tin, zinc,
silver. The results are now submitted to the Society.
   * Communicated by the Physical Society, having been read January
28, 1882.
   t Proc. Phys. Soc. vol. iv. p. 195 ; and Phil. Mag. [6] vol. xi. 1881,
p. 295.
   % Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. xxii. p. 36G, and vol. xxiii. p. 209.

                   On the Fluid Density of certain Metals.                            361
                                         Copper.
        Six experiments were made with the oncosimeter* on copper;
   four of these were made with cast copper halls                            diameter,
   one with a cast-iron turned ball 2£" in diameter, and one with
   a copper ball 3" in diameter. The first four were made with
   a spring that lengthened £ inch per ounce troy ; the last two
    with a more sensitive spring, giving ^ inch elongation per
    ounce troy. It will be seen by the accompanying table that
   the fluid density does not vary much, although, as has just
   been stated, the conditions were varied.
                    Weight, in                    Sinking
          Diameter troy ounces, Specific  gra
                                  vity of cold    effect on     Deduced
  No. of of ball, including ball,                 first im     specific gra
   expt. in inches. the stem dinginclu  the       mersion,     vity of fluid    Bemarks.
                   for attach        stem.         in troy        metal.
                       ment.                       ounces.
1                                                                              Copper ball
     37.    2-25      28-357      8-23               nil.          8-23 <        in fluid
                                                                                 copper.
     38.     do.      27005       8-463                •2          8-4             do.
     39.     do.      26-25       8-288               •5           8-13            do.
    40.      do.      26-923      8-281               •2           8-217           do.
                                               Floating effect                Iron ball in
    41.      do.      22-186      7-02 (iron)        3-5           8-127      fluid copper.
                                               Sinking effect                 Copper ball
    42.     3         64-237      8-61               30            8-2    ¦      in fluid
                                                                                 copper.
                                                  Mean            8 217
                     Specifio gravity of solid copper             8'8
        The mean of these results gives 8*217 as the density of fluid
   copper. This metal melts at a temperature which exceeds
   1000° C, and, when melted in air, absorbs oxygen. We
   found, for this reason, that it was not possible to obtain trust
  worthy results by Mallet's method, even though the cone was
   filled with an atmosphere of coal-gas.
       • A description of this instrument was published in the Journal of the
  Iron and Steel Institute, part 2, 1879, p. 418.

362            Messrs. Boberts and Wrightson on the
                                     Lead.
   Three experiments were made with the oncosimeter, the
results being as follows:—
                   Weight, in                  Sinking
                  troy ounces, Specificgra     effect on Deduced
        Diameter
 No. of of ball, including vity       of cold  first im specific gra
 expt. in inches. the stem ball,      inclu    mersion, vity of fluid   Bcmarks.
                   for attach ding stem.
                                        the     in troy    metal.
                      ment.                     ounces.
   43.       3        83-37         10-7          3-5       10-25 \ Lead     ball in
                                                                        fluid lend.
   44.       3        83-8          10-8          3-25       10-38          do.
                                                                            do.
   45.       3        84-01         11-07         3-7       10-5 { Fluid lead
                                                                      getting cold.
                                              Mean          10-37
                    Specific gravity of solid lead          114
    A mean of two experiments on lead, made on Mallet's
system, gave 10*65 as the liquid density, the results being
1063 and 10'66 respectively.
     The diagram No. 1 (Plate VII.), gives the results of the
experiments on lead ; and the calculations of fluid density are
in each case attached, the point a indicating in each the
position taken as giving the true initial sinking effect at
the moment of immersion.
                                        Tin,
    Two experiments were made with the oncosimeter, with the
following results:—
                   Weight, in Specificgra      Sinking
                  troy ounces, vity            effect on Deduced
        Diameter
 No. of of ball, including ball,ofinclu cold   first im specifio gra
  expt. in inches. the stem ding the           mersion, vity of fluid Bemarks.
                   for attach      Btem.        in troy    metal.
                      ment.                     ounces.
   40.       3        6506         7-165           11                 Tin ball in
                                                              7-02 j    fluid tin.
   47.   Failure.
   48.       3        55-66        7-185           1-2        703          do.
                                               Mean           7-025
                        Specific gravity of solid tin         7"5

                      Fluid Density of certain Metals.                       363
    The diagram No. 2 is reduced from the oncosimeter diagram,
experiment 48.                                                            °       '
    A mean of three experiments on tin, made on Mallet's
method, gave 6-974 as the liquid density—the results beine
6-903, 6-982, and 6-976 respectively.                                           5
                                      Zinc.
    Three experiments were made with the oncosimeter on this
metal, the results being tabulated below:—
                   Weight, in                 Sinking
        Diameter   troy ounces, specific gra
                                vity of cold  effect on Deduced
 No. of of ball, including ball,              first im specific gra
 expt. in inches. the stem dinginclu   the    mersion, vity of fluid Remarks.
                    for attach     stem.       in troy     [.metal.
                       ment.                   ounces.
   49.      3          5252        6-893         2-4        6-57 [ Zinc  ball in
                                                                     fluid zinc.
   50.      3          5258        6-901         3-3        6-47        do.
   61.      3         52-32        6-903         3-75       6-4         do.
                                             Moan           G-48
       Specific gravity of solid zinc 6 8 to 7-2 (Bankine).
    The crucible was kept in the furnace during the three
experiments, and maintained as nearly as possible at the same
temperature throughout.
    Only one determination of this metal has been made by
Mallet's method, giving a liquid density of 6-55.
                                      Silver.
    We looked with much interest to the experiments on the
density of molten silver f^r several reasons—mainly from the
fact that it melts at a high temperature, which has been deter
mined with great care by the late Henri Ste Claire Deville,
who in his later experiments on the subject fixed the tempe
rature at 940° 0.* We operated on a thousand ounces of
silver, which proved on assay to contain 998 parts of pure
silver in 1000. We have as yet only secured one trustworthy
result, as we found it very difficult so to adjust the tempera
ture of the molten silver as to prevent the silver balls from
melting either too rapidly or too slowly. In the experiment
No. 52, in which we did secure a result, the metal must have
been just about its melting-point, as at the end of four
                   * Comptes Ilendus, t. xc. (1880) p. 773.

364            Messrs. Roberts and Wrightson on the
minutes the silver ball had not entirely melted ; the experi
ment was stopped, however, as the silver began to solidify on
the iron stem of the ball.
   The diagram No. 3 is reduced from the original ; and
we have appended the calculation for fluid density, assuming
the position of equilibrium at first immersion of the ball to
be at point a.
   The particulars of the experiment are as follows:—
                    Weight, in
                   troy ounces, SpecificgrJ  ^          Deduced
 No. of Diameter
         of ball,
                                rityofeold
                     including balLinclu-i
 expt. in inches. the stem •a*
                    for attach                           metal.
                       ment.                 ounces.
                                                                 1 Pure silver
   52.      3          74-8                               9-51 I ball in pure
                                  10-068   j   4-1               [ silver.
   The liquid density of pure silver, as determined by one of
us*, on Mallet's method, from a mean of two experiments,
giving respectively 9*447 and 9*476, was 9*46. This confirms
the single result obtained by the oncosimeter.
   If we now tabulate the mean results of the foregoing expe
riments, as well as those previously obtained, we shall be able
to compare the densities according to the two methods of inves
tigation:—
         Fluid density of By Mallet's method.       By oncosimeter.
         Bismuth                    10039               10-055
         Copper .                                        8-217
         Lead ....                  10-65               10-37
         Tin                         6-974               7-025
         Zinc ....                   6-56                6-48
         Silver....                  9-40                9-61
   The difficulties connected with the working of the oncosi
meter are less than those which arise in Mallet's method; and
the sources of error are less, the correctness of the result in
the latter depending on the metal in the cone being free from
air-holes.
   It will be seen from the above table that, in the case of
                  Roberts, Proc Boy. So& vol. xxiii. p. 493.

                    Fluid Density of certain Metals.                           365
the five metals in which both systems were tried, the results
correspond as closely as could be expected, taking into con
sideration the great difficulties of observation at the high
temperatures employed. We therefore venture to think that
the oncosimeter can be depended upon generally for the deter
mination of the fluid densities of metals, if the experiments are
conducted with the necessary care.
    Taking therefore the oncosimeter-results as approximately
accurate, we find the change of volume of these metals in pass
ing from the cold solid to the liquid state to be as follows :—
         Metal.           Specific gravity Specific gravity Percentage    of change
                                                             in volume from cold
                              of solid.       of liquid.        solid to liquid.
                                9-82            10-005      Decrease of vol. 2 3
                                8-8              8217       Increase of vol. 7'1
                               11-4             10-37          do. do.          9-93
    Tin                         7-5              7-025         do. do.          6-76
                                7-2              6-48          do. do. 11*1
                               10-57             9-51          do. do. 11-2
   •Iron (No. 4, foundry,
                          ]      6-95            6-88          do.     do.      1-02
     The experiments just described lead us to believe that,
 although the conditions under which they are made may
 render it impossible to obtain results that are rigidly accurate,
 still the errors are inconsiderable. It has been urged that the
 unsoundness or porosity in the casting would disturb the accu
 racy of the results ; but this is provided against in each case
 by taking the specific gravity of the ball operated on, its iron
 stem being submerged in water to a point which is afterwards
 just reached by the molten metal. It has also been suggested
 that the expansion of the ball, when it enters the fluid metal,
 causes tension on the metal in the interior of the ball, and that
 therefore the density of the ball (from which the fluid density
 is determined) can never be trusted. It must be remembered,
 however, that the determination of the fluid density is made
 and automatically registered at the moment of immersion,
 before the volume of the ball can be practically affected.
     Since our last paper was read, we have seen that MM. F.
 Nies and A.Winkelmannf have been investigating the changes
 in volume of certain metals when melted. Their method will
    • Wrigktson, Journal of the Iron and Steel Institute, No. 1 (1880), p. 20.
    t Sitzungsberichte der Akademie der Wismischaften zu Miinchen, 1881,
 part 1, p. 63.

366           On the Fluid Density of certain Metals.
be best understood by a short description of the way in which
the metal tin was treated by them.
   Tin was melted in a suitable vessel, the melting-point (viz.
2260,5 C.) being carefully maintained. Pieces of tin were
then dropped in, and observed first to sink, then to rise before
melting—showing that solid tin has a higher specific gravity
than the liquid mass, but that when its temperature has been
raised to the melting-point, or rather to a certain temperature
just below, then it is specifically lighter. In order to deter
mine this relation, they enclosed pieces of copper (having a
higher specific gravity than tin) in pieces of tin, and were
thus able to increase the specific gravity of the solid piece at
will ; and although not able to determine directly whether the
compound piece was of the same density as the liquid, the
latter not being transparent, yet by varying the amount of
copper enclosed in the tin, thus forming pieces of a different
density, they were enabled to say that it lay between the
two limiting values. Compound pieces with varying and
known amounts of copper, thus formed, were placed on the
surface of the liquid tin for some little time, then dipped
under the surface; and it was noted whether they rose again
or not. The pieces were each then carefully taken out again
and weighed, to ascertain that no part had been melted.
This was continued until they found two compound pieces
such that, at a temperature just below the melting-point, one
would just rise and the other would just sink.
   If, then, the relative densities of the liquid tin and the copper
at the temperature of liquid tin could be ascertained by expe
riment, the relative density of the solid tin just below melting-
point and the liquid tin can be calculated.
   A copper ball was heated to the temperature of the melting
tin, and weighed, first in air, then in the liquid tin. The rela
tive densities being thus ascertained, the calculations, which
we need not give here, are of a simpler character.
   In the case of tin, they found that the liquid is of ¦ 7 per cent,
greater density than the hot solid at a temperature just below
melting-point.
   This, so far as it goes, is confirmatory of the results obtained
by us. If diagram No 2. be examined, it will be seen that the
line of volume rises gradually to the line of equilibrium, indi-
dicating expansion; and just before the ball melts rises above
the line, indicating a floating effect, when the temperature
approximates to the melting-point.
   Tin therefore appears to be similar to iron ; viz. it is at
its maximum density when cold, and at its minimum density
when at a temperature just below melting, and that the fluid-
density is between the two.

                  Notices respecting New Books.                  307
   The results obtained by MM. Nies and Winkelmann on bis
muth will serve to illustrate the degree of approximation of
these limiting values.
   A piece of bismuth, when allied with a platinum block
weighing 21*76 grammes, sank ; and another piece, weighing
35"4 grammes, floated; which is equivalent to stating that the
specific gravity of the melting bismuth is between 1028 and
10-12.
   They arrive at the general result that not one of the eight
metals they examined will justify the assertion that "bodies
contract on becoming solid;" but the experiments rather
favour the view that metals when solid, at a temperature close
upon their melting-points, are less dense than when molten.
   Without accepting MM. Nies and Winkelmann's results
as final, we do not consider them to bo opposed to our own,
as theirs relate solely to the ratio of the densities of the solid
and liquid metals at as nearly as possible the same tempera
ture, while our experiments were undertaken with a view to
determine the actual density of a metal at the lowest tempera
ture at which it is perfectly liquid.
              XLVI. Notices respecting New Books.
                   Geology of the Environs of Tokio.
       By Prof. David Beauts, Ph.D., M.D. Tokio: 1881.
'TTHE present memoir is one (No. 4) of a series published by the
     University of Tokio, and contains a description of the Geology
of the Environs of Tokio, which are part of an extensive plain, the
largest in the Japanese Empire, everywhere constructed on the
same plan, and showing essentially the same formations, which
consist of alluvial, diluvial, and Tertiary deposits ; the bounding
hills and mountains, which form a vast quadrant, are composed of
Palseozoic and various crystalline rocks.
   The plain or plateau of Tokio, although not much elevated, is
intersected by deep cuttings of river-valleys and ravines with much
alluvial matter ; from which it occurs that all the diluvial parts of
the plain appear as isles or peninsulas, divided from one ano
ther by those river-valleys and side valleys down to the most
minute undulations of the ground. This division of the surface
of the plain is of the highest importance for agriculture—the rice-
fields being in most instances confined to the lower or alluvial
tracts, whilst on the higher level wo find the cereals, many kinds
of beans, the plantations of tea, of the mulberry-tree, and most of
the small forests. According to the author, this widely spread
plateau must have been deposited by the sea and under its surface,
and therefore must have risen above the level of the sea since the
diluvial epoch in which it was formed ; for it is to be noticed that
 in no part of it is there any trace of glacial deposits or of glacial
 action.

 368                Notioes respecting Neio Books.
    The alluvial and so-called diluvial deposits are described in the
 second and third chapters ; in the latter, organic remains are not
 very numerous in the environs of Tokio ; there are plant-remains
 of surviving species, and land, freshwater, and marine Mollusca of
 existing Japanese forms. The remains of mammals are rather
 limited : bones of Deer and Cetacea occur ; also two species of
 Elephants, which are referred to Elephas meridionalis and E. anti-
 quus, forms belonging to the Glacial and Preglacial fauna of Europe.
    The succeeding chapters (4-7) treat of the Tertiary deposits of
 Oji, Tokio, Yokohama, and other parts of Japan, and of the Mol
lusca found in them, which are all living species ; many, however,
are not now found in the neighbourhood of Japan, nor even in the
Pacific. In many respects, Dr. Brauns says, the Japanese shell-
 layers have the greatest resemblance to the Cray, and, next to it,
 to the younger Subapennine deposits, while the rocks resemble
 very closely the European Faluns.
    With the memoir are given some sections and a sketch map of
the environs of Tokio, and six plates of fossil shells, which are
highly creditable to the Japanese artist, Mr. H. Hirauchi, who
designed the illustrations.
 The Theory of Equations ; with an Introduction to the Theory of
   Binary Alyebraic Forms. By~W. S. Burnside, 21.A., and A. W.
   Pantox, M.A. Longmans, Green, and Co. : London. Pp. 387.
Students of Mathematics are greatly indebted to the authors of
this work for having combined in one volume the substance of the
best standard books on the subject, with the improvements and ex
tensions it has received at the hands of modern investigators, whose
memoirs have hitherto been chiefly contributions to various Mathe
matical Journals. The first ten chapters comprise all the essential
propositions included in the best treatises on the Theory of Equa
tions. Iu the more advanced portions of the subject, Chapter XL,
on Determinants, and Chapters XIV. and XV., on Covariants and
Invariants, are distinguishing features of the work. To beginners
these chapters are of the greatest value, not only on account of the
simple and lucid manner in which they are written, but the care
which has been taken to place before the student the most recent
improvements in this Calculus.
   The book is unusually well got up in every respect. The type,
which is of various kinds, is remarkably clear; and the book
altogether a triumph of the printer's art.
Celestial Objects for Common Telescopes. By the Rev. T. W. Webb,
   M.A., F.R.A.S. Fourth Edition, 493 pp., with numerous
   figures. London : Longmans, Green & Co. 1881.
Tnis excellent book, every page of which teems with information,
is unquestionably not only the best aud handiest companion for the
observatory, but also for the amateur who studies astronomy for
mere amusement. The questions, What is to be looked for ? and
How is it to be looked for ? are abundantly answered in its pages.

                          Geological Society.                   369
And we know that in the compilation of the work this was the
main object of its author. On opening it for the first time, the
student cannot do better than turn to Appendix I. and make the
corrections indicated there. Marked and important features of
the manual are a map of the Moon, and a clear and not over
crowded index to it, Double Stars, Clusters, and Nebula;, from
Struve's famous ' Catalogue,' Smyth's ' Cycle of Celestial Objects,'
and the more recent accurate observations of Burnhaui and others ;
while an Appendix contains the same objects placed, for the sake of
convenience, in the order of their E.A.
   The labour bestowed on Part III. and the Appendices must have
been enormous ; and great praise is due to the author for the way in
which it has been accomplished. Some at least of the materials
used in compilation must themselves have caused great trouble by
the careful sifting they needed. Smyth's ' Cycle of Celestial
Objects,' for instance, is a work not to be relied on for general
accuracy.
   With regard to Part II., we may note, en passant, what appear
peculiar faults of omission and commission when we consider what
a surprising amount of detail is given elsewhere. No mention is
made of Mercury's distance (35,500,000 miles) from the Sun.
Neither the dimensions of Venus nor her distance from the Sun are
given. On page 172 a very curious and puzzling description of
Saturn is given. Part of it runs thus :—" The Globe. Though about
69,200 m. in equatorial diameter, second only to Jupiter, and about
nine times larger than the earth,'' &c. "We are afraid that young
students, not knowing that spheres are to one another as the cubes
of their diameters, would take this sentence to mean that Saturn
is only nine times the size of the Earth. The rest of the sentence
is simply beyond human comprehension. However, the book amply
fulfils its object, and ought to find a place wherever an astrono
mical telescope is in use, whatever its range may be.
            XLVII. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                        GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                        [Continued from p. 147.]
            January 25, 1882.—K. Etheridge, Esq., F.E.S..
                        President, in the Chair.
THE following communications were read:—
       1. "On the Fossil Fish-rcmains from the Armagh Limestone
in the Collection of the Earl of Enniskillen." By James W. Davis,
Esq., F.G.S., F.L.S.
   2. il On an extinct Chelonian Reptile (Notocheh/s coslata, Owen)
from Australia." By Prof. Owen, C.B., F.B.S., F^G.S.
   3. " On the Upper Beds of the Fifeshirc Coal-Measures." By the
late E. W. Binney, Esq., F.R.S., F.G.S., and James W. Kirkby, Esq.
   These beds are best exposed in Fife, between the mouth of the

 370                     Geological Society:—
 Leven and East Wemyss. The coal-field of the latter district is the
 most northerly piece of true Coal-measures in Britain ; they dip
 10° E., or even less. The highest member (which may possibly
 be even later than the Carboniferous Period) is an unfossiliferous
 purplish sandstone, full 200 feet thick ; next comes soft red marl.
 12 feet, followed by sands (290 feet), marls, clays, &c. (100 feet), and
 sandstones, clays, &c, with thin coals and limestones (about 80 feet).
 Other sections were also described. No unconformity has been
 noticed in Fifeshire between these and the underlying measures.
 The argillaceous limestones and their coals are fossiliferous ; there
 are a few fish and Crustacea, and many plants, with some curious
 markings, which may be rootlets or perhaps algae. The last occur
 only in a limited part of the rock, not with other plants, and are
 very delicate and membranous. The affinities of these were fully
 discussed, the author inclining to the view that they are alga.
         February 8.—It. Etheridge, Esq., F.R.S., President,
                              in the Chair.
    The following communications were read :—
    1. " Description of some Iguanodon Remains discovered at Brook,
 Isle of Wight, indicating a New Species, Iguanodon Seelyi." By
J. W. Hulke, Esq., F.R.S.
    2. "On a peculiar Bed of Angular Drift on the high Lower-
Chalk Plain between Didcot and Chilton." By Prof. J. Prestwich,
M.A., F.R.S., F.G.S.
         February 22—J. W. Hulke, Esq., F.R.S., President,
                              in the Chair.
    The following communications were read :—
    1. "Additional Discoveries of High-level Marine Drifts in North
Wales, with Remarks on Driftless Areas." By D. Mackintosh, Esq.,
F.G.S.
    The author begins with remarks on the importance of the marine
drift-area (part of which he briefly described in his last paper"),
especially as regards its great extent, and the absence, so far as yet
known, of similar high-level drifts (between 1000 and 1350 feet
above the sea) in continental Europe, Asia, or North America. He
lately traced the drift-area two miles further south than he had
done during former explorations, its entire length being little short
of 5 miles. In this paper he gives a detailed description of the
numerous exposures of rounded gravel and stratified sand between
the north end of Minora Mountain and Llangollen Vale, which in
some places spread out into large flat expanses, but more frequently
assume the form of knolls (frequently in perched positions), which
rise up from beneath a covering of clay or peat. He dwells on the
probable origin of the knoll-shaped configuration, including the
thoory of the precipitation of the drift from the stranding of floating
ice, and the forcing-up of previously deposited drift by the same
agency, but inclines to the idea of the knolls having been chiefly

          On some Sections of Lincolnshire Neocomian.               371
accumulated by sea-currents. The author then describes several
large areas in North Wales in which he could find no trace of
rounded gravel, enters into a consideration of the causes of these
driftless areas, and discusses the relative merits of the theory of
their having been temporarily occupied by land-ice, and of the
theory of non-exposure to tempestuous seas, or seas capable of
rounding stones. He then gives an account of the discovery of
granite boulders, associated with partially rounded drift, on the
summit of Moel Wnion, 1 900 feet above the sea (near Aber, North
Wales) ; and endeavours to show that, while they could have been
readily transported by floating ice (probably from Scotland, certainly
not from Cumberland), the flow of land-ice from Snowdon, ac
cording to Ramsay, along the north face of Moel Wnion, must have
prevented the access of northern land-ice to the summit of
the latter mountain, while land-ice flowing from Cumberland to
Anglesey (according to Ramsay) could not have been crossed by
land-ice flowing south from Scotland to Moel Wnion. After re
ferring to the outward direction of stria? oil the north coast of North
Wales, he concludes by giving a summary of facts and inferences.
   2. " On some Sections of Lincolnshire Neocomian ." By H. Keeping,
 Esq., of the Woodwardian Museum, Cambridge.
   The construction of the Louth and Lincoln railway, in the year
 1872, led to the exposure of some fine sections of the Neocomian
strata forming the base of the Lincolnshire Wold. From these beds
the author had obtained a very large number of„fossils, in many
cases in an excellent state of preservation. As the'sections are now
becoming obscuro, the author gives an account of the observations
made by him at the time when they were best exposed, with lists
of the fossils he obtained from them. He agrees with Professor
Judd, who in 1867 first described these strata and determined their
age, in his conclusions concerning the classification and correlation
of the beds, but is disposed to regard the sands above Market Rasen
as being a drift deposit, and not as belonging to the Lower Sand
and Sandstone.
    3. "Notes on tho Geology of the Cheviot Hills (English side)."
 By C. T. Clough, Esq., M.A., F.G.S.
    After a brief description of tho physical structure of the district,
 tho author passes on to its igneous rocks. These he groups under
 three heads— (1) the granite, (2) the lava-flows and ash beds, (3)
 the intrusive dykes. The first oocupics an area of about 24 square
 miles, it varies much in texture, is generally not conspicuously rich
 in quartz, and often contains hornblende as well as mica. It exhibits
 in places a curious streaked or banded structure due to local crush
 ing. This is fully described. The lava-flows (with ashes) are por-
 phyrite ; this is generally compact, sometimes glassy in structure,
 with scattered crystals of plagioclase, biotite, hornblende (sometimes
 augite), a little free quartz, and occasional olivine and apatite.
 Some peculiarities in these rocks are described. The intrusive dykes

 372                       Geological Society.
 (3) consist of (ft) coarse red porphyrite, (6) quartz porphyry, (c)
 felsite, (d) granite. The author considers that the porphyrite and
 granite (which are alternately intrusive one in another) belong
 approximately to the same geological epoch. This is the Lower Old
 Red Sandstone ; and as pebbles of the granite as well as of the por
 phyrite occur in the Lower Carboniferous measures of the region,
great denudation must have taken place prior to the latter epoch.
The author also describes some basalt dykes which he considers to
be of Miocene age.
                  March 8.—J. "W. Hulke, Esq., F.R.S.,
                         President, in the Chair.
    The following communications were read:—
    1. "Additional Note on certain Inclusions in Granite." Bv
J. Arthur Phillips, Esq., F.R.S., F.G.S.
    The author referred to certain rounded inclusions in granite which
were rich in mica. These he had deseribed in his paper published
in vol. xxxvi. of the ' Quarterly Journal,' and had considered to be
contemporaneous segregations from the molten rock. He had, up
to that time, not found a case where one of the larger crystals of
felspar in a porphyritic granite occurred partly in the one, partly
in the other. Of late he had seen several, one of which he described,
minutely, thus proving the correctness of his supposition.
    2. « The Geology of Madeira." By J. 8. Gardner, Esq., F.G.S.
   Madeira consists almost wholly of sheets of basaltic lava of
variable thickness interstratified with tuff scoriae and red bole, cut
by innumerable dykes. In the central part of the island is a horse
shoe-shaped valley, more than 4 miles in diameter, its bed 2500 feet
above the sea, its precipitous walls full 3000 feet high, rising here
and there to yet greater elevations, and forming a central point in
the mountain-system of the island. This the author regards as the
basal wreck of a volcanic mountain, blown into the air by an explo
sion of exceptional violence. Fragments of the slopes of scoria;
which once composed the inner shell remain on the peaks surround
ing this amphitheatre. The dykes here are trachyte. The author
describes a limestone exposed in one place beneath the basalts and
referred to the Upper Miocene, and a plant-bearing bed associated
with them, containing fossils of species still living in the island,
some of which have been wrongly referred to extinct forms. In
conclusion the author remarked upon the almost infinite variability
of the genus Rubus and the difficulty of distinguishing its species.
   3. " On the Crag Shells of Aberdeenshire and the Gravel Beds
containing them." By Thomas F. Jamicsou, Esq., F.G.S.
   4. " On the Red Clay of the Aberdeenshire Coast, and the Direc
tion of Ice-movement in that quarter." By Thomas F. Jamieson,
Esq., F.G.S.
   The author describes a red clay occurring in the eastern part of
Aberdeenshire, which differs in many important respects from the

            On the Geological Age of the Taconic System.           373
ordinary grey Boulder-clay of the district. Its contents appear to
show that it has not been dorived from the Jurassic and granitic
rocks of Aberdeenshire, but from masses of Old Red Sandstone, now
perhaps removed by denudation. Only few and imperfect molluscan
remains, with bones of fish, aquatic birds, and seals have been
found in this red clay. Ho regards it as having been formed
during a period of great submergence which followed the period of
maximum glaciation. He finds at Cove proof of a remarkablo
change in direction of the flow of the glacial ice. Additional proofs
of the submergence are found in the old beaches with shells, extend
ing to heights of from 380 to 470 and even up to 560 feet above
the sea-level. The Mollusca occurring in these raised beaches are
all of living species, but now occur in arctic seas. He differs from
Mr. J. Geikie, who regards these deposits as of post-Glacial age and
of estuarine character. He concludes by describing in detail the
remarkable section exhibited in the Bay of Nigg.
          March 22.—J. W. Hulke, Esq., F.R.S., President,
                              in the Chair.
    The following communications were read :—
    1. " On a Fossil Species of Camptoceras, a Freshwater Mollusk,
from the Eocene of Sheerness." By Lieut.-Colonel H. H. Godwin-
Austen, F.R.S., F.G.S.
    2. " Note on the Os Pubis and Ischium of Ornithopsis eucamerotus
(synonyms—Eucamerotus, Hulke ; Bothriospondylus (in part), 11.
Owen ; Chondrosteatosaurus, R. Owen)." By J. W. Hulke, Esq.,
 F.E.S., Pres.G.S.
    3. " On Neusticosaurus pusillus (Fraas), an Amphibious Reptile
having affinities with the terrestrial Nothosauria and with the marine
 Plesiosauria." Py Prof. H. G. Seeley, F.R.S., F.G.S.
           April 5.—J. W. Hulke, Esq., F.R.S., President,
                               in the Chair.
     The following communications were read :—
    1. "Geological Age of the Taconic System." By Prof. J. D.
 Dana, F.M.G.S.
    The author takes exception to some remarks made before the Geo
 logical Society by Dr. T. Storry Hunt on the 16th November last.
 Dr. Sterry Hunt has thrown doubt on the results arrived at by the
 geologists who have studied the relations of the so-called Taconic
 strata, not in consequence of any observations of his own, but on
 the general ground that " where newer strata are in unconformable
  contact with older ones, the effect of lateral movements of com
 pression, involving the two series, is generally to cause the newer
  and more yielding strata to dip towards, and even beneath the edge
  of the older rock—a result due to folds, often with inversion, some
  times passing into faults."
     Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 82. May 1882.              2F

374                      Geological Society :—
   It was pointed out in opposition to these views, that the observa
tions of Emmons, H. D. and W. B. Sogers, Mather, Sir W. Logan,
James Hall, E. Hitchcock, C. H. Hitchcock, Hager, and Wing
prove that the Taconic schists and limestones are in conformable
succession and of Silurian age. The stratigraphical structure of the
Taconic range is, indeed, so simple that all observers who have studied
it have described the schists and limestones as conformable ; and
numerous characteristic Silurian fossils have been found in both.
This view had been maintained by Dr. Sterry Hunt himself till
1878, when he first propounded his new interpretation of the strata
in question ; but the latter was not based on any fresh facia or ob
servations.
   The author's own observations on the subject, carried on during
many years, were detailed and illustrated by a map of the whole of
the Taconic range. In conclusion he pointed out that, even if Dr.
Sterry Hunt's general principle were conceded (and he was not. by
any means himself prepared to make such a concession), it would
have no bearing on the point at issue; for the supposed younger
strata do not dip against the Taconic schists. In opposition to the
view that the geological age of strata can be inferred from their
mineral characters, he pointed out what remarkably different rocks
have been produced by the metamorphism, in different degrees, of
the strata of the Taconic range.
   2. "On some Nodular Felsites in the Bala Group of North
Wales." By Prof. T. G. Bonney, M.A., F.R.S., Sec.G.S.
   These peculiar felsites are chiefly found in one or two localities
in the neighbourhood of Bettws-y-coed and of Conway. In the
former case, in the same mass are found ordinary compact felsite
exhibiting under the microscope fluidal structure, a peculiar rock
resembling a greenish schist, and various nodular felsites (with
cleavage) showing nodules sometimes 3 or 4 inches in diameter,
some being solid, others hollow or more or less filled with chal
cedony, chlorite, chalybite, &c. The nodules never exhibit a radial
structure ; and there is no difference of importance between their
structure and that of the ordinary rock. The author showed that
the schisty rock is only an amygdaloidal felsite, in which, after
cleavage, a secondary (micaceous ?) mineral has been deposited along
the cleavage-planes. As regards the nodular structure, he showed
that it is analogous to the spheroidal structure seen on a larger scale
in many igneous rocks, and on a smaller scale in perlite, and gave
reasons for its being frequently associated with vesicular cavities.
The infiltration of these cavities and consequent solidification was
almost certainly prior to the production of the cleavage-surfaces,
which arc distorted by them. The Conway felsites exhibit similar
phenomena, except that they are practically uncleaved.
   3. "On the Cambrian (Sedgw.) and Silurian Bocks of Scandi
navia." By J. E. Marr, Esq., B.A., F.G.S.
   The author has examined the following areas of Cambrian and

      On the Cambrian and Silurian Rocks of Scandinavia.           375
Silurian rocks in Scandinavia :—(1) Dalecarlia, (2) Ostrogothia and
Westrogothia, (3) Christiania, (4) Scania, (5) Baltic Isles. A sketch
of the stratigraphy of each of these regions was given, and the author
drew the following conclusions :—
     . fMudstones of Ramslsa and Bjersjolagaxd . . = Ludlow.
    § Cardiola beds ; Cyrlograptug and Retiolites
   'g -i Shales                                       =Wenlock.
   ¦g Lobiferus Shales; Upper part of Brachio-
        I pod beds                                    =May Hill.
         ' Lower part of Brachiopod beds              = Upper Bala.
           Trinnckus Shales ; Beyrichii Limestone . . = Middle Bala.
           Kiirgardo Shales ; Cystidean Limestone . . = Lower Bala.
                 &c.                &c.               =      &c.
   A correlation with the beds of Bohemia was also given. The author
pointed out that there is evidence of a physical break (varying in
amount), as well as of a palaeontological one, between the Cambrian
and Silurian of Scandinavia. Several of the beds of Scandinavia
admit of a very exact parallel with strata in the English Lake
district.
   The author considered that the fauna of these Scandinavian depo
sits affords evidence of migrations. This can be shown by observing
that the same forms occur in two beds of different age, but are
absent from an intermediate one ; or by tracing beds laterally, and
showing that the forms occur in an earlier deposit in one locality
than in another.
   The author considered the black shales deep-water deposits, and
accounted for their wide extent by supposing the material derived
directly from the decomposition of the felspar in metamorphic rocks,
and so in a very fine state of division. The deep-water fauna in
the Cambrian appears to have migrated from the south-west ; the
shallow-water forms, as might be expected, were more variable in
their direction of migration : examples were given in support of this
 view. In Silurian times the direction of migration appears to have
 changed, the dispersal taking place from Britain, owing probably to
 greater local upheaval thore. The coasHine also, instead of running
 in a W.N.W. and E.S.E. direction, seems to have run more W.S.W.
 to E.N.E., as shallow-water forms are common in Britain, but deep-
 water forms in the central Swedish area. The result of the author's
 investigations, as bearing on classification, is that there is a break
 in Scandinavia at the base of the equivalents of the May-Hill series,
 but no other break in the Cambrian series of Sedgwick of equal im
 portance—no break, physical or palaeontological, existing at the
 base of the Ceratopyge limestone (Tremadoc), where some authors
 have drawn a boundary.

                              [   376     ]
        XLVIII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
  ON THE DIMENSIONS OF A MAGNETIC POLE IN THE ELECTRO
      STATIC SYSTEM OF UNITS. BY PROF. J. D. EVERETT.
 A PAPER* by Clausius, dealing with Electrical and Magnetic
      Units has just reached me ; and 1 think I shall be doing good
service in laying before the readers of the Philosophical Magazine
the principal novelty which it contains.
   Electricians are familiar with the fact that a circuit with a cur
rent flowing in it is a species of magnet, and that the moment of
the magnet thus constituted is the product of the current by a cer
tain area.
   Hence the moment of a magnet must have the same dimensions
as a current multiplied by an area. That is, we must have
                  Pole x Length = Current x (Length)3;
or, more simply,
                       Pole = Current x Length.
This equation must be true in any consistent system of units.
   In the electrostatic system, the dimensions of Current (or
quantity of electricity divided by time) areMiL^T-2 (M deno
ting Mass, L Length, and T Time). Hence, by the above equation,
the dimensions of a Pole are        L$ T_s.
   This is substantially Clausius's reasoning, though I have for bre
vity somewhat altered its form ; and it appears to me unimpeach
able. Nevertheless the result differs (as the author points out)
from Maxwell's formula for the dimensions of a pole in the electro
static system, namely M^L^. This formula will be found in Max
well's ' Electricity aud Magnetism,' § 626, where the name " quan
tity of magnetism " is used instead of " strength of pole," or the
briefer name " pole." It will also be found in the Reprint of
Reports of the B.A. Committee on Electrical Standards, page UO ;
but in neither work have I been able to find an explicit statement
of the reasoning by which the result is obtained. Perhaps some
reader of the Philosophical Magazine can give the necessary expla
nation.
   In my own treatise on Unitst the question at issue is not raised,
as practically the dimensions of a magnetic pole do not enter into
electrostatic discussions.
   The dimensions of a pole, calculated in the ordinary way from
the mutual repulsion of two poles, are M^LsT-'; and from this,
by considering the force exerted by a current upon a pole, the
dimensions of Current in the electromagnetic system are found to
be M* L^ T~ '. The relation bet ween these two, it will be observed,
  * " Ueber die verschiedenen Maasssysteme zur Messung electrischer
und magnetischer Grossen," von II. Clausius. Vorgetragen 6. Marz 1882.
Separat-Abdruck aus den Verhandlungcn d?s naturhist.yereins der prcias.
Itheinlande, lid. xxxix. [A full translation of this paper will appear in
an early Number of this Magazine.—Ed.]
  t ' Units and Physical Constants ' (Macmillan : 1879).

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.               377
 fulfils the foregoing condition,
                        Pole = Current x Length.
 It appears to me that Clausius's result must be accepted as the
 correct one.
    Belfast, April 24, 1882.
               ON THE ELECTROLYSIS OF DISTILLED WATER.
                             BY D. TOMMASI.
    Several physicists have questioned the possibility of decompo
 sing chemically pure water by means of a galvanic current.
 According to M. Bourgoin*, water is not an electrolyte, the sub
 stance mixed with it to render it conductive is alone decomposed.
    The few experiments which I have made in regard to this sub
ject have proved to me the contrary—that is to say, that water can
be electrolyzed even by the current of a very feeble battery, pro
vided that, the calories liberated by the buttery are at least equal to
those absorbed by water in decomposing into its elements (about
69 calories). Those experiments are as follows :—
    (1) Into a TJ-tube filled with distilled water I introduce two pla
tinum electrodes connected with two Daniell elements. The dis
tance between the electrodes is about 2 centim. No visible effect
is produced, even after some time. The calories liberated by the
battery are nevertheless more than sufficient to effect the decompo
 sition of the water—in fact, 98>69. If, then, the water in this
case undergoes no decomposition, that is owing solely to the resist
ance opposed by it to the passage of the current, and not to insuffi
ciency of energy produced by the battery.
    (2) If in the preceding experiment the positive electrode be
replaced by a silver wire, this is what is observed :—After 18 hours
no appreciable alteration is noticed in the liquid ; but if, after
taking out the silver wire, a drop of hydrochloric acid be poured
into the branch in which it dipped, a very manifest white turbidity
makes its appearance, having all the characters of chloride of silver.
The hydrochloric acid does nothing more than precipitate the
minute quantity of oxide of silver which was dissolved in the dis
tilled water. Now silver does not decompose water at the ordi
nary temperature ; but, in order to produce oxidation, the water
must have been decomposed ; and consequently the distilled water
must have been passed through by the current. The electrodes in
this experiment were distant from each other about 7 centim. It
is evident, then, that, if the positive electrode is of silver, we can,
with the aid of two small Daniell elements, overcome the resistance
of a column of distilled water of 7 centim. length.
   (3) With three Daniell elements the efFect is much more marked.
After 15 minutes it can already be ascertained, with the aid of hy
drochloric acid, that the silver has begun to dissolve. At the end
of 18 hours all the curved portion of the tube is found covered
with a coat of oxide of silver, partly reduced by a secondary action.
        * Ann. de Chem. et de Phys. [4] xv. p. 47, and xxviii. p. 119.

 378           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
    (4) If, in the experiment I have just spoken of, six Bunsen ele
 ments be substituted for the Daniel] battery, the decomposition, as
might have been expected, takes place with much more intensity.
After 18 hours the quantity of oxide of silver, in part reduced,
found at the bottom of the tube is relatively considerable.
   (5) Gold employed as the positive electrode is not oxidized in the
presence of distilled water, even by the action of the current of
 eight Bunsen elements.
   Is silver, then, the only metal which possesses the property of
decomposing distilled water under the action of a galvanic current?
No, fortunately ; for it might be objected to me that, if water is
decomposed when silver serves for the positive electrode, it may be
due to this—that the oxide of silver, being soluble in water*,
always suffices to render the water sufficiently conductive to be
electrolyzed. This objection, however, would not be quite relevant ;
 for it would not account for the current passing at the commence
ment of the experiment, since at that moment the water contains
no foreign substance, and it is only after some time that the silver
begins to dissolve. Therefore it is not the oxidation of the silver
that permits the current to pass ; but it is the current that, by
decomposing the water, oxidizes the silver. It is true that, once
the water contains a little oxide of silver, its conductivity is in
creased, and consequently electrolysis can take place with more
facility ; but, I repeat, the oxidation of the silver is not the deter
mining cause of the decomposition of the water, but only the effect
of that decomposition. Be that as it may, here is an experiment
which will show positively that the solubility of the silver oxide
plays only a secondary part in the electrolysis of distilled water :—
   (6) The oxides and the hydrates of copper are completely inso
luble in distilled water; and hence they cannot in any way augment
the conductivity of the water. Now I have found that copper
possesses, like silver, the property of decomposing distilled water
when it is connected with the positive pole of a battery. The ex
periment is made as before ; that is to say, a platinum wire and a
copper wire are immersed in the two branches of a U-tube filled
with distilled water, the former joined to the negative, and the
latter to the positive pole of a battery composed of three Daniell
elements. The distance separating the two electrodes is about
4 centimetres. At the end of 18 hours, upon a length of about
2 centim. at the lower part a coat of reduced copper is found adhe
ring to the sides of the tube. A portion of the copper is deposited
on the platinum wire. The decomposition of the water in this case
can be explained only on the hypothesis that the copper employed
as the positive electrode tends to diminish the resistance of the
water, and consequently to render it more apt to be electrolyzed.
It is the same with silver employed as positive electrode.— CompUs
Rendus dt tAcademic des Sciences, April 5, 1882, pp. 948-951.
      • Oxide of silver dissolves in 3000 times its weight of water.

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.            379
                A LITTLE ILLUSION. BY J. PLATEAU.
   Permit me to describe an experiment which, at the first glance,
seems as if it must realize perpetual motion. Into a capsule of
sufficient dimensions let us pour distilled water till its depth is
about 1 centimetre. In this let us immerse one end of a glass tube
of small internal diameter, 1'5 millim. for instance, and from 8 to
9 centim. in length ; let us keep this tube in a suitably inclined
position, so that the water which will be caused to rise in it by
capillary action shall occupy a sufficiently large portion of its
length. Let us procure a second tube, having, say, an internal
diameter of 3 millim., and a length of some centimetres. Let us
draw out one end of this second tube, and bend back the drawn-out
thin portion so that it makes a more or less acute angle with the
wide part. Let us introduce the thin portion into the upper orifice
of the inclined tube till it reaches the water contained in this, and
give to the wide portion a vertically descending position ; this last
condition will be obtained by modifying either the above-mentioned
angle or the inclination of the other tube. Let us suppose that the
orifice of the vertical portion does not reach the liquid of the cap
sule ; lastly, let us imagine the thin portion and the vertical tube
both full of water. For greater clearness, I represent in section,
in the annexed figure, the upper part of the system.
    a 6 is the inclined tube, and c d the vertical. In consequence of
the narrowness of the space comprised between the slender portion
 and the inner surface of the tube a b, capillarity will maintain the
 water near the orifice a of the latter ; suppose that it stops at a.
 The lower extremity of the tube c d not reaching the liquid of the
 capsule, that tube with its slender portion will constitute a siphon
 of which the short branch dips in a liquid in equilibrium, while the
 long branch descends several centimetres lower than the surface of
 that liquid. Does it not seem, then, that the water must inces
 santly run through this siphon, to rejoin that in the capsule? Now,
 if that took place, it would evidently be perpetual motion.
    But, the impossibility of perpetual motion being demonstrated,
 I asked myself what would in reality take place under the above
 conditions. I therefore requested M. Van der Mensbrugghe to

380           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
perform the experiment, which he did according to my directions,
employing tubes having the above-assumed dimensions. I pass
over in silence the construction of the supports of the tubes, as
well as the little manipulations of the experiment : the reader who
has the curiosity to repeat it will find out those details for himself.
Now we verified that, instead of the water running away through
the tube cd, it reascends in this, and continues to be aspirated until
its free surface reaches a certain point in the slender portion, after
which every thing stops. Only, in order that the aspiration may
take place, the orifice of the tube c d must be several millimetres
above the liquid of the capsule ; if it is lower, the tube c d continues
full, the water remains suspended in it.
   A little reflection soon enabled me to understand the cause of
these apparently singular phenomena. The small surface which
terminates at a! the liquid between the two tubes is concave in the
transverse direction ; it therefore, in virtue of its curvature, exerts
suction upon the whole mass of liquid to which it belongs—that is
to say, upon the liquid of the tube a b and that of the tube c d, the
latter liquid communicating with the former by the slender tube.
In the tube a b this suction has the effect of keeping the water
raised up to a' ; and it is balanced by the action of gravity, which
action is measured by the difference of level between the surface at
a' and the water of the capsule. In order that it may be in like
manner balanced in the tube c d, it seems at first necessary that the
difference of level between the surface at a and the orifice of the
tube c d be equal to the preceding, which would require that orifice
to reach the water of the capsule ; and yet we have seen that equi
librium subsists even when the orifice in question is several milli
metres higher. But it is because, in consequence of a tendency to
absorption, the water presents at this orifice a slightly concave sur
face, which exerts a slight suction downwards ; and this, added to
the incomplete action of gravity, compensates the suction emana
ting from a'. For a greater distance of the orifice from the water
of the capsule, the suction at a' is in excess, the liquid is drawn
 upward in the tube cd; and this movement stops when the free
surface of the liquid has arrived, in the slender portion, at a point
where the suction due to its strong concave curvature makes equili
brium with that of a'*. Such is the simple explanation of the
observed effects ; and this little experiment offers a curious example
of the suction exerted by concave liquid surfaces ; it shows us,
besides, an equally curious exception to the usual action of siphons.
—Extrait des Bulletins de VAcad. roy. de Behjique, Jan. 1882.
    * In our experiment the vertical distance from a' to the liquid of the
 capsule was nearly 4 centim., and the least distance from the orifice of the
 tube cd to the same liquid, for which absorption was produced, was about
 5 milliiu.

                                                                                          Phil Mag S 5 Vol 13 PI VH
                                                       DIAGRAM N° I
                                                          May 6* 1881
                                Erpfi-untitt on 3 Ltad Ball* moluuL m Fluid Lttul
                                         Tho Lead
                                 ltote _ and       wao vary          during Erp"
                                                                hot during           43. JL 46
                                                                              Kjtp* 44
                                             gradually     odoImL
                                                                     N° 44.
                                                         Sp       of Ball
                                                              Or. of
                                                         neulht        do S3 10 88ox.
                                                     I'1 Sinking   iffeet     3. Z5oi
                                                     Sp Gr FUuA - 10 8' 80        55
                                                                           83 8 — 10 38
                N» 45                                                                                     N" 43.
    So Gr ofof Ball       II 07                                                               Sp  Gr. ofof Ball   10 7        1
l'r Weuihl        do 84.
     Siiilttng effeel         Oln
                           3.1n                                                               Wright        do 83.37n
                                                                                           ;"  Striking  effert
                                                                                           Sp Gr Fluids 10 83.37       5n
                                                                                                                7r 373.87     '
Sp Cr. Fuud - II 07-80 31 _ ,0 j                                                                                          ~ m„, U
                                                       DIACRAM Nf 1.
                                                         May I8H- 1881.
                                Experimmt on. 3 Tin Ball' mtlted in Fluid' Tin.
                        Sp Or ofBall
                         SioAuupofetftrl
                     /»'Weight:      do 56.1.266oi vx
                    Sp Gr Fluid - 7 185 ' 54 40 , „,
                                           5T66           1 03
                                                      DIAGRAM N?3.
                                                         Aug ;8<^ 1881
                                ErptrimtnL on 3' Purr Silver Ball immersed i i fluid Silver
                                                           N? 52. 10.068
                                                Sp       of -Ball
                                                    Or. of
                                                Wright        do 14 . SO cx
                                              I" Sinluna effect 4. I oz.
                                             Sp Gr Fluid - 10 OGSli 70. 7 . „ 5/
                                                                      74 . 8
                                                      Mintern Bros.lnh


Phil. Mag S . 5 .Vol . 13 . PI VHI.
                Fig. 7
                    Mintem Bros lrth


                Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol 13.P1.IX.
            v
    Fig. 2 .
MmLem Bros litji


     ¦BIG'S EXTRACT OF MEAT AND MALT WINE
                              (COLEMAN'S).
                 A Delicious Beverage and Tonic,
    )de from Port Wine, Liebig's Extract of Meat and Extract of Malt ; Nutri-
    | Strengthening, Stimulating, Flesh-forming, Health-restoring, Suitable for
    Robust in Health as well as the Invalid. Strongly recommended by the
    cal Faculty. An Immediate Benefit is experienced after taking it ; the
    le is Invigorated, and no ill effects follow.
    5BIG S EXTRACT OF MEAT AND MALT WINE (COLEMAN'S).
                               TESTIMONIALS.
    B,—A short time since I was induced by the novelty of the title to send for
    tale of your Liebig's Extract of Meat and Malt Wine. I was perfectly
    tinted with the value of the Extractum Carnis, and not quite a stranger to
    invigorating and fortifying properties of malt wine, and therefore felt a
    ral curiosity to test them when combined.
    »n who work hard as I do—not muscular hard work, but that which is quite
    lausting, viz. brain work—very often experience the need of. and have some-
    i an almost irresistible craving for, a "pick me up;" and very often the
    cea for a time for lassitude, and that state of mind which renders work
    me, are alcoholic stimulants, the use of which must sooner or later end
    trously.
    te man who can furnish a remedy, sure, certain, and harmless, for the lassi-
     which follows constant brain-work is a benefactor of his species, and may
    id to have added many years of usefulness to the lives of useful men.
    jur extract is a success, and, when more generally known, will be used by
    rilers of the mind.                              Yours faithfully, O. D. RAY.
    iorpe Hamlet, Norwich, Feb. 23, 1881.
                                                Queen's Crescent, Haverstock Hill,
                                                      London, March 6, 1881.
   bar Sib,—Some time since, being greatly fatigued with over-work and long
   s at business, my health (being naturally delicate) became very indifferent,
   it all energy, strength, and appetite, and was so weak as to be scarcely able
   •alk.
   s you are aware, I sent for a dozen of your Extract of Meat and Malt Wine,
   :h in a few days pulled me up marvellously. Three or four glasses of it daily
   ; quite altered and restored me to better health than ever, " without the assist-
   i of a doctor."
   »m now giving it to my son, twelve years of age, whom we have always
   ght consumptive, and from a puny ailing boy he seems to be fast growing
    a strong healthy lad.
   nclosed you have cheque. Please send me two dozen of the " Extract."
   h thanks for your prompt attention to my last.
                                  Yours truly, I am, Sir, GEORGE A. TYLER.
                                   Mineral Water Hospital, Bath, Sept. 22, 1881.
 Gentlemen,—Referring to yours respecting your Liebig's Extract cf Meat
 d Malt Wine, I have much pleasure in testifying to its excellent qualities. It
 highly nutritious, stimulating, and health-restoring.
 livery claim you make for it I can fully endorse, and I shall be pleased to
Commend it as an incomparable tonic.
                       I am, Gentlemen, yours faithfully, EDWD. J. VOYSEY.
Pints, 27.5. per dozen ; Quarts, 50s. per dozen. Carriage paid to any
tailway Station in Great Britain. Sample Bottle sent for 33 stamps.
                         P.O. Orders to be made payable to
               COLEMAN AND CO.,
                   MUSPOLE STREET, NORWICH.
                     CHEQDS CROSSED LONDON AND PROVINCIAL BANK.
,&H by all Druggist* and Patent Medicine Vendors m the United Kingdom, in
tttks, 2s. 9d. and As. Qd. each. Ask for Coleman's Liebig's Extract of
leat and Malt Wine, and " See that you get it."

              CONTENTS of N° 82.— Fifth Series.
    XXXVI. Physiological Perspective. B} W. Le Conte Steveju.
(Plate VIII. figs. 1-5.)                                               pap 309
    WW II. Vn Uljustable and Reversible Stei             scope. ByW.La
C'onte Stevens. (Plate VIII. figs. 6 & 7.)                                  822
    XXXVIII. On Pseudo-Carbons.             By C. F. Cross, B.Sc, and
K. .J. Bevan                                                                385
    XXXIX. On the Constitution of the Lines forming the Low-
Temperature Spectrum of Oxygen. By Piazzi Smith, Astronomer
Royal for Scotland                                                           330
    XL. Eegnault's Determination of the Specific Heat of Steam.          By
.1. Macfarlane Gray                                                          337
    XLI. Acoustical Observations.— IV. By Lord Rayleioh, F.R.S,
Professor of Experimental Physics in the University of Cambridge 340
   XLII. The Effect of Temperature on the Electrical Resistance of.
Mixtures of Sulphur and Carbon. By Shelford Bidwell, M.A., '"4
\,\.M                                                                        347
   XLI II. On a Separator and a Shunt for alternate Currents of High
Tension. By William Sfottiswoode, M.A., LL.D., President of
the Royal Society. (Plate IX.)                                               353
   XLIV. Note on Transformation. By Sir James Cockle, M.A.,
F.R.S., F.R.A.S., &c                                                         357
   XLV. On the Fluid Density of certain Metals. By W. Chandler
Roberts, F.R.S., and T. Wrightson, Memb. lnst.C.E. (Plate VII.) 360
   XLVI. Notices respecting New Books :—
      Prof. Brauns's Geology of the Environs of Tokio. —Messrs.
         Bphnside and Panion's Theory of Equations, with an Intro
         duction to the Theory of Binary Algebraic Forms. —The Rev.
         T. W. Webh's Celestial Objects for Common Telescopes 367.36ft
    XLVII. Proceedings of Learned Societies :—
      Geological Society                                                      389
   XLVLTI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
      On the Dimensions of a Magnetic Pole in the Electrostatic
         System of Units, by Prof. J. D. Everett                             376
      On the Electrolysis of Distilled Water, by D. Tommasi                   377
      A bttle Illusion, by J. Plateau                                         379
•»» It is requested that all Communications for this Work may b« address*),
       post-paid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office, E*4
        Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

Vol. 13.                          JUNE 1882.                                 No. 8
           Pul/lish/a the First Day of every Month.— Price 2s. &d.
                                    J 3 H 12-1 882
                                        THE
               .ONI
               LONDON,         EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
   PHILOSOPHICAL                                    MAGAZIF
                                         AND
                JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
      Being a Continuation of TilloclCs 'Philosophical Magazine,
        Nicholson s 'Journal,' and T/iomson's 'Annals of Philosophy.'
                                     CONDUCTED BY
          SIR ROBERT KANE, LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.A. F.C.S.
          SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, Knt. LL.D. F.RS. &c.
                                         AND
          WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
                             FIFTH           SERIFS.
                             N° 83.— JUNE 1882.
      A Supplement completing the present Volume will be published with
                           the regular Number for July.
                                d LONDON:
         PRINTED BY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS, BED LION COURT, FLEET STREET,
    Sold by Longmans, Green, Reader and Dyer; Kent and Co. ; Simpkin, Marshall and
      Co.; and Whittaker and Co. ;—and by A. and C. Black, and Thomas Clark, Edin
      burgh; Smith and Son, Glasgow :—Hodges, Foster and Co., Dublin: —Putnam,
      New Tork : —and Ashor and Co., Berlin.

                   UNIVERSITY OF LONDON.
                    Now ready, price 4s. (post-free, 4s. 7\d.).
                   THE CALENDAR for the YEAR 1882.
 Containing the Regulations for each Examination, the Examination Papers set
         during the past year, Lists of Graduates, and other information.
              Taylor and Francis, Publishers to the University,
                       Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                     TAYLOR'S SCIENTIFIC MEMOIRS.
   Part 0, containing the following important papers—M. Melloni on. the
Polarization of Ileat, C. F. Gauss on the General Theory of Terrestrial Mag
netism, W. Weber on the Bifilar Magnetometer, Dr. Schleidkn on Phyto-
geneeis, having been reprinted, a few complete Sets are now on sale, price £6 10*.
           Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                            Demy 8vo, cloth, price 15*.
                       THE SCIENTIFIC PAPERS OF
                                     THE LATE
             SIR CHARLES WHEATSTONE, D.OL, F.R.S., Sec
                  Published by the Physical Society of London.
           Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                              New Edition, price Is.
             TABLE OF CORRECTIONS FOR TEMPERATURE
to Reduce Observations to 32° Fahrenheit for Barometers, with Brass Scale*
         extending from the Cistern to the top of the Mercurial Column.
                       By JAMES GLAISHER, F.R.S.
           Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
           THE LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science.
  A Journal devoted to Physics, Astronomy, Mechanics, Chemistry, Mineralogy,
                 and the Allied Sciences. Monthly, price 2*. 6d.
   Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following prices :—
   A set of the First Series, from 1798 to 1826 (wanting a few plates), in 68
volumes. Price £15.
   The Second Series, from 1827 to 1832, in 1 1 volumes. Price £2 As.
   The Third Series, in 37 volumes, from 1832 to 1850.          „ £6.
            Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
   The Annals and Magazine of Natural History.
        Including Zoology, Botany, and Geology.—Monthly, price 2s. 6d.
   Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following prices :—
     The First Series, in 20 volumes, from 1838 to 1847- Price £\0.
     The Second Series, in 20 volumes, from 1848 to 1857- „ £10.
     The Third Series, in 20 volumes, from 1858 to 1867.         „ £12.
          Taylor aud Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                        [AD VERTISEMENTS continued on 3rd page of Co

                                    THE
           LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
   PHILOSOPHICAL                                MAGAZINE
                                    AND
        JOURNAL                    OF        SCIENCE.
                          [FIFTH SERIES.]
                             JUNE 1882.
   XLIX. On the different Systems of Measures for Electric
       and Magnetic Quantities. By Prof. R. Clausius*.
 FOR the measurement of electric and magnetic quantities,
         it is well known that two essentially different systems,
 usually called the electrostatic and the electromagnetic, are em
 ployed. Both reduce the determination of electric and mag
 netic quantities to the measurement of mass, length, and time;
 but in the manner of the reduction they differ from each other
 more considerably than is usually the case with other diffe
 rent systems of measures. While in the ordinary mechanical
 quantities (such as velocities, forces, and mechanical work)
 the different measuring-systems employed are distinguished
 from one another only by the so-called fundamental units, viz.
 the units of mass, length, and time, having different values, in
 the two above-mentioned systems applied to electricity and
 magnetism the formulae which serve for the determination of
 one and the same quantity are also different, since they con
 tain different powers of the fundamental units.
    The deduction of these formulae is systematically carried
 out with singular completeness in Clerk Maxwell's splendid
 work, 'A Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism,' Oxford,
 1873; and the high estimation in which Maxwell is justly held
 could not fail to cause his formula? not only to be accepted in
   * Translated from a separate impression, communicated by the Author,
 from the Verhcmdl. des naturhist. Vereins der preuss. Bheirxlande und West-
fcdens, vol. xxxix. (1882). Read at the meeting of the Niederrheiniache
Gesellschaft fur Natur- und Heilkunde, on the 6th March, 1882.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 83. June 1882.                   2G

382       Prof. E. Clausius on the (liferent Systems of
England as correct throughout, but also to be adopted un
altered in the works of writers belonging to other nations. In
regard to the latter, I will mention only Mascart and Joubert's
valuable Lemons sur V Electricity et le Magndtittne (Paris, 1882),
and Herwig's useful book, Physikalische Begriffe und absolute
Maasse (Leipzig, 1880).
   Nevertheless I think I can show that Maxwell has committed
an error in his development, by which several of his formulae
have been rendered incorrect. The correction of this mistake
appears to me to be especially necessary just now, since at the
present time the attention of wider circles than formerly is
directed to this subject by the decisions of the Congress of
Electricians at Paris upon the electrical units of measurement,
and hence an error remaining uncorrected might be mis
chievously disseminated and fixed. It also appears to me
that Maxwell's exposition of the subject (which is not all col
lected together in one passage of his book, but appears in
portions in different parts of it) presents some difficulty to the
understanding. Henco I think that a connected presentation
of the thing, as simple and distinct as possible, will not be
unwelcome.
§ 1. The Fundamental Units and thefirst General Equation of
                          each System.
   As already mentioned above, the units of mass, length, and
time are employed as fundamental units. After Maxwell, it
is usual to denote them by enclosing in square brackets
the letters which are generally employed to represent those
three kinds of quantity. Thus the unit of mass is [M], the
unit of length [L], and the unit of time [T].
    From these are immediately obtained the units of various
other quantities. That velocity with which a unit of length
is passed through in the unit of time is employed as the unit
of velocity; hence, for its representation, we have to divide the
unit of length by the unit of time, and we get the formula
[LT_I] . The unit offorce is that force which imparts the unit
of velocity to the unit of mass in the unit of time; hence we
obtain the formula which serves to represent it, if we divide
the product of the mass-unit and the velocity-unit by the time-
unit, whence arises [MLT_a] . The unit of mechanical tcork
is that work which is done by the force-unit along a path
equal to the length-unit ; and therefore, in order to represent
it, we need only to multiply the force-unit by the length-unit,
by which we get [ML2T_S].
   Now, for the measurement of electricity we must employ

           Measures for Electric and Magnetic Quantities.        383
 the forces exerted by it. These are of two essentially different
 kinds :—first, the forces independent of its motion, which
amounts of electricity always exert upon one another whether
 they are at rest or in motion; secondly, the forces arising only
through the motion. The former are named the electrostatic,
and the latter the electrodynamic forces. To the electrodynamic
we must reckon the magnetic forces, if we with Ampere derive
 the explanation of magnetism from small electric currents
taking place in the interior of the magnet. Now, of these two
forces, we can apply either the one or the other to the mea
surement of electricity; and thence arise those two systems
of measures, of which the former is called the electrostatic,
while the latter (as already said) is ordinarily named the elec
tromagnetic, but would be more rationally called the electrody
namic. In those cases in which it is self-evident that electrical
systems of measures are meant, one can, for convenience,
omit the prefix "electro," and, briefly, speak of static and
dynamic measuring-systems.
     In the electrostatic system the most important unit, which
 serves as the basis of all the others, is the unit of electricity.
This is determined by the following definition:— The unit of
electricity is that amount of electricity which exerts the unit of
force upon an equal amount of electricity at the unit of distance.
We can therefore put the unit of force equal to a fraction
having the square of the electricity-unit for its numerator and
the square of the length-unit for its denominator. We will
at the same time denote, with Maxwell, the electricity-unit by
enclosing the letter e in square brackets ; but, in order to ex
 press that the static electricity-unit is intended, we will provide
the e with the index s, so that the symbol will have the form
 [_«,]. The equation in question will then read:—
                           j^ = [MLT-'];
and from this follows
                           0,] = [M*L8T-']                       (1)
     In the electrodynamic system of measures, it would first
suggest itself, from what has been said above, to take as the
standard that force which, in addition to the static force, two
moved quantities of electricity exert upon each other in con
sequence of their motion. Respecting this force, however,
differences of opinion prevail, which make the choice of it as
the starting-point of the determinations inexpedient. On the
other hand, the forces exerted upon each other by closed elec
tric currents can be regarded as indubitably known. As,
                                 2G2

384          Prof. It. Clausius on the different Systems of
further, the little electric currents which, according to Ampere,
must be assumed to flow in the interior of a magnet are like
 wise closed, we have in magnetism to do with forces of the
 same kind, and hence we can also select as the standard the
 force exerted upon one another by two quantities of magne
 tism. This latter is the most convenient, because magnetic
 forces can be more simply expressed than the forces exerted
 between larger closed currents. Accordingly, in the electro-
 dynamic system the unit of magnetism is determined, in pre
 cise correspondence with the unit of electricity in the electro
 static system, by the following definition:— The unit of mag
 netism is that amount of magnetism which exerts upon an equal
amount of magnetism at the unit of distance the unit offorce.
    For the mathematical representation, we, again with Max
well, denote the unit of magnetism by a square-bracketed to;
but, in order to indicate that the unit in question is the
dynamic unit, we annex a d as index, so that the symbol has
the form [jnrf] ; and with this we form the equation
                          M = [MLT-],
whence results
                           [md] = [MiL*T-1]                              (2)
      § 2. The Relation between Electricity and Magnetism.
    By equations (1) and (2), for the static system the unit of
electricity, and for the dynamic system the unit of magnetism,
are determined. There is now the further question, How is
the unit of magnetism to be determined for the static system,
 and the unit of electricity for the dynamic? For this the
well-known proposition of Ampere respecting the substitution
 for a closed galvanic current of two magnetic surfaces, which
has also been adopted by Maxwell in its utmost generality
and irrespective of any particular system of measurement*, is
available.
    For the sake of simplicity, the current-curve may be sup
 posed plane, and the area of the plane figure inclosed by it
 assumed as the surface-unit. Besides the plane containing
this figure, let us now imagine a parallel plane placed at an
infinitesimal distance, and upon this a figure delimited con
gruent with the first figure and lying perpendicularly opposite
to it. Now let these two plane figures be uniformly covered
with equal quantities of north and south magnetism—that
   * See Maxwell's ' Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism,' vol. ii. part 3,
chapter iii.

         Measures for Electric and Magnetic Quantities.       385
which, if we imagine ourselves going with the current round
the figures, we have on the left hand with north, and the other
with south magnetism. The quantity of the magnetisms is
determined by the intensity of the current and the mutual
distance of the planes. Let the latter be denoted by e[L], in
which [L] , as always, signifies unit length, and e an infinite
simal numerical value. Then, if a current-unit be assumed as
the current-intensity, each of the two quantities of magnetism,
apart from the sign, is to be supposed equal to a unit of mag
netism divided by e. The pair of magnetic surfaces thus
formed can replace the current in regard to all the forces
exerted by it.
   To express this mathematically, we have to multiply the
intensity of the current by the area round which it flows, to
multiply the quantity of magnetism present on one of the sur
faces by the distance between the surfaces, and then to equate
the two products. Now the current-intensity is a current-
unit, which is a unit of electricity flowing through the cross
section in unit time, and which is therefore represented by
 [«T_I] ; and the area round which it flows is a unit of surface,
therefore [L2]. Accordingly the first product is [el/T-1].
Further, the quantity of magnetism coming into consideration
is -^J, and the distance between the surfaces e[L]; so that
the second product reads ^^e[L] or [mL].          We have con
sequently to form the following equation:—
from which results
                       w
                       W = [LT-]                               (3)
    This equation, which is only an expression of the relation
 established by Ampere between magnetism arid electric cur
 rents, must hold good for every system of measurement ; and
 hence we can form from it two special equations referable to
 the static and the dynamic systems respectively, namely:—
                               [LT-],                        (3a)
                       ^ = [I/n                              (8b)
    If we bring these two equations into connexion with the
 equations (1) and (2), for [e,] and [m<t], we thereby arrive

386       Prof. R. Clausius on the different Systems of
at the expressions for [inJ and \ei]. From (1) and (3 a) we
get by multiplication, on which [«,] vanishes,
                        [m,] = [M*L*T-2];                     (4)
and from (2) and (3b) is obtained by division, [wij vanishing,
                        |>,] = [M*Li]                         (5)
              § 3. Maxwell's Incorrect Equations.
   Instead of the relation between electricity and magnetism
deduced in the foregoing section from Ampere's proposition,
and expressed in equation (3), in the equations constructed
by Maxwell another relation between electricity and magne
tism is implicitly expressed ; for at page 240 of the second
volume of his work, under (1) and (3) are found the equa
tions
   Here [<?] signifies, as with us, the unit of electricity, and
[C] represents the unit of current. By [p] is understood the
unit of a quantity which he calls the electrokinetic moment
of a current, into the meaning of which, however, we need
not here enter, since he himself, further on, puts [p] = [m],
and therefore we can in the first of the above equations sub
stitute [m] for [jp]. If we then multiply the two equations
together, we obtain the equation
                        [em] = [ML2T-'].      .....          (6)
   This, according to Maxwell, holds good for every system of
measurement; hence in his developments it plays the same
part as equation (3) does in ours.
   The way in which he arrives at his equation rests upon his
bringing into calculation the force exerted by a current upon
a magnetic pole, in a similar manner to that in which we, in
deducing equations (1) and (2), have brought in the force
acting between two units of electricity, and between two units
of magnetism, respectively. The force, however, which a cur
rent exerts upon a magnetic pole is electrodynamic; and from
this it follows that an equation of which the deduction is based
upon this force can be regarded as valid only in the dynamic
system founded upon the electrodynamic forces, and not in
the static system based on the electrostatic forces.
   Indeed it is also manifest that Maxwell's equation (16) leads
to the same result in the dynamic system of measurement as

          Measures for Electric and Magnetic Quantities.     387
our equation (3), while in the static system it gives a different
result. If, namely, we put, first,
                        [«<%] = [ML5r1];
and divide this equation by (2), there comes
                        M-[M»L*],
which equation agrees with equation (5) above given.       But if
we put
                      [^m.] = [ML8T-1],
and divide this by (1), we get
                         [>.] = [M L],                       (7)
which is different from our equation (4), at which we arrived
by employing equation (3).
   By Maxwell's incorrect formula for the static magnetism-
unit the formulae of other units in the static system of mea
sures, dependent on the unit of magnetism, have been ren
dered also incorrect, in a not inexplicable manner.
             § 4. The Determination of other Units.
   The units of electricity and magnetism in both systems of
 measures having been determined, the units for the other
quantities also which occur in electric and magnetic investi
gations can now be easily deduced. Of these the most impor
tant only may here be mentioned.
    The unit of the intensity of a current results very simply
 from understanding by current-intensity the quantity of
 electricity flowing in unit time through a cross section.
 Hence wo only need here to divide the unit of electricity by
 the unit of time; and we thereby obtain, if t denotes intensity,
 the following equations relating to the two systems :—
                   M-f^=[M»LST-"],                            (8)
                   M»[f]-[M*L*T-]                             (9)
    The unit of electromotive force is most simply determined
 from the condition (which holds universally) that the product
 from the units of electromotive force, current-intensity, and
 time, or (what is the same) the product from the units of elec
 tromotive force and quantity of electricity, must be equal to
 the unit of mechanical work. From this, namely, we obtain,

388       Prof. R. Clausius on the different Systems of
if E denotes electromotive force, the equation
                       [Ee] = [MLsT~a];                     (10)
and if this equation be brought into the form '
and then applied successively to both systems, the following
equations are arrived at:—
                [EJ=IM^!1 = [M*L*T-'],                .  .  (11)
                [Ed]=^p=[MiL*T-a].                     .  . (12)
   The unit of resistance of conductors is defined as the resist
ance of a conductor in which the unit of electromotive force
generates a current of unit intensity. We have, therefore, in
order to deduce the formula for it, only to divide the unit of
electromotive force by the unit of current-intensity; and then
we get, if R denotes conductors' resistance:—
                   [R.] = -S = [L-T],                       (13)
                   [E*]=w=[LT"1]                            (14)
   Finally, the capacity of a conducting body may also be con
sidered, by which is to be understood the quantity of electri
city which the body can receive through the action of a unit
of electromotive force. Since according to this definition the
capacity of a body to which the unit of electromotive force
can convey a unit of electricity is to be considered the unit of
capacity, in order to construct the formula for the capacity-
unit we have to divide the electricity-unit by the unit of elec
tromotive force ; and from this we obtain, if C denotes capa-
                       [C.] = ^ = [L],         ....         (15)
                       ^=P7] = [L_,T2]-           •   •  •  (16>
   For the sake of clearness, the units which have been suc
cessively determined in the foregoing may here be tabu
lated:—

         Measures for Electric and Magnetic Quantities.      389
          Static Measure.                Dynamic Measure.
      [«J =[M*L*T-'],                [*] = [M»L*],
      W = [M*L5T-!I])                       = [M*L*T-'],
                                       ft] =[M*L*T-'J,
                                      [Erf] = [M*L-T-2J,
      [R.] = [L-T],                   M = [LT-'],
      [C.] = [L].                     [CJ = [L-P].
        § 5. Comparison of the Units of the two Systems.
   In the foregoing, in determining the static units the mea
surement based on the electrostatic force, and in determining
the dynamic units the measurement based on the electrodynamic
force, were employed. The formula? thus formed can there
fore only serve to express the relation in which the units of
each system stand to one another, but not to compare, as to
their quantity, a unit of one of the systems with the corre
sponding unit of the other. For this latter purpose the ratio
between the electrodynamic and the electrostatic force must
also be taken into account.
   In the static system the force between two quantities of
electricity is expressed simply by the product of the quantities
of electricity divided by the square of the distance ; while the
force between two quantities of magnetism has for its ex
pression in the static system the product of the quantities of
magnetism divided by the square of the distance and then
multiplied by a constant factor k, which determines the ratio
between the electrodynamic and the electrostatic force. In
the case of the quantities of electricity and magnetism con
sidered being assumed as units, the expressions of the two
forces are [e2L~2] and A[ni2L-2].
   Now, in order, first, to learn more precisely the nature of
the factor k, we will in the last expression, in accordance with
(3 a), put for [m,] the product [LT-1] . [es], by which it is
changed into &[L2T-2] . [e2L-2]. Now, as in this expression
the last factor [e2L-2] represents a force (viz. the unit of
force), and the whole expression is also to represent a force,
the product &[L2T-2] must be a pure numerical value, whence
it follows that k must be the reciprocal value of the square of
a velocity. Consequently, if we choose the symbol K for the
latter, we can write k= ^-2, by which, if at the same time we
put the formula [MLT~2], representing the force-unit, for

  390       Prof. R. Clausius on the different Systems of
  [ejL-2], we get the following expression for the force exerted
 by two static units of magnetism upon one another at unit
 distance :—
                           [^JP[MLT-'].
 The velocity denoted by K, which, so far as the measurements
 hitherto effected permit a judgment to be formed, agrees with
 the velocity of light in vacuo, is a quantity so important for
 electricity that it seems convenient to introduce a special
 name for it ; and I propose to call it, analogously to a name
 introduced by Andrews into the theory of heat, the critical
 velocity.
    Returning now to the consideration of the magnetic forces,
 according to the above the force exerted between two static
 units of magnetism at the unit of distance is equal to the frac
 tion          J of a unit of force. The force between two dy
 namic units of magnetism at unit distance is, on the contrary-,
 according to § 1, equal to a unit of force. Consequently the
                                            rL2T->l
 latter force is to the former as 1 to -—^—-, or as K2 to
 [L2T-3]. Since, then, the forces must at equal distances be
 as the products of the quantities of magnetism acting upon
 each other, and consequently in the present case as the square
 of the dynamic unit of magnetism to the square of the static
 unit of magnetism, these two squares must also be as KJ to
 [L2T-S], and the two units of magnetism themselves must
therefore be as K to [LT-1].
    In representing this result mathematically, we must not
denote the units of magnetism simply by [m,] and [mrf] ; for
these symbols represent the quantities of magnetism under
consideration (taken as units) on the hypothesis that the one
is measured with the aid of the electrostatic and the other with
the aid of the electrodynamic force. For a comparison of the
magnitudes of the two units, however, it is necessary that both
be measured by the same measure —and consequently that
either the dynamic unit be reduced to statio measure or the
static unit to dynamic measure. For these reduced values we
will introduce a special symbol. To indicate that a quantity
whose former symbol supposes dynamic measurement is mea
sured according to static measure we will prefix to that symbol
v. s., the initials of valor stations; and to indicate that a quan
tity whose former symbol supposes static measurement is
measured according to dynamio measure, we will prefix to that

          Measures for Electric and Magnetic Quantities.    391
symbol v. d., the initials of valor dynamicus. Thus, v. s. [mi]
denotes the value measured according to static measure of the
dynamic unit of magnetism, and v. d. [m,] the value mea
sured according to dynamic measure of the static unit of mag
netism.
   With the aid of these symbols we can now express the above
result as follows:—
                v^i/id] _ [mj]               K              .
                  O,] -v.d.[mj - [LI-1]"              '  *  KU)
   In accordance with this, and employing the before-given
formulae for [m,] and [mi], the following two pairs of equa
tions for the two systems of measurement can be formed:—
      [mf] = [M*L*T-a]j v.s. M-CM'LlT-'jK; . (18)
v.d. [m,] = [M*L*T-s]K-';          [«iJ = [M*L«T-*]. . . (19)
   From these equations corresponding equations for the units
of the other quantities can also be derived.
   As to the quantity e, we can put, in accordance with (3 a)
and (3 b),
         W-CmJCL-T],                 [«,]=[*<] [L-'T],
and hence also
   v. d. OJ =v. d. [«,] [L-'TJ, v. s. [eA] =v. s. [mj [IT'T].
By employing these values we obtain from the preceding
equations:—
      Y- 9- M _ M _ _ k_
         L«J "v-d. W~[LT-"J'                                (20)
             W«[M»LlT-]j v.s.[,J = [M*L*jK, . (21)
      v.d. [e,J = [M*L*T-I]K-1; [ej = [M*L*].             . (22)
   From these equations we get for i, conformably with (8)
and (9):—
      »• ly] _ _M _ _ g                                     /9ox
       ft] ~v.d.[ij -[LT-1]'                                W
          [ij = [M1 L« T-!] ;  v. s. [tj = [M* L* T-'lK, . (24)
   v.d. [tJ = [M*L*T-,]K-,; [tJ-[M*L*T-']. . (25)
   For E we get, from the equations for e in conjunction with
equations (11) and (12):—

          Prof. R. Clausius on the different Systems of
        [BJ = [M*L*T-1]; v.B.[BJ = [MiLiT-,]K-1, (27)
  v.d.[E.]-[M»L*T-,]K;            [EJ = [MiLlT-1].       .  (28)
   For R there result from the equations for E and i in con
junction with equations (13) and (14):—
           v.b.[RJ _      [RJ _ _ [L'T-2]                   m.
              [R«] ~v.d.[RJ              WT'      •  '   •
                 [BJ = [L-T] ;    v. s. [Rj = [LT"'] K~", (30)
           v.d. [Rs] = [L-'T]K3;        [RJ = [LT-'].    .  (31)
   Lastly, for C we get from the equations for e and E in con
junction with equations (15) and (16):—
           v-s. [CJ _     [CJ = _ K2_
              [CJ "— v.d.[OJ         [L2T-SJ' • ' • ' V*)
                [C.] = [L]; v.s.[Cd] = [L-"F]K2,        .   (33)
            v.d.[C,]=[L]K-a; [Crf] = [L-'T2]. .         .   (34)
   § 6. Maxwell's Statements respecting the Ratios between the
                   Static and Dynamic Units.
   On the ratios between the static and dynamic units, discussed
in the foregoing section, Maxwell expresses himself differently.
He gives, in his work on Electricity (vol. ii. p. 243), the fol
lowing table, in which I have merely taken leave to alter
the letters employed for the notation so as to make them agree
with our notation:—
  Number of Electrostatic Units in one Electromagnetic Unit.
                For e and i                      K,
                  „ m and E,                     i>
                  » 0                            K>,
                  " R                            K?
   Among these statements, that which refers to the magnetism
m directly contradicts our equation (17), since with Maxwell
K stands in the denominator, while in equation (17) K stands
in the numerator. The mistake made by Maxwell in this
statement is a consequence of the already mentioned oversight
made by him in the construction of the expression for the
electrostatic unit of magnetism.

          Measures for Electric and Magnetic Quantities.       393
   With respect to the rest of the statements, I think I must
make one remark upon their form. I cannot admit it to be
mathematically correct to say that the number of the electro
static units in an electromagnetic (or electrodynamic) unit is
equal to a velocity or to any power of a velocity. It is true
that Maxwell himself has, in another passage, somewhat
modified his manner of expression by adding the word " nume
rically " to the word " equal ; " but other authors, who have
followed him in treating of the units, have paid no particular
regard to this addition, but have simply retained the above
form, to which they have thereby given wide diffusion.
   A manner of expression of this sort permits it to be inferred
that formulae of different dimensions in respect of their quan
tity are compared with one another, which is inadmissible.
If one wishes to compare a static unit with the corresponding
dynamic unit with respect to quantity, one must, as we have
above done, express both in one and the same system of mea
 sures, and consequently either reduce the dynamic unit to
static measure or the static unit to dynamic measure. Thereby
 are obtained formulas of equal dimensions; and when these are
 compared with one another, it is found, not that the number
 of static units is equal to a velocity or to a power of a velocity,
 but that it is equal to the ratio of two velocities, or equal to a
power of that ratio.
    I believe that in investigations like that with which we are
here occupied, in which it is precisely the determination of
 the dimensions of the different kinds of quantities that is
 chiefly the question, it is essentially important that even the
 manner of expression in regard to the dimensions be abso
 lutely correct.
              § 7. The Practical System of Measures.
    In all that has been said hitherto the question has been only,
 how can the units relating to electricity and magnetism be
 represented by the fundamental units, namely the units of
 mass, length, and time ? The quantity which has been given
 to the fundamental units must now be discussed.
    Gauss and Weber, who introduced the electrodynamic
 system of measures, selected as the units of mass, length,
 and time the milligram, millimetre, and second ; while the
 British Association (who in the rest have adopted the system
 of Gauss and Weber) have, at the suggestion of Sir William
 Thomson, chosen the gram, centimetre, and second as units of
 mass, length, and time.
    Both systems of fundamental units, however, furnish elec
 trical units the magnitude of which is very different from the

394       Prof. R. Clausius on the different Systems of
magnitudes to be practically measured ; so that the latter can
only with the aid of very large or very small numerical values
be represented by those units. To avoid this inconvenience,
the British Association, and in connexion with it the Congress
of Electricians at Paris, have decided to multiply or divide the
electrical units resulting from Thomson's system of funda
mental units by certain (some of them very high) powers of
10, and thus to form units of practically suitable magnitude.
   For these latter, names borrowed from celebrated men spe
cially meritorious with respect to this branch of physics were
then chosen. Among the units we have above discussed, only
one is left without a name, and, indeed, just that which
forms the base of the dynamic system, namely the unit of
magnetism. Hence I would take leave to propose that for
it the name "weber" be introduced; for to Weber we are
indebted for singularly great advances in regard to elec
trical measurements, and he, in conjunction with Gauss, was
the founder of the electrodynamic system. Hence also, for
merly, one of the units, the unit of current-intensity, was
designated by his name. In the practical system now intro
duced, however, it turned out that the unit of current-intensity
which fits into this system differs from that designated by the
name of Weber in the proportion of 1 to 10; and as it was
feared that confusion might be produced by employing the
same name for the new unit, another name, ampere, was given
to it. Accordingly, if the name of Weber were not intro
duced for the unit of another kind of quantity, it would be
missing in the system of names, which would not be in keep
ing with justice. I therefore think I may reckon upon my
proposal meeting with general assent.
   The practical system of measures established by the Con
gress of Electricians, with the inclusion of the above-discussed
unit of magnetism, if the gram and the centimetre be, as is
usual, denoted by gr and cm and the second by s, can be
written as follows:—
             Weber          [md] =gri cmi s~ 1 . 108,
             Coulomb ... [ed] =gri cmi. 10"
             Ampere          [ij =grl cmi s-1 . 10-',
             Volt           [Ed]=gricmls-*A0*,
             Ohm           [Rrfl=cm«-l.108,
             Farad          [CJ =em~l **. 10"».

         Measures for Electric and Magnetic Quantities.      395
   § 8. The Practical System of Measures as a Simple System.
   In the foregoing form the practical system has the incon
venience that with every unit one must hear in mind the power
of 10 by which the general formula given in § 4 is to be mul
tiplied. Nevertheless, as the Committee of the British Asso
ciation has already remarked, by a suitable selection of the
fundamental units the practical can be made a simple system,
in which all the units can be represented merely by the for
mulae given in § 4. For this purpose 1 . lO-11^ must be taken
as the unit of mass, and 1 . 109cw or 1 . 107m as the unit of
length, while the time-unit remains 1 second.
    If the length 1 . 107/» be denoted by q to indicate that it is
equal to a quadrant of the meridian, and the mass 1 . 10~ugr
by p, the practical units can be written as follows:—
                 "Weber           [mj =pi ql a-',
                 Coulomb                =piq%,
                 Ampere                 —piqis~l,
                 Volt             [EJ =piqis->,
                 Ohm              [JRJ =qs~\
                 Farad            [Crf] =g-'s2.
    This manner of representing them has manifestly the advan
 tage of greater simplicity ; and at the same time it is further
 to be remarked that the units of other kinds of electric and
 magnetic quantity, not contained in the preceding table,
 assume a similar simple form when these fundamental units
 are employed; while if gr,cm, s be used, the formula of every
 new unit must be provided with a specially to be determined
 power of 10 as a factor, by which the distinctness and ready
 intelligibility of the formulas are impaired.
     The circumstance that, in order to obtain at once for elec
 tric units values agreeing to some extent with the quantities
 we have at other times to measure, and hence convenient for
  ns, so very small a unit of mass and so very large a unit of
 length must be employed, is to be regarded as a characteristic
 peculiarity of electricity, and hence cannot be avoided. In
  order, then, to facilitate the representation in investigations
  in which such very small and very large units occur, it is
  desirable to be able to state them briefly, not only by mathe
  matical symbols, but also in words ; and I would make a pro
  posal for that purpose.
     In the French system of weights and measures, as is well
  known, for each kind of quantity, starting from the funda

396          Prof. It. Clausius on the different Systems of
mental unit, the first three lower units resulting from divisions
by ten are named by prefixing the words deci, centi, and milli,
borrowed from the Latin, and the first four higher units,
resulting from multiplications by ten, by prefixing the words
deka, hekto, kilo, and myria, borrowed from the Greek. I
propose, then, to employ for naming the lower units arising
from further divisions by 10, and the higher units arising
from multiplications by ten, likewise Latin and Greek nume
rals, but ordinal numerals, which will specify the negative or
positive exponents of the powers of ten by which the funda
mental unit is to be multiplied; so that, for instance, with the
metre the fifth lower unit l.l0~5wi will be called a quinto-
metre, and the fifth higher unit 1 . 105/« a pemptometre, and cor-
respondently with the gram and other fundamental units*.
    According to this, we have to call the mass 1.10~"^r,
occurring in the above system, an undeeimogram, and the
length 1 . 10'm a hebdometre. The practical system of mea
sures is consequently characterized in its entirety by the
name the electrodynamic system of measures undeeimogram,
hebdometre, second. This name easily impresses itself in the
memory; and by it the aim of a more precise definition of the
system is more perfectly attained than by saying that it is the
electrodynamic system of measures gram, centimetre, second, in
which, however, each unit must be multipied by a specially to
be stated power of ten.
                       § 9. The Critical System.
    We have seen, in section 5, that, in the different kinds of
electric and magnetic quantity, the ratio of the dynamic unit
to the value of the static unit measured according to dynamic
measure, or, what comes to the same, the ratio of the value of
the dynamic unit measured according to static measure to the
 static unit, is always represented by a power of the ratio of
the critical velocity to the velocity-unit. It thence follows
that, if the fundamental units be chosen so that the velocity-
unit becomes equal to the critical velocity, then those ratios
become each equal to 1. A system of measures in which this
   * Only the higher unit resulting from multiplication by 106 makes a
little difficulty. As the sixth is cktoi in Greek, in accordance with the
above we should have, properly, to call the quantity 1 . Wm a hecto
metre. But in the French system of measures the prefix hekto is already
employed in another sense, namely as a contraction of (kotov, so that hek-
tometre signifies 100m; and we must therefore seek help from some other
source for the naming of 1 . 106. To that end we might, e. (/., deviating
somewhat from Greek usage, say hexometre, or even employ the prefix
mega, proposed for this order of quantity by the British Association, and
form the name megametre.

         Measures for Electric and Magnetic Quantities.      397
takes place will, as has been insisted by other authors, be
distinguished above the rest by simplicity. Such a one may
here, in conclusion, be discussed.
   First, as to the time-unit to be employed in the new system,
this can be selected at pleasure ; but, since all the systems
hitherto considered agree in haying a second as the unit of
time, there is no reason for choosing any other time-unit here,
and we therefore retain the second.
   By this determination of the time -unit the unit of length is
also determined, because as such that length must be taken
which a point endowed with the critical velocity would travel
in one second. This amounts to approximately 30 meridian-
quadrants, and is consequently about 30 times the unit of
length of the practical system of measures. We will denote
it by \.
   There still remains to be determined the unit of mass. This
has no influence upon the unit of velocity ; so that any value
whatever can be given to it without altering the unit of velo
city; hence it appears to me most expedient so to choose this
value that two of the most important electrical units, viz.
 those of quantity of electricity and intensity of current, take
 the same values in the new system of measures as in the prac
tical system. In the latter we have, according to the prece
 ding section, to put
and in the new system, if its unit of mass be denoted by /*,
 the following equations must hold :—
                 [e<J =fj\i ; and ft] =»
Now, if the latter values of [ed] and \i^\ are to agree with the
former, the products         and p^q* must be equal, and hence
also
                            fi\=pq,                         (35)
from which follows
                            *=P{                            (36)
    Hereby the determination of is reduced to the determina
 tion of X, and consequently to the determination of the critical
 velocity ; and from what has been said above respecting the
 approximate value of X, it results that fi is approximately
undecimogram or J duodecimogram—that is, a three billionth
of a gram.
   Phil. May. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 83. June 1882.         2H

 398            Mr. S. H. Freeman on the Question
    This system, in which the velocity-unit is equal to the cri
 tical velocity, may be called the critical system of measures ;
 and here the values corresponding to it of the electric and
 magnetic units may also be collected:—
                      = v. d. [mj =fi^\' s-1 = ^ weber,
                [e4] =v. d. [e,] = /**\*=l coulomb,
                [("rf]=v. d. [tj =/**X^«~' sb 1 ampere,
               [E,]=v.d. [E.]=^\*«-»=^volt;
               [BJ-y.d. [RJ=X«-=£ohm,
               [CJ =v. d. [CJ =X"'.s-= | farad.
    Although this critical system of measures is not suited for
 practical measurements, and especially for the preparation of
 standards, because the critical velocity is not yet known with
 sufficient precision, yet it may offer great conveniences in
 theoretic investigations, on account of the accordance between
 the values of the static and dynamic units.
 L. On the Question of Electrification by Evaporation. By S.
    H. Freeman, Fellow in Physics, Johns Hopkins University,
    Baltimore, Md*
 IT has been very commonly believed that evaporation is an
       important source of atmospheric electricity. So far as
 this belief has an experimental basis, it is to be found in the
 researches of Pouilletf and of Tait and Wanklyn}. In com
 parison with their work the experiments of Volta, Saussure,
 and others are of little value. As the result of an elaborate
 series of experimeuts, Pouillet came to the following conclu
sions:—
    I. Simple changes of state never give the least sign of elec
trification.
   * Communicated by the Author.
   t Annates de Chimie et de Physique, stir. 2, tome xxxv. p. 401, and xxxvi.
p. 4.
   \ Phil. Map. *er. 4. vol. xxiii. p. 41M,

                of Electrification by Evaporation.            399
   2. From solutions of alkaline solids the water evaporated
carries away a negative charge.
< 3. From solutions of gases, acids, or salts the water carries
off a positive charge.
   Tait and Wanklyn repeated Pouillet's experiments with a
more sensitive electrometer. They detected electrification
where Pouillet had failed to do so, e. g. in the evaporation of
distilled water ; and in some other cases the effects obtained
were totally different in kind and degree from those obtained
by Pouillet and earlier experimenters.
   In these experiments a few drops of liquid were dashed on
a red-hot platinum dish insulated and connected with an elec
trometer. So long as the spheroidal state continued, little or
no electrification was observed; but as soon as violent vapori
zation began, decided deflections were obtained. This fact
and other circumstances about the experiments indicate that
friction was the chief source of electrification, and make it
doubtful whether evaporation had any part in producing the
observed electrification. Tait and Wanklyn recognized the
fact that to friction was due a large part of the electrification
which they obtained. Still, in his lectures on Thunder
storms*, Professor Tait, speaking of atmospheric electricity,
says:—"In calm clear weather the atmospheric charge is
usually positive. This is very commonly attributed to evapo
ration of water ; and I see no reason to doubt that the pheno
mena are closely connected." After reading these lectures,
the writer of this article decided to investigate whether eva
poration alone and under normal conditions causes electrifica
tion, and whether such electrification, if any, is sufficient to
account for the phenomena of atmospheric electricity. In this
connexion it will be remembered that Faraday traced the elec
tricity, produced by the escape of steam or water from orifices,
to friction, and concluded it was not due to evaporation, nor
did it have any bearing on atmospheric electricity.
   The investigation was begun with the expectation, on the
part of the writer, of finding electrification ; Prof. Rowland,
to whom the author is much indebted, believed that no elec
trification would be found. In any case the subject seemed
important enough to warrant experiments, which were free
from the objections which hold against those already described.
At the very beginning of the investigation it was found that
at most the electrification due to evaporation would be ex
tremely small, and very great caution would be necessary to
eliminate various sources of error. Tho apparatus finally used
                   * ' Nature,' vol. xxiii. p. 340.
                                2H2

400            Mr. S. H. Freeman on the Question
consisted of an evaporating-disli, 19 centim. in diameter and
1 centim. deep, insulated, and connected with one pair of quad
rants of a Thomson's quadrant-electrometer. The other pair
of quadrants and the case of the electrometer were connected
with earth. The evaporating-dish was supported on a wire
frame suspended by silk threads. To prevent disturbances
due to electricity on neighbouring objects, particularly the
clothes of the observer, it was found necessary to enclose the
whole apparatus in a metallic aise. Openings were made in
this case, to facilitate evaporation and to permit the mirror of
the electrometer to be seen. The commutator was governed
by a silk thread passing through an opening in the case. In
the experiments the results of which are given in Table II.,
the evaporating-dish was of copper ; in the other cases it
was of tin. The liquids examined were alcohol, sulphuric
ether, water, and solutions of NaCl and of CuS04. The last
three were most carefully studied—water and NaCl because of
their importance in evaporation in nature, and CuS04 because
of the very large deflections which Taitand Wanklyn obtained
with it.
   The electrometer was about thirteen times as sensitive as
Prof. Tait's. Its deflections were reduced to absolute measure
by comparison with a Daniell's cell, the deflections produced
by which were observed before and after each series. The
capacity of the evaporating-dish and its connexions was found,
by comparison with Prof. Rowland's standard condenser, to
be 65 centim. nearly. The rate of evaporation was determined
by weighing the evaporating-dish and liquid before and after
each series. It was found impossible to eliminate every source
of electricity except evaporation, since deflections were always
obtained even with the evaporating-dish dry. In order to
correct for this, each series began and ended with two or more
observations of the deflections obtained by insulating for a
known time, usually five minutes, the dry evaporating-dish.
Between these observations, several similar observations with
the liquid evaporating were made.
   As the result of a Targe number of observations, in which
the evaporating-dish was insulated for five minutes,
Alcohol gave a potential
   from                       -0-04 to -0-09 that of a Daniell's
Cotton wet with alcohol \                                   [cell.
 ^ gave a potential from J +°'02 to -°'06
Sulphuric ether gave a 1                 „
   potential from       . j "<H>2 to -0-10

                of Electrification by Evaporation.                401
 (The sign indicates the charge apparently carried away by the
 vapour.)
    No correction has been made in the above figures for the
 deflections obtained with the dry dish. These were more vari
 able, but usually of the same sign as when a liquid was evapo
 rating, and of a magnitude not very different. Making this
 necessary correction,
Alcohol gave a potential j _0.024 to _0.065
                                                that of a Daniell's
 CpIPoSS}-0-028to-0-050                                         [cell.
Sfe£r 1-0-004 to-0-023
                                                     »        »
In the above observations the rate of evaporation was not
measured.
   The earlier observations on water and salt water gave deflec
tions about O'l that given by a Daniell's cell, the deflections
with the dry dish being nearly the same (see Table I.). Though
the dish was insulated for five minutes or more, the position
of the spot of light was read every thirty seconds. Far tho
greater part of the deflection was attained in the first minuto
or two ; and after five minutes scarcely any further deflection
could be discovered.
   The observations thus indicated that the small deflections
obtained were mainly due to leakage from electrified parts of
the apparatus. The sources of this leakage were carefully
investigated ; and three principal ones were discovered, viz.
the charged needle of the electrometer, the vulcanite posts
supporting the electrodes of the electrometer, and the glass
cup of the commutator. In the later experiments care was
taken to eliminate these sources of leakage as far as possible.
The connexions were so made that the electrodes and commu
tator were not touched for days before the experiments, and
the charge on the needle was not replenished within about
twenty-fours of the experiment. When these precautions
were taken the deflections became less than 0*01, and gene
rally less than 0-005 of a Daniell's cell (see Table II.).
   In contrast with these deflections, Tait and Wanklyn ob
tained, by dashing liquids on red-hot platinum, for
solution CuS04 a potential    + 300 times that of a Daniell's cell,
solution NaCl „          „     +120        „     „        „          ,
distilled water „        „     + 24        „     „        „           ,
alcohol            „     „     + 3         „     „         .,

402             Mr. S. H. Freeman on the Question
   In order to compare the deflections obtained by evaporation
with those obtained by friction, the experiments of Tait and
Wanklyn were repeated. It was impossible, however, to
measure the deflections obtained, since in almost every case,
as soon as the spheroidal state ceased, the spot of light went
beyond the limits of the scale.
   To show the sensitiveness of the apparatus to very slight
friction, it was so arranged that drops of liquid could fall upon
the evaporating-dish from an insulated conductor in metallic
connexion with it. A few drops of liquid falling three or four
centimetres were sufficient to give deflections of nearly the
size obtained from a Daniell's cell, and much larger than any
obtained in evaporation.
   In order to compare the results obtained with the pheno
mena of atmospheric electricity, the writer computed the
virtual depth of water which would be necessary to produce
one flash of lightning if the vapour in a thunder-cloud had
been electrified as indicated by the experiments. By virtual
depth is meant the depth of the layer of water over the whole
area of the cloud, were all its vapour condensed to the liquid
state.
   Let A = this depth in centimetres for a cloud of area A
           and height a,
        V and 0 = respectively the potential and capacity of
           the cloud,
        q — the charge per gramme of water ;
then
   But, from Sir Wm. Thomson's experiments, V=130<?*;
and by the ordinary formula for a condenser of horizontal
plates,
Now, in the experiments,
   let d = the deflection obtained by insulating for t minutes,
           and apparently due to evaporation,
       D = the deflection obtained from a Daniell's cell,
      W= weight, in grammes, of liquid evaporated in T
           minutes,
      v and c = potential and capacity of evaporating-dish and
           its connexions ;
           * Fapera on Electricity and Magnetism, p. 259.

                   of Electrification by Evaporation.                      403
then                                  vcT
                                                                             d
   But c"=65 centimetres, as stated above; and v =000374
                                                                            D
in electrostatic units, aocording to Sir William Thomson's
measurements*.         Then
                                        tWD
                               A=43
in terms of the original measurements in the experiments.
                                   Table I.
                 Showing Results of earlier Series.
                          Defleolion Deflection              D,
         Liquid.        with evapo with dry iu scale-i in scale- in minutes.
                           ration.      dish. divisions. divisions.
                            4-12        4-60     +0-48      4202
 Distilled water .          4-82        4-33    -049        4205
                            395         450     +0-55       41-55
                            2-48        233     -015        4200
                            <V70t       4-68    -202        41-75
 Solution NaCl .            347         440      +0-93      41-50
                            310         394      +0-84      42-20
                             T,            W.          A,       Sign of appa
         Liquid.         in minutes. in grammes.    in centi     rent charge
                                                    metres.       of vapour.
                              43           1-44       030
 Distilled water ,            43           049        210
                              37           0-54       237
                              41           0-80      1170
                              55           0-29         24
 Solution Na CI ,             54           0-48         85            +
                                           0-70       VM              +
   * Papers on Electricity and Magnetism, p. 245.
   t Throughout this series there was an instantaneous deflection at
breaking contact, which was several times larger than the total deflection
obtained during the Ave minutes' insulation. The series is therefore of
much less value than any of the others, in which the instantaneous deflec
tion was never more than 0-1 of a division,

404                Mr. S. H. Freeman on the Question
                                     Table II.
                     Showing Besults of later Series.
                                  Deflection Deflection         d,            D,
           Liquid.                   wlth 1 with            in scale-     in scale-
                                   ovapora- , , ^                        divisions.
                                       03          00        +0-30          37-6
                                       012         o-o       +0-60          376
                                       0-8         0-0       +0-20          37-6
 ISaturated solution CnSO,             0-0         042       +0-18          39-6
                                       0-5         0-21      +0-29          39-6
                                       01          0-21      -0-11          390
                                       0-3         0-21      +009           39-6
                                       0-0         0-35      -035           390
 ISaturated solution NnCl              0-2         0-12      +008           39-0
                                       0-4         0-35      +0-05          39-6
                                        1-6        III!      +1-00          37-6
   Hydrant water .                     1-45        or,       +0-85          37-6
                                       1-3         oo        +0-70          370
   Distilled water                     0-5         0-6       -010           39-6
   Cotton wet with hydrant 1            1-0        06G       +0-34          37-6
     water                  J
                                                                             Sign of
                                                T,       W,         A, apparent
             Liquid.                  in        in       in      in centi charge
                                  minutes. minutes. grammes. metres.            of
                                                                             vapour.
                              /         2      174      319         198         +
                                        2      174      3-19          99         +
                                      10       174      319        1482          +
   Saturated solution CuS04 •         10        38      0-9        2240          +
                                        5       38      09          695          +
                                !       5¦r>    38      0-9        1833
                              V                 38      0-9        2240          +
                                        (i      30      0-54        525          —
   Saturated solution NaCl      1       2       30      0-54        766          +
                                                30      0-54       3678          +
                                1     10        30      0-59        318          +
                                      10        30      0-59        373          +
                                      10        30      0-59        454          +
                                1       7       35      0-89       3031
   Cotton wet with hydrant 1 1        11        30»     059»       1029          +
      The actual value of A (the virtual depth of water) for a
  cloud 1500 metres thick, if condensation began at
                        35°C.,is about 5*9 centim.
                        30 „                 „ 4-5
                        25 „                 „ 3-4
                        20 „                 „ 2-6
                        15 „                 „ 1-9
     * In this case the rate of evaporation was not measured, but was
  assumed in computing A to be the same as for hydrant water at the same
  time. The rate was probably greater, which would make A still gteater.

                 of Electrification by Evaporation.           405
Hence, even if the deflections d of the tables be really due to
evaporation, and if evaporation be the principal source of the
atmospheric electricity, the quantity of water which would be
required to produce a single flash of lightning is very much
greater than the actual quantity ever found in a thunder
cloud, while the thunder-cloud usually gives, not one, but
many flashes.
   It may be objected to this reasoning that a thunder-cloud
in some way collects the electricity obtained by the evapora
tion of a much larger quantity of water than that contained
in itself. On this account it is of interest to consider the
total evaporation on the globe. If 100 centim. be taken as
the average annual rainfall for the whole surface of the earth,
and 400 centim. be taken as the value of A, the total annual
evaporation on the earth is sufficient to produce only about
14,000,000 flashes of lightning from clouds 9 square kilo
metres in extent. Hence, if one were able to observe every
flash of lightning which occurs within 18 kilometres of himself,
the average number of lightning-flashes seen by such obser
vers at different points of the earth's surface in one year would
be only twenty-eight. Calculation from more exact data would
give a less number. This calculation assumes that all the elec
tricity is discharged through lightning- flashes, whereas a very
large portion of the atmospheric electricity is discharged in
other ways—e. g. in the aurora borealis and other atmospheric
phenomena which are referred to electricity, and in quiet dis
charges which take place without any noticeable accompanying
phenomena.
   Evaporation is then, at most, a very insignificant source of
the atmospheric electricity. But, further, the following facts
are to be observed : —
    1. The deflections obtained in the experiments were always
very small. (In the original readings it was easy to make an
 error of 0"1 of a division ; and though the numbers in the tables
are the means of several observations, they are still affected by
 this error of reading.)
    2. The sign of the apparent charge is not always the same
 for the same liquid. This is particularly noticeable in the im
 portant case of water.
    3. The deflections were very much diminished when care
 was taken to eliminate very small sources of electricity. Still
 the deflections obtained with the evaporating-dish dry, are
 usually much larger than the difference between these and the
 deflections obtained when a liquid was evaporating.
    Evidently, then, most of the electrification was due to other
 causes than evaporation; and the experiments do not certainly

406         Prof. S. P. Thompson on the Function of
trace any electricity whatever to this source. The problem of
the source of the electricity of the atmosphere is still unsolved.
Evaporation, first proposed by Volta, whose theory until now
has been better supported by experiment than any other, fails
to account even for a small portion of it ; and no other source
has been proposed which can yet be considered sufficient.
LI. On the Function of the two Ears in the Perception of
  Sjmce. By Professor' Silvanus P. Thompson, D.Sc, B.A.
1. rTIHE conceptions formed in our minds of the exten-
     -L sion of space may be resolved into two parts:—(1)
the conception of distance independent of direction; (2) the
conception of direction independent of distance.
   These conceptions are founded upon the perceptions of three
separate senses, each of which, though distinct from the
others, enables us to form conceptions both of linear magni
tude (or distance) and of angular magnitude (or direction).
These three senses are:—
       (a) The muscular sense;
       (b) The optical sense;
       (c) The auditory sense.
    (a) The muscular sense gives us direct perceptions of linear
magnitude and of angular magnitude through the sensations
produced by extending the limbs and by twisting the frame
and head.
    (b) The optical sense gives us perceptions of angular direc
tion of two kinds:—the first of them depending upon the optical
formation of images of external objects upon the differentiated
nerve-structures of the retina of the eye ; the second of them
being partly optical, partly muscular, and derived from the
sense of muscular effort required to move the eye-balls, or the
whole head, into the position in which light from an object
situated in any given direction shall be most easily observed.
The optical perception of distance is of three kinds—one kind
being indirect and associative, the other two muscular. The
first of these depends upon the possession of two eyes, giving,
in consequence, two retinal pictures with slight differences,
which we gradually learn to associate with varying conditions
of distance. The second, and principal, of them depends also
upon the possession of two eyes, the greater or lesser amount
of muscular effort required to converge their optic axes in
viewing an object affording a basis for a mental estimate of
   * Communicated by the Author, having been read before Section D
of the British Association at York, September 1881.

             the two Ears in the Perception of Space.         407
distance. The third of them does not depend upon the pos
session of two eyes, or upon " binocular parallax," but con
sists in the perception by the muscular sense of the amount of
effort which the ciliary muscle must exert to focus the eye for
rays proceeding from an object at a given distance. The
author has elsewhere * shown how this last mode of perception
is complicated by the question of the colour of the rays
in consequence of the imperfect achromatization of the eye.
To these three a fourth, and purely associative, kind of
perception of distance must be added, in the apparent mag
nitude of objects of known size. Of these modes of per
ception, the two depending on binocular parallax are of
greatest importance; without them our optical conceptions of
solidity and distance would be extremely imperfect. The
theory of binocular vision was practically complete when the
invention of the stereoscope, and of its reductio ad absurdum
the pseudoscope, proved the general correctness of Wheat-
stone's views, though several corollaries to the theory have
since been elaborated by younger workers.
   (e) The auditory sense may in like manner afford us per
ceptions of linear and of angular magnitude—that is to say, of
distance and of direction. But the theory of the acoustical
perception of spaco is strangely incomplete. Just as the pos
session of two eyes gives us by binocular parallax the most
important of the optical means of perception of space, so the
Iossession of two ears is found, from the researches of Mach,
  iuca, Steinhauser, Graham Bell, and of the present writer,
to give us, by binaural parallax, important means for receiving
acoustical perceptions of space. Besides these binaural per
 ceptions, it is undeniable that imperfect monaural perceptions
 of space exist. These will be noticed in passing.
    2. Any comparison of the ear and eye in respect of their
power of affording perceptions of space would be incomplete
if three points of essential difference in the arrangements of
these organs were not adverted to:—
    (i) The ear has no lens, and nothing equivalent to a lens
by which a sound-wave proceeding in any given direction
could be focussed on the receptive mechanism. The pinna or
auricle of the ear and its auditory meatus do not oven serve,
as a hollow parabolic reflector might serve for light, to focus
rays coming in different directions on different points of the
receptive membrane.
    (ii) The receptivo nerve-structure of the ear is differentiated
in a wholly different manner from that of the eye, so that its
 different parts are not sensitive to different directions in the
                * Phi], Mag. July 1877, [6] vol. ir. p. 48.

  408         Prof. S. P. Thompson on the Function of
  movement of acoustic waves, but only to their difference in
 frequency.
      (iii) The ears cannot be turned toward different directions
  as the eyes can be, independently of the movements of the
  head, at least in man. There seems no reason, however, to
  doubt that the faculty of moving the pinnre of the ears is
  useful to animals in their perception of the direction of a
  sound. It is a matter of common knowledge that horses,
  asses, cats, and dogs do thus use their pinna? in ascertaining
  the direction of a sound. In these cases, however, it is
  doubtful whether there is any muscular sense of convergence
  to give (as with the eye) a perception of distance.
     3. There are four physical characteristics of waves of sound
 by which one sound is discriminated from another, viz.:—
     (i) Intensity, or loudness, depending upon extent or energy
 of the vibratory motions.
    (ii) Pitch, or frequency, depending upon the rapidity of
 the vibratory motions.
     (iii) Phase of the vibratory motions, as to whether moving
 backward or forward or at any other state.
     (iv) Quality, or timbre, depending upon the degree of com
 plexity of the vibratory motion.
    The third of these physical characteristics is one for which the
 single ear possesses no direct means of perception. The author
 of this paper discovered in 1877*, however, that in binaural
 audition a perception of difference of phase did exist ; and the
 same discovery was made independently in the succeeding
 December by Prof. Graham Bell and Sir "William Thomson.
 The existing theories of the acoustic perception of space, which
 will now bo examined, are founded upon the perceptions of
 these four physical characteristics.
    4. Theories of Steinliauser and of Graham Bell.—A very
 complete and careful theory of binaural audition was pub
 lished in 1877 by Prof. Anton Steinhauser f, who worked out
 on geometrical principles the laws which determine the rela
 tive intensity with which a sound will reach the two ears when
 starting from any given point of space. The intensities are
 equal in the two ears when the source of sound is in the
 median plane, and is a maximum when in front, a minimum
 when behind the head, since the ears are set angularly (so as
 to catch sounds from the front of the head) in planes which
determino, according to Steinhauser, the conditions of best
hearing. The formula deduced by Steinhauser is the follow-
   • Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1877, p. .37; Phil. Mug. [5] vol. iv. Oct. 1877,
p. 274.
   t Vienna, 1877 J Phil. Mag. [-6] vol. vii. pp. 181, 201.

             the two Ears in the Perception of Space.          409
ing:—Let/8 be the angle between the plane of the ear and the
line of sight, and « the angle which the line of sight makes
with the direction of the sound ; and let j, and i2 represent
the relative intensity with which the sound is heard in the two
ears ; then
                    tan a : tan /S : : ix — i3 : ix + is.
    The operation, therefore, of finding the direction of a sound
—say a lark singing high up in the air—will, according to
 Steinhauser, be as follows :—First, the head is rotated on its
 axis horizontally until the sound is equally loud in both ears;
 then the head is moved up and down until a maximum of
 loudness is discovered, when the lark will be found in the line
 of sight. Steinhauser's theory, it will be noted, takes into
 account no differences of phase, pitch, or quality, but of inten
 sity only; and it fails, as will be seen, to account for the fact
 that we have, without moving the head at all, a very fair per
 ception of the direction of sounds. It also presupposes (what
 the experiments of Crum Brown and M'Kendrick have pretty
 definitely shown to exist) that we possess a rotation-sense, a
 means of perception of angular movement in horizontal and
 meridional planes. Steinhauser devised an instrument, which
 he named the homophone, wherewith to test his theory. It
 consisted of a system of wooden tubes for bringing to the ears
  the sounds of two organ-pipes tuned to unison, whose respec
 tive intensities could be regulated by stopcocks. It was held
 by its inventor to confirm his theory.
    A similar theory has been implicitly adopted by Prof.
  Graham Bell, in the paper on Experiments relating to Bin
 aural Audition which he read before the American Association
 for the Advancement of Science in 1879 *. Grabam Bell
 investigated the matter with telephones connected to the ears,
 with some curious and valuable results. He also experimented
 on the degree of accuracy with which the ear can determine •
 the direction of a sound, and found it to be most accurately
 defined for those sounds the direction of which approximates
 to the axial line of the ears.
     5. Theories of A. M. Mayer and {provisionally) of S. P.
 Thompson.—A modification of the preceding theory was pro
  visionally adopted by the present writer in the earlier part of
  his researches. He had discovered that when two sounds
  agreeing in every respect, save in phase, are led to the ears, a
  singular phenomenon occurs, complete difference of phase
  producing an acoustical illusion as if the sound were localized
  in the back of the skull. He therefore suggested that differ-
           * American Journal of Otolojry, July lfc&O, )>. \W.

        410        Prof. S. P. Thompson on the Function of
        ence of phase, being thus recognizable, might assist the observer
        in rinding the true direction of a sound ; for when his gaze
        was directed in the precise direction, not only would the rela
        tive intensities be equal, but the phase would be identical, and
        the sensation would bo free from complication with the
       illusion.
           Prof. Alfred M. Mayer of the Stevens Institute, in the
        course of his acoustic researches, suggested an instrument
        which he called the topophone, the object of which is to ascer
        tain the direction of a source of sound, and which depends upon
        differences of phase and of intensity. An experiment of Zoch
        (seo Radau, Die Lekre vom Schall, p. 246) for comparing the
       relative phases of two simple unison-tones by means of Ktinig'*
       manometric flames, suggested to Mayer an instrument com
       posed of two resonators fixed at the ends of a T-shaped frame,
       and connected with manometric flames, whose objective vibra
       tions, as seen in a rotating mirror, would be synchronous when
       the phases and intensities of the sound-waves received in the
       two resonators were alike, or when the cross-arm on which
       they were fixed stood at right angles to tho direction of the
       sound. In another form of the instrument, the frame carrying
       the resonators was fixed by a kind of joke to the shoulders,
        the resonators being respectively connected by tubes to the
        two ears. Comparatively small angular movements of the
       head would then produce considerable differences of phase,
       rendering the perception of direction more narrowly accurate.
~~T        6. Theories of Mach and of Lord Rayleigh.—Prof. Mach,
       of Prague, advanced the theory {Archiv fur Ohrenheilkunde,
        1874) that the perception of direction of sound arose from the
       operation of the pinnae of the ears as resonators for the higher
       tones to be found in the compound sounds to which the ear is
       usually accustomed ; their action as resonators should be more
     . or less effective according to the position of the pinnae with
       respect to the direction of the sound-waves; and by thus rein
       forcing in different positions with unequal intensity, some one
       or more of the higher tones of a compound sound should affect
       the quality or timbre of the perceived sound, producing a dif
       ference between the sounds heard in tho two ears in ail posi
       tions, save when the source of sound lay in the median plane
       of the head. There should also, according to this theory,
       be a difference in the quality of the perceived sound (owing
       to the dissymmetry of tho upper and lower parts of the pinna)
       for sounds in the median plane according as they were above,
    f .below, or in the Jinn of sighjLj It will be convenient to
       consider along with the theory of Mach the somewhat similar
       theory of Lord Rayleigh*, propounded in 1876 before the
                          * Trails. Mus. Assoc. 1870.

              the two Ears in the Percept ion of Space.          411
Musical Association. Lord Rayleigh pointed out that, as the
size of the head bears a finite proportion to the size of sound
waves, there will bo no sharp shadows of sounds occurring at
the opposite side of the head to that at which a sound arrives,
but that diffraction of the sound-waves will take place, which,
in the case of complex sounds, will produce the result that the
partial tones of different pitch will arrive at the side of the
head opposite to that nearest the source of sound with very
different intensities. Thus, without making any assumption
as to the functions of the pinnsc as resonators, Lord Rayleigh's
theory agrees with that of Mach in attributing the acoustic
perception of direction to differences of quality or timbre
between the two ears, the brain drawing, from the slight dif
ferences of the tones received in the two ears, an unconscious
judgment based on empirical observation.
    7. One other theoty only will be mentioned, and this
only to be at once dismissed. It is the theory advanced by
Kiipper *, that sound-waves proceeding in different directions
affect different parts of the tympanum, and so give rise to dif
ferent sensations. This is physically untenable, because the
tympanum is not tho true receptive organ with differentiated
nerve-structures, but only a part of a mechanical device by
which the alternating compressions and rarefactions taking
place at the bottom of the tube of the ear are conveyed to the
true receptive organ in the labyrinth of the internal ear. It
is also untenable because, as Mach and Fischer have shown,
the outer ear cannot act as a true reflector except for waves
whose length is a small fraction of its own dimensions, which
is only true for sounds of such excessive shrillness as to be
out of the range of ordinary sounds. [The shrillest sound
audible in human ears is of wave-length 0"4 of an inch.] It
is, finally, untenable because, in fact, nothing is more difficult
than to tell the direction of sounds whose source is in the
median plane of the head—front, back, zenith, and nadir being
usually undistinguishable except for very well-known sounds.
    8. In order to test the rival theories of binaural hearing,
the author of this paper devised a little instrument, described
before the British Association (Section A) in 1879 under the
 name of the pseudophone f, which is for the ears what Wheat-
 stone's pseudoscope was for the eyes, an instrument for veri
 fying the laws of perception by means of the illusions which
 it produces. The pseudophone consists merely of a pair of
 adjustable flaps or reflectors which can be fitted to the ears,
 and which can be set at any desired angle to catch sounds
        * Archiv fur Ohrenheilkunde, n. F., Bd. ii. part •'>. p.
        t Phil. Mag. [5.1 vol. viii. 1870, p. 386.

  412        Prof. S. P. Thompson on the Function of
  from back, front, above, or below. By altering the position
  of the flaps, we alter the relative intensities of the two sounds
  as received in the ears; and this can be done without the
 blindfolded observer knowing how the flaps are set. If, for
 example, the flaps are set to catch sounds from behind, the
 observer will imagine that he is looking in the direction of the
 sound when he is looking in precisely the reverse direction.
 But when the simple tones of tuning-forks are used, the instru
 ment fails to gives satisfactory illusions, except for very shrill
 tones, when the experiments are made out of doors.
     9. The following criticisms on the rival theories and on
 some of the results of mathematical and experimental deduc
 tions therefrom will now be in place.
     (a) All the theories assume that we have a rotation-sense—
 that is to say, that when we turn round to face a sound, we
 are conscious how much (in angular measurement) we have
 turned round. Lord Kayleigh, in his experiments, kept the
 head still, and estimated the angular direction of the sound
 without turning the head. In this case association with pre
 vious perceptions of rotational movement must, however, be
 admitted as entering into the mental process of judging of
 angular position.
     (/;) The theory of Steinhauser leads to the mathematical
 deduction that perception of direction is the most exact for
 sounds situated in the plane of best hearing, or in the median
 plane and in front of the head. The experiments of Graham
 Bell, on the other hand, as well as those of Mach and of Lord
 Bayleigh, are conclusive that the perception of " the direction
 of a sound is more accurately denned as it approximates to
the axial line of the ears."
    (c) Steinhauser's theory and his fundamental formula given
 above in § 4 assume that the ratio between the tangents of
 the angles will be the same in our perception as the ratio
between the angles themselves. This is only true when both
are small, and when therefore the source of sound is nearly
in the median plane. Unfortunately for the theory, for very
small angles the perception ceases to be accurate, especially
for small angles near the median plane.
    (d) Steinhauser's theory assumes the pinnae to act as reflec
tors and funnels; he further assumes the magnitude of the
" effective surface " to be equal for sounds coming at all
angles, which is by no means proven or even probable.
    (e) It is a mathematical consequence of Steinhauser's
theorv, that if the plane of the effective surface of the pinna
makes an angle of less than 30° with the line of sight, a sound
will be heard louder when opposite one ear than when placed

             the two Ears in the Perception of Space.         413
at an equal distance in front of the head. With most people
this angle is less ; but most people, at any rate, prefer to face
the source of sound when listening.
   (/) It may be deduced from Steinhauser's theory that the
perception of direction should be more accurately defined in
those persons for whom the angle between the effective plane
of the pinna and the line of sight is as small as possible. If
this be so, persons whose ear-flaps stand off from their heads
at a considerable angle should be bad judges of the direction
of sounds, which is not, in general, the case. The behaviour
of animals in bringing forward the openings of the pinna?
when listening intently to a sound is contrary to this point.
If the deduction were true, women should be better judges of
the direction of sounds than men, as their pinnae usually are
less prominent. In the experiments of Graham Bell with
telephone-receivers when they were set at an angle with one
another, he was able to perceive the direction of sounds more
accurately than when the receivers were set parallel, the dif
ference between back and front being thus capable of discri
mination; but he does not state whether this discrimination
arose merely from difference in relative intensity or from dif
ference of quality.
   (g) If the theory of Steinhauser is true, the perception of
direction should be more accurate for sounds when their source
is far away than when it is near the head. If the theory of
 Lord Rayleigh and of Mach is true, the perception of direc
 tion should be more accurate for sounds whose source is
 nearer the head. The latter is shown by experiment to be
 true for all kinds of sounds.
    (A) The theory of Lord Rayleigh is supported by the
 experimental fact that the quality of sounds does, as a matter
 of fact, differ when they are heard in different directions.
 Compare, for example, the sound of a musically ticking clock
 placed in front of the head with the sound of the same clock
 when the head is turned in the opposite direction. To the
 writer the tick of a watch always sounds deeper in pitch when
 held in front of the head than when held opposite either ear,
 in each case at equal distances of about one foot away.
    (i) The theory of Lord Eayleigh also derives support from
 the following observation. To analyze a compound sound by
 ear, so as to say what partial tones are present, requires consi
 derable practice, and is even then not easy. But the presence
 or absence of partial tones is rendered much easier of detec
 tion if the head be turned about, so that their various degrees
 of intensity as affected by diffraction or by phase-difl'erenco
 may bring one or other into prominence.
    Phil. Mag. S. b. Vol. 13. No. 83. June                 21

414         Prof. S. P. Thompson on the Function of
   (j) The theories of Mach and Lord Rayleigh agree with
that of Steinhauser in one respect. They assign, it is true,
the perception of direction of a sound to the effect of resonance
or of diffraction in partially resolving a compound tone ; but
they make the perception of this splitting-up of the sound to
depend upon the unequal intensity with which the resolved
sounds are received in the two ears.
    (A-) The experiments of LordRayleigh show that our percep
tion of direction is much more accurate for compound sounds
than for simple tones.
    (/) The experiments of the writer with the pseudophone
 show that the acoustic illusions are produced much the most
 satisfactorily when shrill sounds, such as the sound of a whistle
 or the click of a metronome, are employed.
    (w») Experiments made with very low tones show that for
these the sense of direction is extremely inaccurate. In this
 case the extreme effect of diffraction would cause the sound
to be heard almost equally loudly by both ears in all posi
tions.
    10. It would therefore appear that Steinhauser's theory
 may be true for shrill and simple tones, and therefore true
 for the particular case of the lark. But for baser tones and
 for compound tones it cannot be regarded as true. For
 these the resolution-theories of Mach and Lord Rayleigh are
 much more nearly in accord with the facts of observation;
 though it probably yet remains to be determined whether the
 resolution of compound tones supposed in those theories be
 due, as Lord Rayleigh assumes, to diffraction round the
 head, or, as Mach assumes, to the pinna and its convolutions
 acting as resonating-cavities to reinforce certain of the partial
 tones of the compound sound. The former is the more pro
 bable in the opinion of the present writer; but it is not without
 its difficulties.
     If in binaural hearing the direction of sound were to
 be estimated only by the process of moving the head until the
 line of sight coincided with that of the sound, then Sfein-
 hauser's theory accounts best for the facts.
     If, however, the direction be estimated while the head is
 held immovable, then the resolution theories are certainly the
 more satisfactory.
     In view of the fact (as apparently shown by Graham Bell's
 experiments) that even in monaural audition there is a fair
 perception of the direction of sound, Steinhauser's theorv
 utterly fails to have any significance; while the theories of
 Mach and of Lord Rayleigh are amply sufficient for the
facts.

             the two Ears in the Perception of Space.             415
    11. The writer therefore propounds the following theory,
which he believes to cover all the facts observed up to the
present time.
    Judgments as to the direction of sounds are based, in general,
upon the sensations of different intensity in the two ears ; but the
perceived difference of intensity upon which a judgment is based
is not usually the difference in intensity of the lowest or funda
 mental tone of the compound sound (or " clang "), but upon the
difference in intensity of tlijs individual tone or tones of the clang
for which the intensity-difference has the greatest effective result
on the quality of the sound.
    It must be admitted that the acoustical perception of direc
 tion is, after all, not intuitive, but associative, just as the
 optical perception of direction is. The ear ha3 been trained
 from childhood to associate certain differences in the quality
 of sounds (arising from differences in the relative intensities
 of some of the partial tones that may be present) with definite
 directions ; and, relying on these associated experiences,
judgments are drawn concerning sensations of sound whoso
 direction is otherwise unknown. For sounds that are familiar
 a difference of quality as heard in one ear will at once suggest
 a direction. It is completely open to doubt whether a pure
 simple tone heard in one ear could suggest any direction
 at all.
    12. Acoustical Perception of Distance.—There remains for
 discussion the acoustical perception of distance.
    In the case of known sounds we doubtless judge chiefly of
 their distance by their relative loudness, the intensity decrea
 sing inversely as the square of the distance. The analogous
fact in optics is the perception of distance by the apparent
magnitude of objects familiar to the sight and of known
size.
    It might be possible indirectly, in the case of short dis
 tances, to judge of distance by " acoustic parallax "—that is to
 say, by the difference in the direction of the sound as perceived
 in the two ears. The quality of a compound sound also differs
 slightly with distance (independently of direction) ; and from
 this fact a judgment might be drawn. It must be held ex
tremely doubtful, however, whether any such judgments are
 actually made.
    13. Conclusion.—The foregoing arguments and deductions
 have been based upon observations made, so far as the author
 is aware, exclusively by and upon persons possessed of normal
 powers of hearing. Nevertheless the subject is of such a
 nature that its more obscure pointa would doubtless be greatly
                                   212

416     Function of the two Ears in the Perception of Space.
elucidated by observations made by and upon persons whose
hearing-power is abnormal. The author has had no opportu
nities of making such observations. He has heard of one case
of interest—that of a gentleman stone-deaf of one ear from
infancy, and in whom the acoustic perception of direction was
almost wholly wanting. Not only are experiments greatly
 wanted upon semi-deaf persons, but also upon blind per
 sons, who usually have the acoustic perception of direction
 abnormally acute. It would be still more desirable to have
 observations made on a blind person" deaf of one ear.
    It is also greatly to be desired that further experiments
 should be made to determine the exact function of the pinnae
 and of their complicated forms. The convolutions of the
 pinna? differ markedly in different persons, and such differ
 ences must have some effect on the perception of sound. ' The
 suggestion of Mach, that the convolutions have no direct
 acoustic function in man, but that they represent the corre
 sponding structures which in animals serve to direct the
 opening of the pinnas or to prevent them from being turned
 inside out, is probably true, and is in conformity with the doc
 trine of descent, which accounts for many other inherited but
 functionless appendages. Yet, if true, this does not affect the
 truth of the statement that the convolutions, though destitute
 of direct function, must still exercise some effect on the per
 ception of sound. In particular, it may be remarked that the
 outer cartilaginous rim of the ear curves forward at the upper
part of the pinna, as if to catch sounds proceeding from below
the observer and in front of him. Is it possible that this
arises by natural selection from the fact that, on level ground,
 sounds reach us more intensely from below, by reflexion from
 the ground ? And is it not also connected with the fact that
 persons who are partially deaf in both ears habitually throw
 the head a little backward, so as to raise their line of sight
 above the direction of the sound of the speaker's voice ?
    Whether the varieties of form of the pinna? eventually prove
 to be of little or no importance in the question, there is an
 ample field for observation for anatomists and physiologists in
 the problems of the acoustical perception of spaco ; and it is
 hoped that research in this department of physiological physics
 will be facilitated by the attempt now made to lay down the
 physical and experimental bearings of the question.

                                 [  417   ]
        LII. A 'Theorem on the Dissipation of Energy.
                          By S. H. BURBUKT*.
I THINK the following theorem has never received a
      formal proof.
   A material system being in motion, and there being dissi
pation of energy by friction or otherwise, external forces, F,
are applied to maintain certain of the velocities constant. If
under these circumstances the system ultimately acquires a
motion in which it might move were there no dissipation and
no external forces, then in such motion the energy dissipated
per unit of time is minimum, given the constant velocities.
   For let gi} q-2,--- g„ be the generalized coordinates defining
the position of the system; qlt qS) . . . qn the corresponding
velocities; plf i>.2, . . . p„ the corresponding generalized compo
nents of momentum.
   Let jy q2, . . . qr be the velocities which are maintained
constant by the application of the forces F.
   Then we have for each coordinate, by Lagrange's equations,
                   d£_d^ + dJJ = F _(IR
                   (It       dq    dq     q dq '
where T is the kinetic, U the potential energy, F? is the
generalized component of the external forces corresponding
to q, and H is Lord Eayleigh's dissipation function, namely
the energy dissipated per unit of time. The ultimate motion
is by hypothesis one in which the system might move were
there no dissipation and no forces F. That is ultimately, by
hypothesis,
                          d£_dT dU
                           dt    dq + dq ~°>
 and
 for each coordinate.
    Now let us suppose that in the infinitely small time dt, the
 given velocities qx . . . qT would be diminished by dissipation
 alone by the quantities q'l . . . q'r. Then, in order to maintain
 them constant, the forces F must in that same time dt produce
 in the system the velocities q\ . . . q'r. We may suppose the
 forces Fdt applied impulsively at the end of the interval of time
 dt to produce the velocities g,1 . . . q'r.
    Now a set of impulses applied to produce in the system the
 prescribed velocities q\ . . . q'r will generally produce at the
 same time other velocities </',.+ 1 ... q'„, the whole impulsive
 motion being, according to Thomson's theorem, determined
                    • Communicated by the Author.

418           A Theorem on the Dissipation of Energy.
by the condition that the kinetic energy of the system moving
with these velocities q'x.. .q'r.. . q'„, and no others, is mini
mum, given q\ . . . q'r. That is, if p\ . . . p'„ be the components
of momentum corresponding to q i . . . q'„, Sp'q' is minimum,
given q\ . . . tfT. The solution of which is
                        2/r+1 = 0.../n=0.
   But p\ . . ,p'„ being the components of momentum produced
impulsively by the force Fdt, each component of momentum
is equal to the corresponding component of force. That is,
for each coordinate
                              p' = Fqdt.
But, as we have seen,
therefore
Therefore, since p'r+i=0 &c, p'„=0,
                         dJl    q    rfH q
                        dqr+\~ "'dq„~
And therefore H is minimum, given qx . . . qT.
   As an example of the theorem we may consider the distri
bution of an electric current in multiple arc. Let a set of
wires, OCjP, OC2P, . . . OC„P, be joined at 0 and P, and a
constant current be maintained outside the junction at O.
Let qi . . . qn denote the currents in the several wires, pi..-pn
the corresponding components of electrokinetic momentum.
Then the current at 0 is "Zq, and is to be maintained constant
notwithstanding the resistance of the wires.
   Let q\ . . . q'„ be the diminutions of the several currents
which would be caused by resistance in the infinitely small
time dt. Then 2</' is the diminution of the current at 0 due
to resistance in time dt. In order to maintain %q constant,
we may suppose an impulsive electromotive force applied at 0
at the end of the interval dt to produce the current Sj'.
   The distribution among the wires of this current Xq', at the
instant of its creation, for however short a time such distribu
tion may continue, is determined by the laws of induction,
and will, by Thomson's theorem, be such as to make the elec
trokinetic energy of the impulsive currents minimum, given Sy'.
That is, if pi be the component of electrokinetic momentum
corresponding to q, 1.p'q' is minimum, given 2j'. That is,
                      1y{-p'2 = ....=p'n.
But if E be the component of electromotive force correspond

              On Retardation of Chemical Action.             419
ing to any wire,
and therefore
                         E1=E2=...=E„.
Now for each wire
                           dt
where R is the resistance in the wire. Ultimately, when the
motion becomes steady, which it does generally in a very short
time,
                             dt   u'
and therefore
                       E = Ry.
But
                      E1=E3=. , . =E„;
therefore
                    Rij1 = R293 = ... = Rn5'n;
and therefore 2Rqt) or the heat generated in the wires per unit
of time, is minimum, given Sy.
   This is the distribution according to Ohm's law, which thus
appears as an analytical consequence of Thomson's theorem.
           LIU. On Retardation of Chemical Action.
           By John J. Hood, B.Sc, Assoc. R.S.M.*
IN two former papers published in this Journalf I have
      given the results of a series of experiments on the rate of
oxidation of ferrous sulphate by potassic chlorate, and showed
that the course of the reaction for equivalent quantities of
the substances is represented by the equation y(a + i) = b;
the variables being the amount of unoxidized iron expressed
in cubic centimetres of a solution of potassic permanganate,
and time elapsed from a fixed point in the reaction. This
equation is established on the supposition that the products
formed have no influence on the rate at which the oxidation
goes on ; but when an experiment was continued for a com
paratively long period, or till about 80 per cent, and upwards
 of the oxidation had taken place, a small and ever increasing
 difference was apparent between the calculated and observed
 variables, indicating a retardation which was due, without
 doubt, to the products of the reaction.
    The present paper contains the results of a series of experi
ments made to investigate this retarding effect, in a general
                * Communicated by the Author.
                t Phil. Mag. [5] vi. p. 371; viii. p. 121.

420              Mr. J. J. Hood on Retardation
way, by employing such salts as could not influence the oxi
dation of the iron by any process of double decomposition.
   A solution (about 8 litres) of ferrous sulphate and hydric
sulphate was prepared from pure materials and preserved in a
large glass jar, arranged in such a way that any required
quantity of the solution could be siphoned off, while an atmo
sphere of coal-gas was always maintained inside the jar. This
solution contained in 100 cubic centim.
                   3*1416 grams ferrous iron,
                    •038 gram ferric iron,
                  11*84 grams free hydric sulphate.
 The solution of potassic chlorate contained in 100 cubic centim.
 1*933 gram, 10 cubic centim. being the amount required
to oxidize the iron in 16*86 cubic centim. of the ferrous
sulphate solution. The method of performing the experi
ments was the same as has been already described in my
former papers.
    Each experimental solution consisted of 16*86 cubic cen
 tim. of the iron solution or *5296 gram Fe", and 1*996 gram
free H2 S04, together with the requisite amount of the salt
whose retarding effect was to be determined, the total volume
being made up to 250 cubic centim. with distilled water.
    The salts employed were purified from all traces of iron and
 chlorides, dissolved in distilled water, and the strengths of the
 solutions determined by double estimations of base and acid.
    The flasks containing the experimental solutions were placed
 in a water-bath, usually six at one time, 10 cubic centim. of
 the chlorate solution run into each, and the amount of oxida
tion that had taken place after the lapse of various intervals
 of time determined by permanganate. From two observa
 tions of the amount of unoxidized iron and time, the constants
 in the equation y{a + 1) = b were calculated, three minutes after
the addition of the chlorate being taken in every case as the
point t = 0.
    As b in the above equation is inversely proportional to the
rate of change, or
                           dJ - _ vl,
                           dt~       b
by a comparison of its values for a series of experiments, in
which other conditions being the same except the amount or
kind of salt added, with its value for a blank experiment, or
that in which no retarding agent is present, a measure of the
effect is obtained; these ratios multiplied by 100 are given in
Table II.
    To determine the equation for the blank as accurately as
possible, twenty-four experiments were made, in four batches

                              of Chemical Action.                             421
of six each, at various times during the course of the work,
which lasted about two weeks, the first batch at the commence
ment and the fourth at the finish. The mean values obtained
were:—
                           a.                  b.
                       113-8                1113-81
                       112-9                1112-5 )¦ temp. 21° C,
                       112-4                1110-8 f
                       113-0                1115-7.,
       Means           113-02               1113-2
or the equation for the blank experiment,
                           2/(113-02 + 0 = 1113-2.
   The following Table contains the mean values for these same
constants from two and, in some cases, four experiments, and
the weight (calculated as anhydrous) of the various salts pre
sent in each:—
                         Table I. Temp. 21° C.
      Weight           K2S04.               Na,SO,.           (NH4)aS04.
      of Bait.
                     a.          b.                 A.         a.
     2 grams .     134-5      1340       134-8    1343       134-3     1345
     3 „ .         1455       1456       146-5    1464       147       1473-7
     4 „ ¦         1590       1592-7     159-5    1595-5     161-5     1618-4
     5 „           1705       1708       167-7    1691       171-2     1725
     0 .. .        185-3      1800-4     184-3    1853-7     184-9     1850
     8 „ .         214        2180-5     210-8    2120-3     212      2150-7
    10 „ .         243-1      2408-6     233-5    2365                2381-3
      Weight                KAKSO,,),.                 (NH4)A1(S04)2.
       of salt.
                        a.
     2 grams..        126-6           1249-3         127-8         1244
                      133-3           1315-4         1334          13100
     4                1400            1387-6         139-7         1384-5
     5    „     ..    144-8           1442-5         145-5         1444-5
     0    „     ..    154-7           1537-5         154           1529-4
     8    „     ..    163-7           1627-8         100-9         1008-8
    10    „     ..    173-4           1727-5         171-7         1704-5
       Weight                 MgSO,.                       ZnSO,. ;
       of salt.
     2 grams .        128-5           1278-5         123-8          1225-6
     3 „ •            139-1           1375-4         129-8          1280-3
     4 „ .            144             1429-5         131-5          1308
     5 „ .            149-5           1492-2         138            1309-5
     6 „ .            156             1569-4         141-0          1414-3
     8 „ .            168             16801          147            1477
    10 „ .            179-2           1793-5                        1540-3

422                   On Retardation of Chemical Action.
   Taking the value of b, or lllS^, for the blank experiment
as equal to 100, and expressing the corresponding values of
this quantity contained in the above Table in terms of it, the
numbers contained in the following Table are obtained ; they,
in point of fact, represent the number of minutes required to
oxidize the iron in each solution from y' to y", the time
required to perform the same amount of oxidation in the blank
experiment being 100 minutes.
                                       Table II.
                          K.SO,.                 Na,SOv              (NH^SCV
       Weight
        of salt.      1004' Retarda           1004' Retarda        1004' Retarda
                        4 ' tion      for
                                 1 gram.        b ' tion   for
                                                     1 gram.         h ' tion      for
                                                                             1 gram.
                    |
      2 grams . . . 120-3          101         1206    103          120-8       10-4
                       130-8       10-2        131-5   10-5         132-4       10-8
                       143-1       10-8        143-3   10-8         145-3       11-3
     1 :: ::: 153-4                10-7        151-9   10-4         154-9       10-9
      6                1671        11-2        166-5   111          166-2       11-0
      8                195-8       11-9        190-5   11-3         193-2       11-6
    10 „ ... 221-7                 122        212-4     11-2        213-9       11-4
                              KAKSCg,.                     (NHJAlfSOJ,.
        Weight                          Retarda                           Retarda
        of salt.         1004'                           1004'
                            4 '          tion for           4 '           tion for
                                         1 gram.                          1 gram.
      2 gramB . . .       112-2             6-1           111-8              5-9
      3 „ ...             118-1             60            118-3              6-1
      4                   124-7             62            124-4              6-1
      5 „ ...             129-6             5-9           129-7              5-9
      o „ ...             1381              6-3           137-4              6-2
      8                   146-2             5-8           144-5              6-6
     10 „ ...             155-2             5-5           1531               6-3
                                 MgS04.                           ZnSOr
        Weight                           Retarda          1004'           Retarda
         cf salt.         100*'
                            4 "          tion for           "4, -          tion for
                                          1 gram.                         1 gram.
       2 grams...         114-9              7-4           110-1              50
       3 „ ...            123-6              7-8          115                 50
       4                  128-4              7-1           117-5              4-4
       5 „ ...            134                6-8           12:5               4-6
       «                  140-9              6-8           127               4-5
       8                   150-9             6-4           132-7             41
     10                   161-1              6-1           138-4              3-8
    From the numbers contained in Table II., it will be seen
 that the retardation in the rate of oxidation of ferrous sulphate

     On the supposed Helical Path of the Electric Current.    423
by potassic chlorate is proportional to the weight of the che
mically inactive salt present, and that the amount of this
retardation is the same for equal weights of those salts which
more or less resemble each other constitutionally. This is
seen to hold for the sulphates of the alkaline metals and am
monium, and also for the two alums; but in the case of the
sulphates of zinc and magnesium the difference in their effects
is too considerable to permit of their being classed together,
in a dynamical sense, however much thev may resemble each
other statically. The fact that equal weights of the alkaline
sulphates or the alums produce equal effects, shows that the
retardation produced by a single molecule of those salts which
belong to the same group is proportional to its weight.
   Mills and Walton have shown* that, in the formation of
ammonia by the action of zinc amalgam on potassic nitrate,
the presence of sodic or potassic sulphate produces an accele
ration in the reaction, and that equal weights of the two salts
have, as nearly as possible, equal working effects.
    My best thanks are due to Dr. Frankland, in whose labora
tory the above experiments were made.
 LIV. Note on the supposed Helical Path of the Electric Cur
   rent in longitudinally Magnetized Conductors. By J. A.
   EwiNG, B.Sc, F.R.S.E., Professor of Mechanical Engineer
   ing in the University of Tokio, Japan].
IN a paper entitled " Molecular Magnetism," read before
      the Royal Society on May 19, Prof. Hughes describes
experiments which have led him to the conclusion " that the
path of an electric current through an iron or steel wire is that
of a spiral." Prof. Hughes mentions that the wires experi
mented on were never entirely free from longitudinal magne
tization to begin with, and that when they were further mag
netized the effects observed, which formed the ground of the
conclusion just quoted, were greatly increased. It may fairly
be assumed that these effects wero in all cases due to the pre
sence of longitudinal magnetism in the wires.
   The object of this note is to point out that the experimental
results obtained by Prof. Hughes admit of another interpre
tation than that which he has given them, and at the same
time to suggest a method of determining whether there is, or
is not, any such helical quality in the path of the current as he
has inferred.
                   * Proc. Roy. Soc. 1879.
                   t Communicated by the Author.

424     Prof. J . A. Ewing on the supposed Helical Path of the
   In Prof. Hughes's experiments, magnetized iron or steel
wire was placed inside and along the axis of a coil which was
in circuit with a telephone. The coil could be turned about
an axis perpendicular to the wire. By means of the tele
phone it was observed that, even when the wire was normal
to the plane of the coil, a series of currents were induced in
the coil when an intermittent current was made to pass along
the wire. By turning the plane of the coil round through a
certain angle, silence was restored in the telephone. This
result would, of course, be consistent with the hypothesis that
the path of the current in the wire is not rectilinear but
helical.
   But it is clear that the same inductive effects woultl be
given by changes in the longitudinal magnetization of the
wire accompanying the changes in the transmitted current.
   Weber's theory of magnetization, which assumes that the
molecules of iron or steel are always magnets, and that mag
netization consists in bringing their axes into more or less
complete parallelism, implies that if magnetization exists in
one direction, then any supplementary magnetization at right
angles to that must produce a diminution of the first. The
degree to which the second magnetization affects the first will
depend on the nearness of the latter to its limiting value. If
it approaches that closely, then the second magnetization will
take place wholly at the expense of the first. Hence, when a
curront traverses a longitudinally magnetized wire, the cir
cular magnetization caused by the current must reduce the
original longitudinal magnetization. The first passage of the
current will produce a relatively large effect; and subsequent
interruptions and renewals of it will cause fluctuations in the
value of the magnetic moment, whose external inductions will
be precisely the same as if the path of the traversing current
were a helix.
   The experiments of Prof. Hughes agree with this deduction
from Weber's theory. A current entering at the nominal
N. pole gave an inductive effect corresponding to a right-
handed spiral ; entering at the S. pole, it gave an effect cor
responding to a left-handed spiral. Hence the inductions
were in both cases of the kind which would be produced by a
diminution of the original magnetization of the wire.
   A second experiment consisted in passing a steady current
through the wire from N. to S., and superposing on it an
intermittent current. The inductive effects were then such
as would correspond to a right-handed spiral, both when the
direction of the intermittent current was the same as that of
the steady one and when their directions were opposite. From

  Electric Current in longitudinally Magnetized Conductors. 425
the point of view now suggested we have, in the first case, a
further diminution of longitudinal magnetization by the inter
mittent current, and in the second case a partial restoration
of it; and these changes would account for the observed facts.
An examination of Prof. Hughes's paper will show that his
other experiments bearing on this point admit equally well
of the same explanation.
    On the other hand, we have a reason for anticipating that
the path of the electric current in a magnetized wire will be
found to possess some helical quality.
    The circular magnetization due to the current, together
with the existing longitudinal magnetization, gives a helical
magnetization which will be right-handed (like a common
screw) when the current enters at the S. pole. It is known
 that magnetization develops an a;olotropic difference of elec
 trical conductivity along and across the lines of force. If
 then the conductivity be greater across than along the direc
 tion of magnetization, the path of a current entering at the
 S. pole wul be a left-handed helix. The inductive effects
 will in that case be of the same sign as those observed by
 Prof. Hughes.
    Sir William Thomson (Phil. Trans. 1856, part 3) has con
 cluded that in iron the effect of magnetism on conductivity is
 to give greater resistance along than across the lines of induc
 tion. This would give a helical quality of the kind supposed
 by Prof. Hughes ; but the difference in conductivities is so
 small as to make it highly improbable that this action accounts
 for the very considerable inductions observed by him. In steel
 the effect is more doubtful (cf. Thomson, lot: cit.; Tomlinson,
 Proc. Roy. Soc. June 17, 1875 ; F. Auerbach, Phil. Mag.
 1879, Nos. 46-48). _
    These considerations indicate that the induced currents in
 the coil are, probably, due in chief part to changes of longi
 tudinal magnetization which accompany the passage and stop
 page of the current in the wire ; also that there may be some
 effect caused directly by the solenoidal component of helical
 currents, whose helical path is attributable to the development
 of a difference of conductivities by helical magnetization.
 Further, it is obvious that if (from this or any other cause)
 there is a solenoidal quality in the path of the current, the
  change of magnetic moment and the induced currents will be
  indirectly increased by the magnetizing action of this solenoid
  on those parts of the metal which may be considered to He
  within it.
     The method used by Prof. Hughes does not enable us tu
  distinguish between the part of the action due to change of

 426     On the supposed Helical Path of the Electric Current.
 longitudinal magnetization, and the part (if any) due to a
 solenoidal component of the current. The same remark applies
 with equal force to any observation of the induction outside
 the magnetized conductor.
    But if we use a hollow iron or steel rod in place of a solid
 wire, and test the magnetic force inside it, we may at once
 determine whether any part of the observed effect is due to a
 circulation of the current round the rod. Let the rod be
long compared with its transverse dimensions, and let it be
uniformly magnetized. In the first instance, the magnetic
force at the middle of its length, either inside or outside, due
to its longitudinal magnetization, is
                               _M
                                 a3'
where M is its magnetic moment and a its half length. When
a current is passed alon^ the rod there will be (by Prof.
Hughes's experiment) a diminution of its moment. Let this
diminution of moment be AM. Then outside the rod, at the
centre, the magnetic force will be changed by the amount
                              AM
                               a3'
But inside, if any part of the effect is due to a solenoidal
arrangement of the current, an electromagnetic force will be
produced equal to
                             — 47rCn,
where C is the current, and n the number of turns in this
solenoid per unit of length. The actual change of force at an
internal point midway between the ends will therefore be
                           AM
                           —»— vrrLn.
                            a3
   The question whether the second term of this expression has
any sensible existence, is to be answered by observing the
change of force inside when the current is made, and at the
same time observing the change of moment of the rod, or by
making simultaneous or successive measurements of the force
outside and inside.
   Various ways of carrying out this experiment will suggest
themselves. The two following plans, which I hope soon to
put to the test, appear practicable ; the second, in particular,
seems capable of a high degree of delicacy.
    I. Suspend inside the hollow rod a magnet of known
moment, and small enough to leave some clearance for swing
ing. Time the oscillations of this magnet both before and

                On the Dimensions of a Magnetic Pole.           427
during the passage of the current, and observe the loss of
moment (AM) of the hollow rod. See whether the change of
magnetic force deduced from the oscillations is or is not less
    II. Prepare two small coils of precisely equal inductive
power. Place one inside, and the other outside, the hollow rod
at the middle of its length. Connect them both to a ballistic
galvanometer or a telephone in such a manner that, if the cur
rents induced in them are equal, there will be no resultant
effect. Then pass a current along the rod. If the effects are
simply magnetic, the induction will be the same for both coils;
but if the passage of the current produces any electromagnetic
 force in the interior, this equilibrium will be much disturbed.
    This last has the merit of being a null method ; and it has
the additional advantage, that a strong longitudinal magneti
 zation may be given to the rod by enclosing it in a long sole
 noid through which a steady current may be kept circulating
 during the experiment.
       Tokio, Japan,
    September 22, 1881.
 LV. On the Dimensions of a Magnetic Pole in the Electrostatic
                System of Units. By J. J. Thomson.
    To the Editors of tlie Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
                                          Trinity College, Cambridge,
        Gentlemen,                              "May 16, 1882.
 IN the last number of the Philosophical Magazine there is
        a paper by Prof. J. D. Everett, on the Dimensions of a
 Magnetic Pole in the Electrostatic System of Units, in which
  he supports the view taken by Clausius, that in this system
 the dimensions of a magnetic pole are M^L^T-2, and not
  M*       as stated by Maxwell. Clausius gets his value from
  the equation
              Moment of magnet = current x area.
  It seems to me, however, that the equation should be
              Moment of magnet = fi current X area;
  where fi is the magnetic permeability of the medium in which
  the current is placed, and is of dimensions T2 L-2 in the elec
  trostatic system : if we use this equation we get the same
  dimensions for the magnetic pole as Maxwell. The following
  are the reasons which seem to me to show that the value given
  by Maxwell is the correct one. It will be convenient to see
  how Maxwell's value is obtained. The easiest way of getting

428           On the Dimensions of a Magnetic Pole.
it is to deduce it from the expression given by Maxwell for
the magnetic force produced by an electric current. Maxwell,
in his 'Electricity and Magnetism,' 2nd edit. §§ 498, 499,
makes the following statements about the magnetic force due
to a current:—
    " If any closed curve be drawn and the line-integral of mag
netic force taken completely round it, then if the closed curve
be not linked with the circuit the line-integral is zero ; but if
it is linked with the circuit so that the current i flows through
the closed curve, the line-integral is 47n'. The line-integral
Airi depends solely on the quantity of current and not on any
other thing whatever. It does not depend on the conductor
 through which the current is passing. Again, the line-integral
 47rt does not depend on the medium in which the closed curve
 is drawn. It is the same whether the closed curve is drawn
 entirely through air, or passes through a magnet or soft iron,
 or any other substance whether paramagnetic or diamagnetic."
    Hence, if F be the magnetic force due to an infinitely long
straight current of strength i at a distance r from the current,
it may without any ambiguity be written
                                     r
Now the work done when a magnetic pole of strength m is
carried round the current so as to remain at a constant dis
tance »¦ from it, is ?/iF27rr, or, by the above equation, 47rmi.
Hence the procKict mi is of the dimension of energy ; but on
the electrostatic system i is of the dimension M» U T~2: hence
m must be of dimension M» IJ, the value given by Maxwell.
    The dimensions of F the magnetic force are M*L*T_S,
the magnetic induction w/V2 is of dimension M*L~>; hence
the magnetic permeability /x, which is the ratio of magnetic
induction to magnetic force, is of dimensions \T2T?.
    If Ii be the magnetic force due to a pole of strength m at a
distance r from it, the magnetic induction is /iR. Now the
magnetic induction integrated over any surface containing the
pole and no other magnetic matter = iirm. Hence, taking the
induction across the surface of a sphere whose centre is the
pole and radius r, we get
                         fi . R . iffr' = iirm ;
                     .-. 11= ™„.
                               pt-
Honce the force bet ween two poles m, m1 is mm'/fii-2. Thus the
force between two magnetic poles depends on the medium in

      On the Electrostatic Dimensions of a Magnetic Pole.  429
which they are placed ; but, according to Maxwell, the mag
netic force between a current and a magnetic pole does not.
Hence the moment of the magnetic shell equivalent to a given
current depends on the medium surrounding the shell. If the
field be occupied by one medium only, the moment of the
magnetic shell =/t. current x area. This equation gives the
dimensions          for m.
   The effect of the medium surrounding a current upon the
magnetic force produced by the current has, as far as I know,
not been investigated. The only experiments I know bearing
on this point are some experiments of Faraday on the effect
of the surrounding medium on the electric currents induced
by a moving magnet. The result of the experiments was, that
he could not detect that changing the medium had any effect
on the induced currents. If this be so, then Maxwell's state
ment must be right. For, imagine a long magnet in presence
of an electric current, and let one pole be in one medium and
the other in another ; then, if the forces on the two poles are
different in magnitude, we may carry the magnet round the
current so as to get work out of it. Now this work must have
come from the battery ; but, since the inductive action of the
magnet on the current is independent of the medium, there
will be on the whole no currents induced by the motion of the
magnet : hence no work can come from the battery ; hence
the forces on the poles must be equal, or the magnetic force
produced by a current must be independent of the surrounding
medium. I may mention that Mr. E. B. Sargaut, of Trinity
College, is at present experimentally investigating this point.
Mr. W. D. Nivcn has pointed out to me that the value given
by Clausius for the dimensions of a magnetic pole does not
make the magnetic force between two such poles of the dimen
sions of a force, which ought clearly to be the case.
                     I am, Gentlemen,
                               Your obedient servant,
                                                J. J. Thomson.
   LVI. On the Electrostatic Dimensions of a Magnetic Pole.
                     By Prof. J. Larmor*.
CLAUSIUS'S formula to connect the dimensions of cur
       rent and pole on the static system, viz.
        (A) Moment of Magnet = Current x Area.
seems really to involve the electromagnetic system of units.
It is plain that, fo be able to make and establish practically
                 * Communicated by the Author.
   Phil. May. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 83. June 1882.        2K

430     On the Electrostatic Dimensions of a Magnetic Pole.
such a relation as to the magnetic action of a current, we must
assume tacitly these previous relations (which in fact supply
our only mode of comparison and verification), viz.:—
            (1) (Pole)2 x IT" = Force,
            (2) Current x L x Pole x L_a = Force.
    The first of these is the purely magnetic starting-point of
the electromagnetic system ; and the second is the relation
which must be used to connect current with pole on any system.      •
But the electrostatic system naturally starts with the dimen
sions of electric quantity as deduced from the law of inverse
squares, whence those of current are deduced at once. Now,
the only simple fact of nature which connects pole with cur
rent is Oersted's phenomenon (as developed by Ampere) of
the existence of a mutual force between them : this is expressed
by (2); and hence by this relation must we deduce the dimen
sions of pole from those of current already found. The some
what recondite fact that the magnetic action of a small circuit
carrying a current may be represented as due to two jictitious
magnetic poles, does not seem to possess any claims to supplant
the natural statement of the only fundamental relation which
makes natural poles play a part in electric theory at all. That
 relation is, of course, itself in its very nature electromagnetic.
    It might be said that the system objected to built up the
 theory from electric foundations, inasmuch as its fundamental
magnet is a small electric current. But, in reply, it is the
 existence of actual magnets which introduces the idea of pole
at all, other than as in Ampere's purely mathematical directrix
of electrodynamic action ; and the above considerations seem
 to show that this result is only obtained at the cost of prefer
 ring the fulfilment of the practically composite relation (A) to
 that of the fundamental electromagnetic relation (2), in the
 specification of an electrostatic system. This, though allow
 able if consistently adhered to, does not seem to be natural—
 if indeed the specification of a magnetic pole on an electro
 static system is a matter of importance at all.
    The method indicated gives Maxwell's dimensions, L'4M*.
     In practice, one would most probably investigate the dy
namic relations of statical charges with a galvanometer, and
 not with an electrodynauiometer.
    Queen's College, Galwuy,
        May 10, 1802.

                             [  431    ]
LVII. Oil the Dimensions of a Magnetic Pole in the Electro
    static System of Units. (Second Article.) By Prof. J. D.
    Everett*.
MY appeal for an explicit statement of Maxwell's definition
         of the unit pole in the electrostatic system has brought
me several communications from correspondents; and the diver
sity between them is a sufficient proof of the necessity for such
an appeal. My correspondents do not refer me to any explicit
definition by Maxwell himself, but give investigations which
they regard as substantially his and which lead to his result.
Two of these investigations seem quite satisfactory, and show
that Maxwell's result can be obtained with as much simplicity
as that of Clausius. They are given under the heads L, II.,
below.
   Before entering on the points in dispute with respect to the
electrostatic system, I may premise that the definitions of the
unit quantity of electricity, the unit current, the unit electro
motive force (or difference of potential), and the unit resist
ance (all of which may be called purely electrostatic defini
tions), are not in question, but are accepted by all parties.
The divergence begins when we attempt to express magnetic
quantities in an electrostatic system; and different results may
be obtained according to the particular relation between mag
netism and electricity which we select as the guiding principle
in our definitions. In a strict sense there is no such thing as
an electrostatic unit of any magnetic quantity; since magne
tism and its relations to electricity lie outside the domain of
electrostatics.
    There are three- laws of nature any one of which may be
used to connect electrical with magnetic units.
   I. The galvanometer law, as I may for brevity call it,
because it is the law which determines the force which a cur
rent passing through the coil of a galvanometer exerts upon
either pole of the needle. This law, stated without any assump
tion as to units, is that the force varies directly as the length
of the wire, the strength of the current, and the strength of
the pole, and inversely as the square of the distance of the wire
from the pole. We must therefore, in every system, have
 Force = kx x Current x Pole x Length -f- (Distance)2, (1)
£j being a factor which depends on the system employed.
Maxwell's unit pole may be defined by making ^ = 1. This
gives, for determining the dimensions of a pole,
                MLT-"= Current x Pole x IT*.
                  * Communicated by the Author.
                               2K2

432        Prof. J. D. Everett on tlie Dimensions of a
But
                     Current = Ml L*T"a;
therefore
                          Pole = Mi L*,
which is Maxwell's result. This proof was supplied to me by
Professor Larmor. Clausius alludes to such a proof as having
been given by Maxwell, and objects to it on the ground that
the force which a current exerts upon a pole is not an electro-
statical but an electrodynamical force. But, inasmuch as this
objection applies equally to all definitions of "the unit pole
in the electrostatic system," not excepting that offered by
Clausius himself, it cannot be admitted as valid when we are
discussing the merits of one as against another.
   Again, we may employ
    IL The magneto-electric law, which determines the electro
 motive force produced by moving a conductor in a magnetic
field. This law, when stated without any assumption as to
units, is that the electromotive force is directly as the length
of the conductor, the velocity of its motion resolved in a cer
tain direction, and the intensity of the field. Hence, bearing
in mind that the intensity of the field due to a single pole is
 directly as the strength of the pole and inversely as the square
of the distance, we must have, in every system.
Electromotive      = k3x Length x Velocity x Pole-f-( Distance/- (2)
   force . . .
                   =ijxLx LT"1 x Pole x L"a
                   = Pole x *,T_I.
If we define our unit pole by the condition /j=l, we have
                 Pole = Electromotive force x T
                      _ m^T-'x T
                      = M* Li.
This mode of obtaining Maxwell's result was in substance
 supplied to me by Professor Fitzgerald. So far we have no
discrepancy.
    On tho other hand, we may employ with Clausius,
    III. The low of the magnetic shell, which asserts the equiva
 lence of a current to a magnet. Taking the simplest case—
 that of a current in a plane circuit—the law of nature is that
 the moment of the equivalent magnet is jointly proportional
 to the strength of the current and the area of the circuit.
 Hence, since the moment of the magnet is the product of the

       Magnetic Pole in the Electrostatic System of Units.      433
 strength of either pole by the distance between the poles, we
 must have, in every system,
            Pole x Length = &3x Current x Area;           .  .  (3)
 that is,
                        Pole = k3 x Current x L,
 where £3 depends on the system employed. Clausius defines
 his unit pole by making A3=l, and thus obtains
                      Pole = Current x L
                            = M*UT~2x L
                            = MiliT-2.
 This result disagrees with that of the two preceding investi
gations; and hence the two equivalent assumptions              =
k2 = 1 are inconsistent with the assumption k3 = l. Maxwell
has chosen the former alternative, Clausius the latter. On
 Maxwell's system we have
                    *!=1,    ks=l,   /•3=T2Tr2.
 On Clausius's system we have
                 /^TL-2,       k2 = TL~2,    kt=l.
    In fact it can be shown that, if v be the ratio of the electro
magnetic to the electrostatic unit of quantity of electricity, k3
would be       on Maxwell's system, and ki and k3 would each be
 1          *
-j ou Clausius's system. When we bear in mind how fre
quently laws I. and II. are applied in practical calculation,
and how extremely rare is any practical application of law III.,
it seems clear that, if we were driven to employ an electrostatic
system in calculations relating to magnetism, the best choice
we could make would be Maxwell's.
   It is further clear that electrostatic systems are essentially
inconvenient for calculations relating to electromagnetism.
The electromagnetic system makes ku k2, and k3 each unity,
and also gives the value unity to the factor k± which occurs in
the general expressions for the attractions and repulsions
between currents. For example, the force with which two
parallel currents, one of very great length and the other of
length I, attract or repel each other, is given in any system by
the formula
    Force =A4x Product of currents x 2?-r- Distance, . (4)

434     On the Electrostatic Dimensions of a Magnetic Pole.
where k\ has the value unity in the electromagnetic system,
and the value ^ *u the electrostatic system, there being here
no difference between Maxwell and Clausius.
    The mutual force of two magnetic poles is
                k6 x Product of poles -4- (Distance)2,   .  .   (5^
where ks is wa in the electrostatic system of Maxwell, and \ in
that of Clausius, but is defined as unity in the electromagnetic
 system.
    On the other hand, tbe mutual force of two charges of elec
 tricity is
             ks x Product of charges H- (Distance)2, . . (6)
 where ka is defined as unity in the electrostatic system, but
 has the value v2 in the electromagnetic system.
    A comparison of the foregoing six equations shows how
 cautious we ought to be in asserting that a particular dimen
 sional relation " must hold in every system of units." The
 laws of nature which connect dissimilar quantities arc laws of
 proportion, and it is only by convention that they can be stated
 as haws of equality. Clausius was in error in the assertion,
 which I adopted from him in my last communication, that in
 every system the product of the current by the area enclosed
 must be equal to the moment of the equivalent magnet. Pro
 portional would be the correct word; and the factor k3, which
 remains constant as the current and area vary, does not neces
  sarily retain the same value when we pass from one set of
 units of length and time to another. Maxwell says (§ 482) :—
 " It has been shown by numerous experiments               that the
 magnetic action of a small plane circuit           is the same as
 that of a magnet .... whose magnetic moment is equal to the
 area of the circuit multiplied by the strength of the current;"'
 but the passage occurs in a discussion in which the " Electro
 magnetic system of measurement " is employed and defined
 (see § 479). I do not think that the charge of mistake brought
 against Maxwell has been substantiated. The controversy,
 however, has done good in exposing the difficulties" and
 dangers which lurk in applications of electrostatical units to
 magnetism.

                               [  435     ]
LVIII. Action of Free Molecules on Radiant Heat, and
    its Conversion thereby into Sound. By John Tyndall,
    F.R.S.*
                               Contents.
                                                               Page
   Sect. 1. Introduction                                        435
         2. Partial Summary of previous Work                    430
         3. Researches of Magnus                                440
         4. Experiments resumed : Verifications                 459
                           § 1. Introduction.
THE experimental researches of Rumford and Leslie raised
        the subject of Radiant Heat to an extraordinary pitch
of interest and importance. Both of these philosophers
occupied themselves with what may be called superficial
emission and absorption.
    Melloni is to bo regarded as the founder of our knowledge
of the transmission of radiant heat through solids and liquids.
Save in a passing inference, to be noticed immediately,
Melloni left untouched the gaseous form of matter—thinking,
probably, that gases and vapours, though their diathermancy
could hardly bo supposed theoretically perfect, came in this
respect so near perfection as to be placed beyond the grasp of
laboratory experiment. It was doubtless the general pre
valence of this conviction which caused this field of inquiry
to lie fallow for so many years after the discovery of the
thermo-electric pile.
     By an experimental arrangement characteristic of the
genius of the man, though, it may be, not quite equal to the
requirements of the problem, Melloni proved that the law of
inverse squares held good for radiant heat in air; and from
 this he inferred the absence of all sensible absorption, by air,
within the distance embraced by his experiments f. Melloni
extended to radiation his conclusion regarding absorption.
" On ne connait," lie writes, " aucun fait qui demontre
directement le pouvoir emissif des fluides elastiques purs et
transparent^ " J. Such was Melloni's relation to the subject
now before us.
   * Communicated by the Author, having been read before the Royal
Society, January 23, 1882. The substance of this paper was delivered
orally as the Bakerian Lecture on November 24, 1881.
   t " Pour un intervalle do cinq a six metres, l'air n'exerce aucune
absorption sensible pour le rayonnement des corps chnuds."—La Ther-
mochrose, p. 130.
  X Annates de CJiimie et de Physique, vol. xxii. p. 494.

436      Prof. Tyiidall on the Action of Free Molecules on
    In 1855 Dr. Franz, of Berlin, published a paper " On the
Diathermancy of certain Gases ana Coloured Liquids "*. He
found that air contained in tubes 452 and 900 millimetres
long, absorbed 3-54 of the radiation from an Argand lamp;
and he concluded that all transparent gases would behave
like air. I have given reasons for holding that Dr. Franz in
these experiments did not touch the question in hand f- In
the arrangement which he describes, the absorption by air
was quite insensible. But 60 per cent, of the radiation from
his powerful source was lodged in the glass ends of his tubes;
these, as secondary sources, radiated directly and indirectly
against his pile: and it was their chilling by the cold air that
slightly lowered his deflection and produced the supposed
absorption.
    It is not improbable that other attempts were made to
bring gaseous matter under the dominion of experiment. ; but
none to my knowledge are recorded.
              § 2. Partial Summary ofprevious Work.
    My researches on magne-crystallic action carried with
them the incessant use of conceptions and reasonings touching
molecular constitution and arrangement. At an early period
 of these studies it occurred to me that heat, both in its radiant
and in its ordinary thermometric form, might be turned to
good account as an explorer of molecular condition. The
first fruit of this idea was a paper " On Molecular In
 fluences " %, in which it was shown that wood possesses three
 axes of calorific conduction coincident with the axes of
 elasticity discovered by Savart. Experiments on certain
 crystals recorded in this paper suggested a possible connexion
 between diathermancy and conductivity ; and in 1853 I
 worked at this question. The substances then submitted to
 experiment were rock-crystal, amethyst, topaz, beryl, rock-
 salt, smoky quartz, fluor spar, tourmaline, Iceland spar,
 dichroito, arragonite, heavy spar, flint, and glass of various
 kinds. These minerals were employed in the shape of cubes
 carefully cut and polished, the transmission through each of
 them, in different directions, both of radiant and conducted
heat being determined.
    A desire for completeness, not then attained, caused me to
postpone, and finally to forego the publication of the results
      * Poggendorll's Anna/en, vol. xciv. p. 33".
      t Philosophical Transactions, 1861, vol, cli. p, 27, and elsewheie.
      t Ibid. 1863, vol. cxliii. p. 217.

    Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound.           437
of this inquiry. It, however, kept alive reflections on the
influence of molecular constitution on the phenomena of
radiation and absorption. Encountered continually by the
thought that in liquids and solids the pure molecular action
was, or might be, hampered by cohesion, the desire to bring,
if possible, free molecules under the dominion of experiment
beset me more and more.
    At the beginning of 1859 I definitely attacked this problem,
meeting at the outset difficulties and negations the reverse of
encouraging. But after some weeks of labour, I found
myself in secure possession of the result, that gases and
vapours exhibited, in relation to radiant heat, phenomena far
 more surprising than those observed bv Melloni in liquids and
 solids. On the 26th of May, 1859, the subject was brought
 before the Royal Society*; and on the 10th of June I was
 able, by illuminating the dial of a galvanometer and casting
 its image upon a screen, to demonstrate in the Royal Insti
 tution not only the fact of absorption, but the astonishing
 differences of absorption which gases and vapours equally
 transparent to light manifested in regard to radiant heat f.
    The following gases and vapours were then examined :—
 Air, oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, carbonic oxide, carbonic
 acid, nitrous oxide, coal-gas, ammonia, oleflant gas, bisulphide
 of carbon, chloroform, benzol, iodide of ethyl, cyanide of
 ethyl, formate of ethyl, acetate of ethyl, propionate of ethyl,
 iodide of amyl, chloride of amyl, amylene, absolute alcohol,
 amylic alcohol, methylic alcohol, ethylic ether, ethylamylic
 ether, sulphuric ether, and some others. In the Philosophical
 Magazine for 1802 I have given samples of the results ob
 tained with a few of these substances ; and I will here confine
 myself to the remark that were the measurements there re
 corded multiplied a hundredfold, they would fall far short
 of the number actually executed in 1859.
    With the view of compelling ihe feeblest gases and vapours
 to show, if they possessed it, their capacity to absorb radiant
 heat, the " method of compensation " was invented J. With
 out prejudice to the delicacy of the galvanometer, this method
 enabled me to bring into play quantities of heat far greater
 than those ever previously invoked, my object being so to
 exalt the total radiation that a minute fraction of that total
 should reveal itself to experiment. By this method not only
 were the feebler gases and vapours coerced, but the vastness
 of the diathermic range, if I may use the phrase, was esta-
          * Proceedings of Royal Society, vol. x. p. 37.
          t Proceedings of Royal Institution, vol. iii. p. 155.
          X Philosophical Transactions, 1861, vol. cli. pp. C & 7.

           Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
blished with a clearness and an evidence unattainable by any
 other means then existent *.
    Notices of the investigation having appeared in many
English and continental journals t, I was induced to defer the
detailed publication of the experiments. The investigation
itself had taught me the difficulties and dangers which beset
it. These had reference both to the methods of experiment
and to the purity of the substances employed. To secure the
perfect constancy of the sources of heat, and the perfect
steadiness of the galvanometer, when the flux of heat was
powerful, involved a lengthened discipline. With neither
gases nor vapours, moreover, was it easy to obtain uniform
results. When generated in different ways, the action of the
same gas would sometimes prove itself so discordant as to
suggest to me the possible existence of novel allotropic con
ditions to account for such variations of behaviour. Two
samples, moreover, of nominally the same liquid, would furnish
vapours yielding results far too divergent to be tolerated.
The drying apparatus also contributed its quota of disturbance.
These anomalies were finally traced to the fact that an in
credibly small amount of impurity, derived from the stronger
gases or vapours, sufficed to disguise and falsify the action of
the weaker ones. All this had to be learnt ; and when learnt,
 1 thought it desirable, for the sake of accuracy, not to publish
the results which had been gained with so much labour, but
to go once more, with improved appliances, over the same
ground. This I did, though it involved the total abandonment
of seven weeks' uninterrupted experimental work in 1859, of
seven weeks' similar work in 18ti0, and of many fragmentary
efforts. On the 10th of January, 1861, the memoir con
taining an account of the investigation was handed in to the
Royal Society %.
   * With moderate total heats the method of compensation is extremely
easy of application ; but when the total radiation is very large, some
discipline is required to keep the galvanometer-needle steady in its most
sensitive position. With due training, however, perfect mastery over
this difficulty may he obtained.
   t Proceedings of the Koyal Society, May 20, 1 8o9 ; Proceedings of the
Uoyal Institution, June 10, 1859; Bibliathtque Univei-selle, July ]>*59;
Cosmos, vol. xv. p. 321 ; Nuovo Cimento, vol. x. p. 190; Comptes Rendu*,
1859 ; and ill other journals.
   \ Section 3 of the Bakerian Lecture for 1801 reveals some of the
difficulties which beset the earlier stages of these inquiries. To secure
strength of radiation and steadiness of the needle I passed from source
to source, obtaining my temperatures in turn from water, oil, fusible
metal, sheets of copper heated by regulated flames, and from other things.
Approximate results were readily obtainable ; but I aimed at a degree
of accuracy which would render any material retractation afterwards
unnecessary. Soundness of work I thought preferable to rapidity of
publication.

    Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound.      439
   The first point of importance established in 1850, and
developed in the memoir just mentioned, was that already
referred to, namely the fact of absorption and large differences
of absorption. The second point—destined, I think, to throw
light on the deeper problems of molecular physics, was the
proof, that while elementary gases offered a scarcely sensible
impediment to radiant heat, equally transparent compound
gases exhibited, in many cases, an energy of absorption com
parable to that of the most athermanous solids and liquids.
Determining, for example, the action of a mechanical mixture
of two elementally gases, it was proved that without altering
either the quantity of matter, or its perfect transparencj' to
light, the absorption of invisible heat might be increased
many hundredfold by the passage of the constituents of the
 mixturo into a state of chemical combination.
    A similar deportment may be detected in liquids and solids.
 The quantity of iodine vapour generated at ordinary tempe
 ratures is so small that its action on radiant heat is, as might
 be expected, insensible. But iodine itself, when liquefied by
 a powerful solvent, behaves as an almost perfectly transparent
 body to the obscure calorific rays, even when it is able to
 extinguish totally the light of the sun. Liquid bromine is
 also highly diathermanous. The same may be said of phos
 phorus. In Melloni's table Sicilian sulphur comes next to
 rock-salt in transmissive power. A concentrated solution of
 sulphur in bisulphide of carbon exerts no sensible action on
 radiant heat. By fusing together iodine and sulphur Pro
 fessor Dewar has produced a " ray-filter " which separates
  with extreme sharpness the visible from the invisible rays.
 The remarkable diathermancy of certain specimens of vul
  canite, brought to light in the experiments of Mr. Graham
  Bell and Mr. Preece, is probably due to the sulphur they
  contain. Melloni showed that lampblack is to some extent
  diathermanous. But when a suitable source of heat is chosen,
  lampblack proves far more pervious to radiant heat than
  Melloni found it to bo. An opaque layer of this substance
  transmits 41 per cent, of the radiation from a hydrogen-flame.
  Were the lampblack optically continuous, the transmission
  would, doubtless, be still greater. An opaque solution of
  iodine transmits 99 per cent, of the radiation from the same
  source; while a layer of pure water, O07 of an inch in thickness,
  transmits only 2 per cent, of the radiation from a hydrogen-
  flame. Such results indicate that a profound change in the
  relation of ponderable matter to the luminiferous ether ac
  companies the act of chemical combination.
     One of my principal aims in the Bakerian Lecture of 1861

440      Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
was to illustrate the hold which experiment had obtained of a
subject previously considered intractable. The densities of
the gases and vapours employed were therefore varied within
wide limits. In the experimental tube first made use of, a
full atmosphere of olefiant gas absorbed more than 80 per
cent, of the entire radiation; and it was therefore evident that
a small fraction of an atmosphere of such gas would exert a
measurable action. On trial, it was found possible to measure
the absorption of       of an atmosphere of olefiant gas. The
action of this gas was determined at sixteen different densities,
the absorption, as long as the density was very small, being
accurately proportional to the quantity of gas present. Similar
experiments were made, and similar results obtained with
other gases. The action of sulphuric ether vapour upon
radiant heat was proved to be still more powerful than that of
olefiant gas. The vapour was first carried into the experi
mental tube by a current of dry air ; and the pure vapour
was afterwards examined at seventeen different densities.
Bisulphide of carbon was tested at twenty different densities,
amylene at ten, benzol at twenty, and so of the others.
   Considering the views previously entertained regarding the
diathermancy of gases and vapours, I was naturally impressed
with these results. Sceptical when I first observed them, I
scrutinized them closely, until repeated scrutiny abolished
every doubt. For my own instruction I illustrated the action
of the stronger gases and vapours in a variety of ways.
Turning, for example, once rapidly round a cock connecting
the exhausted experimental tube with a holder containing
a powerful gas, the needle would fly aside, owing to the
stoppage of the heat by the infinitesimal amount of gas which
entered the tube during the rotation. Discharging a powerful
gas or vapour in free air, between the source of heat and the
thermopile, a similar energetic action would be produced by
the perfectly invisible agent.
   I was schooled in such actions before the thought of testing
the omnipresent vapour of our atmosphere occurred to me.
When it did occur, there was in my mind no << priori ground
for supposing that its action would prove insensible ; for why
should I assume that        of an atmosphere of aqueous vapour
would prove neutral, after I had proved a small fraction of
this fraction, on the part of other gases and vapours, to be
active ? There was no reason for such an assumption on im
part—nothing to deter me from hopefully submitting the
question to experiment. I accordingly tested the water
vapour of the atmosphere in which I worked, and found its

    Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound.            441
action on a first trial to be thirteen times that of the air in
which it was diffused.
    It is not uninstructive to compare this approach to the
problem with that of a very distinguished man—the late
Professor Magnus, of Berlin *. Subsequent to me, he sub
jected the aqueous vapour of our atmosphere to an experi
mental test ; but he made the experiment under the assured
conviction that his result would be negative. " It could," he
says, " be foreseen with certainty that the small amount of
aqueous vapour taken up by air at ordinary temperatures
could exert no influence on the transmission." I think it
must be obvious that if Magnus had gone through the disci
 pline to which I had been subjected, he would not have used
 this language. His mistake, however, was a natural one. In
 fact during the earlier stages of the inquiry my mind was
 exactly in the condition of his mind—I also thinking, until
 practically instructed to the contrary, that the action of
 aqueous vapour at ordinary temperatures must be immeasur
 ably small. It is well known that Magnus tested his foregone
 conclusion, and found it verified ; while I, on the other hand,
 as above stated, justified mine.
     The various gases which had been examined in the experi
 mental tube with regard to their powers of absorption, were
 next tested as regards their powers of radiation. Columns of
 the heated gases were allowed to ascend in free air, and to
 radiate against the pile. In this simple way the radiative
 power of " transparent clastic fluids " was for the first time
 established. The order in which the gases ranged themselves,
 in regard to radiation, was exactly the order of their ab
 sorptions. Here, as in other cases, I instructed myself by
 observing how gases might be made to play the part of solids.
  Permitting, for example, a film of one of the stronger gases
 to glide over a heated surface of polished silver, the radiation
 from that surface was augmented as it might have been by a
  coating of isinglass or lampblack.
     A surmise has been mentioned regarding new allotropic
  conditions, as occurring to me amid the perplexities of my
  earlier experiments. In one instance, that of electrolytic
  oxygen, the surmise proved correct. My first experiments
  indicated that the modicum of ozone which went forward
  with the oxygen exerted four times the absorption of the gas
  in which it was diffused t- Subsequently, by changing the
  apparatus, and taking pains to augment the quantity of ozone,
     * In many respects my generous and helpful friend ; but, in regard to
  this question, my steadfast antagonist for many years,
    t Philosophical Transactions, vol. cli. p. 8.

442      Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules ov
the multiple rose successively from 4 to 20, 35, 47, 85,
ascending finally to 136 *. The behaviour of ozone was thus
proved to be similar to that of molecule.-; composed of hetero
geneous atoms. Hence the conclusion, drawn at the time,
that the molecule of ozone was formed of oxygen atoms so
grouped as to render their action upon radiant heat virtually
that of a compound body. This, it is needless to say, is the
constitution now assigned to ozone.
    With the view of including corroshe gases and vapours
among the number of those examined, and for other reasons,
the brass experimental tube was displaced by a tube of glass
of the same diameter and nearly 3 feet long. The source of
heat was also changed from a Leslie's cube containing boiling
water, to a plate of copper against which a sheet of flame
was permitted to play. Extraordinary precautious were
found necessary to ensure perfect steadiness on the part of the
flame. With this arrangement the practical inability of the
elementary gases to absorb radiant heat was further illus
trated and confirmed. Chlorine gas ami bromine vapour, for
example, were proved to be highly diathermanous.
    At the pressure of an atmosphere it was found that the
diathermic range of colourless gases extended from 1 to about
1000. The portion of gas first entering the experimental
tube, having the whole heat to act upon, produced, as might
be expected, the greatest effect, the increment of absorption
(after a certain quantity of gas or vapour had entered) being
infinitesimal f.      It was therefore interesting to compare
together the various gases at very small pressures. When
the pressure was that of 1 inch of mercury the diathermic
range was greatly increased, the absorption by olefiant gas
being then at least G000 times the absorption by atmospheric
air.
    With the changed apparatus the action of the aqueous
   * Philosophical Transactions, vol. clii. pp. 84, 85.
  t This is well illustrated by nn experiment on sulphuric ether vapour
recorded in the Bakerian Lecture for 1801 :—
                      Pressure.                 Absorption.
                       1 inch.                      214
                       2 inches.                    282
                       3 „                          315
                       4 „                          330
                       5 „                          330
   The absorption of air buinjr taken as unity, that of sulphuric ether
vapour at 1 inch mercury pressure is here shown to be 214. AVb.cn,
however, vapour corresponding to a pressure of 4 inches was already in
the experimental tube, the addition of another inch did not sensibly
augment the absorption.

    Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound.       443
vapour of our atmosphere was again taken up, and proved to
be, not 13 times, as I had at first supposed, but, on fairly
humid days, at least 60 times that of the air in which it was
diffused. When carefully dried air was caused to pass over
moistened glass, and then carried into the experimental tube,
the absorption was still greater.
    A power has been claimed for mist or haze which has been
denied to aqueous vapour ; but in these experiments concen
trated luminous beams, which would have infallibly brought
into view the least trace of suspended matter, revealed no
mist or dimness of any kind. It is, moreover, demonstrable
that an amount of turbidity, rendered strikingly evident by a
luminous beam, exerts only a fractional part of the action of
the pure aqueous vapour. When well-dried air was led, not
through water or over wet glass, but over bibulous paper,
taken apparently dry from the drawers of the laboratory, the
amount of vapour carried forward from the pores of the paper
produced 72 times the absorption of the air which carried it.
After five repetitions of the experiment, wherein the same air
was carried over the same paper, a quantity of vapour was
still sent forward capable of exerting 47 times the absorption
 of the air in which it was diffused.
    Here the possible action of odours upon radiant heat
 naturally suggested itself. Many perfumes were accordingly
subjected to examination, the odorous substance being in each
case carried into the experimental tube by a current of dry
air. Thus tested, pachouli exerted 30 times, cassio 109 times,
while aniseed exerted 372 times the absorption exerted by the
 air in which it was diffused.
    A novel method of exhibiting the absorption and radiation
 of gaseous bodies, the germ of which had been previously
 discovered *, was illustrated and developed by the new appa
 ratus. Suppose the experimental tube exhausted, and the
 needle, under the joint action of the two sources, to be at 0°.
 On admitting a strong vapour the usual deflection would
 occur. Suppose it to be 50 galvanometric degrees. Let dry
 air be now introduced until the experimental tube is filled.
 Although fresh matter is thus thrown athwart the rays of
  heat, the needle behaves as if the matter within the experi
  mental tube had wholly disappeared. It sinks to zero, and
  not only so, but passes, say to 50°, on the other side.
     After the first moments of perplexity succeeding the obser
  vation of this effect, its cause became clear. On entering the
 experimental tube the air, having its vie viva destroyed, was
               * Philosophical Transaction?, vol. cli. p. o'2.

 444      Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules o»
 heated dynamically. Incompetent to radiate itself, it im
  parted its warmth to the vapour, aud this powerful radiator
 poured the heat thus received against the pile. This heat
 sufficed not only to neutralize the deflection of 50° due to
 absorption, and indicating cold, but to carry the needle up to
 50° on the side of heat. So likewise, when the experimental
 tube was filled with mixed air and vapour, the needle being at
 0°, a stroke of the pump, though opening a freer passage for
 the rays from the source, caused a deflection indicative not of
 heat, but of cold. Here, the vapour within the tube, being
 chilled by the dilatation of the air, the pile radiated its un
 compensated warmth into the vapour aud produced the
 observed deflection.
     Such observations suggested a new means of demonstrating
 the absorption and radiation of heat by gases and vapours.
 Abandoning all external sources of heat, and permitting the
 various gases already examined to enter the experimental
 tube at a common velocity, they became self-heated aud
 radiated against the pile. Their radiation, thus determined,
corresponded exactly with the results obtained when heated
columns of these gases were permitted to rise freely in the
atmosphere.
    Both the radiation and absorption of vapours were deter
mined in the same manner. The external source of heat was
abandoned, and a measured quantity of every vapour was
introduced into the experimental tube. Through an orifice
of fixed dimensions dry air was then permitted to enter the
 tube, where the destruction of its vis viva raised its tempe
rature. The heated air warmed the vapour, which in its turn
radiated the heat imparted to it against the pile. The de
flection of the galvanometer declared the strength of this
radiation. Absorption was determined by permitting the
mixed air and vapour to dilate by a measured quantity, the
pile being here the warm body, and the chilled vapour the
absorbent. The order in which the vapours stood as regards
absorption was here exactly the order of their radiation;
while both absorption and radiation, thus determined, agreed
with the results obtained by sending the rays from an external
source of heat through the pure vapours in the experimental
tube.
    "What has been called vapour-besion," whereby liquid
films are produced, has been supposed to play a dominant
part in my experiments. But it can hardly be imagined that
an irregular action of this kind could produce results of such
precision aud consistency as those here recorded. Such
results are, in my opinion, only compatible with the con

    Radiant Heat, and its Conversion tliereby into Sound.      445
elusion that the veritable radiators and absorbers are the
molecules of the vapours. Apart from all experiment, the
notion that vapours must act in this way comes commended
to us by the proved, and conceded, deportment of gases. It
would be unreasonable to admit that a compound gaseous
molecule is active, and at the same time to affirm that a
compound vaporous molecule is inert.
   This hypothesis of liquid films formed on the interior surface
of the experimental tube, and on the plates of rock-salt, becomes,
I think, more embarrassed as we proceed. It depends on the
unproved assumption that liquids possess powers of absorption
which are denied to their vapours. To water and brine, for
instance, Magnus largely concedes such powers, but not to
aqueous vapour. That the state of aggregation exerts an
influence is not denied; but that it is here the dominant factor
is open to doubt. To admit this would be to concede that
the seat of absorption is the molecule as a whole, to the
practical exclusion of the constituent atoms of the molecule.
For if the atoms exert any influence, the mere passage from
the liquid to the vaporous condition, which separates the
molecules from each other, but leaves them individually intact,
 cannot destroy their powers of absorption.
   At an early stage of these researches the parallelism of
liquid and vaporous absorption forced itself upon my attention.
Thus my experiments on bisulphide-of-carbon vapour were
connected with the deportment of liquid bisulphide, as set
 forth in Melloni's table. The vapours, moreover, of chloride
of sulphur and chloride of phosphorus, whose liquids stand in
 Melloni's table next to bisulphide of carbon, were afterwards
proved by me to possess a diathermancy corresponding to
that of their liquids. After various references to this subject
in preceding memoirs, a portion of the Bakerian Lecture for
 1864 was devoted to its examination. Liquid layers enclosed
between plates of transparent rock-salt were tested in regard
to their diathermancy; and, for the sake of control and veri
fication, they were employed in five different thicknesses.
The vapours of these liquids were examined in quantities pro
portional to the quantity of liquid, the same quality of heat
being applied both to liquids and vapours. By these experi
ments it seemed to me placed beyond a doubt that the
liberation of the molecule from the liquid condition did not
destroy its absorbent power, the order of absorption being
proved to be precisely the same for liquids and their vapours.
 Ten different substances were shown at the time here referred
to to follow this rule. The list has since been extended ; and
I am not acquainted with a single real exception to the rule.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 83. June 1882.           2L

446      Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
Any reasoning, therefore, which ascribes a potent absorption
to perfectly impalpable films, condensed on the surface of
my apparatus, and which denies that absorption to the free
molecules within the experimental tube, is in my opinion
untenable.
    The relation between liquids and their vapours here indi
cated is very thorough. It extends beyond the field of
experiment which we have hitherto had in view. I have, for
example, published some researches on the action of rays of
high refrangibility on gaseous matter, and have shown, in a
great variety of cases, that the molecules are shaken asunder
by such rays. The actinic clouds, as I have called them,
produced by this decomposition reveal vividly the track of the
beam by which they are generated, and render it easy to
observe the distance to which the action penetrates. In the
case of nitrite of amyl, for example, the power of decompo
sition is soon exhausted, the actinic cloud ceasing abruptly at
a point about 18 inches from the place where the beam enters
the vapour. An experimental tube 3 feet long has therefore
one half of its vapour shielded, by the other half; and on re
versing the tube, the shielded half comes instantly down as an
actinic cloud. In the case of iodide-of-allyl vapour, on the
other hand, the beam may pass through a charged experi
mental tube 5 feet long, fill it with an actinic cloud, and still
effect decomposition in another tube placed beyond it. What
is true of these vapours is true equally of their liquids ; for
 while a layer of the liquid nitrite A of an inch thick prevents,
 when placed in the track of the beam, the decomposition of
 its vapour, a layer of the liquid iodide, of quadruple thickness,
 does not arrest the decomposition. The power, and the lack of
 power, to be penetrated to considerable depths is shared alike
 by the liquids and their vapours. Other, and still more subtle
 and penetrating illustrations of parallelism between liquid and
 vaporous absorption are mentioned in the Bakerian Lecture
for 1864*
                      § 3. Researches of Magnus.
    Prompted by the experiment of Grove, illustrating the
chilling action of hydrogen, Magnus, in 1860, began an in-
   • Carbonic acid is one of the feeblest of the compound gases, as regards
 the radiation from solid bodies ; but for the radiation from a carbonic
 oxide flame it transcends all other gases in absorbent power. The action
of aqueous vapour is also enhanced when it acts upon the rays emitted
by a hydrogen-flame. The enhancement extends to water." Curious
 reversals of diathermic position, when heat from different sources is
 employed, are moreover sliown to occur simultaneously with liquids and
vapours.

     Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound.            447
vestigation on the power of gases to conduct heat*. His
apparatus, traced in outline from his own plate, is shown in
fig. 1, where A B is the recipient for the gases, and C a flask
containing water kept boiling by a current of steam. The
bottom of C, which
formed the top of A B,                           Fig- 1.
was the source of heat.
A thermometer, g f,
shielded by a cork or
metal screen o o' from
the radiation of the
source, was intended
to receive and measure
the heat transmitted
by conduction. The
recipient A B was
mounted in a space
surrounded by water
of a constant tempe
rature. The heating
of the thermometer
when A B was ex
hausted f, was com
pared with its heating
when A B was filled
with various gases ;
and in every case
but one the heating
through the gas was
found less than the
heating through the vacuum. The exception was hydrogen,
which carried more heat to the thermometer than was trans
mitted by the vacuum. The conclusion drawn by its author
from this experiment was that hydrogen conducted heat like
a metal.
    One remark only in this Note has any reference to the
diathermancy of gases; but it is a significant one. Magnus
had no doubt as to the power of every one of his gases to
conduct heat. There could, he supposed, be only a difference
of degree between them and hydrogen. Whence, then, the
    * A Preliminary Note of this inquiry is published in the Bericht of
 the Berlin Academy for July 30, 1860. No measurements are given ;
 but certain results are announced. The experiments were first published
 in PoggendorfTs Annalen for April 1861.
    t This vacuum-temperature, at least in so far as it exceeded that of
 the sides of the recipient, -was obviously derived from the screen.
                                     2L 2

448      Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
lowering of the thermometer ? He answers thus :—" From
this it is not to be inferred that the gases do not conduct
heat, but merely that in their case conduction is so feeble
as to be neutralized by adiathermancy." These are the only
words in the note which have any reference to radiation.
    In his next inquiry Magnus dealt directly with the subject
of diathermancy, a Preliminary Note of the investigation
being published in the Monatsbericht for February 7th, 1861.
This note, like its predecessor, consisted of general and
descriptive statements, no actual measurements being given.
The completed memoir was first published in PoggendorfFs
Annalen for April 1861. For the purposes of this new inquiry
the apparatus used in the experiments on gaseous conduction
was modified, as shown in fig. 2. To the recipient A B a
 second one G F was attached, the two being connected by the
 tubulure shown in the figure. The recipient G F rested upon
 the plate of an air-pump, on which also stood the thermopile
p, with one of its faces turned towards the source. From the
 pile, through the air-pump plate, wires passed to the galvano
 meter. With this apparatus, the absorption by atmospheric
 air and by oxygen was found to be 11-12, and by hydrogen
 14-1 per cent, of the total radiation. The alleged con
 ductivity of hydrogen did not therefore manifest itself in
 these experiments.
    Let us analyze these results. In the first experiments the
distance of the thermometer from the source of heat was
35 millimetres. The action on the thermometer through a
vacuum being represented by 100, the action through air and
through oxygen of this depth was found to be 82. The loss
of 18 per cent, in air and in oxygen was alleged to be due to
the adiathermancy of these media; to which percentage, if we
wish to ascertain the total absorption by air, we should have
to add such heat as reached the thermometer by conduction.
    Turning now to the modified apparatus, which is evidently
drawn to scale, the gas here traversed by the radiant heat
was about 275 millimetres in depth, while the stratum tra
versed in the first experiments was, as stated, only 35 milli
metres. Yet in these first experiments an absorption of 18
per cent., while in the later ones an absorption of only 11-21
per cent., is assigned to air. In other words, when the depth
of the aerial stratum was augmented more than sevenfold,
the absorption, instead of increasing, fell to less than two
thirds of that of the shallower stratum. It is pretty obvious
that an influence different from pure absorption came here
into play. That influence was convection.
   Anxious to probe this matter to the bottom, and to abolish,

    Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound.  449
or account for, the differences between my friend and myself,
I wrote to him proposing an exchange of apparatus—that he
should send his to London, and I mine to Berlin. I after
wards had a facsimile of his apparatus constructed in London,
                             Fig. 2.
and satisfied myself by actual trial that it was really ham
pered with the defects I had ascribed to it. By means of the
striae of incense smoke and of chloride of ammonium, the fact
of convection in air was rendered plainly visible to the eye ;
while the behaviour of hydrogen, under like circumstances,

450      Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
revealed the cause of its transporting more heat than the
vacuum in the first experiments, and less heat, not only than
the vacuum, but than air or oxygen, in the second experi
ments. In the one case the thermometer, being close to the
source, came within the range of the convection-currents of
this mobile gas, the heat being transported to it by these
currents. In the other case a considerable distance intervened
between the source and the pile, which was further effectually
protected by the narrow tubulure. Through it the currents
 could not pass ; but they nevertheless existed in the recipient
 A B, lowering the temperature of the source without heating
 the thermoscopic instrument.
    The experimental resources of Magnus were great, and he
 here applied them ; but the defects of his method were radical
 and irremovable. These defects reached their culmination in
 the subsequent researches of Professor Buff*, who, by pur
 suing substantially the same method, arrived at the result that
 a stratum of air 2£ inches thick absorbed 60 per cent, of the
 radiation from a source of 100° C.f Buff also found defiant
 gas to be more diathermanous than air ; whereas at atmo
 spheric pressures it is many hundred, and at a pressure of ^0
 of an atmosphere many thousand times more opaque to heat.
    This is the point at which aqueous vapour enters into the
 experiments of Magnus. When dry and humid air were
 compared together in his apparatus, no difference between them
 was observed. But, apart from all disturbance, it would
 require an instrumental arrangement far more delicate and
 powerful than that here employed, to bring into view the
 action of a stratum of mixed air and aqueous vapour 11 inches
 deep, and having a temperature of only 15° C. Disturbances,
 however, were not absent. In the first place, the convection
 currents which enabled dry air to reduce the radiation by
  11*12 per cent., were more than sufficient to mask the action
 of the vapour. Secondly, dry and humid air were brought in
  succession into direct contact with the face of the thermopile.
  The pile was therefore affected by any difference of tempe
 rature between it and the air, and it could scarcely be sup
 posed that these temperatures were always alike. It was also
 affected by the condensation and evaporation which occurred
 when humid air and dry air were brought successively into
  contact with its lampblack-coated face. To " vapour-hesion "
  Magnus subsequently ascribed very large effects. Here we
 have the conditions specially suited to the development of the
    * Phil. Mag. .5th ser. vol. iv. p. 401. For mv reply see Proc. Roy.
 Soc. vol. xxx. p. 10.                    t Ibid. 1877, voh iv. p. 424.

   Radiant Heat, and its Conversion tliereby into Sound.    451
action, and yet no reference is made to it. Either, then, the
disturbance was overlooked, or the apparatus was not suffi
ciently delicate to reveal it. To these two sources of dis
turbance (the lowering of the temperature of the source by
convection, and the warming and chilling of the pile by
contact, condensation, and evaporation) is to be added another,
duo to the warming which must have occurred when the
dynamically heated air came into direct contact with the
thermopile—an action which, in my apparatus, proved suffi
cient to whirl the needle of the galvanometer more than once
through an entire circle.
   Magnus next experimented with glass tubes 1 metre long
and closed at the ends with plates of glass. His source of
heat was a strong gas-flame aided, as in the experiments of
Dr. Franz, by a parabolic mirror. Two tubes were employed,
the one blackened within, and the other unblackened. With
the blackened tube an absorption of 2-44 per cent, was found
for air, and an absorption of 3"75 per cent, for hydrogen. In
the unblackened tube the absorption by air was 14-75 por
cent., and by hydrogen 16*27 per cent, of the total radiation.
   I went over this ground with the utmost care, using in
visible as well as visible heat. But, substituting plates of
pellucid rock-salt for the plates of glass, I failed to realize
the effect obtained by Magnus. He ascribed the difference
between the results obtained with his blackened and his un
blackened tube to a change of quality in the heat, produced
by reflection from the interior surface of the latter. With
plates of rock-salt, however, though the reflection abides, the
change of quality does not occur. My position, therefore, in
regard to these experiments is similar to what it was in regard
to those of Dr. Franz. The results obtained with air, oxygen,
and hydrogen were, I hold, due to the chilling of the heated
glass ends of the tube by the cold gases, and the consequent
lowering of the secondary radiation.
   It was shown by Magnus himself, and is moreover obvious
at first sight, that the unblackened tube sent a far greater
amount of heat to the glass plate adjacent to the thermopile
than the blackened one. That plate being more heated by
the source, was more chilled by the air when it entered. The
greater cooling-power of hydrogen accounts, moreover, for
the advance of the supposed absorption from 14-75 to 16'27
per cent. With carbonic acid Magnus detected a difference
which had escaped Dr. Franz. Instead of making the action
of this gas equal to that of air, he found in the blackened
tube an absorption of 8'19 per cent., and in the unblackened
tube an absorption of 21"92 per cent., exerted by carbonic acid.

452       Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
 Here true absorption mixed itself with the effect of mere
 chilling, while with still more powerful gases the effect of
 chilling retreated by comparison more and more.
     Such were the experiments which determined, in the first
 instance, the attitude of this distinguished man towards that
 portion of my work which related to the action of the air
 and vapour of our atmosphere on radiant heat. In the defence
 of his position he brought to bear all the resources of con
 summate skill and large experience. His position, however,
 was by no means a wholly defensive one. He dwelt re
 peatedly and emphatically on the dangers—and they are real—
 to which the method pursued by me was exposed. I had
 closed my experimental tube with plates of transparent rock-
 salt; and he urged against me the hygroscopic character of
 this substance. Placing rock-salt beside a vessel of water
 under a glass shade, he found that it could be rendered
 dripping wet *.           Hence his argument that, instead of
 measuring the action of vapour, 1 had really measured the
 action of brine. This, however, I could not admit. I was
 aware of the danger, and had avoided it. In many hundred
 instances the rock-salt plates had been detached from my
 experimental tube while filled with the very air which had
 produced the observed absorption, and found to be as dry as
 polished plate-glass. For a week at a time I have charged
 my experimental tube alternately with dried and undried air,
 removing every evening the plates of salt while the humid
 air filled the tube. Their dryness and polish were found
 unimpaired f. I have frequently flooded the experimental
 tube with light, and watched narrowly whether any dimness
 showed itself on the salt, or on the interior surface, when the
 humid air entered. There was nothing of the kind. I
 finally abandoned the plates of salt altogether, and obtained
 in a tube opened at both ends substantially the same effects
 as those obtained when the tube was closed with plates of
 rock-salt.
     In 1862 Magnus came to London. He had been previously
 working at the points of difference between us, and bad
 strengthened his first conviction. The action of the air he
 had found to be considerable, and the action of aqueous vapour
 practically nil. I also had been working, but with an entirely
    * It has been shown by Professor Dewar that the exposure of a dry
 plate of rock-salt for five minutes to saturated air sensibly augments the
 weight of the salt as determined by a delicate balance.
   t This mastery over the apparatus was Dot attained without training.
 Any lapse of care soon declared itself by the condition of the plates of
salt.

    Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound.     453
different result. It was hoped by both of us that our dif
ferences would be settled during this visit. With my closed
experimental tube I showed him the neutrality of dry air and
the activity of humid air; and while the latter was in the
tube I detached the rock-salt plates and placed them in his
hand. He closely inspected them, passed his dry handker
chief over them, and frankly and emphatically pronounced
them perfectly dry. I then executed in his presence the
experiments with the open tube, and reproduced the results
which I had previously published. I subjected the method of
compensation to a severe test, and showed him how exact it
could be made. He frankly confessed his inability to find
any flaw in my experiments, and, save in one particular, made
no attempt to reconcile our differences. He accounted for
the neutrality of dry air observed by me by pointing to my
thermopile, between which and the experimental tube a space
of air intervened. He argued, and justly argued, that
though the calorific rays were permitted to enter the tube
from a vacuum, if the air intervening between tube and pile
could produce the effect which he ascribed to it, the heat
would be robbed of its absorbable rays before the dry air
entered the tube, the subsequent neutrality of dry air being a
 matter of course. The logic was good ; but its basis I knew
 to be more than doubtful ; and I therefore asked him whether
 a layer ^ of an inch thick between pile and tube would
 produce any sensible effect. His reply was an emphatic
 negative. In subsequent experiments, therefore, the conical
 reflector was removed from my pile, and placed within the
 experimental tube, its narrow end being caused to abut
 against the plate of rock-salt. The face of the pile was , then
 brought within less than      of an inch of the rock-salt plate ;
 and in this way my former measurements, which had declared
 the pure air of our atmosphere to be a practical vacuum to
 radiant heat, were verified to the letter.
    The well-earned fame of Magnus as an experimenter, and
 his personal friendliness to myself, rendered it specially in
 cumbent on me to deal respectfully with every one of his
 suggestions. He once intimated to me that the absorption,
 which I had supposed due to aqueous vapour, might be really
 due to the smoke and dust suspended in London air. To
 meet this I carried air myself from the Isle of Wight, had it
 carried from Epsom Downs and other places, and found the
 aqueous vapour diffused in such air to be from 60 to 70 times
 more energetic than the air itself. London air, moreover,
 was freed from its suspended matter, and tested when dry : it
 proved neutral. The self-same air was then rendered humid :

 454      Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
 its absorbent power was restored. Then, with dry air as a
 carrier, I introduced smoke into the experimental tube, until
 it far exceeded in density that suspended in the London air
 when Magnus drew my attention to it. The quantity of heat
 intercepted by this smoke proved to be only a fraction of that
 absorbed by the perfectly invisible aqueous vapour.
    On his return to Berlin he resumed his labours. He had
 been especially impressed by the experiments with the open
 tube; and to this point he directed his chief attention. " The
 result of this experiment," he writes, " was so surprising, and
 so little in accord with what I had found by "other methods,
 that on reaching home I determined to repeat the experi
 ment." Ho did so, with this result :—" I have," he says,
 " repeated the blowing-in of dry air and moist air many
 hundred times; but in no single case was the deflection such
 as to indicate a greater absorption by moist air " *. Humid
 air, in his experiments, produced the deflection of heat ; dry
 air the deflection of cold—a result diametrically opposed to
 mine. In London he had seen that my deflections were as
 large as I had affirmed them to be ; but he had not criticised
 them with the view of ascertaining whether they were, or were
 not, in the right direction. In these new experiments, how
 ever, he had, he thought, hit upon their origin. The moving
 air had reached the face of the thermopile, producing,
 when humid, heat by condensation, and, wheu dry, cold by
 evaporation.
    I read the account of these experiments with some concern;
 for it was thereby made plain to me that Magnus had by no
 means realized the anxious care that I had bestowed upon my
 work. The testimony of an independent observer would, I
thought, set the matter right. My apparatus, carefully ad
justed, was accordingly handed over to Dr. Frankland, who
minutely tested every point involved in, or arising out of,
the objection of Magnus. He verified all my results. His
opinion as to the accuracy of the method of compensation is
worth recording. " In conclusion," he writes, " I cannot
but express my surprise and admiration at the precision and
sharpness of the indications of your apparatus.                Without
having actually worked with it, 1 should not have thought it
possible to obtain these qualities in so high a degree in deter
minations of such extreme delicacy " f. To this may be
   • Poggendortfs Annalen, 1803, vol. cxviii. p. 580 ; Phil. Mag. 1803,
vol. xxvi. p. 25.
   t The total heat here employed amounted to 8G0,2 of a quadrant.
This exceediugly large deflection was neutralized by the radiation from
the compensating cube. But so accurately were the two sources balanced,
and so constant was the radiation on both sides, that the determinations
were made with ease, and without sensible disturbance or fluctuation.

    Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound.          455
added the subsequent testimony of Professor Wild, now of
the University of St. Petersburg, who went carefully over
the same ground. " In all my experiments," he says, " con
ducted according to Tyndall's method, which included more
than a hundred distinct observations, I have never obtained
deflections of the galvanometer-needle in contradiction to the
statements of Professor Tyndall " *.
    In an extremely able paper, a translation of which is pub
lished in the Philosophical Magazine for October 1866, the
Petersburg philosopher compares the methods pursued by
Magnus and myself respectively. Insufficient sensitiveness,
 and the disturbance due to convection-currents, caused him,
he says, to abandon the method of Magnus. "Although,"
he continues, " this method of investigating absorption may,
in the hands of so experienced and expert an experimenter as
 Professor Magnus, be an appropriate one for determining
 absolute values with great certainty, I feel bound, from my
 own experience, to give a decided preference to Tyndall's
 method, not only on account of the greater facility with
 which it furnishes qualitative [quantitative] results, but also
 in consequence of its greater delicacy. It is principally in
 consequence of this greater delicacy that, notwithstanding
 the negative results furnished by Magnus's method, I maintain
 that the greater absorptive power of moist air, as compared
 with dry, has been fully established by the experiments made
 according to Tyndall's method; and I am of opinion that
 meteorologists may without hesitation accept this new fact in
 their endeavours to explain phenomena which hitherto have
 remained more or less enigmatical."
     In 1866 Magnus varied his method of experiment, seeking
 to solve the question of absorption by observations on radiation.
 " I have," he says, " made a few determinations of the ra
 diation of dry and moist air, and of some other gases and
 vapours. Up to the present time," he continues, " the
 capacity of these bodies to transmit heat has alone bean
  determined " f. He then describes his arrangement :—" The
  gases and vapours were passed through a brass tube of
  15 millimetres internal diameter, which was placed horizon
  tally and heated by gas-flames. One end of the tube was
  bent upwards, so that the heated air ascended vertically,
  while at a distance of 400 millimetres from the vertical
  current was placed the thermopile." When dry air was sent
  through this tube, the deflection produced was three divisions
  of a scale; when air which had passed through water at a
     * Phil. Mag. 4th ser. vol. xxxii. p. 252.
    t This is an inadvertence. Exhaustive experiments on the radiation
  of gases and vapours had been made and published many years previously

 456      Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
 temperature of 15° C. was sent through the tube, the deflection
 rose to five divisions; when the water was warmed to 60° or
 80° Fahr., the deflection was 20 divisions ; and when the
 water boiled, the deflection was 100 divisions. In this last
 experiment, however, a mist appeared; so that, as urged at
 the time, the radiation could not be said to have been purely
 from vapour. In the other cases no mist was visible ; but it
 was nevertheless concluded that the 20-division deflection was
 due to the formation of mist at the boundary of the ascending
current.
    I should be disposed to claim these experiments as telling
 in my favour. The first of them, in my opinion, dealt with
the radiation, not from dry air, but from the adjacent aqueous
vapour which had been warmed by the dry air. That the
 deflection in the second experiment was small is not sur
prising. The radiation which could reach the pile from a jet
 of air only 15 millimetres in diameter, and containing such
 moisture as could be taken up at 15° C, must have been
 extremely small under any circumstances. But in the present
 case, even this small radiation was diminished by the passage
 of the heat through 400 millimetres of undried air. I should
 demur to the explanation of the third experiment, and question
 the warrant to imagine a mist which could not be seen. Even
 the fourth experiment, where mist was visible, yielded, I doubt
 not, a mixed result—part of the effect, and probably the smallest
 part, being due to the mist, and part of it to the vapour.
   With regard to the radiation from hot aqueous vapour, the
following experiment is typical of some hundreds which I
have had occasion to make. A burner, consisting of two
rings provided with numerous small apertures, was placed
within a square tin chimney. At some height above the
burner the chimney was perforated, so as to enable the radia
tion from a heated gaseous column within the chimney to
reach a distant thermopile. The side of the chimney facing
the pile was so protected by screens that the radiation from
the chimney itself was nil. Connecting the burner with a
bottle of compressed hydrogen, the gas was ignited. A
column of hot vapour rose from the burner and passed the
aperture in the chimney through which it sent its rays to the
pile. Mere tips of flame were first employed, the column of
vapour rising from them sufficing nevertheless to produce a
permanent deflection of
                               40°.
A slight augmentation of the flame sent the needle up to
                               60°.

   Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound.     457
A still further augmentation sent it up to
                               75°.
This last deflection was equivalent to more than 400 of the
degrees in the neighbourhood of zero.
   The radiating column was here considerably above the
flame. To examine the condition of the column, a concen
trated luminous beam was directed upon it. There was no
precipitation. On the contrary, the suspended matter in the
air of the chimney was much less than that of the surrounding
air. Instead of a white mist, we had the blackness due to the
destruction of the floating matter by the hydrogen-flame.
    On quenching the flame, the needle returned accurately to
zero.
    In his objections Magnus, for the most part, dealt with true
causes; but he erred as to their scope of action. I never
 denied the existence of the dangers which he emphasized.
 The hygroscopic character of rock-salt, for example, to which
 he recurred so often, cannot be questioned. It has a strong
 attraction for moisture, especially when cold. On this point
 my experience has been large; and I applied it in the execution
 of my experiments. These, as 1 have so frequently stated,
 were conducted with plates of salt as dry as polished glass or
 rock-crystal. Thus, while conceding the fact that rock-salt is
 hygroscopic, I demur to its application.
    A similar remark applies to the last solution offered by
 Magnus of the differences between us. In 1867 he showed
 that vapours were condensed by surface-attraction to a greater
 extent than had previously been supposed. Blowing vapour-
 laden air into a metal tube, he found that heat was generated.
 He inferred, and rightly inferred, that this heat was produced
 by the condensation which occurred on the interior surface.
 This condensation he found to depend on the condition of the
 surface, being greater when it was tarnished or coated than
 when it was polished. He saturated air with moisture at a
 temperature of 16° C, and then raised both it and his pile to
 a temperature of 38°. When such air was blown against the
 dry face of the pile, heat was generated. Condensation there
 fore occurred upon a surface 22° C. higher than the dew-point
 of the vapour. Against this I have nothing to urge. But
 the fact by no means justifies the inference drawn from it,
 which was, that the vapours in my experimental tube were
 converted by " vapour-hesion " into liquid layers of high
 opacity to radiant heat; these layers, acting upon the calo
 rific rays impinging on the interior surface of my tube, pro
 duced the absorption which I had erroneously ascribed to the

  458      Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
 vapours. More than this, the liquid layers were supposed to
 be broken up into discontinuous patches, which not only ab
 sorbed the heat but scattered it. " Vapour-hesion," it may
  be added, was found to vary with the liquid which produced
 the vapour, being particularly strong in the case of alcohol.
    Magnus brought this generalization to the test of experi
 ment, but failed to verify it. He urged humid air against a
 dry mirror, from which radiant heat was reflected; but unless
 he wetted the mirror visibly, no effect was produced on the
 reflected beam. Still he held that reflection, oft repeated,
 rendered sensible an action which eluded a single reflection.
 My position here is clear. I do not doubt surface attraction,
 or deny the existence of impalpable films. No experiment
 was ever made on the reflection of light or radiant heat in
 which such films did not intervene; but they had as little effect
 upon my results as they had upon those of De la Provostaye
 and Desains*, and of other refined experimenters. As early
 as 1859 I was made aware of the danger which might arise
 from condensation. Warned by the action of chlorine on my
 brass experimental tube, I coated it inside with lampblack,
 and retested with it all my vapours. The result removed from
 my mind the suspicion that surface condensation had any
 thing to do with the observed absorption. Many similar ex
 periments with blackened tubes were subsequently made bv
 me, for my own safety and instruction. There was no sub
 stantial difference between the results obtained with such
 tubes and those obtained with polished tubes in which internal
 reflection came into play.
    Such are the general features and phases of a discussion
 which, though dealing only with a small item of my work,
 has consumed a considerable amount of time. Other able
 experimenters have entered this field, the latest of whom,
 MM. Lecher and Pernter, have published a long and learned
 memoir in Wiedemann's Annalen, which has been translated
 in the Philosophical Magazine for January 1881. My expe
 riments with gases they corroborate, but not those with
vapours. Regarding the action of aqueous vapour they are
especially emphatic, their conclusion being "that moist air
does not perceptibly absorb the heat-rays from a source of
 100° C." In fact, they found moist air a little more transpa-
   * Considering the energy of water as a radiator, exceeding, according
to Leslie, that of lampblack itself, the film of this liquid which must
have covered the plates of silver in the experiments of the two French
philosophers ought, if Magnus be correct, to have sensibly raised the
emission. Calling the emission from lampblack 100, that from polished
silver phis the film was only 2"1.

     Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound.                 459
rent than a vacuum. " No imaginable source of error," they
affirm, " has here been left out of account." The arrangement
for filling with moist air was varied, the air allowed to stand
for a long time over the water in the gas-holder, and this moist
air then passed through several wash-bottles into the experi
mental space, but with the same negative result. In common
with Magnus, MM. Lecher and Pernter ascribe my results to
the condensation of liquid films on the rock-salt plates, and on
the polished inner surface of my tube*.
            § 4. Experiments resumed: Verifications.
   With a view to my own instruction and to the removal of
uncertainty from other minds, these researches on radiant
heat were resumed in November 1880. A brass experimental
tube 4 feet long, 2§ inches in diameter, and polished within,
was first employedf. Interposed between it and the source
was a " front chamber," through which, when exhausted, the
rays passed into the experimental tube. A plate of transpa
rent rock-salt separated the tube from the chamber, while a
 second plate of salt closed the distant end of the experimental
 tube. The source of heat was at first a Leslie's cube contain
 ing water at 100° C, to one of the faces of which the end of
 the front chamber was carefully soldered. The chamber also
 passed air-tight through a copper cell in which a continuous
 circulation of cold water was kept up. The heat which might
 otherwise have reached the experimental tube by conduction
 from the source was thus cut off. One face of a thermopile,
 provided with a reflecting cone, received the rays which passed
 through the experimental tube. The other face, also provided
 with a cone, received the rays from a " compensating cube,"
 used, as formerly, to neutralize the radiation from the source,
 and to bring the needle of the galvanometer to zero when the
 experimental tube was exhausted. On the entrance, then, of
    * However I may otherwise differ from MM. Lecher and Pernter,
 I agree with their opening remark, that few other questions of experi
 mental physics present difficulties so great as the one here under consi
 deration. Nor do I see reason to differ from their closing words, that " the
 extraordinary difficulty of investigations of this sort would be richly repaid
 by the attainment of quantitative results ; whilst the corresponding optical
 investigations (immeasurably easier) will always remain more of a quali
 tative nature." It is the difficulty here signalized that has caused so
 many distinguished investigators to go astray in this field of inquiry. I
 may state here that on the receipt of their paper I wrote to MM. Lecher
 and Pernter, but my communication was returned from Vienna through
 the dead-letter office.
    t The plate answering to this description will be found in the Philoso
 phical Transactions for 1861.

460     Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
any absorbent gas or vapour the equilibrium was destroyed,
the needle moved from zero; and from the observed permanent
deflection the absorption was calculated. Other qualities of
heat, and other experimental tubes than that here described,
were afterwards introduced into the inquiry.
   I here give the measurements executed in 1880 with the
vapours of nine different liquids, in experimental tubes of the
dimensions above given.
                             Table I.
                                            Vapours.     Liquids.
                                      Leslie's Leslie's Red-hot
                          Pressures.   cube,      cube    spiral.
                                      vacuum. free.
Bisulphide of carbon . •48    in. mer. 4-4         5-0      7-6
Chloroform .... •36              i)    12-8       129     28-8
                         •32           14-8       15-0    445
                                 ij
Iodide of ethyl     . . •36      n     18-4       19-3    47-0
Iodide of methyl . . •46         >)    25-0       2(v2    59-0
Amylene      .           •26           26-1       27-2    65-0
Sulphuric ether . . •28          »     35-0       35-6    71-0
Acetic ether     . . . •29             43-3       43-7    77-5
Formic ether . . . •36           }>    433        44-0    78-0
   The " pressures " in this table are chosen with a view to the
comparison of liquids and vapours. They express quantities
of vapour which are proportional to the quantities of matter
in the respective liquids at a common thickness. The two
next columns contain the absorptions per 100 of the heat from
two Leslie's cubes, the one with a vacuum in front of it, the
other placed in free air and well protected from air-currents.
The close agreement of the two columns proves the " front
chamber" to be a superfluity. It also illustrates the coinci
dence to be attained in these measurements when they are
carefully made. In the last column I have placed the absorp
tions exerted by liquid layers of the respective substances at a
common thickness of one millimetre. The source of heat here
was an incandescent platinum spiral. The order of absorption
of liquids and vapours is the same.
   This order is, as might be expected, undisturbed when we
apply heat of the same quality to liquids and vapours respec
tively. This is shown by the following table:—

     Radiant Heal, and its Conversion thereby into Sound.          461
                           Table II.
                                  Polished tube.       Blackened tube.
                                       A
                              Spiral         Spiral        Spiral
                              dull.         bright.         dull.
                                O              0              O
   Bisulphide of carbon        3-0            2-4            3-0
   Chloroform      . . .       7-0            4-6           5-0
                               9-4            7-5          10-0
   Iodide of ethyl           13-6             8-6          12-3
   Iodide of methyl . .      15-6           107            13-8
   Amylene ....              20-6           14-3           17-5
   Sulphuric ether . .       27-0           21-0           23-8
   Acetic ether . . .        33-0           23-0           29-0
   Formic ether . .          33-0           23-0           30-0
   The vapour-pressures here are the same as those employed
in Table I. The order of absorption is the same in both tables;
but its amount is diminished. This was to be expected, from
the difference in the quality of the heat. Wc are dealing with
transparent vapours—in other words, vapours pervious to the
luminous rays; and the greater the proportion of these rays in
the calorific beam, the less will be the absorption. This is
well illustrated by the second column in the table, which shows
the fall of the absorption when the spiral is raised from a dull
red to almost a white heat. The polished tube was used in
both these cases.
    The third column of figures in Table II. shows the results
obtained when the experimental tube was coated within with
lampblack. The absorptions are in the same order, and almost
 of the same amount as those of the first column. The case is
 representative, and might be multiplied to any extent. It is
 incompatible with the notion that my results were duo to films
 collected on the polished interior surface of my experimental
tube.
    Placing the substances recently experimented on in the
 order of their absorption, and also in the order which they
 exhibited in 1864, we have the following two columns:—
               1880.                                1864.
       Bisulphide of carbon.             Bisulphide of carbon.
       Chloroform                        Chloroform.
       Benzol.                           Iodide of methyl.
       Iodide of ethyl-                  Iodide of ethyl.
       Iodide of methyl                  Benzol.
       Amylene                           Amylene.
       Sulphuric ether.                  Sulphuric ether.
       Acetic ether.                     Acetic ether.
       Formic ether.                     Formic ether.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 13. No. 83. June 1882.                2M

462               Notices respecting Neic Books.
   In 1864, therefore, the iodide of methyl proved itself more
diiithermanous than the iodide of ethyl, while both of them
were more diathermanous than benzol. In 1880 the case was
precisely the reverse. Suspecting that the discrepancy might
be due to impurity, I requested my friend Professor Dewar to
subject the liquids to a further process of purification. Tested
afterwards, they produced the following deflections:—
                                         A.         B.         C.
                                         o          O         o
      Bisulphide of carbon              5-0        5-0        4-0
      Chloroform      . . .            17-0       15-0        6-0
      Iodide of methyl . .            39-4        33-0        8-0
      Iodide of ethyl . .              33-0       35-0       12-5
                                      42-0        41-0       16-0
      Sulphuric ether     .            44-3       43-5       18-2
      Acetic ether .      .   .        46-2       45-5       22'0
      Formic ether .                   47-5       46-9       222
   Under A and B respectively are the deflections produced
 by the liquids prior to and after purification. The iodide of
 methyl falls from 390,4 to 33°, while the iodide of ethyl rises
 from 33° to 35°. The relative positions occupied by the
 liquids in 1864 are thus restored. Benzol, however, remained
 permanently lower than before. Under C are the deflections
 produced by the vapours of the purified liquids. Here also
 the positions of the two iodides are reversed, vaporous absoqi-
 tion following the order of liquid absorption. I have fre
 quently encountered cases of this character. The simultaneous
 change of diathermic position of liquid and vapour indicates
 that the foreign ingredient, whatever it was, possessed approxi
 mately the same volatility as the substance which it vitiated.
                           [To be continued.]
               LIX. Notices respecting New Books.
Kant's Critique of Pure Reason: translated into English by F. Max
          MtiLLEB. 2 vols. Loudon : Macmillau and Co.
 rPU IS translation of Kant's great work appears in commemoration
       of the Centenary of its first publication. In the second volume
 we have the work proper, namely, a translation of the first edition :
 and in the first volume we have a preface by the translator, an
 Historical Introduction by Prof. Noire, and a translation of the
 supplements which were added by Kant to the second edition.
   In his preface the eminent translator states why he thought he
 might translate Kant's Critique, why he thought he ought to do it,

                    Notices respecting New Books.                  463
why a study of the work in question seemed necessary at present,
what he considers the relation of Kant's Metaphysic to Physical
Science, and in what manner Kant's Philosophy has been judged
by History. As regards the first point, it may well bo asked where
could a philosopher more happily fitted for the task be found ; and
as regards the second, it is most interesting to learn the extent to
which the Professor's own life-work has baen influenced by the
Critique. As regards the fourth point, the translator says : —
" Metaphysical truth is wider than physical truth ; and the new
discoveries of physical observers, if they are to be more than
merely contingent truths, must find their appointed place and
natural refuge within the immovable limits traced by the meta
physician. It was an unfortunate accident that gave to what
ought to have been called pro-physical, the name of metaphysical
science ; for it is only after having mastered the principles of meta
physic that the student of nature can begin his work in the right
spirit, knowing the horizon of human knowledge, and guided by
principles as unchangeable as the pole star"' (p. xxxii). Prof. Max
Miiller, notwithstanding his great authority, will get few natural
philosophers to agree with what he here lays down. On more
than one occasion that which the metaphysician has pronounced to
ba impossible has been that which the physicist has accomplished.
For instance, as was pointed out by Sir John Lubbock in his
Address as President of the British Association (p. 29), Comte
laid it down as an axiom regarding the heavenly bodies, that " Nous
concevons la possibilite de determiner leurs formes, leurs distances,
leurs grandeurs et leurs mouvements, tandis que nous ne saurions
jamais etudier par aucun nioyen leur composition chimique ou
leur structure mineralogique.'" That was in 1842 ; and now, in
 1882, there exists an elaborate science of Solar and Stellar Physics
 due to the method of Spectrum Analysis. Just above the place
 quoted, Professor Max Miiller asks, " But how can any one who
 weighs his words say that the modern physiology of the senses has
 in any way supplemented or improved Kant's theory of knowledge ?
 As well might we say that Spectrum Analysis has improved our
 logic." It is evident that Spectrum Analysis would have been
 capable of improving Comte's logic. If it be objected that Comte
 was not a true but a false metaphysician, we quote in reply what
 Professor Max Miiller states at p. xxi: — " Even Comte, ignorant
 as he was of German and German philosophy, expressed his satis
 faction and pride when he discovered how near he had, though
 unconsciously, approached to Kant's philosophy." The majority
 of scientists will probably fail to see any misfortune in the name
 metaphysical, but, on the contrary, hold that a theory of knowledge,
 to be of any value, must be dictated by the exact and natural
  sciences ; that such a theory may dictate back to the sciences, and
 they may re-dictate to it ; and that it is only by a mutual develop
 ment of this kind that either can be made to approach perfection.
     Professor Noire\ in his Introduction, traces the course of

 464                  Notices respecting New Bool*.
 philosophy through ancient and modern times, ending with Hume.
 He concludes with the following estimate of Kant ; and from this
 estimate one may infer the point of view from which the great
  thinkers of ancient and modern times have been surveyed :—" It
  is therefore not too much to say that Kant is the greatest philo
  sophical genius that has ever dwelt upon earth, and the ' Critique
  of Pure Reason ' the highest achievement of human wisdom."
     In this notice we have not the requisite space for discussing the
 Critique itself ; but we may state briefly certain fundamental ob
 jections which may, it appears to us, be urged against it. The
 following extract indicates in a summary manner Kant's funda
 mental position. " Even if we remove from experience every
 thing that belongs to the senses, there remain nevertheless certain
 origiual concepts, and certain judgments derived from them, which
 must have had their origin entirely a priori, and independent of
 all experience, because it is owing to them that we are able, or
 imagine we are able, to predicate more of the objects of our senses
 than can be learnt from mere experience, and that our propositions
 contain real generality and strict necessity, such as mere empirical
 knowledge can never supply " (p. 2). His object is to make a com
 plete inventory of this a priori knowledge. " Whatever the under
 standing possesses, as it has not to be looked for without, can
 hardly escape our notice, nor is there any reason to suppose that
 it will prove too extensive for a complete inventory "(p. 11). " It
 is true that our Critique must produce a complete list of all the
 fundamental concepts which constitute pure knowledge "' (p. 12).
 The inventory of the elements of transcendental aesthetic consists
 of two—namely, space and time ; motion is rejected on the ground
 that it presupposes something empirical—the perception of some
 thing moving. But if we turn to Modern Science, which for the
present purpose means Thomson and Tait's Treatise on Natural
 Philosojih;/, we find that there is a branch of -Pure Mathematics,
 called Kinematics, which treats of the circumstances of mere
motion considered without reference to the bodies moved. Its
 fundamental ideas are Velocity and Acceleration, neither of which
 involves the conception of Mass. If Space and Time only are
 d priori, how is it that Space, Time, and Mass are treated of by
writers on Dynamics as the three fundamental ideas ?
    Kant was a mathematician ; otherwise the Critique would not
have been written. The influence of his study of the Mathematics
is apparent everywhere. He views that science as so much a priori
kuowledge. •' flow far we can advance independently of all ex
perience in a priori knowledge is shown by the brilliant example of
Mathematics " (p. 4). " In the same mannner all geometrical
principles, e. (j. that in every triangle two sides together are greater
than the third, are never to be derived from the general concepts of
side and triangle, but from an intuition, and that a priori, with
apodictic certainty " (p. 22). That geometrical principles cannot
be evolved out of mere definitions would not require to be denied,

                   Notices respecting New Booh.                   465
had it not actually been held by some philosophers. Mathe
maticians will also agree with Kant in the stress which he lays
upon the construction. But there is one point which it seems to
us has not been dwelt upon sufficiently. Let us take Euclid, i. 16.
If we examine the proof, we shall find that it turns upon the
assertion that the angle ACF is less than the angle ACD. Now
this may be easily asserted for a particular triangle ; but before we
can assert it for any triangle, we have to investigate the matter
and glance over all the possible cases. If this be intuition, then
it is hard to distinguish intuition from the process of generalization
which the mind goes through in forming general judgments which
Kant would characterize as empirical, such as that contained in the
last clause of the following sentence :—" We know nothing but
our manner of perceiving them, that manner being peculiar to us,
and not necessarily shared in by every being, though, no doubt, by
every human being'' (p. 87).
   Since Kant's day the domain of Mathematics has been greatly
extended, and subjects formerly treated in a manner which was
truly empirical are now treated in a manner which is exact.
That domain includes even his own science of Logic. If, then,
that vast body of knowledge is to be put down as a priori, by
a prion can be meant nothing else than exact. If the Modern
Logic, as developed and expounded by De Morgau, Boole, Harley,
Jevons, Macfarlane, and Venn in this country, by Halsted and
Pierce in America, and by Schroder in Germany, be sound science,
then Kant's ' Critique ' must contain considerable imperfections ; for
it proceeds on the assumption that the scholastic logic was perfect.
" I mean only to treat of reason and its pure thinking, a knowledge
of which is not very far to seek, considering that it is to be found
within myself. Common logic gives an instance how all the simple
acts of reason can be enumerated completely and systematically "
(p. xxiv). " That Logic, from the earliest times, has followed that
secure method may be seen from the fact that since Aristotle it
has not had to retrace a single step, unless we choose to consider
as improvements the removal of some unnecessary subtleties, or the
clearer definition of its matter, both of which refer to the
elegance rather than to the solidity of the science. It is remark
able also, that to the present day it has not been able to
make one step in advance, so that, to all appearance, it may be
considered as completed and perfect " (Sup., p. 364). Whence
are the Pure Concepts of the Understanding (the Categories)
obtained '? From a classification of judgments " differing in some,
though not very essential, points from the usual technicalites of
logicians." The classification according to Quantity is Universal,
Particular, Singular. It may be asked, What of doubly universal
judgments, such as, for example, Kpijrcs aet ipevorai? It may be
pointed out that we may have judgments universal with respect to
both Space and Time, or with respect to Space only, or with
respect to Time only, or with respect to neither. But the proper

466                 Notices respecting Nero Books.
objection is, that the number of logical forms frequently occurring
iu judgments is by no means so small as stated by the old logicians.
They have no proper place for the equations of Algebra, or for
statements about Eelationships. In what intelligible sense can
7 + 5=12 be called a singular judgment ? (p. 145). The list of the
categories, being derived from an imperfect list of logical forms,
cannot be perfect. It may be described, to use one of Kant's own
phrases, as the result of a search after pure concepts undertaken
haphazard, the completeness of which, as based on induction only,
can never be guaranteed.
Tjfssons on Form. By E. P. Weight, Teacher of Mathematics,
    University College School, London. 8vo, pp. 103. Longmans
   and Co. :' 1882.
This short treatise aims at teaching the first elements of Geo
metry in an informal manner, as compared with the martinetism of
Euclid, after the method of Pestalozzi. Commencing with the
forms of the principal regular solids, it passes to the analysis of
the relations among straight lines intersecting one another, and of
the angles which they thus make, whether two are parallels cut by
a secant or whether no two are parallel. In the three chapters
treating of these matters formal proofs are sparingly introduced,
the treatment being rather descriptive than demonstrative. Chap
ter 4 is a short initiation into the study of the triangle : the con
ception of similar triangles, having commensurable sides, being
early introduced. The subject of the varieties of the Quadrilateral
and the method of measuring areas occupy the remaining two chap
ters of the First Part.
   Part II. treats of the metrical properties of triangles, as depend
ing on Pythagoras's Principle, of which several proofs are given.
The consideration of regular Polygons and of the Circle, as their
limit, closes the treatise.
   From this brief analysis of the scheme and contents of the book,
it will be seen that pupils who have been guided to master it in
telligently will have acquired a considerable amount of Geometrical
knowledge ; and this, as it is hoped, with little or no drudgery.
The skilful teacher will know how to select those parts particularly
which seem most suited to the degrees of development and ap
titudes of the learners. That he will find the book most helpful
and suggestive in a mode of instruction out of the usual routine
path will be evident. This smaller work may be regarded as intro
ductory to Mr. Wright's larger and more formal ' Elements of
Plane Geometry '. now in its fourth edition, a fact which stamps
it as a standard treatise.

                             [   467    ]
          LX. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                 ON THE LIQUEFACTION OF OZONE.
             BY P. HAUTEFEUILLE AND J. CHAPPUIS.
"Yf CAILLETET having placed at our disposal the apparatus
     • he has set up at the Ecole Normale for the liquefaction of
ethylene, as well as the whole arrangement which he employs
in order to study the changes of state of what are called the per
manent gases, we have been able to complete our first experiments
upon the liquefaction of ozone.
   The study of the conditions under which a sudden expansion
determines the formation of a mist in a mixture of oxygen and
ozone has permitted us to establish that pure ozone is less easily
liquefied than carbonic acid ; the addition of carbonic acid to that
mixture furnishes by compression a liquid of a pale blue colour,
which coloration we attributed to ozone liquefied at the same time
as the carbonic acid. From all these facts we concluded that it was
possible to obtain ozone in a liquid form, and that that liquid would
be strongly coloured.
   Those deductions have just been fully confirmed by experiment ;
for we have obtained ozone in liquid drops of a deep indigo-blue
colour. This liquid has been preserved nearly thirty minutes under
a pressure of 75 atmospheres ; its vaporization is not very rapid,
even under the atmospheric pressure.
   The liquefaction was attained by compressing with about 125
atmospheres a mixture of oxygen and ozone contained in the test-
tube of M. Cailletet's apparatus, which is terminated by a capillary
tube recurved at its upper portion, permitting the descending
branch to be immersed in a jet of liquid ethylene, lowering its tem
perature probably below — 100°. When the gas operated on con
tains not more than 10 per cent, by weight of ozone, the gas
compressed with 125 atmospheres is not perceptibly coloured in
the ascending branch, while the blue coloration is very distinct in
all the refrigerated portion of the capillary tube.
   Does this coloration depend on the presence of a mixed liquid
formed of ozone and oxygen, or on that of a thin film of liquid
ozone lining the interior of the capillary tube ? The absence of a
distinct meniscus leaves this question undecided ; but, in favour of
the first of these hypotheses, we have noticed that the coloration
was not more intense in the lower than in the upper part of the
refrigerated tube, and that a sudden expansion does not determine
the formation of a mist, which so well indicates, in M. Cailletet's
experiments, the passage from the gaseous to the liquid state.
   The tube becomes instantaneously colourless in consequence of
the expansion, and contains in the thin part which terminates it a
liquid drop of a deep indigo-blue ; the ozone contained in the mix
ture is almost all condensed in the sloping part ; for a fresh com
pression with 1 25 atmospheres does not communicate to the tube
any appreciable coloration.

468            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
    Onco the ozone is liquefied in the capillary tube, it remains in
that state long enough, even under the pressure of the atmosphere,
for it to be examined either through the liquid ethylene or the
refrigerated tube being withdrawn for a moment from that liquid.
The deep-blue liquid gradually diminishes in volume : the vapori
zation of the ozone is sufficiently slow, its diffusion sufficiently rapid,
for the gas to appear colourless above the nearly black liquid ; it is
only at the moment when the last traces of the liquid disappear that
one ascertains the production of an azure-blue gas. The vaporiza
tion of the liquid ozone would bring back the system to its initial
state, if the ozone were not slowly decomposed by the mercury
employed to compress the gases.— Comptes Rendu* de TAcadtinu
des Sciences, May 1, 1882, pp. 1249-1251.
       ON THE ACTION OF TELEPHONIC CURRENTS UPON THE
              GALVANOMETER. BY M. DE CHARDONNET.
    If, in the telegraphic circuit, the receiver be replaced by a very
sensitive galvanometer, and the transmitter be influenced by means
of a diapason, an organ-pipe, or the voice, no deflection is observed
as long as the sound keeps the same intensity ; but as soon as the
sonorosity is increased or diminished, the needle is deflected : the
 direction of the deflection varies according to whether the ampli
 tude of the vibrations of the sounding body is increasing or de
creasing. The effect is more marked when the transmitter is
 shaken by a noise of short duration, such as a detonation, or by a
 body lightly tapped upon the vibrating plate. In this last case the
 galvanometer-needle leaps like the seconds-hand of a clock. The
 experiment also succeeds very well when the soundiug body is
 briskly moved nearer to or away from the transmitter. These
 deflections appear, of course, much more distinctly when a micro
 phone-transmitter, like Ader's, is employed ; but they are visible
 with every kind of telephone.
    The explanation appears very simple, at least for the whole of
 the facts collectively : —
     As long as the oscillations of the vibrating plate retain the same
 amplitude, and consequently the same velocity, the currents induced
 alternately in the two directions at each complete vibration com
 pensate each other's action upon the galvanometer, whether they
 emanate from an electromagnet or a microphone ; but if the oscil
 lations tend towards zero, for example, each odd semioscillation
 has more amplitude than the following even semioscillation, and
 the direct and the inverse induced currents no longer put in motion
 the same quantities of electricity. The residues, of the same sign
 at each complete oscillation, accumulate so as to deflect the needle ;
 and the more rapidly the sound diminishes, the greater is the de
  flection. This is what experiment demonstrates.— Comptes Reiultcs
  de TAcademic des Sciences, March 27. 1882, t. xciv. p. 857.

   LIEBIG'S EXTRACT OF MEAT AND MALT WINE
                               (COLEMAN'S).
                    A Delicious Beverage and Tonic,
    Made from Port Wine, Liebig's Extract of Meat and Extract of Malt ; Nutri
tious, Strengthening, Stimulating-, Flesh-forming, Health-restoring, Suitable for
the Robust in Health as well as the Invalid. Strongly recommended by the
Medical Faculty. An Immediate Benefit is experienced after taking it; the
Frame is Invigorated, and no ill effects follow.
   LIEBIG'S EXTRACT OF MEAT AND MALT WINE (COLEMAN'S).
                                 TESTIMONIALS.
    Sib,—A short time since I was induced by the novelty of the title to send for
 a bottle of your Liebig's Extract of Meat and Malt Wine. I was perfectly
 acquainted with the value of the Extraction Camis, and not quite a stranger to
 the invigorating and fortifying properties of malt wine, and therefore felt a
 natural curiosity to test them when combined.
    Men who work hard as I do—not muscular hard work, but that which is quite
 as exhausting, viz. brain work—very often experience the need of, and have some
 times an almost irresistible craving for, a "pick me up;" and very often the
 panacea for a time for lassitude, and that state of mind which renders work
 irksome, are alcoholic stimulants^ the use of which must sooner or later end
 disastrously.
     The man who can furnish n remedy, sure, certain, and harmless, for the lassi
 tude which follows constant brain-work is a benefactor of his species, and may
 be said to have added many years of usefulness to the lives of useful men.
     Your extract is a success, and, when more generally known, will be used bv
 all toilers of the mind.                              Yours faithfully, O. I). RAY.
     Thorpe Hamlet, Norwich, Feb. 23, 1881.
                                                 Queen's Crescent, Haverstock Hill,
                                                        London, March 5, 1881.
     Dear Sib,—Some time since, being greatly fatigued with over-work and long
 hours at business, my health (being naturally delicate) became very indifferent.
 I lost all energy, strength, and appetite, and was so weak as to be scarcely able
 to walk.
     As you are aware, I sent for a dozen of your Extract of Meat and Malt Wine,
  which in a few days pulled me up marvellously. Three or four glasses of it daily
 have quite altered and restored me to better health than ever, " without the assist
 ance of a doctor."
     I am now giving it to my son, twelve years of age, whom we have always
  thought consumptive, and from a puny ailing boy he seems to be fast growing
  into a strong healthy lad.
     Enclosed you have cheque. Please send me two dozen of the " Extract."
  With thanks for your prompt attention to my last.
                                    Yours truly, I am, Sir, GEORGE A. TYLER.
                                     Mineral Water Hospital, Bath, Sept. 22, 1881.
     Gentlemen,—Referring to yours respecting jour Liebig's Extract of Meat
  and Malt Wine, I have much pleasure in testifying to its excellent qualities. It
  is highly nutritious, stimulating, and health-restoring.
     Every claim you make for it I can fully endorse, and I shall be pleased to
  recommend it as an incomparable tonic.
                         1 am, Gentlemen, yours faithfully, EDWD. J. VOYSEY.
    Pints, 27s. per dozen ; Quarts, 50s. per dozen. Carriage paid to any
   Railway Station in Great Britain. Sample Bottle sent for 33 stamps.
                           P.O. Orders to be made payable to
                 COLEMAN AND CO.,
                     MUSPOLE STREET, NORWICH.
                       CHZQUS CB0S8ED LONDON AND PROVINCIAL BAKE.
     Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Vendors in the United Kingdom, in
  Bottles, -2s. 9d. and 4s. Gd. each. Ash for Coleman's Liebig's Extract of
  Meat and Malt Wine, and " See that you get it."

               CONTENTS of N° 83.—:Fifth Series.
    XL1X. On the different Systems of Measures for Electric and
 Magnetic Quantities. By Prof. E. Clausius                              page 381
    L. On the Question of Electrification by Evaporation. By S. H.
 Freeman, Fellow in Physics, Johns Hopkins University, Balti
 more, Md                                                                      398
   LI. On the Function of the two Ears in the Perception of Space.
By Professor Silvanus P. Thompson, D.Sc, B. A                                  406
   LII. A Theorem on the Dissipation of Energy. By S. H. Bubbitbt -1 1 7
   LIII. On B«tardation of Chemical Action.            By John J. Hood,
 B.Sc, Assoc. E.S.M                                                            4l!»
   LrV. Note on the supposed Helical Path of the Electric Current
in longitudinally Magnetized Conductors. By J. A. Ewing, B.Sc.
F.E.S.E., Professor of Mechanical Engineering in the University of
Tokio, Japan                                                                  42;;
   LV. On the Dimensions of a Magnetic Pole in the Electrostatic
System of Units. By J. J. Thomson                                             427
   LVI. On the Electrostatic Dimensions of a Magnetic Pole.              By
Prof. J. Labmob                                                               4l".<
   LVH. On the Dimensions of a Magnetic Pole in the Electrostatic
System of Units. (Second Article.) By Prof. J. D. Etebett . . . . 4:<1
   LVIU. Action of Free Molecules on Eadiant Heat, and its Con
version thereby into Sound. By John Ttndall, F.E.S                            435
   LIX. Notices respecting New Books :—
      Kant's Critique of Pure Eeason.—Mr. E. P.Wright's Lessons
         on Form                                                       462, 466
   LX. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
      On theLiquefaction of Ozone, by P. Hautefeuille and J. Chappuis 467
      On the Action of Telephonic Currents upon the Galvanometer,
         by M. de Chardonnet                                                  46>
     It is requested that all Communications for this \\ ork may be addre&ed
       post-paid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office, Red
       Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

                SUPPLEMENTARY NUMBER.
ol. 13.                                                                       No. 84.
           Published the First Da                   fonth.—Price 2s. 6d.
                                      ^ffTJ J               JUL 12 1882
               LONDON, ED^0|OH, and DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL                                      MAGAZINE,
                                        AMD
                JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
     Being a Continuation of TillocKs 'Philosophical Magazine?
       Nicholsons 'Journal? and Thomson's 'Annals of Philosophy.'1
                                    CONDUCTED BY
         SIR ROBERT KANE, LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.A. F.C.S.
          SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, Knt. LL.D. F.RS. &c.
                              *          AND
          WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
                             FIFTH          SERIES.
               N° 84.—SUPPLEMENT.                      JULY 1882.
                               WITH ONE PLATE.
            Illustrative of Mr. L. Fletcher's Crystallograpbic Notes.
    This Supplement to Vol. XIII. is published with the regular Number
              for July, and should be delivered with it to Subscribers.
                                   LONDON:
        PRINTED BY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS, RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET,
  Sold by Longmans, Green, Reader and Dyer ; Kent and Co. j Simpkin, Marshall and
    (Jo. ; and Whittaker and Co. ;—and by A. and C. Black, and Xliomas Clark, Edin
    burgh ; Smith and Son, Glasgow :—Hodges, Foster and Co., Dublin :—Putnam,
    New York : —and Asher and Co., Berlin.


                              THE
          LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
   PHILOSOPHICAL                        MAGAZINE
                              AND
            JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
       SUPPLEMENT to VOL. XIII.          FIFTH SEEIES.
LXI. Preliminary Notice of the Results accomplished in the
   Manufacture and Tlieory of Gratings for Optical purposes.
   By Prof. H. A. Rowland, of the Johns Hopkins University,
   Baltimore*.
IT is not many years since physicists considered that a
      spectroscope constructed of a large number of prisms
was the best and only instrument for viewing the spectrum
where great power was required. These instruments were
large and expensive, so that few physicists could possess them.
Professor Young was the first to discover that some of the
gratings of Mr. Rutherfurd showed more than any prism-spec
troscope which had then been constructed. But all the gra
tings which had been made up to that time were quite small,
say one inch square, whereas the power of a grating in resol
ving the lines of the spectrum increases with the size. Mr.
Rutherfurd then attempted to make as large gratings as his
machine would allow, and produced some which were nearly
two inches square, though he was rarely successful above an
inch and three quarters, having about thirty thousand lines.
These gratings were on speculum-metal, and showed more of
the spectrum than had ever before been seen, and have, in
the hands of Young, Rutherfurd, Lockyer, and others, done
much good work for science. Many mechanics in this country
and in France and Germany have sought to equal Mr. Ruther
ford's gratings, but without success.
   Under these circumstances I have taken up the subject
with the resources at command in the physical laboratory of
the Johns Hopkins University.
   One of the problems to be solved in making a machine is
to make a perfect screw; and this mechanics of all countries
have sought to do for over a hundred years, and have failed.
On thinking over the matter, I devised a plan whose details 1
                 * Communicated by the Author.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. No. 84. Suppl. Vol. V6.            2N

470     Prof. H. A. Rowland on l/te Results accomplished
 shall soon publish, by which I hoped to make a practically
 perfect screw; and so important did the problem seem, that I
 immediately set Mr. Schneider, the instrument-maker of the
 university, at work at one. The operation seemed so success
 ful that 1 immediately designed the remainder of the machine,
 and have now had the pleasure since Christmas of trying it.
 The screw is practically perfect, not by accident, but because
 of the new process for making it ; and I have not yet been
 able to detect an error so great as one one-hundred-thousandth
 part of an inch at any part. Neither has it any appreciable
 periodic error. By means of this machine I have been able
 to make gratings with 43,000 lines to the inch, and have
 made a ruled surface with 160,000 lines on it, having about
 29,000 lines to the inch. The capacity of the machine is to
 rule a surface 6^ x 4£ inches with any required number of
lines to the inch, the number only being limited by the wear
 of the diamond. The machine can be set to almost any num
 ber of lines to the inch; but I have not hitherto attempted
 more than 43,000 lines to the inch. It ruled so perfectly at
 this figure that I see no reason to doubt that at least two or
 three times that number might be ruled in one inch, though
 it would be useless for making gratings.
    All gratings hitherto made have been ruled on flat surfaces.
 Such gratings require a pair of telescopes for viewing the
spectrum. These telescopes interfere with many experiments,
aosorbing the extremities of the spectrum strongly ; besides,
 two telescopes of sufficient size to use with six-inch gratings
 would be very expensive and clumsy affairs. In thinking
 over what would happen were the grating ruled on a surface
 not flat, I thought of a new method of attacking the problem ;
 and soon found that if the lines were ruled on a spherical sur
 face, the spectrum would be brought to a focus without any
 telescope. This discovery of concave gratings is important
 for many physical investigations, such as the photographing
 of the spectrum both in the ultra-violet and the ultra-red, the
 determination of the heating-effect of the different rays, and
 the determination of the relative wave-lengths of the lines of
 the spectrum. Furthermore it reduces the spectroscope to
 its simplest proportions, so that spectroscopes of the highest
 power may be made at a cost which can place them in the
hands of all observers. With one of my new concave gratings
I have been able to detect double lines in the spectrum which
were never before seen.
    The laws of the concave grating are very beautiful on
account of their simplicity, especially in the case where it
will be used most. Draw the radius ot curvature of the mirror

           in tlie Manufacture and Theory of Gratings.          471
to the centre of the mirror, and from its central point, with a
radius equal to half the radius of curvature draw, a circle ; this
circle thus passes through the centre of curvature of the mirror
and touches the mirror at its centre. Now, if the source of
light is anywhere in this circle, the image of this source and
the different orders of the spectra are all brought to focus on
this circle. The word focus is hardly applicable to the case,
 however; for if the source of light is a point, the light is not
 brought to a single point on the circle, but is drawn out into
a straight line with its length parallel to the axis of the circle.
As the object is to see lines in the spectrum only, this fact is
of little consequence provided the slit which is the source of
light is parallel to the axis of the circle. Indeed it adds to
the beauty of the spectra, as the horizontal lines due to dust
in the slit are never present, as the dust has a different focal
length from the lines of the spectrum. This action of the
concave grating, however, somewhat impairs the light, espe
cially of the higher orders; but the introduction of a cylindrical
lens greatly obviates this inconvenience.
   The beautiful simplicity of the fact that the line of foci of
the different orders of the spectra are on the circle described
above, leads immediately to a mechanical contrivance by which
we can move from one spectrum to the next and yet have the
apparatus always in focus ; for we only have to attach the
slit, the eye-piece, and the grating to three aims of equal
length, which are pivoted together at their other ends, and the
conditions are satisfied. However we move the three arms,
the spectra are always in focus. The most interesting case of
this contrivance is when the bars carrying the eye-piece and
grating are attached end to end, thus forming a diameter of the
circle, with the eye-piece at the centre of curvature of the
mirror, and the rod carrying the slit alone movable. In this
case the spectrum as viewed by the eye-piece is normal; and
when a micrometer is used, the value of a division of its head
in wave-lengths does not depend on the position of the slit,
but is simply proportional to the order of the spectrum, so
that it need be determined once only. Furthermore, if the
oye-pieco is replaced by a photographic camera, the photogra
phic spectrum is a normal one. The mechanical means of
keeping the focus is especially important when investigating
the ultra-violet and ultra-red portions of the solar spectrum.
   Another important property of the concave grating is that
all the superimposed spectra are in exactly the same focus.
When viewing such superimposed spectra, it is a most beautiful
sight to see the lines appear coloured on a nearly white ground.
Bv micrometric measurement of such superimposed spectra,
                               2N 2

472     Prof. H. A. 1 lowland on the Results accomplished
we have a most beautiful method of determining the relative
wave-lengths of the different portions of the spectrum, which
far exceeds in accuracy any other method yet devised. In
working in the ultra-violet or ultra-red portions of the
spectrum, we can also focus on the superimposed spectrum,
and so get the focus for the portion experimented on.
    The fact that the light has to pass through no glass in the
concave grating makes it important in the examination of tho
extremities of the spectrum, where the glass might absorb very
much.
    There is one important research in which the concave
grating in its present form does not seem to be of much use;
and that is in the examination of the solar protuberances ; an
instrument can only be used for this purpose in which the
 dust in the slit and the lines of the spectrum are in focus at
once. It might be possible to introduce a cylindrical lens in
such a way as to obviate this difficulty. But for other work
on the sun the concave grating will be found very useful.
 But its principal use will be to get the relative wave-lengths
of the lines of the spectrum, and so to map the spectrum ; to
divide lines of the spectrum which are very near together,
 and so to see as much as possible of the spectrum ; to photo
 graph the spectrum so that it shall be normal ; to investigate
 the portions of the spectrum beyond the range of vision ; and,
 lastly, to put into the hands of any physicist at a moderate
 cost such a powerful instrument as could only hitherto bo
 purchased by wealthy individuals or institutions.
    To give further information of what can be done in the way
 of gratings I will state the following particulars :—
    The dividing-engine can rule a space 6£ inches long and
 4^ inches wide. The lines, which can be 4£ inches long, do
 not depart from a straight line so much as y^^jyinch, and
 the carriage moves forward in an equally straight line. The
 screw is practically perfect, and has been tested to 100*0Cp inch
 without showing error. Neither does it have any appreciable
 periodic error; and the periodic^ error due to the mounting
 and graduated head can be entirely eliminated by a suitable
 attachment. For showing the production of ghosts by a
 periodic error, such an error can be introduced to any reason
 able amount. Every grating made by the machine is a good
 one, dividing the 1474 line with ease; but some are better
 than others. Rutherford's machine only made one in every
 four good, and only one in a long time which might be called
 rirst-class. One division of the head of the screw makes
 14,438 lines to the inch. Any fraction of this number in
 which the numerator is not greater than, say, 20 or 30 can be

            in the Manufacture and Theory of Gratings.       473
ruled. Some exact numbers to the millimetre, such as 400,
800, 1200, etc., can also be ruled. For the finest definition
either 14,438 or 28,876 lines to the inch are recommended—
the first for ordinary use, and the second for examining the
extremities of the spectrum. Extremely brilliant gratings
have been made with 43,314 lines to the inch; and there is
little difficulty in ruling more if desired. The following show
some results obtained :—
   Flat grating, 1 inch square, 43,000 lines to the inch.
       Divides the 1474 line in the first spectrum.
   Flat grating, 2x3 inches, 14,438 lines to the inch, total
      43,314. Divides 1474 in the first spectrum, the E line
       (Angstrom 5269*4) in the second, and is good in the
       fourth and in even the fifth spectrum.
   Flat grating, 2x3 inches, 1200 lines to 1 millimetre.
       Shows very many more lines in B and A groups than
       were ever before seen.
   Flat grating, 2 x 3£ inches, 14,438 lines to the inch. This
       has most wonderful brilliancy in one of the first spectra,
       so that I have seen the Z line, wave-length 8240 (see
       Abney's map of the ultra-red region), and determined
       its wave-length roughly, and have seen much further
       below the A line than the B line is above the A line.
       The same may be said of the violet end of the spectrum.
       But such gratings are only obtained by accident.
   Concave grating, 2x3 inches, 7 feet radius of curvature,
       4818 lines to the inch. The coincidences of the spectra
       can be observed to the tenth or twelfth spectrum.
   Concave grating, 2x3 inches, 14,438 lines to the inch,
       radius of curvature 8 feet. Divides the 1474 line in the
       first spectrum, the E line in the second, and is good in
       the third or fourth.
    Concave grating, 3 x 5£ inches, 17 feet radius of curvature,
       28,876 lines to the inch, and thus nearly 160,000 lines
       in all. This shows more in the first spectrum than was
       ever seen before. Divides 14740and E very widely, and
     . shows the stronger component of Angstrom 5275 double.
        Second spectrum not tried.
   Concave grating, 4 x 5| inches, 3610 lines to the inch,
       radius of curvature 5 feet 4 inches. This grating was
       made for Professor Langley's experiments on the ultra-
       red portion of the spectrum, and was thus made very
       bright in the first spectrum. The definition seems to
       be very fine, notwithstanding the short focus, and divides
       the 1474 line with ease. But it is difficult to rule so
       concave a grating, as the diamond marks differently on
       the different parts of the plate,

  474         Mr, L. Fletcher's Crystnlloffrapine Note*.
     These give illustrations of the results accomplished; but of
  course many other experiments have been made. I have not
  yet been able to decide whether the definition of the concave
 grating fully comes up to that of a flat grating ; but it evi
 dently does so very nearly.
    Baltimore, May 25, 1882.
   LXIT. Crystalloyraphic Notes. By L. Fletcher, M.A., of
             the Mineral Department, British Museum0.
                                [Plate X.]
                           IX. Skutterudite.
 THE first mention of this mineral was made in 1827 by
         Breithauptf, to whom it had been submitted by his
  brother-in-law on returning from a voyage in Norway.
  Though none of the specimens presented crystal-faces, Breit-
 haupt found that there were distinct cleavages parallel to the
  sjdes of a cube, for which reason he assigned to the species
  the name of Tesseral-Kies. Cleayages, more or less interrupted
 and indistinct, were found to exist parallel to planes trunca
 ting the edges and quoins of this cube, indicating that the
  crystallisation was that characteristic of the cubic system.
 Breithaupt went a step further, and, from traces of separation
 which manifested themselves in the direction of the octahe
 dral planes, hazarded the conjecture, since (curious to say)
 verified, that the crystals would prove to present the octahe
 dron as the predominant form. The specimens were of a
 bright metallic lustre and of a tin-white colour. The specific
 gravities of five different fragments were determined to be
  6-659, 6-681, 6-718, 6-748, 6-848, and thus had a consider
 able range. As, however, after breaking up the fragments,
 it was seen that the first three included particles of quartz and
 actinolite, Breithaupt regarded the true specific gravity as
 lying between 6-748 and 6-848. The hardness was greater
 than that of cobaltite or Cobaltkies; and as blowpipe examina
 tion had indicated that cobalt and arsenic were the chief con
 stituents, Breithaupt suggested the secondaiy title of Hartko-
 baltkies. The associated minerals were cobaltine, copper
 pyrites, glassy actinolite, serpentine, quartz, and sometimes
 also cobalt-bloom.
   * Communicated by the Author, having been read before the Crystallo-
logical Society, May 30, 1881.
   t " Ueber eine neue Kies-Species von Skutterud," Poesr. Ann. vol. ix,
p. 116 (1827).

                            Phil Mag. S 5. Vol 13.P1.X
 F ig: 1.                              F ig: 2.
              o (III I
              cb (no)
             a 1 100)
              f ir(aw)
Fig: 3.
          SIfniter-ti-CLita
                                             Minlem Br->:, litfv

  -¦
/

             Mr. L. Fletcher's Cryatallographio Notes.             475
    Ten years later Scheerer* met with a mineral which ex
amination led him to regard as identical with that previously
described by Breithaupt. A quantitative analysis, afterwards
confirmed by Wohlerf, gave the following result:—
                 Arsenic                        77-84
                 Cobalt                         20-01
                 Sulphur                         0-69
                 Iron                            1*51
                 Copper                         traces
                                               100-05
a composition expressed by the formula CoAs3.
   The description given by Scheerer agrees very closely with
that of Breithaupt ; but not only did he find the mineral in
its massive condition, but also as isolated crystals. These had
the form of octahedra, modified by the cube dodecahedron
and an icositetrahedron: the inclination of the faces of the
latter form to the adjacent face of the octahedron, as measured,
was 19° 27', proving clearly that the icositetrahedron was
(2 1 1), for which the calculated angle is 19° 28'; the faces of
this particular icositetrahedron truncate the edges of the do
decahedron. He farther observes that this form (211) was
present on every crystal he had examined. Scheerer notioes
also the interesting fact that the crystals are often found im
planted upon crystals of cobaltite, and states that he had not
been able to trace any regularity in the relative position of the
crystals of the two species. As the term Tesseralkies might
be taken to imply that the mineral crystallises in the form
of cubes, he suggests Arsenikkobaltkies as a more appropriate
name.
   In Haidinger's ' Handbuch der bestimmenden Mineralogie '
(1845) the mineral appears under still another title—Skut-
terudite, suggestive of the locality where the crystals are
found.
    In Brook and Miller's edition of ' An Elementary Introduc
tion to Mineralogy by the late William Phillips,' published in
1852, the forms presented by Skutterudite are given as (1 0 0),
(1 1 0), (1 1 1), and (2 2 1), and the angles according with
this description are calculated. It will be observed that the
form (2 1 1) described by Scheerer is not mentioned, but that
a new form, (2 2 1), a triakisoctahedron, is substituted. In
 1862 vom RathJ, apparently not having referred to the
   * " Ueber zwei uorwegische Kobalterze von den Skutteruder Qruben,"
Pore. Ann. vol. xlii. p. 563 (1837).
   t rogg. Ann. vol. liii. p. 691.
   t " Neue Flachen am Tesseralkies," Pogg. Ann. vol. cxv. p. 480.

476           Mr. L. Fletcher's Cryshdloyraphic Notes.
original paper of Scheerer, and assuming that the information
contained in the last-mentioned ' Mineralogy ' incorporated all
the results of observation up to that date, determined anew
the form (2 1 1), and also added a triakisoctahedron (3 3 2), a
tetrakishexahedron (3 1 0), and a hexakisoctahedron (6 4 3).
    The prominent forms, according to both Scheerer and vom
Rath, are the octahedron (111), the dodecahedron (110),
and the icositetrahedron (21 1); while, according to the latter
mineralogist, the additional forms (3 3 2), (3 1 0), (6 4 3) are
only subordinately developed. The disposition of the faces of
this hexakisoctahedron (6 4 3) will be more easily imagined, if
it be remarked that they cut off the edges of intersection of
the octahedron with the tetrakishexahedron (3 1 0). With
 regard to the faces of the triakisoctahedron, vom Bath observes
 that they are small and unsuited for measurement, but that in
 one case he had been able to measure the angle made with the
 adjacent face of the octahedron as lying between 9£° and 10£°;
 whence he concludes that the form is not (2 21), as given by
 Miller, which requires an angle of 15° 48', but (3 3 2), for
 which the calculated angle is 10° 2'.
    As vom Rath considered it unlikely that the subordinate
 triakisoctahedron present on some crystals should be (2 2 1)
 and on others (33 2), he suggests that the symbol given by
 Miller is a mistaken one, and appears to thiuk that the fonn
 (2 2 1) may have been determined by inspection and not by
 measurement. It seems, however, much more probable that
 the information given by Miller is intended to be merely
 a statement of the results of Scheerer, and not of a later
 examination by Miller himself, who could not have failed
 to remark the existence of the icositetrahedron (2 1 1), which
 is so characteristic that it was present on every crystal ex
 amined by Scheerer, and in fact can be distinguished on
 every specimen in the collection of the British Museum. It
 seems fairly evident, then, that Miller's (2 2 1) was a simple
 error introduced in the copying of Scheerer's results, and that
 the angles were afterwards calculated without this error in the
 translation of the symbol from the German notation being
 remarked. If this hypothesis be correct, (2 2 1) must be
 expelled from the list of observed forms.
     The next mention of Skutterudite is to be found in an ex
 tremely interesting and important paper by Schrauf and Dana
 on the thermoelectric properties of mineral-varieties*, where
 they remark that, although the mineral undoubtedly crystal
 lises in the cubic system, and has never been observed to
    • * Ueber die thermoelektrische Eigenschaften von Mineral-Varietiten."
  Sitz.-Ber. Ak. Wim, vol. Ixix. p. 163 (1874).

             Mr. L. Fletcher's Crystallographic Notes.            477
present any hemihedral development, they nevertheless find
some specimens to be thermoelectrically positive and others
negative.
    The bearing of this remark will be more obvious when it is
recalled to mind that the investigation of Schrauf and Dana
was undertaken with a view to test the accuracy of the induc
tion made by Gustav Rose from his experiments on iron
pyrites and cobaltine*—that the opposition in the thermo
electric behaviour of different specimens of the same mineral
is due to the diplohedral hemisymmetry,—and of his inference
that the faces observed on the positive and negative crystals be
long only apparently to the same, really to complementary,
semiforms. The observation of Schrauf and Dana, that the
same thermoelectiical peculiarities are shown by a holohedral
mineral of the same crystalline system to which iron pyrites
and cobaltine belong, will clearly not strengthen the position
taken up by Rose,
    It is therefore of some interest to find that the specimens
in this Collection prove that not only is Skutterudite undoubt
edly hemihedral, but that it presents the particular variety of
hemisymmetry which is so characteristic of both iron pyrites
and cobaltine.
    Brezinaf has pointed out that the opposition of thermo
electric properties shown by various specimens of iron pyrites
and cobaltine cannot be satisfactorily explained by diplohedral
symmetry, and holds that haplohedral hemisymmetry must be
at the same time present—that, in other words, the crystals
 must be tetartohedral in structure ; and, assuming that the
 differences in the specimens are only differences of molecular
 grouping, Brezina regards iron pyrites and the allied species
as being really tetartohedral—a view which as yet there is
 little, if any, crystallographic evidence to support. It seems,
 however, more probable that Schrauf and Dana are right in
 attributing this difference, not to crystalline hemisymmetry,
 but to slight differences of composition or of density ; and the
 force of their argument will not be very much weakened by
 the reference of the symmetry of the crystalline forms of
 Skutterudite to a hemihedral type.
     It may be useful to remark that attention was first directed
 to the hemihedry by the discovery of a crystal of Skutterudite
 among the specimens of that typically hemihedral mineral
    * "Ueber den Zusamnieiibang zwischen hemiedriscker Krystalltbrm
 und thermo-elektrischen Verhalten beim Eisenkies und Kobaltglanz,"
 Pogg. Ann. vol. cxlii. p. 1 (1871).
    t " Ueber die Symmetric der Pyritgruppe," Tschermak's Min. Mittheit.
 p. 23 (1872).

 478         Mr, L. Fletcher's Crystallography Sotes.
 cobaltine, to which it was very similar in habit, though differ
 ent in colour. Closer examination, however, made known the
 fact that the hemihed rally-developed/aces belonged, not to the
 pentagonal dodecahedron tt(21 0), so common in both cobal
 tine and iron pyrites, but to the much rarer form Tr(310).
 In this Collection there are fourteen more or less perfect crys
tals, presenting respectively the following development :—
    No. 1 shows only the octahedron o(l 1 1) modified by faces
 of the icositetrahedron ?t(2 1 1), as shown in fig. 1 (PI. X.).
    Nos. 2, 3, 4 show also the faces of the dodecahedron rf(l 1 0),
and are represented in fig. 2—each of these four crystals being
implanted upon a crystal of cobaltite in the way described by
Scheerer and vom Rath. On Nos. 5 and 6 the same forms
recur; but some of the quoins are truncated by small planes
of the cube a(l 00), probably due to cleavage.
   As in all the above forms the poles of the faces lie in dode-
cahedral planes, the abeyance of symmetry of the latter would
have no effect in reducing the number of faces; in other words,
so long as only these forms are present it is impossible to distin
guish crystallographically whether the structure is character
ized by holohedral symmetry or by diplohedral hemisymmetry.
   Nos. 7 to 11 present faces of the tetrakishexahedron/(3 1 0);
and it now becomes possible to determine whether the internal
structure as shown by the external form is to be regarded as
holohedral or hemihedral. As a matter of fact, in each of these
crystals the faces of only one semiform tr (3 1 0) are found
to be present, the number varying with the more or less frac
tured state of the crystal. This combination is represented
in fig. 3, from which, for the sake of simplicity, the small
faces of the cube have been omitted. No. 7 presents all the
twelve faces required by perfect hemisymmetry; No. 8 shows
eight faces, No. 9 shows five, while on Nos. 10 and 11 only
two are present; but on none of these crystals can any faces
of the complementary semiform tr ( 1 3 0) be distinguished.
   Crystal No. 12 is five eighths of an inch ( = 1*6 centim.)
long, and projects from a matrix of quartz and mica. It is par
ticularly interesting as showing the hemihedral development,
not only of the above tetrakishexahedron, but also of an
hexakisoctahedron having its planes in the edge-zones of the
dodecahedron. The angle made by the faces of this new form
with the adjacent faces of the form (211) was measured by
help of the telescopic images to be 10° 48' in one case and
11 2' in another; there is no doubt, then, that the faces
belong to the semiform it (3 1 2), for which the corresponding
calculated angle is 10° 54'. Fig. 4 represents the actual de
velopment of the various faces on that part of tho crystal

            Mr. L. Fletcher's Cryatallographie Notes.         479
which is not concealed by the matrix : no fewer than ten faces
of this semifonn it (3 1 2) can be seen, while not a single face
of the complementary semiform it (3 21 1) is to be found.
   Gustav Rose has remarked that, in cases of diplohedral
hemisymmetry, the poles of all the faces present belong in
general to one set of systematic triangles: this crystal of Skut-
terndite forms another of the rare exceptions to this rule,
which would require the association of ?r(3 21) instead of
it (3 1 2) with the semiform tt (3 1 0).
   This semiform it (3 1 2) is again to be observed on crystal
No. 13, though it is there represented by only a single face.
The angle with the adjacent face of the form (211) was in
this case measured to be 10° 52£', a result according well with
the calculated angle 10° 54' : on the same crystal eight faces
of the semiform tt (3 1 0) are developed.
   The last crystal, No. 14, differs from the rest in showing
three faces, which, if the crystal were simple, would un
doubtedly be attributed to the complementary semiform
7r(130); the crystal, however, still presents a hemihedral
habit, since the three faces of this complementary semiform
it (1 3 0) only appear at quoins where the faces of tt (3 1 0)
are missing. It is very possible indeed that the crystal may be
twinned about the normal to a dodecahedron-face, as is at
times the case in iron pyrites—which theory would likewise
account for the presence of reentrant angles, otherwise to be
attributed to parallel growth.
   The subordinate forms (3 3 2), (6 4 3), described by vom
Rath, do not seem to be present on any of the above crystals,
and must be very rare. In some cases indeed the edges of
intersection of the octahedron with the form tt (3 1 0) are
" rounded off" by very small faces not susceptible of mea
surement; while the edges of the octahedron itself are bevelled
by narrow planes, which, if crystal-faces at all, can only be
approximately determined. On one crystal the angles made
with the adjacent octahedral faces by the four tautozonal
rudimentary planes of the triakisoctahedron were measured
by the method of maximum illumination as 18£°, 17^°, 13°,
16^° respectively—thus suggesting the form (2 2 1), which
requires an angle of 15° 48', and, as we have seen, was given
by Miller, no doubt in mistake, as an observed form. On
another crystal a series of images could be obtained from each
of two faces of the triakisoctahedron ; and the limiting-values
thus determined for the angle corresponding to the one just
mentioned were, in one case 13£°-16£°, and in the other
 15J°-16i° ; on a third crystal two similar angles were mea
sured at 15£° and 19°, thus again indicating the form (2 2 1).

480       Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
   The ranee of specific gravity of the crystallised mineral is
a little wider than that of the massive as determined by Breit-
haupt : ono crystal presenting no external sign of impurity
was found to have a specific gravity of 6-48 ; a second had a
specific gravity of 6-37, but, like the less dense specimens of
Breithaupt, evidently contained foreign matter. Two other
fairly large crystals had specific gravities of 6-56 and G-72
respectively; while a small apparently very pure crystal, with
smooth lustrous faces, gave a result as high as 6*86.
LXI1I. Action of Free Molecules on Radiant Heat, and
   its Conversion thereby into Sound. By John Tyndall,
   F.R.S.
                        [Concluded from p. 462.]
                               Contents.
                                                               Page
   Sect. 6. New Experiments. Hypothesis of Internal Films . .  480
               a. The Experimental Tube                        480
               b. The Plates of Rock-salt                      486
         0. Conservation of Molecular Action                   401
         7. Thermal Continuity of Liquids and Vapours          495
         8. Rhythmic Absorption of Radiant Heat by Gases and
               Vapours                                         500
         0. Manometric Measurements                            508
        10. Application of Results to Meteorology              514
     § 5. iV«p Experiments.        Hypothesis of Internal Films.
                     a. The Experimental Tube.
I WISH now to come to closer quarters with the argument
       urged by Magnus and repeated by MM. Lecher and
Perntcr, namely that my results were due to " vapour-
hesion "—that is to say, to liquid films condensed on my ex
perimental tube and on my plates of rock-salt. The two inves
tigators last named express unqualified surprise that I should
have neglected the simple precaution of experimenting with
blackened tubes. But this precaution was by no means neg
lected by me. I have repeatedly fortified myself by experi
ments of this character, with the result recorded in Table I.
But I went further. A smooth coating of lampblack, how
ever powerful as an absorber, might be competent to reflect a
certain portion of the incident heat. Hence my desire to get
entirety rid of reflection, by avoiding all contact with the
interior surface of the experimental tube.
   In fig. 3 an apparatus is sketched, by means of which this
has been accomplished. T T' is a stout tube of brass, 36
inches long and 6 inches internal diameter. Projecting from

    Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound.   481
its otherwise closed ends are screws 1 inch each in depth, sur
rounding circular apertures 3£ inches in diameter. By means
of screw-caps these apertures may be closed air-tight by trans

482      Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
 parent plates of rock-salt, the plates being protected from
 crushing by washers of indiarubber. a is a cock leading to
 an air-pump and a barometer-tube; b is a cock to which flasks
 can be attached; while c is a cock connected with a purifying-
 apparatus (not shown). This consists of a U tube filled with
 fragments of clean glass moistened with sulphuric acid, and
 of a second tube filled with fragments of Carrara marble
 wetted with caustic potash. A plug of cotton-wool intercepts
 the floating matter of the air. The source of heat L is a
cylinder of carefully prepared lime, against which a flame of
 coal-gas and oxygen impinges. The incandescent lime faces
the concave mirror R, which receives the rays and sends them
 back in a parallel beam through the tube T T'. P is the
 thermopile, from which wires proceed to a distant galvano
 meter, the reflected dial of which is observed through a tele
 scope. S is an adjusting-screen. At C is what, in my former
 researches, I have called the " compensating cube," used to
 neutralize the radiation from the source L and to bring the
galvanometer-needle to zero. The chief object of this arrange
ment is to enable the experimenter to send a calorific beam
along the axis of the tube T T' which shall never touch its in
ternal surface. The great width of the tube, aided when
necessary by diaphragms, renders this easy of accomplish
ment.
   The mode of operation is readily understood. Suppose the
heat impinging on the pile to produce a galvanometric deflec
tion of 50°. This, the "total heat," is neutralized by the
radiation from the con^ensating cube. To render the com
pensation accurate, the double screen S is shifted by an ex
tremely fine screw-motion. Even when the total heat is very
large it is possible, by means of this screen, to neutralize
accurately the radiation of the source and bring the needle to
zero. Suppose it to be there when the tube T Tc is exhausted;
on permitting a gas or vapour capable of absorbing radiant
heat to enter T 1', the preexisting equilibrium is destroyed,
the needle moves promptly away from zero, and from the
observed deflection the absorption may be calculated.
   Instead of the concave reflector, a rock-salt lens of great
purity is sometimes used to render the beam parallel. When
the lens is used, the incandescent portion of the cylinder of
lime is caused to face the tube T T', between which and the
lime the lens is introduced. Instead of the incandescent lime,
a spiral of platinum-wire heated to redness by a voltaic
current is frequently employed as the source of heat. The
spiral is placed in the centre of a brass globe G, fig. 4, and is
connected with the screws S R' fixed in the back of the globe.

   Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound.    483
from which wires pass to the battery. R shows the position
of the rock-salt lens, while one end of the experimental tube is
shown at T. The greatest care is here necessary to protect
the spiral from any agitation of the air. Such care, however,
it is always in the experimenter's power to bestow. To secure
constancy in the radiation, the battery was charged three
times a day, the strength of the current being regulated by a
rheostat, and checked by a tangent-galvanometer.
   An experimental tube of the description shown in fig. 3 was
first employed by me about twelve years ago; and with it I
then verified all the experiments I had previously made on
the absorption of radiant heat by gases and vapours. The
experiments were not published in any scientific journal; but
they are thus referred to at page 394 of my volume of col
 lected memoirs, entitled ' Contributions to Molecular Physics
 in the domain of Radiant Heat :'—" The two ends of an ex
perimental tube, 38 inches long and 6 inches in diameter, were
 each provided with an aperture 2'6 inches in diameter. These
apertures were closed with plates of rock-salt. The source of
 heat was a platinum spiral, well defended from air-currents,
and heated to redness by an electric current. In front of the
spiral was a rock-salt lens, which sent a slightly convergent
 beam through the tube. Behind the most distant plate was
 formed a sharply-defined image of the spiral, its size being
 such tlwt it was wliolly embraced by the plate of salt. Here,
 then, was a beam of heat passing through an experimental

46*4     Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
tube without coming into contact either with the surface of
the tube itself, or with any coating or lining of that surface.
With this apparatus all my old experiments on vapours have
been frequently repeated. There is no substantial difference
between the results thus obtained and those obtained with an
experimental tube where nineteen twentieths of the heat
which reached the pile was reflected heat."
   The tube referred to in this extract was of rough brass,
tarnished within. Hence, when air entered it, after exhaus
tion, the dynamic heating of the tube and the partial conden
sation of the vapour when the air was moist, produced an
amount of radiation from its internal surface which, though
small, was a source of some disturbance. In my present
experiments, therefore, another tube, of the dimensions above
given, is employed; and to reduce to a minimum any radiation
from its internal surface, it is coated within with silver de
posited electrolytically, and highly polished. Experiments
with this tube show that it does not in any way disturb the
true radiation from the source.
   In Table I. are recorded five series of measurements exe
cuted with a brass tube polished within. But as the liquids,
though reported pure by the manufacturing chemist, varj-
slightly from time to time, I thought it advisable to adhere to
the same samples in experiments wherein a tube with reflecting
interior is to be compared with one permitting of no reflec
tion. The following five series of new measurements were
therefore executed with the tube first mentioned.
                                Table III.
                 Brass tube with internal reflection.
                                     A       B     C      D       E
                       Pressures. Spiral Spiral Lime, Lime,     Lime,
                                   dark. bright. free. mirror.  lens.
 Bisulphide of carbon . -48          5-0    31     34     31     2-5
 Chloroform . . , . -38              7-9     5-3   5-6    4-8    50
 Benzol                    •32       9-6           7-9    (S'.l  6-8
 Iodide of methyl . .      •4(3     12-1     8-8  10-2    8-1    7o
 Iodide of ethyl . . . -36          15-0   11-9  12-5    11-3   10-6
 Amylene ....              •26     219     15-6  1(5-0   144    12-5
 Sulphuric ether . .       •28     30-9    231   22-7    198    181
 Acetic ether . - . . -29          36-9    27-3  29-6    241
 Formic ether . . .        •36       ...    ...  29(5    25-0   23-8
   Column A in this table contains the absorptions of the
respective vapours, in hundredths of the total radiation, when
the source was a platinum spiral just under incandescence, un
aided by either lens or mirror. Under B are the absorptions
when the source was the fame spiral heated to bright redness.

     Radiant Heat, and its Conversion tliereby into Sound.       485
The game vibrating atoms are preserved ; but in A they
vibrate on the whole more slowly than in B ; r,nd as the
atomic periods of the transparent vapours synchronize best
with the slower oscillations, the absorptions in A are con
siderably higher than tltose in B. Under C are the absorp
tions when the souico was a moderate lime-light, produced by
coal-gas and oxygen. Under D are the absorptions when the
source was the iime-lighi with its heat gathered up and sent
through the experimental tube by a concave mirror; while
under E are the absorptions of the heat of the incandescent
spiral aided by a rock-salt lens. The absorptions in D and E
are somewhat less than those in C, because the path of the
rays was diminished, through the reduction of internal reflec
tion by the mirror and lens.
   With the foregoing results, obtained with the brass experi
mental tube polished with'n, where the greater portion of the
heat reaching the pile had undergone reflection, are now to be
compared those obtained with the silvered tube, where in
ternal reflection was wholly avoided.
                              Table IV.
                Wide silvered tube with no reflection.
                           L       L       M        M         L
                           A       B        C        D        B
                         Spiral Spiral   Lime     Lime     Lime
                         dark. bright.  bright, moderate, dull red.
 Bisulphide of carbon . . 4 0      18      15       1-5       33
 Chloroform                56      30      35       4-3       60
 Benzol                    70      51      44       65        80
 Iodide of methyl ... 7 5          59      50       65        9-2
 Iodide of ethyl .... 113          76      68       85       112
 Amylene                  150     11*8     88      120       173
 Sulphuric ether . . . . 212      17"1   12 5      15 0     25 0
 Acetic ether             26 0    20 0   16 3      24 0     32 0
 Formic ether             27 0    21-0    17 0     25 0     34-0
   The vapour-pressures here were those given in Table III.
Column A contains the absorptions measured when the source
of heat was a spiral under incandescence, aided by a rock-salt
lens. B contains the absorptions measured with the same
arrangement, the spiral being raised to bright redness. As
usual, the heat of lowest refrangibility is most absorbed.
C contains the absorptions of a tolerably intense lime-light
aided by the silvered mirror ; D the absorptions of the same
light with its intensity reduced ; while E contains the absorp
tions of the rays from a lime-cylinder heated to dull redness
by a steady flame of hydrogen, burning in air, and aided by
a rock-salt lens.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. No. 84. Suppl. Vol. 13.               20

486       Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
     Here, then, where no trace of reflected heat is sent to the
 pile, we have substantially the same results as those obtained
 when by far the greater portion of the heat reaching the pile
 had undergone reflection. The agreement shows that the
 films, the action of which had been posited, but never proved,
 are, in regard to this action, what I always knew them to be,
 imaginary.
                    b. The Plates of Rock-salt.
     Having thus, I trust offectually, disposed of the hypothesis
 which ascribed my results to liquid layers covering the in
 terior surface of the experimental tube, I proceed to the
  examination of the plates of rock-salt, which have also been
  credited with a liquid deposit. The hypothesis is to a great
  extent disposed of in a paper of mine published in the Philo
  sophical Transactions for 1864, which, like other papers, has
  been overlooked by writers on this question. An apparatus
  is there described which enabled me to operate upon gaseous
  strata of different thicknesses, the thickness in each case
  being measured with great accuracy by aid of a vernier. Let
  two polished plates of rock-salt be supposed in close contact
  with each other, and let them bo gradually separated by a
  suitable rack-and-pinion movement. Prom the first moment
  of their separation let the space between them be copiously
  supplied with vapour. Liquid films, if they form at all, will
  be deposited when the distance between the plates of salt is
  but small. As far as the films are concerned, they will be aa
  influential when the plates are       of an inch apart as when
  they are 2 inches apart. Hence, if the hypothesis of my
  opponents be correct, the absorption ought to declare itself
  with the former amount of separation as clearlv as with the
  latter. But if, as I allege, the absorption bo the act of the
  Vapour molecules, then the deepening of the vapour stratum
¦ will be accompanied by an increase of the absorption. The
  following experiment, bearing directly on this subject, was
  executed in 1864. My plates of salt were first fixed at a
  distance of .}0 of an inch asunder ; and the space between
  them was copiously supplied with air saturated with sul
  phuric-ether vapour. The distance between the plates of salt
  was then augmented by steps, as shown in the following table;
  and at each step the absorption was determined. Here are
 the results :—

      Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sowid.   487
     Thickness of vapour stratum.                Absorption.
             0"05 inch                         2*1 per cent.
            0-1      „                         4-6     „
            0-2     „      .......             8.7     „
            0-4     „                        14-3      „
            0-8     „                        21-0      „
             1-5    »                        34-6      „
            2-0     „                        35-1      „
    We thus see that when the depth of the vapour stratum
augments from ^ of an inch to 2 inches, the absorption
augments from 2 per cent, to 35 per cent, of the total radia
tion.
    It is only with sulphuric ether that an absorption of 2 per
cent, by the thinnest stratum could be obtained. With most
other vapours the action of a layer A of an inch in thick
ness proved insensible. We may thus begin with a layer
which yields an absorption immeasurably small, gradually
augment the thickness of the absorbing layer until it becomes
a column 38 inches long, and find, throughout, the increase
 of absorption running hand in hand with the increase of the
length of the absorbent layer. This result is utterly irrecon
cilable with the hypothesis that liquid layers on the plates of
 salt played any important part in my experiments.
    With regard to " vapour-hesion," I have to make the fol
lowing further remarks. Let a thin plate of polished rock-
salt be placed upon, or against, the face of the thermopile,
with its lampblack removed, so as to expose a clean metallic
 surface. Let an open glass tube end about a quarter of an
inch above the plate of salt; and through this tube let a
current of mixed air and vapour be gently urged downwards
against the plate. No fine spray, which might readily arise
from bubbling through a liquid, is to be permitted to mingle
with the vapour. My vapours, I may say, have been usually
formed, without bubbling, in large flasks, each containing a
portion of a volatile liquid, the vapour of which was per*
mitted to diffuse in the air of the flask. Fletcher's foot-
bellows were employed to urge the vapours forward. The
needle being at zero, or thereabouts) on causing the mixed
current to impinge upon the rock-salt, the needle immediately
swings aside, the deflection varying from 20° to 80° and more,
according to the delicacy of the galvanometer and the quality
of the vapour.
    From such experiments, which prove heat to be liberated
when vapour comes into contact with the salt, the condensa
tion of the vapour has been inferred. I accept the inference.
                                  20 2

488      Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
    This, however, does not imply the acceptance of the infer
ence from this inference, that the condensed films exert the
action ascribed to them on radiant heat. To test whether
they do so or not, I had a circular plate of rock-salt mounted
on its edge, and so placed that a beam of heat passed through
it normally to a distant thermopile. The source of heat was
an incandescent spiral, aided by a concave mirror ; and the
total radiation, after passing through the salt and impinging
on the pile, produced a deflection of 51°. This radiation was
accurately neutralized by a compensating cube, the needle
under the operation of the two opposing forces pointing to 0°.
By an arrangement which every experimenter can imagine
 for himself, sheets of air, laden with various vapours, could
be poured in succession over the plate of salt. If, under these
circumstances, absorbent films were formed, the equilibrium
 would be destroyed and the needle would move from 0°. My
 slit, which was the flattened base of an open tin cone, was
 placed across the upper part of the plate of rock-salt, so that
 the vapours, which were all heavier than air, should fall over
 the plate downwards. Here are the results obtained when
 the following vapours were permitted to form films upon the
 plate:—
     Bisulphide of carbon ... A barely sensible action.
     Chloroform                      No action.
     Benzol                          No action.
     Iodide of methyl .... No action.
     Iodide of ethyl                 No action.
    Amylene                          No action.
     Sulphuric ether                 A barely sensible action.
     Acetic ether                    No action.
     Formic ether                    No action.
     Alcohol                         No action.
     The minute deflections produced by bisulphide of carbon
 and sulphuric ether had nothing to do with liquid films; so
 that the words " no action " might have been written against
 these substances as against the others. While therefore re
 cognizing the fact of condensation, these simple experiments
 prove how incorrect it is to credit the condensed films with
 the effects which have been ascribed to them. According to
  Magnus, alcohol exhibits a force of vapour-hesion particularly
  strong ; but we here see that even this vapour produces no
 sensible effect. The vapours have been tested with other
  sources of heat, with the same result.
     The deportment of dry and humid air is, ns usual, very
  instructive. When the thin plate of rock-salt resting on the

     Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound.             489
naked face of the pile was exposed to the common air of the
laboratory, it, of course, contracted a film corresponding to
the humidity of the air. The sweeping away of this film by
dry air produced a very small deflection indicating cold.
When, on the contrary, humid air was urged against the salt,
the deflection indicating heat was prompt and large. We
have now to test the action of the liquid film thus formed
 npon radiant heat. The circular plate of rock-salt before
 referred to was mounted, with the incandescent spiral on one
side and the pile on the other. The slit was so arranged
that dry and humid air could be sent in succession over the
surface of the plate. As before, the radiation from the spiral
was neutralized by the compensating cube, the needle pointing
to zero when the two sources were in equilibrium. On sweep
ing dry air over the plate of salt, so as to remove the film
contracted from the laboratory air, thero was no motion of
the needle. On pouring humid air from the slit over the salt,
there was no motion of the needle. To moisten the air it was
urged from bottom to top through a tall jar filled with wet
bibulous paper. The same apparatus had furnished humid air
which produced a swing of 80° when urged against the thin
plate of rock-salt resting on the face of the pile. As a barrier
to radiant heat it was nevertheless powerless. The conden
sation may even be considerably enhanced without producing
any sensible effect. Through a glass tube I urged my breath
against the plate of salt so as to produce the colours of thin
plates, without any sensible effect upon the galvanometer.
    Having thus clearly shown what films, even in an exag
gerated form, cannot accomplish, I hope, in testing the
action of humid air, that the use of the silvered tube, closed
with polished plates of rock-salt, on which no trace of visible
moisture is deposited, will be conceded to me. This tube
involves the use of a source of heat of small dimensions. The
lime-light, though fulfilling this condition, is not suitable,
because of the high refrangibility of its heat. The incan
 descent platinum spiral would be better; still the radiation
from this source is but feebly absorbed by the aqueous vapour
taken up by air at ordinary temperatures. The oxyhydrogen
flame fulfils the required conditions best*. It has the advan
tage of high temperature and low refrangibility; while the fact
   * I was careful to assure myself that, unless it amounted to the visible
wetting of the plates of salt, there was no sensible stoppage of the rays
from the oxyhydrogen flame. This quite agrees with the result obtained
by Magnus "himself, in the experiment with the concave mirror already
referred to. Unless he visibly wetted the mirror, he failed to impair the
energy of the reflected beam.

490     Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
that its heat, as coming from aqueous vapour, is absorbed
with special energy by aqueous vapour, is also a strong re
commendation. In the Bakerian Lecture for 1864 I have
illustrated this point. It was then shown that when a platinum
spiral, rendered incandescent by a voltaic current, had 5'8
per cent, of its heat absorbed by undried air, a hydrogen-
flame had from 17 to 20 per cent, of its heat absorbed. The
mere plunging of a platinum spiral into the flame caused the
absorption to fall from 17 per cent, to 8' 6 per cent. Hence
my reason for choosing a hydrogen-flame in the present
instance.
   Dry air and humid air being caused to occupy the experi
mental tube in succession, both of them were compared with
the radiation through the tube when very perfectly exhausted
by a Bianchi's pump. The following results were obtained :—
                              Deflection.    Absorption per 100.
      Vacuum                      0°-0               0-0
      Dry air                    0°-0                0-0
      Humid air ....              8°-0             11-7
      Vacuum                      0o>0               0*0
      Dry air                     0o>0               0-0
      Humid air ....              7°-6             11-2
   The deflection through a vacuum, otherwise the total heat,
was 47°, which, according to my calibration-table, is equivalent
to (58 units.
   A fresh supply of hydrogen was here introduced into the
gas-holder. The total heat being 46° or 65 units, the follow-
results wore obtained :—                  \
                               Deflection. '  Absorption per 100.
       Dry air                    0°-0               0-0
       Humid air ... .            6°-2               9-5
       Dry air                    0°-0               0-0
       Humid air ....             6°-7              10-3
    Mean of the four determinations with humid air, 10'7.
    A column of humid air 38 inches long absorbs, according
 to these experiments, 10*7 per cent, of the radiation from a
 hydrogen-flame. I have been criticised for estimating the
 absorption of the earth's rays within 10 feet of the earth's
 surface at 10 per cent. This estimate I consider a moderate
 one; and the foregoing experiments prove it to bo so.
    It would bo an error to suppose that determinations like
 these are easily made. They require the most scrupulous care
 for their successful accomplishment. The hydrogen issued

    Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound.           491
from the gas-holder through an orifice of fixed dimensions in
a stream of the utmost possible constancy. It was then led
into a Sugg's regulator, whence it issued under an absolutely
constant pressure. The flame issued from a circular brass
burner with an aperture ^ of an inch in diameter. It was
carefully surrounded by a hoarding, the space within the
hoarding being packed with horsehair. Every precaution
in fact was taken to avoid the agitation of the air around the
flame. Proper care was also taken to secure the pile against
disturbance by air-currents. The air being first purified, by
passing it through caustic potash and sulphuric acid, was
rendered humid by carrying it over wet bibulous paper con
tained in a suitable tube. It required somo minutes to enter;
and it was therefore necessary, by prior patient observance of
the needle, to make sure that during this interval no change
occurred in the radiation save that effected by the humid air
itself. The humid air was removed from the experimental
tube, not by exhaustion (which always causes precipitation),
but by gently forcing, by means of a compressing-pump, dry
air through the tube. When this was done, the needle, in all
the experiments above recorded, returned within a small frac
tion of a degree to zero*.
   With the rough, wide experimental tube to which reference
has already been made, I, ten years ago, found the absorption
of a column of humid air 38 inches long to be 8 per cent, of
the total radiation from a flame of hydrogen.
              § 6. Conservation of Molecular Action.
   If the absorption of radiant heat bo the act of tho consti
tuent atoms of' compound molecules, its amount depending
solely on the number of molecules encountered by the calorific
wavos, then, whatever may be the changes of density which
gases and vapours undergo, so long as the number of molecules
remains the same, the absorption ought to continue constant.
Such constancy, should it be proved to exist, I name tho " con
servation of molecular action." Tho experiments now to bo
described deal with this question.
   Besides the silvered experimental tube already described as
38 inches long, I had another constructed of the same diameter,
and with similar terminal apertures. Its length was 108
inches. The one tube was, therefore, 3-5 times the length of
the other. The shorter tube was constructed with tho view
of proving that tho absorptions I had recorded in previous
   * The temperature of the laboratory air during the foregoing experi
ments was CO Fahr.

492     Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
memoirs were exerted by the vapour molecules, and not by
liquid layers deposited on my plates of salt. The hypothesis
of such layers, however, being completely disposed of, we can
carry the experiments a step further. Assuming that the
absorption does not chango with change of density, so long
as the quantity remains constant, it would follow that 1 mer
cury inch of vapour in the long tube ought to quench as much
heat as 3'5 inches in the short one. The same conclusion
ought, of course, to hold good when wo compare 2 inches of
vapour in the long tube with 7 inches in the short one.
   The experiments have been made, and with the following
results :—
                        Sulphuric-ether vapour.
                      Short experimental tube.
                 Pressure.         Deflection. Absorption per 100.
              3-5 inches ... 24°                      30
              7        „      . .      30             37-5
                    Totatheat .        50
   Again,
             3-5 inches . .            24°            30
              7        „      . .       31-5          39-4
                    Total heat .       50
   Taking the means of these two experiments, we have the
absorptions—
            For 3*5 inches .... 30 per cent.
            For 7         „    . . . . 38-5 „
   Such is the result obtained with the short tube. We now
turn to the long one :—
                      Long experimental tube.
                  Pressure.        Deflection. Absorption per cent.
              1 inch. ...               23°            30-3
                     Total heat .       49
              2 inches ...              31            38-8
                     Total heat .       50
These results are almost identical with those obtained with
the short tube and greater pressures.
   The source of heat in this case was a dull lime-light. In
 subsequent experiments the light was brightened. Here is
the result :—
                       Long experimental tube.
               Pressure.                      Absorption.
            1 inch                         22-3 per cent.
            2 inches                       29-5     „

   Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound.       -103
                      Short experimental tube.
               Pressure.                     Absorption.
             3-5 inches                   22'5 per cent.
             7-0 „                        30-0      „
  The agreement here is almost as close as that established
by the first experiment.
  With a still brighter source of heat the absorptions were :—
                              Long tube.
               Pressure.                    Absorption.
             1 inch                       18*4 per cent.
             2 inches                     25*7     „
                              Short tube.
             3*5 inches                   18*8 per cent.
             7-0 inches                   25-6      „
   When, therefore, the density of the vapour varies inversely
as the length of it traversed by the calorific rays, the absorp
tion remains constant.
   The hydride of amyl lends itself conveniently to experiments
of this character. With it, and with the lime-light as source,
the following measurements have been made :—
                           Hydride of amyl.
                       Long experimental tube.
              Pressure.              Deflection. Absorption.
            1 inch                      10°             12-8
            2 inches ....                15              19-2
                      Total heat .      49-4
                       Short experimental tube.
               Pressure.             Deflection. Absorption.
            3-5 inches. ...              10°             12-2
            7-0 „ ... .                  15              18-3
                       Total heat .      50-5
   The agreement here is close enough to illustrate the law,
 the greatest difference being under 1 per cent.
    At this point the following entry appears in my note-book:—
 "It might have been wise on my part to rest content with
 the comparison of the long and short tubes with the lime
 light as source of heat. But for the sake of completeness I
 wished to introduce the incandescent spiral. The fulfilment
 of this wish—that is to say, the successful performance of a
 single experiment—has cost mo moro than a week's work.
 Once, however, committed to the task, I could not leave it
 incomplete.

 494      Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
    " The discrepancy between the two tubes was in no case
 great, hardly ever exceeding 2 per cent. But the difference
 was uniformly in favour of the long tube and small density.
 Diaphragms were employed ; the position of the short tube
was shifted ; and it was finally placed so that the pile should
occupy the same position in relation to its adjacent end as it
did in relation to the adjacent end of the long tube. The
 discrepancies then disappeared, the absorptions in the two
tubes proving practically identical.
    " Many leaves of paper were covered with observations
during the week ; but it is useless to take up time and space
in copying them hero. One representative observation will
suffice."
                          Sulphuric ether.
      Source of heat—bright-red spiral with rock-salt lens.
                     Long experimental tube.
           Pressure.                 Deflection.     Absorption.
         1 inch                        20°-0            23-5
         2 inches                      27°-3            32-1
                     Total heat .      51°-0
                     Short experimental tube.
           Pressure.                 Deflection.     Absorption.
         3-5 inches                    17°-8            23-4
         7-0 „                         24°-8            32-6
                     Total heat .     49°-0
   The agreement between the two tubes is as perfect as could
be desired.
   It is easy to record these experiments; but it is not so easy to
make them. On every portion of the apparatus (the source,
the tube, the thermopile, and the galvanometer) extraordinary
care must be bestowed to make the experiments strictly com
parable. The results were checked by taking the total heat
after every experiment—a precaution which ensured the de
tection of any variation on the part of the source. When the
platinum spiral was used, the battery of ten Grove's cells,
employed to render it incandescent, had to be very carefully
prepared, freshly amalgamated zinc plates being used in each
fresh battery. Tho requisite defloction of a tangent compass
being produced, it was kept constant by means of a rheochord
throughout the day. When the battery showed signs of rapid
falling, it was always renewed. It would be tedious to dwell
upon the precautions taken to protect tho source and the pile
from tho least agitation of the air. Such precautions are
essential; but their necessity and form must be learnt by each
experimenter for himself.

    Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound.      495
        § 7. Thermal Continuity of Lupiids and Vapours.
   I have amply illustrated by experiments, recently made,
the correspondence which subsists between vapour absorption
and liquid absorption, when the quantities of matter traversed
in the two cases by the calorific rays are proportional to each
other. This correspondence, as I havo already stated, was
established eighteen years ago. And though the result goes
to the very core of the discussion which my researohes have
aroused, though in relation to that discussion they had, in my
estimation, a weight and import greater than those of any
other experiments published by me, they seem never for a
moment to have attracted the attention of those who have
taken part in the discussion. Here is the result, published
in 1864, which illustrates the point now under consideration :—
                                          Absorption per 100.
                                            Vapour.     Liquid.
       Bisulphide of carbon . . 0-48           4-3       8-4
      Chloroform                     0-36      6-6      25'0
       Iodide of methyl . . . . 0-46          10'2      46-5
       Iodide of ethyl .... 0-36             15-0       50-7
       Benzol .                      0-32     16-8      55-7
       Amylcne                       0'26     19-0      65-2
       Sulphuric ether .... 0-28              21-5      73-5
       Acetic ether                  0-29     22 2      74-0
       Formic ether                  0-36     22 5      76-3
       Alcohol                       0-50     22-7      78-6
    The magnitude of the absorption in the liquids is far greater
than in the vapours, because the quantity of absorbent matter
 is far greater in the former than in the latter ; but the order
 of absorption is the same.
    When the vapours are doubled in quantity, the absorptions
 are considerably increased. When trebled they are still further
 augmented ; in othor words, they approach more and more
 in magnitude to the absorptions of the liquids ; but the har
 mony as regards order is never disturbed. What, then, would
 occur if the vapours were so increased as to render the quan
 tities of matter in the two states, not proportional, but equal
 to one another ? This is the question with which I now propose
 to deal. At the time when the results above recorded were
 obtained, I thought it probable that if a circular liquid layer
 of a given diameter could be vaporized in a tube of the same
 diameter, the absorption would remain unchanged. In other
 words, I thought that the liberation of the molecules from
 liquid cohesion would neither augment nor diminish their

 496      Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free MoUeulet on
 action upon radiant heat. Since 1864 this problem has been
 often in my mind. The wide silvered tube, I am happy to
 say, has rendered the solution of the problem possible.
    It is only highly volatile liquids that lend themselves to
 this experiment, because from them alone can vapours be
 be derived of sufficient density to produce liquid layers of
 practicable thickness. On the 22nd of last October the experi
 ment was first attempted. The source of heat was the lime
 light, the rays of which were received by a concave mirror
 silvered in front, and sent in a nearly parallel beam through
 the experimental tube. At the end nearest the source the tube
 was provided with a diaphragm having a circular orifice
 1 inch in diameter. At the other end was a diaphragm with an
 orifice ^ an inch in diameter. Beyond this was placed the
 thermopile, furnished, not with its reflecting cone, but with
 a tube of brass (shown in fig. 3) 2 inches long and blackened
 within. In this arrangement, the heat which reached the
 pile did not even approach the interior cylindrical surface.
 The total heat employed produced a deflection of 60 galvano-
 metric degrees, which, when the tube was exhausted by a
powerful Bianchi's air-pump, was accurately neutralized by a
 compensating cube. Liquid sulphuric ether was then placed
in a large flask provided with a sound stopcock, the object
being to expose a considerable evaporating surface. The flask
was plunged in water, with the view of keeping the liquid
and its vapour at an approximately constant temperature.
The air being carefully removed from the flask, it was attached
to the experimental tube, and a qiiantity of vapour was allowed
to enter sufficient to render a column 38 inches long equivalent
to a liquid layer 1 millimetre in thickness. Two concurrent
experiments made the deflection produced by the vapour
                                41°
   Without altering the quality of the heat, the absorption
exercised by a liquid layer of sulphuric ether 1 millimetre
thick was next determined. The rock-salt cell with which the
experiment was made is described in detail in the Bakerian
Lecture for 1864 (Phil. Trans, vol. 154. p. 328.) The an
nexed figure (fig. 5) will give a sufficiently clear notion of its
construction and disposition. Between two stout plates of
brass, e c and its fellow, two rock-salt plates of extreme purity
are firmly clasped by suitable screws, due care being taken to
protect the plates from a crushing pressure. The two brass plates
referred to are perforated by circular apertures, as shown in
the figure. The two plates of salt are not allowed to come
into contact, but are separated from each other by a carefully

    Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound.   497
worked brass plate I millimetre thick, perforated like c e. A
portion of this middle plate is cut away, opening a passage
into the interior of the cell. Through this passage the cell is
filled with liquid by means of the funnel f. The cell is placed
on a platform P P riveted onto the double brass screen S S.
The source was placed at A, and the thermopile with its
blackened tube at B. It is not necessary to figure them.
   The needle being brought accurately to zero by the com-
pensating-cube when the cell was empty, liquid sulphuric
ether was poured in. The consequent deflection was
                               42°.
 Here vapour absorption and liquid absorption were so nearly
 alike as to stimulate me to further efforts. The entry in my
                              Fig. 5.
note-book on the 22nd ends with the remark :—" I purpose
repeating this experiment on Monday, with the view of ren
dering the result secure. "

¦498    Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
   On Monday, accordingly, the experiments were resumed;
but they proved by no means so easy as I bad hoped to find
them. For five days I worked at the subject without coming
to any satisfactory conclusion. The source, the mirror, the
cell, the experimental tube, and the thermopile were all in
turn objects of scrutiny ; but there still remained a difference
between the action of the liquid and that of its vapour suffi
cient to throw doubt on the assertion of their identity.
   At the conclusion of many trials and precautions I found
the absorption of the vapour still distinctly in excess of that
of the liquid. I had reduced the spherical aberration to a
minimum, by confining the reflection to a small central area
of the silvered mirror. Still the image of the incandescent
lime, formed at the end T of the experimental tube, was large
enough to encroach a little on the annular space surrounding
the aperture closed by the plate of rock-salt. Diaphragms of
polished metal had also been used, to lessen the amount of heat
falling upon the pile. I figured to myself the heat impinging
on the annular space and diaphragm, reverberated oack to
the end T of the experimental tube, reflected from the annular
space and diaphragm at that end, and thus in part sent back
to the pile. Such heat, instead of passing once through tho
vapour, would pass through it three times; and if it formed a
sensible part of the total heat, might make vapour absorption
appear greater than liquid absorption. I had the tube dis
mounted, and the annular spaces and diaphragms carefully
coated with lampblack. Remounting the tube and measuring
once more tho vapour absorption, it was found to be
                          32 "4 per cent.
This was tho mean of five concurrent series of observations,
in which every care was taken to ensure exactitude. Lest
the total heat should vary during the execution of a series,
it was taken at the conclusion of every individual experiment.
   The absorption of sulphuric ether, acting as a liquid, was
next determined. The mean of three scries of experiments,
two of which yielded identical results, and the third of which
differed only 0'7 per cent, from the others, made the absorp
tion of the liquid ether to be
                          32'9 per cent.,
which, I need not say, is surprisingly close to the vapour
absorption, differing therefrom by only 0'5 per cent.
   Informed by experiment that the heat from the incandescent
platinum spiral was more powerfully absorbed than that of the
lime-light, I thought it worth while to inquire whether the

    Radiant Heat, and its Conversion tliereby into Sound.     499
liquid followed its vapour in absorptive energy when the
quality of the heat was changed. On Monday the 31st, ac
cordingly, the rays from the spiral being rendered parallel by
a rock-salt lens, the absorption of sulphuric ether was deter
mined, and found to be
                         66'7 per cent.;
while the absorption of the liquid was
                          67-2 per cent,,
which again gives a difference of only 0-5 per cent,
    On another occasion I found the absorption by sulphuric
ether to be :—
               Vapour . . . . 71 per cent.
               Liquid .... 70                „
    On the 1st November I checked the result obtained with
the lime-light and mirror, by using the lime-light and rock-
salt lens. Here are the absorptions of the vapour and liquid
 respectively :—
               Vapour .... 33*3 per cent.
               Liquid .... 33*3 „
 The absorptions are identical ; while the result agrees closely
 with that obtained with the concave reflector.
    When the requisito quantity of sulphuric-ether vapour, viz.
 7-2 mercury inches, was in the experimental tube, 1 tried
 whether the radiation from a Leslie's cube, coated with lamp
 black and filled with boiling water, could pass through the
 vapour. About 14 per cent, of the incident heat was trans
  mitted. Had I been asked at the time whether a liquid layer
  of sulphuric ether 1 millimetre thick was pervious to the heat
 of the cube, I should have replied with some confidence in the
  negative. Hence, for the moment, I thought the experiment
  opposed to the law that vapour absorption and liquid absorp
  tion, when equal quantities of matter are compared, are the
  same. On actually testing a layer of the liquid ether 1 milli
  metre thick, the transmission of upwards of b" per cent, of the
  incident heat was observed. So that in this case also we have
  harmony of deportment between liquid and vapour. The
  absorption of the vapour exceeds that of the liquid, because the
  heat from the cube radiated freely against the interior silvered
  surface of the experimental tube, and by its reflection from
  that surface had its path through the vapour augmented in
 length. This augmentation naturally carried with it an in
  crease of the absorption.
     The next substance examined was hydride of amyl, the
 boiling-point of which is 30° Fahr., or 5° lower than that of

 500      Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
 sulphuric ether. When a large evaporating-surface is ex
 posed, there is therefore no difficulty in obtaining, from this
 liquid, vapour of a pressure of 6*6 inches of mercury. This,
 in a tube 38 inches long, would, if squeezed to liquefaction,
 produce a layer 1 millimetre thick. Vapour absorption and
 liquid absorption being measured in succession, this is the
 behaviour of the hydride of amyl :—
          Absorption by vapour . . . . 51 per cent.
          Absorption by liquid .... 51                     „
 the two absorptions being absolutely identical *.
    Combining this section and the last, their joint results may
be thus summed up. Beginning with a column of sulphuric-
ether vapour 38 inches long at 7'2 inches pressure, or with a
 column of hydride-of-amyl vapour 38 inches long and at 6*6
inches pressure, and gradually shortening the column without
 altering the quantity, the vapour would gradually augment in
 density and pass wholly, when reduced to a thickness of 1
 millimetre, into the liquid state of aggregation. Suppose a
 beam of heat of constant value, after passing through the
vapour, to impinge upon a thermopile and to produce a
definite galvanometric deflection; this deflection would remain
absolutely fixed during all the charges of density and aggre
gation which we have supposed the vapour to undergo. In
other words—as regards the absorption of radiant heat, the
vapour would pass, without breach of continuity, through all
its stages of condensation into the liquid form of matter.
    A general law of molecular physics is, I apprehend, here
illustrated.
    § 8. Rhythmic Absoi'ption of Radiant Heat by Gases and
                                Vapours.
    Conclusive as the foregoing experimental argument must
appear as regards the action of free molecules upon radiant
heat, I am nevertheless glad to supplement it by another of a
totally different character. On the 29th of November, 1880,
I had the pleasure of witnessing, in the laboratory of the
   * When the rock-salt cell was empty, reflection of course occurred at
its two interior surfaces. A perfectly diathermanous liquid, with the
refractive index of rock-salt, would annul this reflection. And though
the liquids actually employed had a smaller refractive index than rock-
salt, and though they were far from being perfectly diathermanous, their
introduction into the cell must nevertheless have diminished the reflec
tion, and thus added to the transmitted heat. This addition, having been
determined by calculation, was sensibly neutralized by the introduction
of washers of thin note-paper, which slightly augmented the thickness of
the liquid stratum traversed by the calorific rays.

     Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound. 501
Eoyal Institution, the remarkable experiments of Prof. Graham
Bell, wherein musical sounds were evoked by causing an in
termittent beam gf light to impinge upon thin disks of various
kinds of matter. I was soon convinced that the effects were
due to the rhythmic gain and loss of heat. Being occupied
with experiments on gases and vapours at the time, I thought
that they might be invoked to decide the nature of the action
revealed by Prof. Bell. The result was mentally clear before
the experiment was made. I pictured a highly absorbent
vapour, exposed to the shocks of the intermittent beam, sud
denly expanding during the moment of exposure, and as
suddenly contracting when the beam was intercepted. Pulses
of an amplitude probably far greater than those obtainable
with solids would, I thought, be thus produced ; and these
pulses, if caused to succeed each other with sufficient rapidity,
would be sure to produce musical sounds.
    This idea was tested and verified on the spot. The 'Journal
of Telegraph Engineers' for December 8th, 1880, contains
the following record of what occurred :—" When Professor
Bell was good enough to show me his experiments, I happened
to be myself experimenting on the action of vapours upon
radiant heat. Old experiments had revealed, and new ones
had confirmed, the fact that, as regards the absorption of heat,
there existed vast differences between vapours. This is well
illustrated by the deportment of bisulphide of carbon and of
sulphuric ether, one of which is highly transparent, and the
other highly opaque to radiant heat. It occurred to me that,
if the action were due to the absorption of heat, we might
possibly extract musical sounds from sulphuric-ether vapour;
whereas bisulphide-of-carbon vapour being transparent to
heat-rays, they would for the most part go through this vapour
unabsorbed, and produce no sonorous effect. I think Prof.
Bell will bear me witness as to the result. We placed a
quantity of sulphuric-ether vapour in a test-tube, and allowed
an intermittent beam of light to strike upon the vapour far
above the liquid, and we heard distinctly a musical tone of a
pitch corresponding to the rapidity of the flashes. We then
took the bisulphide-of-carbon vapour, and tried it in a similar
manner, but neither Prof. Bell nor myself could hear any
trace of a musical sound" *.
   * Mr. Bell has given a perfectly accurate account of this occurrence in
the Philosophical Magazine, vol. xi. p. 510. With reference to what
occurred on the 29th of November he writes thus :—" Professor Tyndall
at once expressed the opinion that the sounds were due to rapid changes
of temperature in the body submitted to the action of the beam. Finding
that no experiments had been made at that time to test the sonorous
properties of different gases, he suggested filling one test-tube with the
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. No. 84. Suppl. Vol. 13.                     2P

502      Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
    It was obvious, however, that the arrangement of Prof. Bell
—a truly beautiful one—was not suited to bring out the
maximum effect. He had employed a series of glass lenses
to concentrate his beam; and these, however pure, would, in
the case of transparent gases, absorb a large portion of the
rays most influential in producing sound. This may be illus
trated by comparing a rock-salt lens, in my collection, with a
glass lens of the same focal length prepared in the workshop
of M. Duboscq. Transmitted through the former, the radia
tion from an incandescent platinum spiral produced a galva-
nometric deflection of 55°, possessing, according to the table
 of calibration, a value of more than 100. Transmitted through
the latter, the deflection fell to 10°, or to less than -j^ of
the radiation transmitted by the rock-salt. The -/^ here
 shown to be intercepted by the transparent glass, consist of
 heat on which transparent gases and vapours would exert a
 specially absorbent power. Hence the desirability of main
taining this important factor, in the radiation employed to test
 the sonorous power of such substances.
     It was with the view of preserving intact these powerful
 calorific rays that I employed in my experiments on calores-
 cence * small concave mirrors silvered in front ; and to these
 mirrors I now resorted. My more intense sources of heat
 comprised a Siemens lamp connected with a dynamo-ma
 chine; an ordinary electric lamp connected with a voltaic
 battery; and a lime-light, produced sometimes by the com
 bustion of oxygen and hydrogen, and sometimes by oxygen
 and coal-gas. The lime-light (which was used by me in
 1859) is so hand}', steady, and otherwise effective, that I have
 applied it almost exclusively throughout this part of the in
 quiry. Sources of heat, however, of much lower temperature
 than the lime-light have proved competent to evoke musical
 sounds. A candle-flame, a red-hot coal, a red-hot poker, the
 same poker at the temperature of boiling water, and an incan
 descent platinum spiral have all been proved effective, though
 of course far less so than the concentrated lime-light f.
      To produce the required intermittence, I first employed a
  circle of sheet zinc, 16 inches in diameter, provided with radial
  slits. This was afterwards exchanged for a second disk of the
 vapour of sulphuric other (a good absorbent of heat), and another with the
 vapour of bisulphide of carbon (a poor absorbent) ; and he predicted that,
  if any sound was heard, it would be louder in the former case than in the
 latter. The experiment was immediately made ; and the result verified
  the prediction.
     • Philosophical Transactions, 18C0, vol. clvi. p. 1.
     t These earlier experiments will be found recorded in the Proceedings
  of the Koyal Society, vol. xxxi. pp. 307, 478.

    Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound.    503
same diameter, but furnished with circumferential teeth and
interspaces. The disk was mounted vertically on a whirling
table, and caused to rotate across the beam near the focus of
the concave mirror. Immediately behind the disk was placed
 the flask containing the gas or vapour to be examined, while
 an india-rubber tube, ending in a hollow cone of ivory or box
 wood, connected the flask with the ear. With this arrange
 ment, simple as it is, sounds of surprising intensity were
 obtained with all those gases and vapours which my previous
 experiments with the experimental tube and thermopile had
 proved to be powerful absorbers of radiant heat. The final
 arrangement was that shown in fig. 6.
                             Fig. C.
   The source of heat is the carefully worked and centred
lime-cylinder L, heated by the oxybydrogen flame. The
rays from this source are received by the concave mirror R,
and converged upon the bulb B, which contains the substance
                             2P2

504       Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
to be tested. The bulb is connected with the ear by a piece
of india-rubber tubing, ending in a tapering tube of boxwood
or ivory. The intermittence of the calorific beam is effected
by the disk D of strong cardboard, 2 feet in diameter, and
provided at the circumference with 29 teeth and corresponding
interspaces*. The disk is caused to rotate by the wheel W,
with which it is connected by a band. The positions of the
sonorous bulb and of its ear-tube are shown in the figure.
 In the case of gases lighter than air, the bulb B is turned up
side down. With the heavier gases it is held erect. When
vapours are tested, a small quantity of liquid is poured into
the bulb, which is shaken so as to diffuse the vapour in the
 air above the liquid. The bulb is held so that the point of
 maximum concentration of the beam falls upon it.
     With this apparatus I have tested more than once the
 sounding-power of ten gases and of about eighty vapours.
 As a sound-producer chloride of methyl is supreme. It is,
 however, closely followed by aldehyde, olefiant gas, and sul
 phuric ether, the two latter being very nearly equal to each
 other. The volatility of the liquid from which the vapour is
 derived is of course an important factor in the result. For
 however high the inherent capacity of the molecule as an
  absorber may be, if the molecules be scanty in number the
 effect is small. Feeble vapours, on the other hand, may to
  some extent atone by quantity for the inherent weakness of
 their molecules. A few examples will suffice to show how
  the specific action of the molecules overrides the effect of
  volatility. Bisulphide of carbon, with a boiling-point of
  43° C, is less powerful than acetic ether, with a boiling-point
  of 74°. Tetrachloride of carbon boils at 77°; but its sound by
  no means equals that of acetal, which boils at 104°. Chloro
  form, with a boiling-point of 61°, is less powerful as a sound-
  producer than valeral, with a boiling-point of 100°, or even
  than valerianic ether, with a boiling-point of 144°. Cyanide
   of methyl boils at 82°—but produces less sound than acetate
   of propyl, with a boiling-point of 102°. In the experimental
   tube these vapours follow, as absorbers, the order of their
   sounds. When tested in liquid layers they follow the same
   order. I have examined about a score of liquids with boiling-
   points varying from 163° to 308°. At ordinary temperatures
   tho vapours of these liquids were practically inaudible; the
   liquids being plunged in a bath of heated oil the vapours so
   produced emitted, for the most part, powerful sounds. The
     * Intermittence is sometimes produced by the series of equidistant cir
   cular apertures shown in the figure.

     Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound. 505
measured absorptions of a sufficient number of substances, in
relation to their sounding-power, shall be tabulated imme
diately.
    The fact is worth a passing reference, that the chlorides of the
elements appear one and all to bo feeble sound-producers,
because they are one and all feeble absorbers of radiant heat.
Many years ago I had found them highly diathermanous, and
accepted chloride of sodium as representative of the class.
Silicinm chloride, for example, though very volatile, is weak as
a sound-producer. Tetrachloride of carbon and terchloride
of phosphorus are also volatile, but not strong. Bichloride of
tin, chloride of arsenic, chloride of titanium, and chloride of
sulphur are all feeble sound-producers. In these three cases
the boiling-points are high: but non-volatility is not the cause
of the weakness; for when the vapours are raised, by heating
their liquids, almost to the pressure of the atmosphere, they are
still but feebly sonorous. Whatever, then, the condition may
be which renders these substances pervious to radiant heat, it
 appears to be a condition common to them all.
    In experiments with the chlorides care must be taken to
abolish all fumes. Bichloride of tin sounds loudly with fumes,
but is weak without them. Simply heating the upper part of
the flask frequently suffices to lower the sounds from loudness
almost to silence.
    The universality of its presence, and the discussions which
 it has provoked, rendered the action of water-vapour especi
 ally interesting to me. I did not imagine at the outset that
 the modicum of vapour diffused in atmospheric air at ordinary
 temperatures could produce sonorous pulses of sensible in
 tensity. In my first experiment, therefore, I warmed water
 in a flask nearly to its boiling-point. I heated the flask above
 the water with the spirit-lamp flame, thus dissipating every
 trace of haze, and then exposed the clear vapour to the inter
 mittent beam. The experiment was a virtual question put to
 the vapour as to whether I was right or wrong in ascribing
 to it the power of absorbing radiant heat. The vapour an
 swered by emitting a musical note which, when properly con
 verged upon the tympanum, seemed as loud as the peal of an
 organ. When the temperature was lowered from 100° C. to
 10° C, the sound did not vanish, as I expected it would. It
 remained not only distinct but strong. The flasks employed
 in these experiments were dried in a variety of ways, of which
 I have already given some account, and which will suggest
 themselves to every experimenter in this field. Taken open
 from the laboratory, and exposed to the intermittent beam,
 the flasks are always to some extent sonorous. Placed beside

506     Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
sulphuric acid underneath the receiver of an air-pump, and
permitted to dry there, they are reduced to silence. The
slightest invasion of humid air renders them again sonorous.
 Breathing for a moment into a dried and silent flask, a loud
 sounding-power is immediately manifested.
    Flasks without lips have been specially blown for these
 experiments, the india-rubber tubing being readily pushed
 over their necks. Large flasks are not the most suitable. To
produce effective pulses, sudden and intense expansions and
 contractions are required; and these are best obtained when
the beam, at its place of maximum concentration, covers a
large portion of the matter in the flask. Thin bulbs about a
cubic inch in volume are both handy and effective ; but the
bulb may be reduced to -fa, or even -j-J^, of a cubic inch
without rendering the sound insensible. A speck of water
introduced into such tiny bulbs, when vaporized by heat,
produces sounds which are not only sensible, but loud. A
series of bulbs which I have actually employed in my experi
ments are represented in their natural dimensions in fig. 7.
                              Fig. 7.
                                 3|
                                                      0       u
   It cannot be necessary to state that the absorption which
produces the pulses is direct and immediate, being the act of
the gaseous molecules. The pulses are not duo to the heating
of the glass envelope and the communication of its heat to

     Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound. 507
what it contains ; for, were this the mode of heating, air
would be as sonorous as olefiant gas. Nor are the pulses due
to the sudden vaporization of a liquid layer which might be
supposed to overspread the interior of the flask. When water
at a low temperature is purposely caused to cover the interior
surface, exposure to the beam produces sound of a certain
intensity. When the flask is so heated in a spirit-flame as to
chase away every trace of the adherent liquid, the exposure
of the pure vapour, then within the flask, to the beam,
generates a sound far louder than that produced when the
liquid film was there. Holding the bulb containing the hot
vapour for a little time in the intermittent beam, its tempera
 ture falls, the quantity of vapour diminishes, and the sound
 sinks in intensity. On quitting the spirit-flame, the bulb in
 some cases must have been near a red heat; but even at this
 temperature the vapour sounded loud.
    It has, I think, been amply shown that when the molecules
 of a liquid are rendered free by vaporization they carry with
 them their absorbent power, liquids and vapours being per
 vious and impervious to the same quality of heat. Hence the
 inference, that prior transmission through a liquid of sufficient
 thickness ought so to sift a calorific beam as to render it
 powerless to act on the vapour of that liquid. Even with the
 loudest-sounding vapours this proves to be the case, a layer of
 liquid \ of an inch thick being found generallj' sufficient to
 deprive the beam of its efficient rays, and the vapour of its
 sounding-power.
    In transparent liquids, the visible rays have free transmis
 sion; the destruction of sounding-power by such liquids must
 therefore be due to the absorption of the invisible calorific
 rays. This induction, which hardly needs verification, is
 nevertheless capable thereof. Many years ago I pointed out
 the astonishing transparency of dissolved iodine to the in
 visible heat-rays. Placed in the path of the intermittent beam,
 a layer of this substance, perfectly opaque to light, does not
 sensibly diminish the sound of transparent gases and vapours.
 To such substances the iodine is exactly complementary,
 arresting the rays which tbey transmit, transmitting the rays
 which they absorb, and therefore not interfering with the
 sounding-power.
     That sounds may also be produced by the absorption of the
 visible rays is well exemplified by the deportment of iodine
 and bromine vapours, both of which yield with the lime-light
 forcible sounds. Here the intervention of a transparent liquid,
 however adiathermanous it may be, produces no sensible effect
 upon the sound, the reason being that it permits the particular

508     Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
rays which act upon the coloured vapours to pass freely
through it. A layer of dissolved iodine, on the other hand,
deprives the beam of its power of evoking sounds from either
iodine or bromine vapour.
   The rotation which produces the maximum effect is soon
ascertained by experiment. The sound is loudest when the
pulses succeed each other in periods which invoke the reson
ance of the flask. I possess a hollow cone with a well-polished
rock-salt base, by which this point is well illustrated. Filling
this cone with chloride of methyl, while the base is turned
towards the source of heat, the apex of the cone being con
nected by a tube with the ear, sounds of extraordinary in
tensity are produced. Abandoning the ear-tube, the sound
 can be heard at a distance. But to obtain this effect the speed
of rotation must be definite and constant. The maximum
sound once obtained, either the lowering or the heightening
of the speed rapidly enfeebles it. It is difficult by hand-
turning to keep the rate of rotation constant. Hence the
desirability of a mechanical arrangement which would ensure
the proper rapidity and necessary uniformity. One or two
motive powers have been tried, including a small steam-engine
and an electro-magnetic engine; but the arrangement has not
yet been brought to perfection.
                 § 9. Manometric measurements.
    Some time before the visit of Prof. Graham Bell in November,
1880, I had inserted into my old experimental brass cylinder
a narrow tube of glass, which, being bent at a right angle a
few inches above the cylinder, could hold an index of coloured
liquid in its horizontal portion. I had long known that the
absorption of radiant heat must be accompanied by the ex
pansion of the absorbing body, but thought that such expan
sion would furnish only a rough measure of the absorption.
With ordinary sources of heat I found the expansion small,
even when sulphuric ether occupied the experimental tube ;
but when a pair of stout carbons, rendered incandescent by a
 Siemens machine, were employed as a source, the liquid index
was driven forcibly out of the narrow glass tube.
    The experimental tube, however, was but a rude mano
 meter; and I therefore sketched and described to nry assistant
 at the time, with a view to its construction, a handier instru
ment. The apparatus was to consist of a short tube with
 rock-salt ends, capable of being exhausted and filled with any
required gas or vapour. Through this tube it was proposed
to send a concentrated calorific beam, whose action on an
absorbent gas or vapour should be declared by the depression
of a liquid column in one leg of a U tube, and its elevation in

     Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound. 509
the other. Two rock-salt plates were to be employed, with the
view of allowing the beam free escape from the tube after it
had done its work upon the gas or vapour. The warming of
the apparatus by the reverberation of the heat would be thus
avoided. The point aimed at was to effect the expansion of
the gaseous body purely by radiant heat, and undisturbed as
far as possible by heat derived from the envelope*.
   A number of manometric tubes of different lengths and
materials were constructed on this principle, some being of
glass and some of metal. The instrument with which the
measurements now to be recorded were executed is represented
in fig. 8. T T is a glass tube 4 inches long and 3 inches in
diameter. It is provided with brass flanges at the ends which
                                 Fig. 8.
   * Professor Rbntgen was, I believe, the first to turn the expansion of
 gases to account in demonstrating the absorption of radiant neat. The

510       Prof. Tyndall on the Action, of Free Molecules on
reduce the diameter to 2'5 inches. Against these flanges,
transparent plates of rock-salt are fixed air-tight. The tight
ness of the tube was secured, sometimes by india-rubber
washers properly greased, and sometimes by cement*. A
stop-cock a near one end of T T7 was connected with a baro
meter-tube and an air-pump. A T piece at the other end
was connected on the one side with a purifying-apparatus (not
shown), consisting of two U tubes, one containing fragments
of Carrara marble wetted with caustic potash, the other con
taining fragments of glass wetted with sulphuric acid. Before
entering these U tubes the air was freed from suspended mat
ter by a plug of cotton -wool. On the other side, the T piece
was connected with a quill tube of glass bent into the shape
of a U, in the two legs of which a coloured liquid stood at
the same level. The liquid column when standing at the same
level in both arms of the U was 350 millim. high in each,
while the free leg of the U rose to a height of about 500 mil
lim. above the surface of the liquid (shortened in the figure).
The source of heat was the lime-cylinder L, rendered incan
descent by a flame of coal-gas and oxygen. The rays from
the lime-cylinder were received by a concave mirror R silvered
in front, and sent by it in a convergent beam through the
manometer-tube. The focus of the beam was within the tube
and near its most distant end. The gas and oxygen were
supplied from gas-holders specially constructed for these and
similar experiments —long experience of the futility of gas from
the public mains, or compressed in iron bottles, having shown
independent gas-holders which could be kept at an unalterable
pressure to be essential.
   The experiments wrere conducted thus :—A test-tube t,
plunged in water held by the glass a, contained the liquid
whose vapour was to be examined. Through a cork which
stopped the test-tube passed a narrow tube of glass, ending in
a small orifice near the bottom of the test-tube, and at a con
siderable depth below the surface of the liquid. To augment
this depth, and to economise the liquid, the lower part of the
test-tube was drawn out to half the diameter of its upper part.
A second narrow tube passed also air-tight through the cork,
and ended immediately beneath it. Both tubes were bent at
a right angle above the cork. The manometric tube being
exhausted, air freed from its carbonic acid, its moisture, and
verv day, moreover, on which I made my communication to the Society
of I'elegTaphic Engineers, viz. the 8th of December, 1880, he forwarded
to a scientific journal the announcement of his having obtained sounds
from coal-gas and ammonia (see Wiedemann's Annalen, Jan. 1881). Ilia
subsequent experiments with aqueous vapour &c. agree with mine.
   * The absorption of the vapours by india-rubber (which was in some
cases extraordinary) caused the washers to be abandoned.

     Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound.      511
its suspended matter was allowed to bubble through the
liquid in the test-tube, and to pass thence into the manometric
tube. To spare the oxygen in the gas-holder it was cut off
during the interval between two consecutive experiments, the
coal-gas being kept continually alight. When the manometric
tube was filled, which was always accomplished through an
orifice of fixed dimensions, the oxygen was turned on, and
tbe cylinder was allowed to remain for one minute under the
action of the intensified flame. During this time a double
silver screen S intercepted the radiation. At the end of a
minute this screen, which moved on an hinge, was withdrawn,
the beam then passing through the mixed air and vapour.
The liquid standing in the adjacent leg of the narrow U tube
was immediately depressed, that in the opposite leg being
equally elevated. The rise of this latter column above its
starting-point, marked zero on a millimetre-scale, was accu
rately measured. Double this rise gave the difference of level
in the two legs of the U; and this "water-pressure" expressed
the augmentation of elastic force by the absorption of radiant
heat.
    Here follow a certain number of the measurements which
 have been tbus made. They do not comprise the whole of
 the substances examined.
                       Table V.—Vapours
           Increase of Elastic Force by Eadiant Heat.
                                 Boiling- Mean water- Character
          Name of Liquid.          point. pressure,    of sound.
                                            millim.
      1. Sulphuric ether .           3-5     300     Very strong.
      2. Hydride of amyl .           30      279
      3. Acetone. . . .               58      207
      4. Bromide of ethyl .           ."'.I   204
      5. Formic ether . .             55      201           »
      6. Acetic ether . .             74      248           »
      7. Acetal ....               104        237
      8. Chloride of allyl .         46       235
      9. Iodide of methyl .           45      233
    10. Dichloride of ethitlei        57      217       Strong.
    11. Nitrate of ethyl .            86      208           »
    12. Nitrite of amyl .             99      205           »
    13. Chloride of butyl .           69      185
    14. Butyric ether . .           121       183
    15. Formic acid                   99      180
    16. Valeral ....                100       172
    17. Valerianic ether .          144       108            n
    18. Acetate of propyl.          102       100
    19. Methvlic alcohol .                    102

512    Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
                     Table V. {continued).
                              Boiling- Mean water- Character
        Name of Liquid.         point. pressure,     of sound.
                                    o    millim.
  20. Iodide of ethyl             72       148        Moderate.
  21. Bromide of butyl .          92       134
  22. Dutch liquid .              85       127            n
  23. Acetate of butyl           114       120            »
  24. Benzol ...                  81       117            ii
  25. Carbonic ether             126       108            »
  26. Chloride of amyl           102       105            ii
  27. Chloropicrin .             112        94            »
  28. Iodide of allyl.           101        92            »
  29. Chloroform                  61        89
  30. Iodide of butyl            121        88
  31. Allylic alcohol             97        84
  32. Bisulphide of carbon        43        81            n
  33. Bromide of amyl .          119        78            y>
  34. Cyanide of ethyl            98        77
  35. Butyl alcohol .            110        72         Weak.
  36. Nitrate of amyl            147        67
  37. Oxalate of ethyl                      66
  38. Cyanide of methyl           82        64
  39. Tetrachloride of carbon . 77          58
  40. Bromoform                  150        44            3>
  41. Xylol . . .                140        44            n
  42. Amylic alcohol             130        42
  43. Iodide of amyl             146        42
  44. Terebine . .               160        39
  45. Cymolo . . .               175        38
  46. Butyric acid .            163
  47. Butyrate of amyl          176
  48. Caprylic alcohol .        180
  49. Valerianic acid           175
  50. Pure aniline .            184
  51. (Enanthic ether           188 Very small absorptions
  52. Valerianate of amyl .     196      and very feeblesounds
  53. Salicylous acid           196      at ordinary tempera
  54. Caproic acid .            205      tures.     Sounds in
  55. Nitro-benzol .            205      most cases very strong
  56. Kreosote . .              210      when liquid is heated
  57. Menthol . .               213      to its boiling-point.
  58. Chinoline . .             238
  59. Eugenol . .               247
  60. Nicotine . .              250
  61. Monobromnaphthaline 277
  62. Sebacic ether . . .       308

   Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound.       513
                       Table VI.—Gases.
           Name of Gas.                          Water-pressure.
                                                     millim.
        Chloride of methyl                            350
        Aldehyde                                      325
        Olefiant gas                                  315
        Sulphuric ether                               300
        Nitrous oxide                                 198
        Marsh -gas                                    164
        Carbonic acid                                 144
        Carbonic oxide                                116
        Oxygen                                           5
        Hydrogen                                         5
        Nitrogen                                         5
         Dry air                                          5
        Humid air at 50° C                             130
    Sulphuric ether is here inserted with the view of connecting
this Table with the last. Of all gaseous bodies hitherto
examined, chloride of methyl is the most energetic absorber
and the most powerful sound-producer. After it comes alde
hyde, with a boiling-point of 21° C. The figure 5 attached
to the elementary gases and to dry air expresses, not ab
sorption of radiant heat, but expansion, due to contact
with the slightty warmed apparatus. The nitrous oxide em
ployed was derived from an iron bottle, in which it was pre
served for medical purposes. In some of my experiments
marsh-gas showed itself a better absorber than nitrous oxide.
This, for instance, was the case in experiments made in the
 spring of 1880 with the manometer. The sample of marsh-
 gas wherewith the foregoing result was obtained was very
 carefully prepared in our chemical laboratory.
    The temperature of 50° C. in the case of humid air was
 obtained in a wooden shed erected in our laboratory. The
 shed is traversed by two tubes of sheet iron 4 inches in
 diameter, which carry the heated air and products of combus
 tion from two large ring burners. It is 8' 6" long, 4' 3" wide,
 and 7 feet high. The temperature of the air within it can
 be readily raised to 60° C. In the experiment recorded in
  Table VI. the air was taken from the outside laboratory
  through a tube passing through the wooden wall of the shed.
  It was caused to bubble through water contained in a large
  flask which had been permitted to remain for some time in
  the warm shed. The mixed air and vapour entered the manc-
  meter-tube at a temperature some degrees lower than that of
  the tube itself. Closely examined, all parts of this tube were
  bright and dry when the vapour-laden air was within it. On

  514      Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
  permitting the beam from the lime-light (produced by coal-gas
  and oxygen) to pass through the mixture, a prompt rise of
  65 millim. was the consequence. Cutting the beam off, the
  column rapidly returned to zero. The double of 65, or 130
  millim., gives the difference of level in the two legs of the
  U tube.
     I have done my best to render these determinations correct.
  They have been repeated both by myself and my assistant* a
  great number of times. The first measurements were made
  in the early part of last year, and were made known in the
  Royal Institution on the 8th of April, 1881. Difficulties were
  encountered in obtaining a powerful, and at the same time
  constant, source of heat. The mixture of coal-gas and oxygen
 issuing from independent holders was finally resorted to.
 The sounds are classified into "very strong," strong," &c;
 but it is, of course, impossible to say where one class ends
 and another begins. They shade gradually into each other.
 But if the middle members of any cliiss be compared with the
 corresponding members of another class, the difference of
 sounding-power will appear.
             § 10. Application of Results to Meteorology.
    If it be at length conceded that aqueous vapour exerts upon
 radiant heat the action which I so long ago ascribed to it,
 1 think the knowledge of this action will prove of importance
 to the scientific meteorologist. Meteorology, as connected
 with heat, seems to me to abound in facts which it has hitherto
 been incompetent to explain. This, for example, I hold to
 be the case as regards the celebrated observations of Patrick
 Wilson of Glasgow, made a century ago. Wilson brought
strongly into light the great differences which sometimes exist
between the temperature of the earth's surface and of the air
at a small elevation above the surface. His letter to Dr. Mas-
kelyne on this subject is published in the Philosophical Trans
actions for 1780, under the title:—"An Account of a most
extraordinary degree of Cold at Glasgow, together with some
new Experiments and Observations on the comparative Tem
perature of Hoar Frost and the Air near it." On the after
noon of the 13th of January, 1780, the cold was intense, a
thermometer at the high window of the observatory pointing,
at 7 P.M., to 0° Fahr. At 8 p.m., Wilson and Dr. Irvine laid
two thermometers upon the snow, and hung up two others in
the air 2 feet above the snow. Here follow the temperatures
observed on the evening of the 13th and on the morning of
the 14th of January :—
   • Who has aided me in this investigation with his usual zeal and
intelligence.

    Radiant Heat, and Us Conversion thereby into Sound. 515
  Time of observation.       Snow-temperature.        Air-temperature.
          8i p.m.                   -12                     -0
          9      „                  -14                     -2
         10      „                  -14                     -4
         11      „                  -17                     -6
         Hi fj                       _18                     -G
             | a.m.                 -20                      -8
           1     „                   -23                     -7
   The sign — signifies that the temperatures were all below-
zero Fahrenheit. These temperatures amply justify Wilson's
statement that the cold was " extraordinary." Coexistent
moreover with the general cold, we have a difference of 16°
between the temperature of the surface and that of the air
2 feet above it. Had the air-thermometer been hung 10 feet
instead of 2 feet above the surface, the difference would have
been still greater. The thermometer, moreover, must have
been chilled, not only by its immersion in cold air, but also
by its own radiation against the intensely cold snow. The
chilling of the superficial snow was purely an effect of radia
tion. Beneath the surface its temperature reached +14°.
Wilson filled a bread-basket with this warm snow at 2£ a.m.
 on the 14th. Within half an hour it had fallen 24°, and in
 two hours 32°.
    I venture to predict that if Wilson's experiment bo repeated
during the cold of a Canadian winter the same result will be
 obtained ; and it seems to me that until the action of water-
 vapour upon radiant heat had been discovered, no explanation
 of the phenomenon could have been given. It was accepted,
 but not accounted for. On the night of Wilson's observations
 " a light air was felt coming from the east." With such an
 " air and such a temperature the quantity of water-vapour
 in the atmosphere must have been infinitesimal. Dry air
 being a practical vacuum to the rays of heat, were the vapour-
 screen entirely removed, the earth would find itself exchanging
 temperatures with celestial space, and the superficial chill
 would be commensurate. In Wilson's case, though vapour
 was not abolished, it was so far diminished as to produce the
 observed refrigeration. Meteorologists, I am informed, some
 times say that laboratory experiments, however well performed,
 have but little application to their field of observation*. I,
   • Mr. Hill, the Meteorological reporter for the North-western Provinces
 of India, writes thus :—" There is even, on the part of some, an evident
 reluctance to accept the decision of laboratory experiments on the ques
 tion of atmospheric absorption as final, however ingenious, varied, and
 consistent with one another the experiments may be " (Proc. Hoy. Soc.
 vol. xxxiii. p. 216).

516      Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
on the other hand, submit that such experiments are necessary
to rescue their science from empiricism. What could Wells
have done with dew had he not been preceded by Leslie and
Rumford ? His whole theory is an application of results ob
tained in the laboratory *.
    What I have stated regarding Wilson applies also to Six,
who concluded from his experiments " that the greatest dif
ferences at night in point of temperature, between bodies on
the surface of the earth and the atmosphere near it, are those
which take place in very cold weather." This is quoted from
Wells f, who, in his essay on Dew, recurs more than once to
the subject. He signalizes, but does not -explain, " the
greater difference which takes place in very cold weather, if it
be calm and clear, between the temperatures of the air and of
bodies on the earth at night, than in equally calm and clear
weather in summer"}. A considerable number of observations
bearing upon this point are scattered through the essay. The
radiant power of the air being practically nil, it retains for a
considerable time the warmth imparted to it during the day,
while, when it is dry, the rays from the surface of the earth
pass unimpeded through it. Hence the relative refrigeration
of the surface § .
    In regard to the action of water-vapour Magnus considered
experiment superfluous, as the phenomenon of dew sufficed to
prove me wrong. If the vapour possessed the power which
I ascribed to it, he contended that dew could not be formed.
It is not difficult to dispose of this objection. The formation
 of dew and superficial refrigeration are connected, not by
 coincidence, but by opposition. I would venture to predict
that where the one is great the other, in general, will be small.
" Very little dew," says Wells, " appeared on the two nights
of the greatest cold 1 have ever observed on the surface of
    * " Its complete theory," pays Wells, " could not possibly, in my
 opinion, have been attained, before the discoveries on heat were made,
which are contained in the works of Mr. Leslie and Count Rumford "
 (Essays, p. 191).
   t Essays, p. 176. Wells thus generously refers to the labours of
 Wilson :—" Indeed, several of my experiments upon dew were only imi
 tations of some which had been previously made on hoar frost, by that
ingenious and worthy man " (Essays, p. 151).
    X Ibid. p. 188.
    § It ought to be stated that, contrary to Six and to Wells, Mr. Glaisher
 has found that " the differences between the temperature of the air and
 of bodies on the earth at night, in equally clear and calm weather, were
 the same at every period of the year" (Phil. Trans. 1847, p. 126). He
 moreover records differences considerably in excess of those observed by
 Wilson and by Wells. Keeping the action of aqueous vapour in view,
 the elaborate paper of Mr. Glaisher might repay further discussion.

     Radiant Heat, and Us Conversion thereby into Sound. 517
the earth, relatively to the temperature of the air, both of
them having occurred after a long tract of dry weather"*.
This evidence is specially valuable in view of the fact that
Wells knew nothing of the action of water-vapour on radiant
heat. On another occasion he observed a difference of 9£
degrees between the temperature of the air and that of wool
placed upon the earth, without any deposition of dew whatever
upon the chilled wool f. He supplements these observations
by one equally important in the opposite direction. " On the
night," he writes, "which afforded the most copious dew ever
observed by me, the cold possessed by the grass beyond that
of the air was for the most part only 3 and 4° "J. The
smallness of the refrigeration in this instance, and the copious
ness of the dew, I refer to one and the same cause, namely
the abundance of vapour. Heavy dew implies this abundance ;
abundant vapour, if not too local, implies checked radiation;
and checked radiation tends to abolish the difference of tem
perature between air and soil.
   Wells had a theory of his own to account for the association
of moderate refrigeration and heavy dew. The heat rendered
free by the condensation of the vapour to liquid "prevented"
 the cold. He tried to determine the effect of condensation
 by the following experiment §. To 10 grains of wool he
 added 21 grains of water, this being the quantity of dew de
 posited on wool in one of his observations. He placed the
 moistened wool in a saucer on a feather-bed in a room, and
 determined the chill produced by its evaporation. After
 eight hours, while the wool still retained 2£ grains of mois
 ture, its temperature was 4° lower than that of a dry saucer
 placed near it on the same feather-bed. When the process is
 reversed, condensation instead of evaporation comingjinto play,
 the foregoing amount of heat, Wells contended, would be libe
 rated on the grass, and thus prevent inordinate refrigeration.
    In thus reasoning Wells went to the limit of the knowledge
 of his time; and the explanation here given is a philosophical
 one. But I do not think it a sufficient explanation. The
 grass is exposed to the open atmosphere ; and the heat deve-
   • Essays, p. 186.
   t Ibid. p. 183. Wells sometimes found wetted wool to lose weight,
 while dry wool gained no weight though lowered many degrees below
 the temperature of the air (p. 184).
    X Ibid. p. 169. From a remark occurring at page 135, it may be in
 ferred that the night here referred to was that common to the 29th and
 30th of July, 1813. On the two occasions first mentioned, when there
 was but little dew, the grass was in one instance 12°, and in the other
14° colder than the air.
   J Essavs, p. 187.
    Phil'. Mag. S. 5. No. 84. Suppl. Vol. 13.                 2Q

518       Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
loped by every successive film of moisture condensed upon
its blades is instantly wasted by radiation. Those who are
accustomed to work with the thermopile know how rapidly
the associated galvanometer-needle falls from a high deflection
to zero when the heat incident upon the pile is suddenly cut
off. A similar rapidity of waste would assuredly occur during
the slow formation of dew. The heat of condensation could
not, for this reason, be housed in the manner supposed by
Wells *. The true explanation I hold to be that already in
dicated—the checking of radiation by vapour, the abundance
of which was indicated by the copious deposition of dew.
    If the experiments of Wilson could be made in an atmo
sphere still colder than that in which he worked—on a larger
plain, for instance, and in a country remarkable for the dryness
of its air—Wells considered that a difference of at least 30°
would be observed on serene nights between the air and a
downy substance placed on the earth. And as Six had found
the air-temperature at an elevation of 220 feet to be 10° higher
than at 7 feet, these 10° being added to the 30° would make
the surface at least 40° colder than the air at the height of
 200 or 300 feet. With all this I agree. I would go even
further, and reiterate here a statement made by me nineteen
years ago, that the withdrawal of the aqueous vapour of our
atmosphere, for a single calm night, would kill every plant
in England capable of being killed by a freezing temperature.
    Pictet, I believe, was the first to notice that the temperature
of the air near the earth's surface on serene nights diminished
as the surface was approached, the sequence of the day tem
peratures being thus inverted. To account for the chilling
of the air, say, at 10 feet above the earth's surface beyond that
   * Wells himself observed in grass a fall of temperature of 7° in twenty-
minutes. This gives us some notion of the rapidity with which a radiant
so powerful as water would dispose of its heat (Essays, p. 157).
   At the instance of my friend Mr. Francis Galton, and with the kind
 sanction of the Meteorological Council, the following instructive ob
 servations, showing the temperatures recorded by two thermometers—the
 one placed on cotton-wool resting on the earth, and the other hung at
 a height of four feet in the air—were recently made by Mr. Whipple at
 Kew :—
               Time.                  Air.             Wool.
                4.20 p.m              34-8              33-2
                4.25 „           . . 32-5               27-6
               4.30 „            . . 32-4               25-7
                4.35             . . 32-4               234
                4.40             . . 32-2               21-7
                4.45 ii          . . 32-2               20-7
   The rapidity of radiation is well shown by these observations, an ex
posure oftwenty-five minutes sufficing to establish a difference of lla5.

    Radiant Heat, and its Conversion tliereby into Sound. 519
at 100 feet above the surface, Wells invoked the radiant power
of the air itself. It is chilled, he thought, by its own emission
against the cold earth underneath. Wells takes great pains
to prove that the air possesses this power ; and if not the air,
the floating matter of the air will, he contends, exert the
necessary radiation. Difficulties of this nature not unfre-
quently crop up in works on meteorology ; but they disappear
in presence of the fact that mixed with the air is a gaseous
constituent, small in quantity, but capable of producing the
effects needing explanation.
   As an example of such difficulties, I have already referred
to Sir John Leslie's paper, " On certain Impressions of Cold
transmitted from the Higher Atmosphere " *. He there de
scribes the jEthrioscope, an instrument used to measure these
impressions. "The sensibility," he says, "of the instrument
is very striking ; for the liquor incessantly falls and rises in
the stem with every passing cloud. Under a fine blue sky,
it will sometimes indicate a cold of 50 millesimal degrees ;
yet on the other days, when the air seems equally bright,
the effect is only 30°. The causes of these variations are
not quite ascertained." He might have said, not at all
ascertained. The causes, I submit, are the variations of the
quantity of transparent aqueous vapour in the atmosphere,
which, without affecting the visual brightness of the air, is.
competent to arrest radiation from the earth. Precisely of
the same character is the difficulty noticed by Lieutenant
Hennessey in his paper on " Actinometrical Observations in
India." Like Leslie, he speaks of variations the causes of
 which are not ascertained. "Again," he says, "there is a
 change of intensity from day to day apparently not due to
 alterations in the sun's declination so that the average daily
 curve (about noon) is higher or lower without any visible
 reason "f. The reason here is that applicable in Leslie's case,
 namely the variations of the invisible atmospheric vapour.
    In 1866 my friend Professor Soret, of Geneva, favoured me
 with a letter from which the following is an extract :—" In
 two comparative experiments, made within a few days at
 Geneva and Bologna, the most powerful radiation was ob
 tained at Geneva, although at Bologna the heavens were
 visibly purer. The result appears to me to support your views
 regarding the aqueous vapour of the air ; for the tension of
 aqueous vapour at Bologna was 10-7, while at Geneva it was
 only 6-33."
    Cautiously abstaining from drawing a general conclusion
        * Transactions Roy. Soc. of Edinburgh, vol. viii. p. 483.
        t Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. xix. p. 228.
                                   2Q2

 520     Prof. Tyndall on tlie Action of Free Molecules on
 from a single fact, M. Soret, in 1868, made some further
 experiments on solar radiation. The intensity was measured
 by first allowing the rays to fall directly on the thermometer
 ofthe actinometer, and then by allowing them, prior to meeting
 the thermometer, to pass through 5 centimetres of water.
 Calling the first temperature T and the second t, the ratio ^
 will be obviously greatest when the absorption by the water
 is least. And as Ave know that water exerts its chief absorbent
 power on the ultra-red rays of the spectrum, the variations in
 this ratio observed at different atmospheric thicknesses will
 enable us to infer the nature of the heat " arrested " by the
 atmosphere.
    M. Soret found the ratio to be greater in the middle of the
 day than when the sun is near the horizon. At 12.30, for
 example, on the 9th of March the ratio was 0-594, while at
 5.10, on the same day, it was only 0*409. A smaller fraction
 of the total heat was absorbed by the water near midday
 than near sunset. At midday, therefore, the solar heat was
 more thoroughly sifted of its calorific rays, and more trans
 missible by water, than it was when the atmospheric thickness
 was much greater. It would seem difficult to reconcile this
 result with the notion that aqueous vapour is the absorbing
 constituent of the atmosphere.
    A year subsequently MM. Desains and Branley found, both
at Paris and at Lucerne, that the sun's heat was always more
transmissible through water and alum in the morning than at
midday. I have too much confidence in the able experimenters
here named to think any of them wrong. How, then, is the
discrepancy between them to be accounted for ? I think in
the foillowing way. What is called the glow of the Alps varies
greatly with the quantity of suspended matter in the air.
When pronounced, it shows that the more refrangible consti
tuents have been in great part removed from the sun's rays.
The proportion of the less-refrangible rays in the total radia
tion is augmented in this way, the relative trausmissibility of
the heat being diminished. It was, I would suggest, heat
that had its character impressed upon it in this way by scat
tering, and not by absorption, that yielded the result obtained
by M. Soret.
   Whatever may be the value of this explanation, one result
of great interest to me was established by the two French
experimenters. Simultaneous observations were made by
them on the summit of the Rigi and at Lucerne, the vertical
distance between both stations Deing 4756 feet. Within this
stratum 17'1 per cent, of the solar rays was absorbed.

     Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound. 521
   Experiments were made at the same time at both stations
on the perviousness of water to the solar rays. If, as I con
tend, a vapour and its liquid absorb the same rays, the with
drawal of 17 per cent, of the radiation by aqueous vapour
must render the residual heat more transmissible by water.
This is precisely what the French experimenters found it to
be. " Through a glass trough 0*08 of a metre in length, and
full of water, the rays on the Rigi passed in the proportion
of 685, and at Lucerne in the proportion of 730, per 1000 of
the incident heat."
   Magnus was so convinced of the impotency of aqueous
vapour to arrest radiant heat, that in reference to various
meteorological phenomena, where the action I had ascribed to
it ofFered a satisfactory explanation of the facts, he put in its
place mist or haze, the existence of which he assumed, even
when neither mist nor haze was visible. There are various
passages in the Essay on Dew which it would be difficult
to reconcile with this assumption; for they show that even
visible atmospheric turbidity has by no means the influence
which Magnus ascribed to it.
    Thus, on the 7th of January, 1814, Wells observed, " a little
after sunset," a refrigeration of 8°, at a time when some parts
of the sky were covered with clouds, and the lower atmosphere
a little obscure *. On another evening, " when the atmo
sphere was neither very clear nor very still," a difference of
 14£° was observed between the temperatures of air and swan-
 down. Wells also observed a refrigeration of 5° when the
 sky was thickly covered with high clouds. A very definite
 observation in regard to haze was made on the 21st of
 January, 1814. The air at this time was " a good deal
 hazy "f. Notwithstanding this, the temperature of swan-
 down placed on snow was 13£° lower than that of the air
 4 feet above it. Thus, if other circumstances bo favourable—
 that is to say, if the air be dry—even a visible haze does not
 prevent powerful refrigeration. I close these references to
 mist and haze by mentioning a most striking observation
 made by Wells on^the 1st of January, 1814. " I found," he
 says, " during a dense fog, while the weather was very calm,
 a thermometer lying on grass thickly covered with hoar frost
 9° lower than another suspended in the air 4 feet above the
 former "J. Here, as before, low temperature implies scanty
 vapour, the absence of which enabled the grass to pour its
 heat even through the interstices of a dense fog §.
    * Essays, p. 174.           t Ibid. p. 176.      t Ibid. p. 158.
    § Mr. Glaisher moreover has found differences of from 10° to 12°
 between grass and air " at times when the sky has been free from clouds
 but not bright, haze and vapour being prevalent " (Phil. Trans. 1847,
 p. 146).

 522      Prof. Tyndall on the Action of Free Molecules on
     I could draw still farther on this admirable Essay in illus
 tration of the thesis which I have so long defended. As a
 repertory of valuable facts and penetrative arguments it pro
 bably stands unrivalled in the literature of meteorology. One
 point remains which cannot be passed over. It has reference
 to the part played by clouds in arresting and returning the
  radiation from the earth. " No direct experiments," says
  Wells, " can be made to ascertain the manner in which clouds
  prevent, or occasion to be small, the appearance of a cold
  at night, upon the surface of the earth, greater than that of
 the atmosphere; but it may, I think, be firmly [fairly ?] con
  cluded from what has been said in the preceding article, that
  they produce this effect, almost entirely, by radiating heat to
  the earth, in return for that which they intercept in its pro
  gress from the earth towards the heavens " *. Wells had the
  strongest analogies to adduce in favour of this view. He placed
 boards and sheets of paper above his thermometer, thus screen
 ing them from the clear sky; and in that beautiful passage
 where he speaks of " the pride of self-knowledge," and refers
 to the simple devices which experience had taught gardeners
 to apply for the safety of their plants, he mentions the pro
 tection which even a thin cambric handkerchief can afford to
 thermometers over which it is spread. He was irresistibly
 led to conclude that clouds acted in the same fashion, and that
 when they occupied the firmament, they sent back to the earth
 the heat incident upon them, exactly as the board, and the
 paper, and the cambric sent it back in experiments made close
 to the surface of the earth.
     But in the enunciation of this hypothesis his knowledge and
 penetration as an observer came, as usual, into play. He is
 careful to distinguish between high clouds and low clouds.
 " Dense clouds," he says, " near the earth must possess the
 heat of the lower atmosphere, and will therefore send to the
 earth as much, or nearly as much, heat as they receive from
 it by radiation. But similarly dense clouds, if very high,
 though they equally intercept the communication of the earth
 with the sky, yet being from this elevated situation colder
than the earth, will radiate to it less heat than they receive
from it, and may consequently admit of bodies on its surface
becoming several degrees colder than the air "t-
     Magnus urged this point against mo; and I may be per-
    * Essays, p. 205.
   t Ibid. p. 206. " If," says Wells, in another place, " the clouds
were high and the weather calm, I have sometimes seen on grass, though
the sky was entirely hidden, no very inconsiderable quantity of dew "
(ibid. p. 128).

      Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound. 523
mitted to say that I always considered it one of his strongest
points—my holding of this opinion being, however, dependent
on the views which I entertained, and which were opposed to
those of Magnus, regarding the relation of liquid to vapour.
If, as I believe, the absorbent power is not enhanced by con
densation—if in this respect water behaves like hydride of
amyl and sulphuric ether,—then I do not think that such a
process of reverberation, between earth and clouds, as that
assumed by Wells is possible. The aqueous vapour, in a very
few thousand feet of air, of average humidity, would, if con
densed, form a layer of water 0'5 of an inch in thickness; and
through such a layer, or even through a thinner layer, the
earth's radiation could not pass. If" the earth's radiation
reach the clouds, it must be by a process similar to that of
handing buckets from man to man in the case of a fire. The
heat must be taken up and re-radiated, we know not how
many times, before the clouds are reached. I do not, how
ever, think this mechanism of discharge necessary. Low
clouds will not form above exposed thermometers, in weather
previously serene, unless some change has occurred in the
atmosphere; and change may occur where no cloud reveals it.
 It may extend, and in most cases probably does extend, from
 the low clouds to the earth. I think it in the highest degree
 probable that in most, if not in all, the cases cited by Wells of
 thermometers rising when clouds were formed overhead, the
Erecipitation was due to the intrusion of humid air, the
  umidity extending invisibly from the clouds downwards. To
this, I believe, rather than to any immediate exchange of tem
 perature with the clouds, the rapid and considerable changes
 of temperature referred to by him at pp. 156 and 157 of the
 Essay are to be ascribed. Future observations will, doubt
 less, bring this view to an experimental test.
    I here recur with renewed pleasure to a paper published
 by General^ Strachey in the Philosophical Magazine for July
 1866. It was probably intended as a reply to the strictures
 of Magnus; and to me it appears cogent in the highest degree.
 General Strachey calculated the fall of temperature from
 6h 40m p.m., Madras time, to 5h 40m next morning, for a cer
 tain number of days, selected as sufficiently clear. He also
 calculated the mean vapour-tension during the nights, and
 tabulated the results according to the quantity of vapour, for
 the years 1841, 1842, 1843, and 1844. In such observations,
 as pointed out by Strachey, discrepancies are to be expected;
 but the general result is unmistakable, that the fall of tem
 perature by radiation is greatest when the air is driest, and
 least when the air is most humid. A series of observations

524       Prof. Tyndall on the Actioti of Free Molecules on
made at Madras between the 4th and the 25th of March, 1850,
are particularly suitable for the illustration of this law of
action. During the period referred to "the sky remained
remarkably clear, while great variations of the quantity of
vapour took place." Here are the results as tabulated by
General Strachey: —
            Tension of vapour.          •888.  •849. •805.     •749. ¦708.
       Fall of temperature from 1       6°0    r-i      8°-3   8°-5  10°-3
         PUTT.*, toff' 40 a.m./
            Tension of vapour.           •659.     •605.     •554.   •435.
       Pall of temperature from 1        12°-6     12°-1     13°-1    16-5.
         6» 40" p.m. to 5h 40™ a.m. /
    These results, if correct (and I am not aware that they have
ever been questioned), show in the most impressive manner
the influence of the aqueous vapour of our atmosphere on our
 planet's radiation. As the vapour diminishes, the door opens,
which permits the escape of the earth's heat. The halving of
the vapour-tension nearly trebles the refrigeration of the ther
mometer.
   Equally clear is the evidence given by General Strachey as
to the action of aqueous vapour upon the radiation of the sun.
Here are the results:—
       Tension of vapour.         •824.   •787. •670. •576. •611. •394.
   Eise of temperature from 1 12°-4 15°-1 19=-3 22°-2 24°-3 2T0
    SMO-a.m. to lh 40" p.m./
    This table is the exact complement of the last. There the
fall of temperature was powerfully promoted by the with
 drawal of the vapour. Here the rise of temperature is power
 fully promoted by the same cause*.
   * Mr. Hill, Meteorological Reporter for the North-west Provinces of
India, in a paper recently presented to the Royal Society, describes an
attempt to determine the " Constituent of the Atmosphere' which absorbs
Radiant Heat." He uses for this purpose the careful observations made
by Messrs. J. B. N. Hennessey and W. H. Cole, at Mussoree and Dehra
respectively. From the absence of symmetry in the quantities of heat
received by the actinometer on both sides of noon at Mussoree, and from
the existence of this symmetry at Dehra, he infers the periodic lifting and
lowering of the absorbing constituent above and below the higher station.
He finds the variation of the absorption-coefiicient to follow the variations

    Radiant Heat, and its Conversion thereby into Sound.              525
   But the most impressive illustration of the action of aqueous
vapour is now to be referred to. In 1865 I subjected to ex
amination the radiation from the electric light produced by a
battery of 50 of Grove's cells, and found, by prismatic analysis,
the invisible calorific radiation to be 7*7 times the visible. The
determination was afterwards made by the method of filtration,
whereby the one class of rays was detached with great sharp
ness from the other, and both of them rendered measurable.
By this method the invisible radiation was found to be 8
times the visible. A close agreement was therefore established
between the results of the two methods. Computed from the
diagram of Miiller, the invisible radiation of the sun is twice
the visible. This smaller ratio might, of course, be referred to
the original quality of the solar emission, the ratio holding
good up to the surface of the sun. But having placed, as I
thought beyond doubt, the action of aqueous vapour on radiant
heat, and believing the action of the vapour to be substan
tially the same as that of water, I reasoned and experimented
as follows in 1865 : —" The sun's rays, before reaching our
earth, have to pass through the atmosphere, where they en
counter the atmospheric vapour, which exercises a powerful
absorption on the invisible calorific rays. From this, apart
from other considerations, it would follow that the ratio of the
invisible to the visible radiation in the case of the sun must
be less than in the case of the electric light. Experiment,
we see, justifies this conclusion. If we cause the beam from
the electric lamp to pass through a layer of water of suitable
thickness, we place its radiation in approximately the same
condition as that of the sun; and on decomposing the beam
after it has been thus sifted, we obtain a distribution of heat
closely resembling that observed in the solar spectrum."
   If, therefore, we could get above the vapour-screen which
swathes the earth, the " powerful absorption " referred to in
the paragraph just quoted would disappear, the ratio of the
invisible to the visible solar rays being augmented corre
spondingly. That such would be the case I have long taken
for granted ; but I hardly hoped for a corroboration so im
pressive as that furnished by the recent observations of Pro
of vapour-tension. From this and from a similar result obtained by a
second method of calculation, he draws the conclusion " that there can be
very little error in agreeing with Dr. Tyndall that the absorptive power
of dry air is sensibly nothing, and that the total absorptive power of the
atmosphere is due to the water-vapour it contains." A most interesting
discourse on Solar Heat, by M. Violle, of Grenoble, will be found in the
Revue Seientifique for 1878, p. 044. I guard myself against saying that
the diathermancy of dry air is perfect.

526       On the Action of Free Molecules on Radiant Heat.
fessor Langley, in the Sierra Nevada Mountains of California.
Professor Langley is known to have highly distinguished him
self by researches on radiant heat, with instruments of his
own invention. He writes to me thus from Mount Whitney,
California, September 10, 1881 :—
    " I received your letter just as I was starting on the expe
dition to this point of which I wrote. I much regretted that
I had not time to provide myself with your mercury-pyrhelio-
meter; so I have been obliged to "use the old form, with its
many disadvantages.
   " Our route here has led us through the dryest parts of this
continent, and across rainless deserts to this mountain, where
the air is perhaps drier than at any other equal altitude ever
used for scientific investigation. I write from an altitude of
12,000 feet, while the ' Peak ' rises nearly 3000 more above
me. I have been successful in bringing up, and using here,
the rather complex and delicate apparatus for investigating the
absorption of the atmosphere on homogeneous rays, through
out the visible and invisible spectrum.
   " You may be interested in knowing that the result indi
cates a great difference in the distribution of the solar energy
here from that to which we are accustomed in regions of
ordinary humidity; and that while the evidence of the effect
of water-vapour on the more refrangible rays is feeble, there
is, on the other hand, a systematic effect due to its absence,
which shows by contrast its power on the red and ultra-red in
a striking light.
   " These experiments also indicate an enormous extension
of the ultra-red spectrum beyond the point to which it has
been followed below, and, being made on a scale different from
that of the laboratory—on one indeed as grand as nature can
furnish—and by means wholly independent of those usually
applied to the research, must, I think, when published, put an
end to every doubt as to the accuracy of the statements so
long since made by you, as to the absorbent power of this
agent over the greater part of the spectrum, and as to its pre
dominant importance in modifying to us the solar energy.
                             " I am, with much regard,
                                        " Very truly yours,
                                             " S. P. Lakglky."

                                 [   527     ]
             LXIV. On Rhabdophane, a new Mineral.
                      By W. G. Lettsom, Esq.*
HAVING ascertained from Monsieur Lecoq de Boisbau-
          dran, who had had the kindness to favour me with a
specimen of his new metal gallium, that it would be agreeable
to him to examine our British blendes for that metal, I applied
to various dealers for specimens thereof, and I also asked a
few friends to give me their assistance in the matter. Among
the latter was Mr. Ludlam, who with his usual liberality sent
me three or four specimens.
   Among them was one which in its appearance differed from
any British blende that I am familiar with. It was in small
mamillated globules, brown, with a peculiar greasy lustre.
Having a suspicion that possibly it might not be a blende, I
submitted it for examination to that Grand Inquisitor the spec
troscope.
   Letting a bright light fall on the specimen, I looked at it
with a pocket-spectroscope, when immediately the bands due
to the presence of didymium became apparent. I had thus
come across what, at least, was no ordinary blende.
   Having submitted the specimen to Mr. Maskelyne, that
gentleman was so good as to cause a preliminary chemical
examination of the mineral to be made, from which it appears
that it contains neither zinc nor sulphur, and is consequently
no blende, but that it is essentially a phosphate of didymium.
    With some pure fragments of the mineral which I have
placed in the skilful hands of Mr. Walter Noel Hartley, that
gentleman has kindly undertaken to make a complete analysis!
   * Communicated by the Crystallological Society, having been read
 November 23, 1878.
   [This paper was withheld from publication with the intention that it
and the analysis should appear simultaneously. Through some misap
prehension this intention has not been carried out, and the analysis has
already appeared in the Journal of the Chemical Society for May.—Sec.
Cbyst. Soc]
   t [Professor Hartley's analysis shows it to be a hydrated phosphate of
cerium, didymium, and yttrium, capable of representation by the formula
 Ra 03 . Pa Os . 2Ha O, the percentage composition found being :—
                        Combined water               7-97
                        PaO.                       26-26
                        Cea03,Dia03,YtJ03 .. 65-75
 Cea 03 : Di2 03 :     0,= 23-19 : 34-77 : 2-39 nearly.
   This seems to be the first time that yttrium has been found in a British
 mineral.]

 528   Mr. W. G. Lettsom on Rhabdophane, a new Mineral.
of the substance ; but as he informs me he has no leisure to
go into the matter at present, I am not as yet able to state to
the Society what is the precise constitution of the mineral.
   Within a few days after showing the original specimen to
Mr. Maskelyne, I had the pleasure of learning from him that
he had been enabled, I believe by means of the spectroscope,
to recognize two other specimens
collection at Oxford, where they are simply labelled " Blende
from Cornwall" *.
   On my showing Mr. Ludlam the specimen I had received
from him, he informed me that it came from " the Turner
Collection," which is now in his possession—and that it is
described in the third volume of M. LeVy's Catalogue of that
Collection, under the heading of " Zinc mlfurt No. 75.
Mamelonnd, brun, fibreux dans la cassure, ressemblant cm
plomb-gomine, avec plomb phosphate, CornciiaHles." I should
not say the specimen resembles plomb-gomme much ; neither
have I observed any phosphate of lead upon it.
   There were two specimens of the mineral in the Turner
Collection as well as in the collection at Oxford, the locality
attributed to them all being simply "Cornwall;" and as M.
Levy's Catalogue was published in 1837 (that is to say, more
than forty years ago), I fear there is but little hope of ascer
taining at what mine they were raised: even, however, if
that were made out, it seems improbable the workings there
should be still carried on.
   Neither in the collection at the British Museum, free access
to which has been kindly granted to me, nor in that at King's
College, nor in the old collection belonging to Mr. Vicary at
Exeter, nor in that of the late Sir John Aubyn at Devonport
have I been able to find a specimen of the mineral in question.
   The name Rhabdophane, which this species has received, was
selected as one indicating the stripes or bands which it exhi
bits in the spectroscope.
   For the information of such of our chemists as may feel
disposed to work upon British blendes for gallium, I here
subjoin the results that were obtained by M. Lecoq de Bois-
baudran in operating upon some of those specimens that I for
warded to him. The quantity of material used for the exami
nation was, I believe, in every case 20 grammes.
   No. 1. Redruth        . .    Poor enough.
   No. 2. Cumberland. .         Rich enough.
  * There is a small specimen without label in the Brooke Collection at
Cambridge.

        On the Dichroism of two European Andalusites.         529
   No. 3. Derbyshire .    .  No gallium.
   No. 4. Cornwall (?)    .  Rich enough.
   No. 5. Weardale .      .  Rich in gallium. Seems to be a
                                little richer than the preceding.
   No. 6. Fowey Consols. Rich. Seems to be somewhat
                                richer still than the preceding.
M. Lecoq de Boisbaudran adds that some of the English
blendes thus appear to him to be at least as rich in gallium as
the Bensberg blende is, and that, judging from the intensity
of the gallium-lines shown, he is inclined to think the Fowey-
Consols blende is even superior to that from Bensberg.
   I should add that the Fowey-Consols blende here spoken
of is the well-known mamillated nodular material of that
locality.
   Should any member of the Society wish to see a portion of
the original specimen, or to examine with the spectroscope
sections thereof or of the Oxford mineral, I am prepared to
submit them to him.
     LXV. On the Dichroism of two European Andalusites.
                   By W. G. Lettsom, Esq.*
TWO years ago or so there was received in London from
      Brazil a batch of Andalusites, the transparency of which
allowed of their remarkable dichroism being well observed.
This induced me to make trial as to the amount of dichroism
which Andalusites from European localities might exhibit if
suitably cut by a lapidary; for none of our Andalusites that I
am acquainted with are capable of being examined, as is the
case with Brazilian specimens, in their natural state.
   I beg leave to lay before the Society a few sections of Anda-
lusite from a locality in Germany the name of which I have
not at hand, but which I hope to obtain in a day or two.
Those sections show in one image a rich chocolate-brown
colour, the other being all but colourless.
   Other sections, from Goldenstein in Moravia, exhibit, in one
image a deep blood-red colour, the other image in this case
too being almost colourless.
  * Communicated by the Crystallological Society, having been read
November 23, 1878.

                            [  530   ]
LXVI. On the Dimensions of a Magnetic Pole in the Electro
           static System of Units. By 0. K. Wead*.
IN the May number of this Magazine, p. 376, Dr. Everett
      presents Clausius's deduction of the dimensions of a mag
netic pole in the electrostatic system, finding them to be
Pe=M4L*T-2} instead of M*L*, as Maxwell gave it without
explicit statement of the method of derivation. In Maxwell's
treatise this unit is obtained, along with all the rest, from fif
teen simultaneous equations involving twelve unknown quan
tities ; the substitution of the final results in the original
equations shows that the suggestion of a misprint may be set
aside at once.
   In the smaller books that use the clearer method of deriving
the dimensions step by step, the development does not usually
include magnetic quantities under the electrostatic system :
they are not found in the British-Association Reports on Elec
trical Standards, Reprint, p. 80, nor in Kohlrausch's ' Physical
Measurements/ nor in Everett's ' Units and Physical Con
stants.' Only in Herwig's Physikalische Begriffe, p. 78, do I
find any values for intensity of a magnetic field, moment of a
magnet (strength of pole is involved in this, but not given
separately), and magnetic potential in this system. An ex
amination of his method, which leads to Maxwell's results,
shows at once that the whole question turns on the step, or
steps, between current-strength and magnetic moment. Using
so far as possible Everett's notation, but with the subscript
letter e or m to distinguish the two systems when necessary,
we shall have to consider Strength of current C, Intensity of
a magnetic field I, Moment of a magnet fi or PL, Strength
of magnetic pole P, Quantity of electricity Q.
                   T( 27rr20
   Herwig gives 1 = —jj— ; and since C^M'L* T (agree-
ing with Everett), I„= C   ^ =M*L*T_S-
Then, since a magnet whose moment fi in the field I is subject
to a couple, IeMe= a couple,
   ^°rPeL=MTL5T^=M*L*;
   Pe=M*L*;
   _      work MLfT"* ,,iTim_i
   Ve = -p- = MiLi = M* L* T = magnetic potential.
                    * Communicated by the Author.

             On the Dimensions of a Magnetic Pole.            531
  Clausius gives "C x L2 = P x L in any consistent system ;" so
          Pt=C^ = PX»LiT-'=MiLSr,
                  XJ           Li
                                          P     c
   The equation CxL2=PxL leads to p = ri which would
in the electromagnetic system be consistent, since each
member =1. Again, PL=/x; that is, PL must represent a
magnet ; consequently C x L2 is put equal to a magnet. But
the passage of the current ordinarily produces effects, such as
the movement of a galvanometer-needle, which we explain
more naturally by saying that the circular current produces a
magnetic field at its centre, than by saying that the current is,
or makes, or even is equivalent to, a magnet. Herwig's deri
vation, therefoi-e, in which a magnet placed in a field experi
ences a couple, conforms to the ordinary way of thinking
better than the way of Clausius, and is the way used in the
derivation of the electromagnetic system. Again, if
                        Pe=M*L'T-2,
then
Ie PeL = M* L* T~2 . M* T"3 . L = ML* T~4 = a couple x L2T"a.
How can this result be explained, consistently with the known
effect of a circular current on a magnet ? It may be noted
that, in all discussions except that of Clausius, the magnet
pole P is introduced into a field. Clausius produces a field by
the pole P. Also that the ratio of the two values of P is the
 square of a velocity.
    Herwig says, with regard to the step from I to fi in the elec
trostatic system :—" It may be remarked that for this purpose
 we cannot use the formula of § 64, fi=irr'2C, which expresses
 the relation between the magnetic moment /u. and the current-
 strength C ; for the validity of this formula is dependent
 (gekn&pft) on the use of the magnetic system " (p. 78).
    A comparison of the derivation of the same units in the two
 systems will strengthen our belief in the view, that Clausius
 has proposed a new way, for which, rather than for the older
 one, a justification is needed. Taking the least number of
 steps that will lead from P to Q, or vice versd, we have these
 equations in each system:—
    Magnetic,
      ^ =F(=a force).          PL=/*; I/x= a couple ; ^j-=I;
                                             Q=CT.      .   .  (I)

532          Mr. C. K. Wead on the Dimerwont of a
Electrostatic,
       -pr = F. !jr = C; ^-=1; fyt=a couple ; /*=PL. (2)
Electrostatic (Clausius),
       2^=F. ^=C; CP=M=PL                                      (3)
    It is obvious at a glance that, after the fundamental opera
tion has been performed of finding Pm or Q,, the remaining
operations take exactly the opposite order in the two systems;
the corresponding equations in the two are the same; while
this is not true of series (1) and (3). In (1) we may find the
dimensions of Q in terms of P, and from (2) and (3) of P in
terms ofQ. The results are:—
                      QM=MLJT-1-Pm,                           (1')
                      Pe =ML2T-'--Q„                          (2')
                      Pf=LT"l+Qe                              (3')
    Since in the two systems P and Q play similar parts, are
 we not justified in expecting such a symmetry as is shown by
 (1') and (2'), rather than the want of it shown'in (1') and (3')?
 If the values of Pm and Qe, M*L* T_1 are substituted in the
 above, we may group the results thus :—
       Pm=M'L'T-', Q,=MiL'T-';
       Qm= M» L*          P = M*L* (20, or M5 L* T~s (30-
 Of course these are not presented as three independent lines
 of argument in favour of Maxwell's view, as they are all in
 volved in the series of operations (1), (2), and (3).
     It will now be shown that to write " C x L2 = PL in any
  consistent system " is simply begging the whole question.
     No physical formulas are better established than those used
 in finding with the magnetometer M and H, the moment of a
 magnet and the horizontal component of the earth's mag
 netism :—
 in which K = a moment of inertia = ML2, < = atime = T,
 y and y1 are lengths = L, and the other quantities in the second
 members are numerical. In the usual notation, therefore,
 /*I = ML2T_a, /x-^l=L3; whence we find the dimensions
 of /i=MiL*T_1, and of Ix=MiL-*T_I, the same as in the
 magnetic system. But one has the same right to declare that
 " in any consistent system " both the above formulae must be

       Magnetic Pole in the Electrostatic System of Units*            533
true as that C x L2 = P x L. In the magnetic system both are
true ; in the olectrostatic system with Maxwell's value the
first is true, the second is not ; with Clausius's values the
second, and not the first. Maxwell (or at least Herwig)
openly uses the first; Clausius impliedly uses the second ; for
if CL2 = PL=At, and C-=-L = I,
                 (C^L)xLs=ft .-. /x+I=IA
   In deducing the dimensions of physical quantities, there is
much that is as arbitrary as the order in which several num
bers shall be multiplied together*. Thus, the familiar equation
1= k ^— —; is true in any conceivable system of units,
      (P + dtf        _                       .                     .
where r is the radius of the current-circle, and d the distance
from the centre on a normal to the plane. In the electrostatic
and electromagnetic systems, the dimensions of either C or I
being given to find the other, r, I, and d being lengths, k is
arbitrarily made equal to 1, and then I or C is found : if i and
C had both been given, ordinarily its value would not be 1,
nor its dimensions =L0M°T°. To pass from I to P or to
PL = /*, either of two equations may be used :—
                           IrrAP-r-/2;                                (1)
                         fil = k' x a couple                          (2)
Clausius arbitrarily makes k=l in (1), letting k' assume
whatever concrete value will satisfy (2). Herwig, to obtain
Maxwell's result, as arbitrarily makes ^ = 1, paying no atten
tion to k. If arbitrarily we make k=kf=\, ft and I must
come out as in the magnetic system.
   In making U=l rather than k, there is the advantage of
introducing a mechanical unit ; and we use the equation (2)
that is both more familiar in experimental work, and the one
used in the derivation of the magnetic system. Further, if P
be changed, three other quantities of the twelve that Maxwell
discusses must have their dimensions changed, and confusion
would be introduced into his system, that is based on fifteen
equations, in each of which the second member is some simple
mechanical quantity, as work, time, &c. Until it has been
clearly shown how this system will be affected by the proposed
change, and why the new expression is to be preferred to the
older one, that has been " unimpeached " for some twenty
years, is it not clearly better to write P„ = M* ? It is not a
question merely of correctness, but of consistency, simplicity,
and usefulness; and on all these grounds Maxwell's expression
seems to the writer to deserve the preference.
  University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, May 29, 1882.
         » On this point, compare Everett 's 1 Deschanel,-' p. 783.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. No. 84. Suppl. Vol. 13.                       2R

                                [  534    ]
              LXVII. Notices respecting New Books.
Magnetism and Electricity ; an elementary Text-hook for Student*.
   By Richard Wobmell, D.Sc, M.A. London : Thomas Murby.
THIS book is one of a series—the High School Science series.
      The author informs us that he has aimed at embodying two cha
racteristic features—-first, to make the work progressive in several
respects from beginning to end, and, secondly, to introduce the
explanation of the latest discoveries and applications of electricity.
The latter feature will be commended by every one, but the former
will appear to many to be of doubtful utility. Probably it is on
that account that the book is thrown into the form of lectures.
But are not the functions of a textbook and of lectures different ?
    A text-book ought to be clear in statement, exact in information,
 and free from error. We cannot say that these conditions are
 completely satisfied by Dr. Wormell's book. As regards the first
 point, there is frequently an ambiguous use of the pronoun it, which
 is not only inelegant, but causes the reader some pains to find out
 what is meant. For example, " But after the pith-ball has been
 in contact with the glass rod, it no longer comes towards it, but
 flies away " (p. 75). " If we rub the glass with silk, then balance it
 and present the finger to it, it is attracted " (p. 78). " On pre
 senting the knuckle to the cover A, after it is lifted off, a spark of
 positive electricity passes to it, and the plate is discharged " (p. 88).
 " If a bar magnet is brought near this loop, it will be made to turn,
 following the bar magnet, or being repelled from it " (p. 31). The
  Carrier is described as follows :—" This consists of a metallic ball,
 a wooden ball covered with tin-foil, a gold-leaf, or some similarly
 conducting material, attached either to a glass handle or suspended
 by a silk thread, in order to insulate it." A tyro in electricity is
 not likely to discern the meaning of this description at first sight.
     Owing, probably, to the progressive character of the book, many
 of the statements are not exact enough. Is there any advantage
 in making a science simpler than it really is ? For example, it is
  said of the Carrier (he. cit.) :—" The charge of electricity brought by
  the carrier is of the same kind as that of the body to be tested,
  and affects the electroscope exactly in the same way as if the
  body itself were brought near it." At pp. 52 and 71 magnets
  and magnetic poles are mixed up in a manner which will give the
  student some trouble to unravel. What is meant by " placing two
  magnets at unit distance apart " ? We have the analogy between
 potential and level carried a little further than usual, thus :—" The
  electrical capacity of any body may be measured by the quantity
  of electricity required to charge it to a given potential : just as the
  capacity of a cistern for water may be measured by the quantity of
  water required to fill it to a given level " (p. 111).
     As regards the third point, we have at p. 51 a contradiction
   within the compass of a paragraph. " If we could increase the
   weight of the bob without altering the amount of substance com
   posing it, we should lessen the number of oscillations per minute ; "

                    Notices respecting New Books.                 535
and " If we wish to double the number of oscillations per minute
 we must multiply the force by four, etc."
    As regards the woodcuts, we notice one very commendable
feature—namely the introduction of a symbolical figure to represent
 a battery, electrometer, or other instrument frequently occurring in
experimental arrangements. In the description of Winter's elec
 trical machine, reference is made more than once to a knob P ; but
 in the woodcut no P is discernible.
The Calendar of the Departments of Law, Science, and Literature of
         the Tokio Dai-Oaku {University of Tokio), 1880-81.
The scientific papers of the Tokio University have been previously
noticed (Phil. Mag. vol. xiii. p. 367, May 1882) ; and the above
work will show the interest and importance which the Japanese
government attach to the progress of education by the establish
ment of the Tokio Dai-Gaku or University, which could not have
attained to its present state of progress had it not been favoured
by the generosity of the Government, in devoting a large amount of
money for instruction in the higher branches of study ; and it is
the intention of the authorities connected with it, while pursuing
its original object, to still further make such possible improvements
that the standard of scholarship attained in it may equal that of
the Universities of Western countries.
    The historical summary contains a brief sketch of the rise and
progress of education from the introduction of Western learning in
the early part of the last century, when medical science and
astronomy became gradually known to the people ; and sub
sequently to 1744 three observatories were established, two at
Asakusa and one on the hill at Kudan, in which astronomical ob
servations were made, and an almanac was compiled.
   In the beginning of the present century, about 1811, it was
considered a pressing necessity to understand the condition of
foreign nations, and to adopt such of the better arts as they might
have. Accordingly Dutch works were first translated and the
Dutch language taught, to which, in 1857, English, Prench, German,
and Russian were added, and courses of Mathematics, Chemistry,
and Botany successively established.
    After this time, in 1862, various modifications and improvements
in the educational department took place ; instruction in German,
French, and English was given ; but in 1875 all this was altered,
and the latter language was only to be used. Students, however,
were sent to other countries to continue their studies.
    Since the first permanent establishment of the Tokio Dai-Gaku
various modifications have been made, until it has arrived at its
present state, which embraces the departments of the Law, Science,
Literature, and Medicine.
   Although the special courses of instruction are mainly given in
the English language, and the student is taught either Prench or
German, it is the intention ultimately to use the Japanese language
in all the Departments.

                              [   536     ]
        LXVIII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
ON THE EFFECTS PRODUCED IN A VACUUM BY THE CURRENT OF
               THE GRAMME MACHINES. BY M. JAMIN.
AS soon as Davy had discovered the electric arc he hastened to
       reproduce it in an enclosure, void of air, in order to avoid the
combustion of the carbons. He saw that it could be enlarged, that
the carbonaceous material was carried from the positive to the nega
tive pole, that the former was more luminous than the latter, but
that the general aspect of the phenomenon did not change. Des-
pretz repeated the experiment with a more energetic battery, and
ascertained that the carbon volatilized under the electric action was
deposited on the sides of the glass balloon as soon as the intensity
of the current exceeded a certain limit. It is probable that this
deposition of carbon takes place in all cases, but does not begin to
be ascertainable until the intensity is very great.
    Things happen quite otherwise when instead of a battery a
Euhmkorff induction-coil is employed. It is known that it gives
rise to successiv e induction-currents in opposite directions : the
 first currents, inverse, have too little tension to clear the distance
 separating the points, and produce nothing ; the second, direct,
 acquire at last an enormous tension, but have little duration and
 transport but a slight quantity of electricity. The whole therefore
 reduces to successive almost instantaneous discharges separated by
 comparatively prolonged intervals of rest, to sparks, and in vacuo to
 emanations of light ; but there is never an electric arc, because the
 quantity of electricity is insufficient.
     Gramme machines with alternating currents participate at the
 same time in the properties of batteries and the induction-coil,
 while presenting some special characters : they give two alternately
  contrary currents ; but these are equal, last the same time, are
  separated by only a brief interval, and transport, on account of
  their duration, a large sum of electricity. They could be replaced
  by a battery the direction of which changed periodically and with
  out interruption ; but they differ from a battery by tbe great inten
  sity of their currents : when one of these is ending it is augmented
  by the extra current ; when commencing, it profits by the inverse
  electromotive force of the preceding current, as I have demon
  strated*. In short, the effects will be those of batteries with an
  aggravation due to the enormous tension, and those of the induc
  tion-coil with the aggravation resulting from a larger quantity of
  electricity. This is verified by experiment. In air, instead of a
  single are, several can be lighted; and the number of them is mul
  tiplied by increasing the tension—that is, by diminishing the sec
  tion and increasing the length of the induced wire as well as the
  velocity of the rotation. This has permitted me to maintain sixty
                     * Comptes Rendu*, t. xcii. p. 1201.

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.            537
lights by a machine which originally supported only eight. The
results in the imperfect vacuum of an air-pump might yet have
been in part foreseen ; and they are very curious, as you will see,
and as I have just observed with the cooperation of one of my
pupils, M. Or. Maneuvrier.
   Taking an electric egg, I placed in it, face to face, two carbons
of 15 centim. length, 4 millim. diameter, separated by an interval
of 4 millim. "When the exhaustion reached about 12 millim. the
light began to spirt out spontaneously, not in the form of a bril
liant arc confined between the points, but starting from all parts of
the carbons, with the ordinary appearance of the emanations in
Geissler's tubes. Each of them showed, at the same time, the
appearances which, with the induction-coil, characterize the two
poles—that is to say, the blue aureole enveloping the surface of the
two cylinders, which belongs to the negative pole, and, besides, the
paler stratified light due to the positive pole. It shot forth normal
to the outline of the carbons ; and the whole balloon was filled with
light. The experiment is one of the most beautiful to be seen.
   Thus the two currents contribute each an equal share to the pro
duction of the phenomenon, which is that of the Geissler tubes,
but which assumes an incomparable splendour because of the con
siderable quantity of electricity that passes and rapidly modifies
the observed appearances. In fact the carbons become heated,
redden, and arrive at a pale whiteness, not only at their extremity,
but throughout their length ; they are then rapidly volatilized by
the combined effect of the beating and the currents. "Whatever
may be the cause of this volatilization, it is certain that a carbona
ceous material is diffused in the state of vapour. The balloon
becomes filled with a blue gas very similar to iodiue vapour, which
deepens more and more in colour to indigo. After this the vapours
condense abundantly upon the sides of the balloon, which become
opaque ; and this terminates the experiment. The deposit collected
resembles finely divided carbon, and dissolves with effervescence
and incandescence in nitric acid. Is it pure carbon, or a hydro-
genated compound of carbon ? That is a question which I reserve
for ulterior examination.
   To avoid this forced termination of the experiment, I have
replaced each carbon by two equal bundles of crayons fitted to the
two rheophores, and diverging in the direction of the generatrices
of two cones with their bases opposite. In this case the currents
divide into a great number of emanations less intense than the
single one ; all the carbons become luminous at once ; and the more
numerous they are, the less heated do they become. There is
almost no volatilization ; and the effect is prolonged as much as one
pleases.
   I have replaced the carbons by copper rods of 3 millim. diameter
and diverging from the rheophore. The same effect is produced
with still greater splendour. If the current is too intense, the
copper melts. It is always in part volatilized, and is deposited in
a thin coat upon the balloon. It is evident that the experiment

  538            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
  will be varied by employing different metals, different gases, and
 working under different pressures ; I shall have the honour of
 making known to the Academy the results.— Gomptes Rendus de
 TAcademie des Sciences, May 8, 1882, t. xciv. pp. 1271-1273.
 ON THE EMPLOYMENT OF ROTATING DISKS FOR THE STUDY OF
     COLOURED SENSATIONS.              THE RELATIVE INTENSITY OF
     COLOURS. BY A. ROSENSTIEHL.
     In continuing my researches upon the coloured sensations, I
 have been led to examine a problem which has hitherto appeared
 inaccessible—that of the relative intensity of colours. What
 common measure can there be between a red and a yellow, a blue
 and a violet? It seems at first sight impossible to set up a
 numerical comparison between values which appear so different ill
 kind ; and yet this comparison is possible, thauks to a well-known
 special property of the eye.
    Between the different colours which have received names an
 infinity can be intercalated which form the insensible transition
 from the one to the other without a break. The series is
 continuous, and closes upon itself like the perimeter of a polygon.
 Besides (and I cannot sufficiently insist upon the peculiarity), this
 whole includes an infinity of sensations which, associated in twos,
 produce a sensation identical for all, that of white. "We find
 nothing analogous in the sensations of the ear ; and it is this
 highly characteristic circumstance that gives a common measure
 between the different colours.
    In my previous Notes, adopting and precisely defining Young's
 theory, I laid it down as a principle that the sensation of white
results from the equal excitation of three primary sensations.
 Consequently every pair of complementary colours represents in
its combination the mixture of the three primary colours at equal
intensity. This notion of equal intensity was introduced into a
graphic construction, which was discussed ; and I verified the
principles on which it is based.
    It is necessary to distinguish between intensity of coloration
and total luminous intensity. By adding the sensation of white
in different proportions to a coloured sensation of constant inten
sity, colours of the same intensity of coloration, but of different
total luminous intensity, are obtained. These colours have for
their common measure the angle of the sector of the comple
mentary necessary to extinguish all coloured sensation ; and,
generally, the angle of the sector of the complementary colour is in
the inverse ratio of its coloration-intensity. The amjle of the white
sector * is in the direct ratio of the total luminous intensity.
   * It will be remembered that, in all my experiments, the intensity of the
sensation of white is measured by tho angle of a sector painted white with
sulphate of barium, which is set in rapid rotation in front of an absolutely
black orifice.

             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.             539
  When the colours have not the same complementary, the graphic
construction is indispensable for the determination of the intensity.
From the point 0, 1 draw three lines OA=OB=OC, the length
of which is proportional to the intensity of the colours A, B, C,
which I regard as primary sensations, and which, for that reason,
are placed at an angular distance of 120° from one another. The
places of the colours resulting from the mixture, in twos, of the
three primary sensations are necessarily upon the sides of the
triangle ABC. Their distances from the vertices are in the
inverse ratio of the coloured sectors necessary to produce them;
and their distances from the point O represent their coloration-
intensities. In this conception the point O is not regarded as the
centre of gravity of the triangle ; it represents not the place of the
white, but the absolute black.
   The intensity of the binary colours being given by the con
struction, it is easy, with the aid of rotating disks, to compare
with it the coloured surfaces the intensity of which we wish to
know.
   Let there be required to find the intensity of coloration of a red
surface S. I mix C and B so as to obtain red, which I reproduce,
in another part, with a sector S, of which the angle a is given by
experiment. Let E (in the figure) be the point occupied by the
red ; we have
                             OB t a
                             OB       360'
from which we get for the intensity of coloration I of the surface S
                            T_OBx360
                                   ax OB'
   This method is susceptible of verification. Knowing the in

  540           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
  tensities of two complementary colours, we know the ratio of their
  intensities. From this ratio we deduce the angles of the sectors
  which ought to roprodnce the sensation of white—a condition
  easily verified by direct experiment. The following Table contains
  the result of this measurement for ten pairs of complementary
  colours copied upon the chromolithographed circle by M. Digeon,
  from the chromatic circle of M. Chevreul, whose nomenclature I
  have retained.
                                   Ratio of the coloration-intensities, given
                                 ,                     *
                                 by the construction. by direct experiment.
 3rd yellow-green and violet                 1-17                   1'25
 4th green and red                          3-72                    3-73
 Blue-green and orange                      6-80                    6-70
  1st blue-green and orange-yollow . . fi'28                       6-20
 Blue and yellow                            3-74                   3-80
 2ud blue and 1st yellow                    3-13                    3-18
 3rd blue and complementary yellow 3-07                             3-00
 4th blue and 2nd yellow                    2-16                   2-21
 Violet-blue and 4th yellow                 2-16                   2-13
 2nd violet-blue and yellow-green . . 2-18                          2-00
    The accordance between experiment and construction is one of
 the most complete, so that the latter can be regarded as summing
 up exactly the state of our knowledge respecting the mixing of
 colours. It gives for each the proportion of the primary sensations
 CB : BB, the coloration-intensity OB, the complementary V, the
 ratio of the sectors of a pair of complementary colours OB          —T ne
cessary to produce the sensation of white, the intensity of that
sensation, the total luminous intensity, the triads, &c.
    Having obtained all these concordant numerical results, I could
not resist the desire to advance a step further and examine if it
was possible to express the intensity of a colour by its ratio to
that of white, and thereby to learn what is the distance which still
separates the finest colours obtained with colouring-matters from
those which the eye is susceptible of perceiving.
    In regard to the total luminous intensity that ratio has been
exactly determined. The finest aniline-blue represents only one
fifteenth, and the chromates of lead one seventh, of the intensity of
the white obtained, for one and the same illumination, with
barium sulphate. For the coloration-intensity the difference
would be still greater ; and hence it is evident that the chemistry
of colouring-matters owes us yet much progress before it can
realize what light can give us and what the eye is capable of
perceiving.— Comptes Bendus de VAcademie des Sciences, Slay 22,
1882, t. xciv. pp. 1411-1414.

                                       541
                    INDEX to VOL. XIII.
AbNEY (Capt. W. de W.) on the             Bosanquet (R. H. M.) on the beats
   violet phosphorescence in calcium         of mistuned consonances, 181.
  sulphide, 212.                          Boys (C. V.) on integrating and
Acoustical observations, 340.                other apparatus for the measure
Andalusites, on the dichroism of two         ment of mechanical and electrical
   European, 629.                            forces, 77; on apparatus for calcu
Atmospheric electricity-, on evapora         lating efficiency, 193 ; on water-
  tion as a cause of, 398.                   pipes that do not burst with frost,
Atomic arrangement, on the influ             244.
  ence of, on the physical properties     Burbury (S. H.) on the dissipation
  of compounds, 112, 180.                    of energy, 417.
       'Weight and the chemical and       Carbon, on the electric resistance of,
  physical properties of elements, on        under pressure, 262 ; on the effect
  the connexion between, 26.                 of temperature on the electrical
Barfield (H.) on the coefficients of         resistance of mixtures of sulphur
  induction, 95.                             and, 347.
Bayley (T.) on the connexion between      Carbonic acid and water, on the com
  atomic -weight and the chemical            bination of, 228.
  and physical properties of ele          Carbons, on the forms of, 325.
  ments, 26.                              Carnelley (Prof. T.) on chemical
Bevan (E. J.) on pseudo-carbons,            symmetry, 112, 180.
  325.                                    Cellerier (C.) on the distribution of
Bicket (J. H.) on chemical equiva           the molecular velocities in gases,
  lence, 169.                               47.
Bidwell (S.) on the effect of tempe       Chappuis (J.) on the liquefaction of
  rature on the electrical resistance        ozone, 467.
  of mixtures of sulphur and carbon,      Chardonnet (M. de) on the action of
  347.                                      telephonic currents upon the gal
Binaural audition, on, 321.                 vanometer, 468.
Bismuth, on the fluid density of, 360.    Chase (Dr. P. E.) on the photody-
Books, new :—Mascart and Joubort's          namic paraboloid, 74.
  Lemons sur l'Electricite' et le Mag-    Chemical action, on the retardation
  nfitisme, 214 ; King and Rowney's         of, 419.
  Old Chapter of the Geological                 affinity, on the determination of,
  Record, 217; Journal of the Royal         in terms of electromotive force,265.
  Society of New South Wales, 222 ;             equivalence, researches on, 169.
  Cunningham's Roorkee Hydraulic                symmetry, on, 112, 180.
  Experiments, 299; Stanley's Ex          Clausius (Prof. R.) on the theoretic
  perimental Researches into the            determination of vapour-pressure
  Properties and Motions of Fluids,         and the volumes of vapour and
  300 ; Brauns's Geology of the En          liquid, 132, 376 ; on the different
  virons of Tokio, 367; Burnside and        systems of measures for electric and
  Panton's Theory of Equations,             magnetic quantities, 381.
  868 ; Webb's Celestial Objects for      Cockle (Sir J.) on new transforma
  Common Telescopes{ 368 ; Max              tions of ordinals, 44; on trans
  Miiller's Kant's Critique of Pure         formation, 357.
  Reason, 462 ; Wright's Lessons on       Colours, on the relative intensity of,
  Form, 466 ; Wormell's Magnetism           538.
  and Electricity, 634 ; The Calen       Consonances, on the beats of mis-
  dar of the University of Tokio for        tuned, 68, 131.
  1880-81, 535.                          Copper, on the fluid density of, 361.
Phil. Mag. S. 5. No. 84. Suppl.          Vol. 13.                 2S

542                                  INDEX.
Cross (C. F.) on pseudo-carbons,             mical and physical properties of,
   325.                                      26.
Croullebois ("M.) on some conse           Energy, on the dissipation of, 417.
    quences of Gauss's principle in       Evaporation, on the question of elec
    electrostatics, 151.                     trification by, 398.
Crova (A.) on the illuminating-           Everett (Prof. J. D.) on the dimen
    power of the simple radiations, 72.      sions of a magnetic pole in the
Crystallographic notes, 474.                 electrostatic system of units, 376,
Crystals, on some spiral figures ob          431.
    servable in, 20.                      Ewing (Prof. J. A.) on the supposed
Currents of high tension, on a sepa          helical path of the electric current
    rator and a shunt for alternate,         in longitudinally magnetized con
    353.                                     ductors, 423.
Ears, on the function of the two, in      Fitzgerald (G. F.) on the electro
    the perception of space, 400.            magnetic action of a moving elec
Edluna (Prof.) on the electrical re          trified sphere, 302.
    sistance of vacuum, 1; on the         Flames, on sensitive, 345.
    electrical resistance of gases, 200.  Fletcher (L.) on the crystalline"
Efficiency, on apparatus for calcula         forms of Skutterudite, 474.
    ting, 193.                            Freeman (S. II.) on the question of
 Electric current, on the supposed           electrification by evaporation, 398.
    helical path of the, in longitudi     Galvanic arc, on the action of cold
    nally magnetized conductors, 423.        upon the, 75.
 Electric-current meters, on, 87.         Galvanometer, on the action of tele
 Electric resistance of carbon under          phonic currents upon the, 468.
    pressure, on the, 262.                Gases, on the conductivity of, 16;
         and magnetic quantities, on the     on the distribution of tlie mole
    different system of measures for,        cular velocities in, 47; on the
     381.                                     electrical resistance of, 200; on
 Electrical forces, on integrating ap        the compressibility of, 306; on
     paratus for the measurement of,         the rhythmic absorption of radiant
     77.                                      heat by, 500.
         machines, on the variations of   Geological Society, proceedings of
     the resistance of, with their velo       the, 70, 142, 369.
     city, 70.                             Glacial deposits of West Cumber
         resistance of vacuum, on the,        land, on the, 71.
     1 ; of incandescent platinum, 38 ;    Gramme machines, on the effects
     of gases, 200 ; of mixtures of sul       produced in a vacuum by the cur
     phur and carbon, on the effect of        rent of the, 536.
     temperature on the, 347.              Gratings, on the manufacture and
  Electrification by evaporation, on          theory of, for optical purposes,
     the question of, 398.                    469.
  Electrolysis of distilled water, on      Gray (J. M.) on Regnault's determi
     the, 377.                                 nation of the specific heat of steam,
  Electromagnetic action of a moving           337.
     electrified sphere, on the, 802.      Gray (T.) on the elasticity- and
  Electromotive force, on the determi          strength-constants of Japanese
     nation of chemical affinity in terms      rocks, 70.
      of, 265.                              Gunpowder, on the chemical theory
  Electro-optic experiments on various         of, 329.
      liquids, 153, 248.                    Hanuay (J. B.), an examination of
  Electrostatic system of units, on the        vacua by, 229.
      dimensions of a magnetic pole in      Hautefeuille (P.) on the liquefaction
      the, 376, 381, 427, 429, 431, 530.       of ozone, 467.
  Electrostatics, on some consequences      Heat, radiant, on the conversion of,
      of Gauss's principle in, 151.            into sound, 435, 480.
  Elements, on the connexion between        Hood (J. J.) on retardation of che
      the atomic weight and the che            mical action, 419.

                                   INDEX.                                     543
Hopkinson (Dr. J.) on the refractive      Mills (Dr. E. J.) on chemical equi
   index and specific inductive capa      valence, 169, 177.
   city of transparent insulating         Milne (J.) on the elasticity- and
   media, 242.                               strength-constants of Japanese
Hunt (B.) on mechanical equiva               rocks, 70.
   lence, 177.                            Minerals, new, 527.
Hydrogen, on the function of per          Molecular action, on the conserva
   oxide during combustion, 222.             tion of, 491.
Images, on an application of acci                  velocities, on the distribution
   dental, 149.                               of, in gases, 47.
Induction, experimental comparison        Nichols (E. L.) on the electrical re
   of coefficients of, 95.                    sistance and coefficient of expan
Inductive capacity, on the specific, of       sion of incandescent platinum, 38.
   transparent insulating media, 242.     Nickel, separation of, from manga
Integrating-machines, on some, 77.            nese, on the, 170.
Interference phenomena in a new           Ordinals, new transformations of, 44.
    form of refractometer, on, 236.       Organ-pipes, on the pitch of, 340.
Jamin (M.) on the effects produced        Oxygen, on the compressibility and
    in a vacuum by the current of the         critical point of, 308 ; on the con
    Gramme machines, 536.                     stitution of the lines forming the
 Kendall (J. D.) on the glacial depo          low-temperature spectrum of, 330.
    sits of West Cumberland, 71.           Ozone, on the liquefaction of, 467.
 Kerr (Dr. J.) on electro-optic expe       Perspective, on physiological, 309.
    riments on various liquids, 153,       Phosphorescence, on the violet, in
    248.                                       calcium sulphide, 212.
 Lacoiue (E.) on the variations of the     Photodynamic paraboloid, on the,
    resistance of electrical machines          74.
    with their velocity, 76.               Physiological perspective, on, 309.
 Lagarde (M.) on the illuminating-         Plateau (J.) on an application of
     power of the simple radiations,           accidental images, 149 ; on a little
    72.                                        illusion, 379.
 Larmor (Prof. J.) on the electrostatic    Platinum, on the electrical resist-
     dimensions of a magnetic pole,         • ance and the coefficient of expan
    429.                                       sion of incandescent, 38 ; on the
 Lead, on the fluid density of, 362.           luminous intensities of the radia
 Le Conte (J.) on sound-shadows in             tions emitted by incandescent,
     water, 98.                                147.
 Lettsom (W. G.) on rhabdophane, a         Pseudo-carbons, on, 325.
     new mineral, 527; on the dichroism    Radiation, on the heat of, 225.
     of two European andalusites, 529.     Radiations, on the illuminating-
 Liquids, electro-optic experiments on         power of the simple, 72.
     various, 153, 248.                    Rayleigh (Lord), acoustical observa
 Magnetic pole, on the dimensions of           tions by, 340.
     a, in the electrostatic system of     Refractive index of transparent insu
     units, 376, 381, 427, 429, 431, 530.      lating media, on the, 242.
  Maneuvrier (G.) on the effects pro       Refractometer, on interference phe
     duced in a vacuum by the current          nomena in a new form of, 236.
     of the Gramme machines, 536.          Rhabdophane, description and analy
  Manganese, on the separation of,             sis of the new mineral, 627.
     from nickel, 170.                     Roberts (VV. O.) on the fluid den
  Mechanical forces, on integrating-           sity of certain metals, 360.
     aDparatus for the measurement of,      Rocks, on theelasticity- and strength-
                                               constants of Japanese, 70.
  Metals, on the fluid density of cer       Rosenstiehl (A.) on the employment
     tain, 300.                                 of rotating disks for the study of
  Michelson (A. A.) on interference             coloured sensations, 638.
     phenomena in a new refractometer, Rowland (Prof. H. A.) on the results
                                                accomplished in the manufacture

544                                INDEX.
   and theory of gratings for optical     Thomson (J. J.) on the dimensions
   purposes, 469.                            of a magnetic pole in the electro
Sarrau (E.) on the compressibility of        static system of units, 427.
   gases, 306.                            Tin, on the fluid density of, 362.
Schuller (A.) on the formation of         Tommasi (D.) on the action of cold
   esroxide of hydrogen during com-          upon the galvanic arc, 75 ; on the
     ustion, 222.                            electrolysis of distilled water, 377.
Shunt, on a, for alternate currents of    Transformation, note on, 357.
   high tension, 353.                     Tyndall (J.) on the action of free
Silver, on the fluid density of, 363.        molecules on radiant heat, and its
Skutterudite, on the crystalline forms       conversion thereby into sound, 435,
   of, 474.                                 480.
Slotte (K. F.) on "Wheatstone's          Vacua, an examination of, 229.
   bridge, 227.                          Vacuum, on the electrical resistance
Smyth (P.) on the constitution of           of, 1 ; on the effects produced in
  the lines forming die low-tempe           a, by the current of the Gramme
  rature spectrum of oxygen, 330.           machines, 536.
Sound, on the estimation of the di       Vapour, on a vibratory motion at the
  rection of, with one ear, 343 ; on        origin of a jet of, 306.
  the conversion of radiant heat into,   Vapour-pressure, on the theoretic de
  435, 480.                                 termination of, 132.
Sound-shadows in water, on, 98.          Vapours, on the rhythmic absorption
Space, on the function of the two           of radiant heat by, 500.
  ears in the perception of, 406.        Vautier (Th.) on a vibratory motion
Spectrum of oxygen, on the consti           at the origin of a jet of vapour,
  tution of the lines forming the low-      806.
  temperature, 330.                      Violle (J.) on the luminous inten
Spottiswoode (W.) on a separator            sities of the radiations emitted by
  and a shunt for alternate currents        incandescent platinum, 147; on the
  of high tension, 353.                     law of radiation, 225.
Steam, on Regnault's determination       Vision, on binocular, 309.
  of the specific heat of, 337.          Water, on sound-shadows in, 98; on
Stereoscope, on an adjustable and re        the combination of, with carbonic
  versible, 322.                            acid, 228; on the electrolysis of
Stereoscopy, on a new mode of, 313.         distilled, 377.
Stevens (W. Le Conte) on physio          Water-pipes that do not burst with
  logical perspective, 309; on an           frost, on, 244.
  adjustable and reversible stereo       Wead (C. K.) on the dimensions of
  scope, 322.                               a magnetic pole in the electrostatic
Sulphur and carbon, on the effect of        system of units, 530.
  temperature on the electrical re       Wheatstone's bridge, on, 227.
  sistance of mixtures of, 347.          Wright (Dr. C. R. A.) on the deter
Sun, on oxygen in the, 333.                 mination of chemical affinity in
Telephonic currents, on the action of,      terms of electromotive force, 265.
  upon the galvanometer, 468.            Wright (L.) on some spiral figures
Thompson (Prof. S. P.) on the beats         observable in crystals, 20.
  of mistuned consonances, 68 ; on       Wrightson (T.) on the fluid density
  the electric resistance of carbon         of certain metals, 360.
  under pressure, 262 ; on the func      Wroblewski (S.) on the combination
  tion of the two ears in the percep        of carbonic acid and water, 228.
  tion of space, 406.                    Zinc, on the fluid density of, 363.
               END OF THE THIRTEENTH VOLUME.
          Printed by Tatlob and Frakcis, Bed Lion Court, Fleet Street.

!
             SUPPLEMENTARY                        NUMBER.
                              CONTENTS.
   LXI. Preliminary Notice of the Results accomplished in the
 Manufacture and Theory of Gratings for Optical purposes. By
Prof. H. A. Rowland, of the Johns Hopkins University, Balti
more                                                                  page 469
   LXII. Crystallographic Notes. By L. Fletcileh, M.A., of the
 Mineral Department, British Museum. (Plate X.)                               474
   LXIII. Action of Free Molecules on Radiant Heat, and its Con
version thereby into Sound. By John Ttndall, F.R.S                            480
   LXIV. On Rhabdophane, a new Mineral.              By W. G. Lettsom,
Esq                                                                           527
   LXV. On the Dichroism of two European Andalusites.               By W.
G. Lettsom, Esq                                                               529
   LXVI. On the Dimensions of a Magnetic Pole in the Electro
static System of Units.      By C. K. Wead                                    530
   LXVII. Notices respecting New Books :—Dr. R. Wobmexl e
Magnetism and Electricity ; an elementary Text-book for Students.
—The Calendar of the Departments of Law, Science, and Litera
ture of the Tokio Dai-Gaku (University of Tokio), 1880-81 . . 534, 535
   LXVIII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
      On the Effects produced in a Vacuum by the Current of
        the Gramme Machines, by MM. Jamin and Maneuvrier .... 536
      On the Employment of Rotating Disks for the Study of
        Coloured Sensations—the Relative Litensity of Colours, by A.
        Rosenstiehl                                                           538
   Index                                      ;                              541
     With Title-page, Contents, &c.
•»* It is requested that all Communications for this Work may be addressed,
       post-pnid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office, Red
       Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.





                            II 1111 II 111 111 1
                            3 2044 036 926 350
     EC 8 1882
  MAY 3 1887
 " ' T -30 1R88        r^ Jiff
        2? 1883
                   ni/£         '38
         Departmental
                Library
; AP8 i>           APR V          1949
         DUE APR 8.1922
  BUI MA( 5 1924 "UW1   1AM    f> rn   11
                                    ^Jri
            ^—M. 22'63^


