This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com

science
of
journal
magazine
philosophical
Dublin
and
Edinburgh
London,
The






                                      THE
            LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
PHILOSOPHICAL                                      MAGAZINE
                                       AND
        JOURNAL                         OF        SCIENCE.
                                  CONDUCTED BY
    SIR ROBERT KANE, LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.A. F.C.S.
    SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, Knt. LL.D. F.R.S. &c.
                                        AND
    WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
     " Nec aranearum sane textus ideo melior quia ex se fila gignunt, nec noster
  vilior quia ex alienis libamus ut apes." Just. Lips. Polil. lib. i. cap. 1. Not.
                      VOL. XV.—FIFTH SERIES.
                        JANUARY—JUNE 1883.
                                  LONDON:
    TAYLOE AND FEANCIS, RED LION COUET, FLEET STREET.
SOLD BT LONGMANS, GREEN, READER, AND DYER ; KENT AND CO. ; SIMPKIN, MARSHALL,
      AND CO. ; AND WIIITTARER AND CO. ;—AND BY ADAM AND CHARLES BLACK,
           AMD TnOKAS CLARK, EDINBURGH; SMITH AND SOX, GLASGOW;—
                 BODGES, FOSTER, AND CO., DUBLIN ; PUTNAM, NEW
                         YORK;—AND ASUEB AND CO.. BERLIN.

   " Meditationia est perscrutari occulta ; contemplationis est admirari
perspicua         Admiratio generat qusestionem, qurestio investigationem,
urvestigatio inventionem."—Hugo de S. Victore.
            —" Cur spirent venti, cur terra dehiscat,
             Cur mare turgescat, pelngo cur tantus ainaror,
             Cur caput obscura Pboebus ferrugine condat,
             Quid toties diros cogat flngrare cometas,
             Quid pariat nubes, veniant cur fulmina coelo,
             Quo micet ig-ne Iris, superos quia conciat orbea
             Tain vario motu."
                                                 J. B. Pinclli ad Mawnxum.
                                                                           >
                                                                            I

              CONTENTS OF VOL. XV.
                        (FIFTH SERIES).
                NUMBER XCI.—JANUARY 1883.
                                                                 Pago
Prof. E. Edlund's Researches on the Passage of Electricity
  through Rarefied Air                                              1
Mr. R. Sabine on aWedge-and-Diaphragin Photometer ....             22
M. Hermann W. Vogel on Lockyer's Theory of Dissociation . .        28
Mr. S. Bidwell on the Electrical Resistance of Selenium Cells      31
Mr. W. R. Browne on Central Forces and the Conservation of
   Energy                                                          35
Mr. A. P. Laurie on the Relations between the Heats of Com
   bination of the Elements and their Atomic Weights               42
Mr. J. LeConte on the Amount of Carbon Dioxido in the
   Atmosphere                                                      46
Mr. J. LeConte on the Apparent Attractions and Repulsions
   of Small Floating Bodies. (Plate I.)                            47
Notices respecting New Books :—
      Rev. O. Fisher's Physics of the Earth's Crust                56
      Mr. R. Ballard's Solution of the Pyramid Problem ....        59
      Mr. R. A. Peacock's Saturated Steam the Motive Power
        in Volcanoes and Earthquakes ; great Importance of
        Electricity                                                60
Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
      Mr. T. M. Reade on the Drift-beds of the North-west of
        England and North Wales                                    60
      Mr. T. W. E. David on the Evidences of Glacial Action
        in South Brecknockshire and East Glamorganshire . .        62
      Rev. A. Irving on the Mechanics of Glaciers                  63
      Rev. A. Irving on the Origin of Valley-Lakes                 65
On the Exactness of the Measurements made with Mercurial
   Thermometers, by J. M. Crafts                                   66
Theoretic Interpretation of the Effect produced by a Thin
   Layer of Oil spread out at the Surface of the Sea to calm the
   Agitation of the Waves, by M. van der Mensbrugghe ....          68
On the Electrification of the Air, by M. Mascart                   70
The Displacements and Deformations of Electric Sparks by
   Electrostatic Actions, by Aug. Righi                            72

iv             CONTENTS OF VOL. XV.     FIFTH SERIES.
                 NUMBER XCII.—FEBRUARY.
                                                               Pago
 Prof. J. D. Everett's Elementary Investigations relating to
    Forced Vibrations ; with Applications to the Tides and to
    Controlled Pendulums                                         73
 Prof. R. Clausius on the Connexion between the Units of
    Magnetism and Electricity                                    79
 Mr. A. A. Michelson on a Method for Determining the Bate
    of Tuning-forks                                              84
 Mr. F. J. Smith on a New Form of Ergometer                      87
 Mr. W. W. J. Nicol on the Nature of Solution                    91
 M. E. Pringsheim on the Radiometer                             101
 Prof. S. P. Thompson on the Graphic Bepresentation of the
    Law of Efficiency of an Electric Motor                      124
 Prof. W. C. Bontgen on the Change in the Double Eefraction
    of Quartz produced by Electric Forces                       132
 Notices respecting New Books :—
      C. Pia/zi Smyth's Madeira Spectroscopic, 1881-82 ....     144
 On an Electrodynamic Method tor the Determination of the
   Ohm ; the Experimental Measurement of the Constant of
   a Long Induction-coil, by G. Lippmann                       149
Amount of Carbon Dioxide in the Atmosphere, by E. H. Cook      151
Experiments on the Direct Photography of Sound-vibrations,
   by Prof. Boltzmann                                          151
On Central Forces and the Conservation of Energy, by G. W.
   von Tunzelmann                                              152
                   NUMBEE XCILL—MABCH.
Mr. S. P. Langley on the Selective Absorption of Solar
   Energy. (Plate III.)                                        153
Mr. W. Baily on the Spectra formed by Curved Diffraction-
   gratings. (Plate II.)                                       183
Prof. H. Lamb on the Basis of Statics                          187
Mr. J. T. Riley on Capillary Phenomena. (Plate IV.) ....       191
Mr. A. M. Worthington on the Horizontal Motion of Floating
   Bodies under the Action of Capillary Forces. (Plate V.) . . 198
Mr. F. J. Smith on a High-Pressure Electric Accumulator or
   Secondary Battery                                           203
Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on Magnetomotive Force                  205
Mr. B. H. M. Bosanquet on an Arrangement for Dividing
   Inch- and Metre-Scales                                      217
Notices respecting New Books :—
      Mr. E. J. Eouth's Elementary Part of a Treatise on the
        Dynamics of a System of Bigid Bodies                   218

              CONTENTS OF VOL. XV.     FIFTH SERIES.             V
                                                              Page
Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
      Mr. J. S. Gardner on the Lower-Eocene Section between
         Reculvers and Heme Bay                               219
      Mr. F. Oats on Mr. Dunn's Notes on the Diamond-fields
        of South Africa                                       220
      Dr. H. Hicks on the Metamorphic and Overlying Eocks
         in parts of Ross and Inverness shires                221
      Mr. E. Wethered on the Lower Carboniferous Eocks in
         the Forest of Dean                                   223
Phosphorography of the Infra-red Eegion of the Solar Spec
   trum: Wave-length of the Principal Lines, by Henri
   Becquerel                                                  228
On the Measurement of the Photometric Intensity of the
   Spectral Lines of Hydrogen, by H. Lagarde                  226
Central Forces and the Conservation of Energy, byW. E. Browne 228
                    NTJMBEE XCIV.—APEIL.
Lord Rayleigh on Maintained Vibrations                        229
M. E. Pringsheim on a Measurement of Wave-lengths in the
   Ultra-red Region of the Spectrum of the Sun                235
Prof. E. Warburg on Effects of Retentiveness in the Magneti
   zation of Iron and Steel                                   246
Eev. M. H. Close on the Meaning of " Force."                   248
Prof. J. J. Sylvester on the Number of Fractions contained in
   any " Farey Series " of which the Limiting Number is given  251
Mr. E. H. M. Bosanquet on Permanent Magnetism                  257
Dr. E. Tung on the Errors of our Sensations : a Contribution
 - to the Study of Illusion and Hallucination                  259
Prof. W. F. Barrett on the Alleged Luminosity of the Mag
   netic Field                                                 270
Mr. E. H. M. Bosanquet on Self-Eegulating Dynamo-electric
   Machines                                                    275
Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
       Mr. E. A. Walford on the Relation of the so-called
          " Northampton Sand " of North Oxfordshire to the
          Clypeus-Grit                                         297
       Mr. D. Mackintosh on the Positions of Boulders rela
         tively to the Underlyiug and Surrounding Ground, in
          North Wales and North-west Yorkshire                 297
On Central Forces and the Conservation of Energy, by G. W.
    von Tunzclmann                                             299
On the Refraction-Indices of Gases at High Pressures, by
   J. Chappuis and Ch. Riviere                                 299

vi            CONTENTS OF VOL. XV.      FIFTH SERIES.
                      NUMBER XCV.—MAY.
                                                                 Pago
Mr. L. "Wright on Optical Combinations of Crystalline Films.
   (Plate VI.)                                                   301
Mr. E. H. M. Bosanquet on Permanent Magnetism                    309
Mr. S. Bidwell on a Method of Measuring Electrical Resist
   ances with a Constant Current                                 316
Mr. J. Band Capron on the Auroral Beam of November 17,
   1882. (Plate VII.)                                            318
Mr. W. J. Nicol on a new Form of Constant-Temperature
   Bath                                                          339
Mr. E. H. Hall on " Rotational Coefficients " of various Metals  341
Professors Ayrton and Perry on the Resistance of the Electric
   Arc                                                           346
Mr. R. T. Glazebrook on Polarizing Prisms                        352
Notices respecting New Books :—
      Mr. R. T. Glazebrook's Physical Optics                     362
      Mr. L. Clark's Transit Tables for 1883 for Popular Use . . 363
Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
      Mr. T. Gray on Gray and Milne's Seismographic Appa
        ratus                                                    363
      Dr. A. Geikie on the supposed Pre-Cambrian Rocks of
        St, David's                                              365
On the Use of the Term " Force," by Walter R. Browno . .         368
On a Modification in the Pycnometer, by Prof. E. Wiedemann       369
On the Upper Limit of the Perceptibility of Sounds, by E.
   Pauchon                                                       371
                     NUMBER XCVL—JUNE.
Mr. H. R. Droop on Colour-Sensation                              373
Lord Rayleigh on the A'ibrations of a Cylindrical Vessel con
   taining Liquid                                                385
Mr. W. Moon on a Method of Calculating the Amount of
   Magnetism of a Magnetic Circle for each Strength of Cur
   rent acting on it                                             389
Mr. A. Tribe on Dissymmetry in the Electrolytic Discharge. .     391
Professors Avrton aud Perry on winding Electromagnets.
   (Plates VLtl. & IX.)                                          397
Mr. E. H. Cook on the Regenerative Theory of Solar Action        400
Messrs. W. H. Stables and A. E. Wilson on the Viscosity of a
   Solution of Saponine                                          406
Mr. R. T. Glazebrook on Curved Diffraction-gratings              414
Sir John Conroy on a new Photometer                              423
Mr. J. J. Thomson on a Theory of the Electric Discharge in
   Gases                                                         427
Mr. F. J. Smith on a new Form of Horse-power Indicator . .       434

              CONTENTS OF VOL. XV.       FIFTH SERIE8.      Vli
                                                          Pago
Prof. S. P. Thompson on' Polarizing Prisms                435
Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
     Mr. H. W. Monckton on the Bagshot Sands              436
     Prof. T. G. Bonney on Boulders of Hornblende Picrite
        near the Western Coast of Anglesey                437
Mica Films for Polarizing Purposes, by H. G. Madan        437
To Cut a Millimetre-screw, by Charles' K. "Wead           438
On the Condensation of Fluids on Solid Bodies, by Eilhard
   Wiedemann                                               440
                     ERRATA IN VOL. XIV.
              Page 297, line 32, jor A+u' is A+u'j&c.
                                 readu'+u"--(B-A)
                                             n

                                 PLATES.
     I. Illustrative of Mr. J. LeConte's Paper on the Apparent At
          tractions and Repulsions of Small Floating Bodies.
   II. Illustrative of Mr. W. Baily's Paper on the Spectra formed by
          Curved Diffraction-gratings.
  HI. Illustrative of Mr. S. P. Langley's Paper on the Selective Absorp
          tion of Solar Energy.
  IV. Illustrative of Mr. J. T. Hiley's Paper on Capillary Phenomena.
    V. Illustrative of Mr. A. M. Worthington's Paper on the Horizontal
          Motion of Floating Bodies under the Action of Capillary Forces.
   VI. Illustrative of Mr. L. Wright's Paper on Optical Combinations
           of Crystalline Films.
 VII. Illustrative of Mr. J. Rand Capron's Paper on the Auroral Beam
          of November 17, 1882.
VUL & IX. Illustrative of Professors Ayrton and Perry's Paper on wind
          ing Electromagnets.

Vol. 15.                      JANUARY 1883.-                                No. 91.
           Publislied the First Day of every Month.—Price 2s. 6d.
                        JAN 151883                          . ( colli; or ] f
                                       THE
               LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
   PHILOSOPHICAL                                    MAGAZINE,
                                        AND
               JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
      Being a Continuation of Tilloch's 'Philosophical Magazine,1
       Nicholson's ''Journal? and Thomson's 'Annals of Philosophy.'
                                   CONDUCTED BY
         SIR ROBERT KANE, LL.D. F.RS. M.RI.A. F.C.S.
          SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, Knt. LL.D. F.RS. &c.
                                        AND
          WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.RA.S. F.C.S.
                            FIFTH          SERIES.
                        N° 91.— JANUARY 1883.
                             WITH ONE PLATE.
     Illustrative of Mr. J. LeConte's Paper on the Apparent Attractions
                    and Bepulsions of Small Floating Bodies.
                                  LONDON:
       PEMTED BY TAYLOB AND FBANCI8, BED LION COUBT, FLEET BTBRET,
  Sold by Longmans, GTeen, Reader and Dyer; Kent and Co. ; Simpkin, Marshall and
    Co. ; and Whittaker and Co. ;—and by A. and 0. Black, and Thomas Clark, Edin
    burgh ; Smith and Son, Glasgow :—Hodges, Foster and Co., Dublin :—Putnam,
    New York : —and Asher and Co., Berlin.

                     Crown 8vo, cloth, price 2s. 6d., post free.
                        TRANSIT TABLES FOR 1883,
Giving the Greenwich Mean Time of Transit of the Sun, and of about Twenty
Stars for every Day in the Year, with other Astronomical Information for Popular
Use.
                  By LATIMER CLARK, Memb. Inst. C.E.
  By the aid of these Tables accurate Time may be obtained in any part of the
World.
                         Demy 8vo, cloth, 5s., post free.
              TREATISE ON THE TRANSIT INSTRUMENT,
  As applied to the Determination of Time, for the use of Country Gentlemen.
                   By LATIMER- CLARK, Memb. Inst. C.E.
                AN IMPROVED TRANSIT INSTRUMENT
                       Of the Highest Quality. Price £8.
       ALFRED J. FROST, 6 Westminster Chambers, London. S.W.
                              Price Orf., post-free Id.,
       TAYLOR'S CALENDAR OF MEETINGS
                                         OF
             THE SCIENTIFIC BODIES OF LONDON
                                FOR 1882-83.
            Taylob and Fbancis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                       Royal 4to, cloth boards, price £1.
              FACTOR TABLE FOR THE FIFTH MILLION,
                                CONTAINING THE
LEAST FACTOR OF EVERY NUMBER NOT DIVISIBLE BY 2, 3, or 5
                                    BETWEEN
                           4,000,000 and 5,000,000.
                       By JAMES GLAISHER, F.R.S.
                                                    ¦—              •
                            Uniform with the above,
             FACTOR TABLE FOR THE FOURTH MILLION,
                                    Price £1.
           Taylob and Fbancis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                             New Edition, price Is.
            TABLE OF CORRECTIONS FOR TEMPERATURE
to Reduce Observations to 32° Fahrenheit for Barometers, with Brass Scales
        extending from the Cistern to the top of the Mercurial Column.
                       By JAMES GLAISHER, F.R.S.
           Taylob and Fbancis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                       [ADVERTISEMENTS continued on 3rd page of Cover.

                                   THE
           LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL                                 MAGAZINE
                                   AND
         JOURNAL                   OF        SCIENCE.
                          [FIFTH SERIES.]
                         JANUARY 1883.
 I. Researclies on the Passage of Electricity through Rarefied
                        Air. By E. Edlund.
                                    § I-
IN a previous memoirf I brought together, in order to com
        pare them with each other, the researches made at dif
ferent times by various physicists on the passage of electricity
through rarefied gases, and I endeavoured, inter alia, to de
monstrate that vacuum is a conductor of electricity, or at least
opposes but an inconsiderable resistance to its propagation.
This result is in flagrant contradiction to the hitherto gene
rally received opinion that vacuum is a perfect insulator. The
reason that an electric current cannot traverse the Torricellian
vacuum does not depend on vacuum itself being an insulator,
but on the fact that there exists at the point of passage between
the electrodes and the rarefied gas an obstacle to the propaga
tion of electricity, and that this obstacle is augmented in pro
portion as the air is rarefied. As soon as the gas has been
sufficiently rarefied, the obstacle in question has become so
powerful that the current is incapable of surmounting it, and,
consequently, of traversing the rarefied air. According to
   * Translated from a copy, communicated by the Author, of No. 1,
vol. xx. of the KongUga Sventka Vetenskaps-Akademiens Handlingar.
   t Memoirs (Handlingar) of the Royal Academy of Sciences of Sweden,
xix. no. 2 ; Ann. de Chim. et de Phys. xxiv. p. 199 (1881) ; Phil. Ma4r.[5]
xiii. p. 1 (1882) ; Wied. Ann. xv. p. 514 (1882).
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 91. Jan 1883.                     B

2        Prof. E. Edlund's Researches on tfie Passage
this interpretation, then, it is not at all the resistance of the
rarefied gas that forms an obstacle to the passage of the cur
rent, but the obstacle must be sought at the point of passage
between the electrodes and the rarefied gas. The current,
therefore, if it could be introduced into the vacuum without
the aid of the electrodes, would be able to pass through the
vacuum without difficulty. The experiments which have up
to the present been made on the passage of electricity through
rarefied gases are, I am deeply convinced, in favour of the
correctness of this explanation. Besides, several physicists
have been led to declare that there really does exist, at the
point of passage between the electrodes and the rarefied gas,
a special obstacle to the propagation of the current. But, in
my opinion, they have not understood the true nature of that
obstacle, nor have they attempted to demonstrate that its
magnitude increases with the rarefaction of the gas; moreover
they have not attributed to it the high importance which
belongs to it.
   The result of the above-mentioned memoir, so far as it
regards the subject of the present, may be summed up as
follows :—If r is the obstacle to the propagation of electricity
which is situated at the point of passage between the elec
trodes and the gas, t\ the electric resistance in a column of
gas of unit length, and I the distance between the electrodes,
r + rj will be the sum of the resistance which the electricity
must overcome in order to pass from one electrode to the
other. Of these values, ?• increases continually in proportion
as the gas is rarefied, while during the same time undergoes
incessant diminution. From a judicious interpretation of the
experiments which have been made, especially those of Hit-
torf, it follows that the augmentation of the first of these
quantities and the diminution of the other continued until the
gas had arrived at the greatest rarefaction it was possible to
obtain by means of the mercury pump employed. In the
space exhausted of air, r acquires such a value that it is im
possible for the current to surmount it. If, then, the current
cannot traverse a vacuum, it is not because the value i\ of the
resistance has become too great, but because r is augmented
to such a degree that the current is incapable of surmounting
it. Several properties of gases with respect to the passage of
electricity show that this interpretation of the resistance which
they oppose to its propagation is really the only true one.
   In my memoir before mentioned, I have formulated the
opinion that the principal obstacle encountered by the electric
current at the surface of passage between the electrodes and
the rarefied gas is due to an electromotive force producing a

                  of Electricity through Rarefied Air.                      3
current in the opposite direction to the principal current. It
will be experimentally proved, further on, that this is indeed
the case, and that, at least when the rarefaction has reached a
certain limit, this force undergoes continuous augmentation if
the rarefaction be carried still further. But it will be conve
nient, before passing to the statement of the experiments per
formed, to call attention to the following circumstances :—
   I have demonstrated, in my unitary theory of electricity,
that the resistance undergone by an electric current in passing
through a solid or liquid conductor will be proportional to the
intensity of the current*. As I have shown in that memoir,
the supposition hitherto regarded as true, that the resistance
is independent of the .intensity of the current, really leads to
absurd conclusions; while the supposition that the resistance
of the conductor is proportional to the intensity of the current
is found to be in complete conformity with the experiments
hitherto made, and leads lo results ratified by experience.
What has just been said applies to solid and liquid bodies, but
not to gases at ordinary temperature, as the following consi
deration, among others, will show:—In order that a current
started by an electromotor may be able to pass through a solid
or liquid conductor, there is no need of a determined electro
motive force in the electromotor. However slight the force
may be, the current will always pass, although of course it
becomes less intense in proportion as the electromotive force
is little or the resistance of the conductor is great. If in all
cases the current is able to traverse the conductor, that evi
dently depends on the effective resistance being proportional
to the intensity of the current, and hence that resistance is
least when the intensity of the current is least. On the con
trary, in order that the current may be able to pass through a
gaseous body, a determined electromotive force is necessary,
or, what amounts to the same, it is necessary that the electro
motor be in a condition to produce a certain tension on the
electrodes. If the electromotive force is below this limit,
 experiment shows that gas may be regarded as a perfect insu
lator. From this it evidently follows that the resistance of
 gases cannot be proportional to the intensity of the current.
 Now, if it be admitted that the electric resistance of gases is
 independent of the intensity of the current, the properties of
which, according to the experiments of the last few yearsf,
   * "Throne des, ph£nomenea Slectriques," K. Svenska Vet.-Akad.
Handlingar, t. xii. no. 8 ; Pogg. Ann. cxlviii. p. 421 (1873); Phil. Mag. [4]
xlvi. p. 204.
   t" Bihany till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad. Handlinyar, vi. no. 7 (1881) ;
Wied. Ann. xv. p. 165 (1882) ; Phil. Mag. [5] xiii. p. 200.
                                    B2

4         Prof. E. Edlund's Researches on the Passage
gasos give proof when traversed by the current can be ex
plained with the greatest facility, namely:—that the amount
of heat generated is proportional to the intensity of the cur
rent, not to the square of that intensity; that the resistance in
a column of gas is independent of the cross section of the
column ; that the difference between the electroscopic tensions
of two points situated at a distance from one another is pro
portional to the resistance between the same points, not to
that resistance multiplied by the intensity of the current, &c.
Every thing, consequently, leads to the conclusion that the
electric resistance of gases is independent of the intensity of
the current, but of course only on the supposition that the
 current does not sensibly modify the composition, temperature,
 or density of the gas.
    Let (be the current-intensity in a closed circuit composed
exclusively of solid and liquid parts, E the electromotive force
 of the electromotor, and n the quantity of surface of the latter,
 L tho total length of the circuit, and r its resistance at unit
 intensity of the current; we shall have for the determination
 of that intensity the differential equation *
                           L -r, = wE — nri.
                              at
    If we integrate this equation, we shall get, for the case in
 which the current has been closed a sufficient time for its in
 tensity to have become constant,
                                      E
 that is to say, the known law of Ohm.
    When, on the contrary, the circuit contains in addition a
 gaseous conductor whose resistance is R, the differential equa
 tion becomes
                            L     =nE — nil— nri,
                               dt                    '
  of which the integral is
                                 . E-R•
                                i=
                                        r
     Therefore the resistance R of the c/as has its place in the
  numerator and not in the denominator as, without closer exami
  nation, one would be inclined to place it, according to the
  usual formula of Ohm. It is seen, then, as a consequence of
  what has been said above, that E must be greater than R in
  order that it may be possible for a current to arise.
        • Pogg. Ann. cxlviii. p. 421 ; Phil. Mag. [4] xlvi. p. 20(5.

                  of Electricity through Rarefied Air.                    5
                                     §2.
    The apparatus employed in the experiments were:—a Holtz
electrophorus with a double rotatory disk, the crank of which
was turned, with a constant velocity, as a rule once in two
seconds; a reflecting galvanometer of a construction previously
described*, specially applicable to electric discharges, the coil
of which consisted of forty turns of copper wire 1*3 millim. in
thickness, surrounded with gutta percha; a Topler's mercury
air-pump of improved construction by Bessel-Hagenf, as well
as a Ruhmkorff induction-apparatus, which, however, could
only give very short sparks in a space filled with air. The
intensity of the induced current was measured by a magneto
meter, the deflections of which were read with the aid of a
telescope and scale.
     I proved, several years since, by experiment, that there
exists in the voltaic arc, as well as in the electric spark, an
electromotive force sending a current in the opposite direction
to that which calls forth the electromotive force \. In order
to distinguish it from other currents, it received the name of
disjunction-current. The above-mentioned result has been
 verified by Sundell, in regard to the electric spark, by means
 of a series of detailed experiments §. In those experiments
 the electric spark was formed in a space filled with air. An
 investigation which I subsequently made showed that the force
discovered by me in a space filled with air existed also when
 the air was rarefied; but the resources at my disposal on that
 occasion did not permit me to carry the rarefaction far enough;
 moreover it was not in the programme of the investigation to
 devote at that time more attention to this matter || . I will
 therefore now show, pursuing the same method as that which
  I employed in 1868, the manner in which the electromotive
 force is modified with the density of the air. Of the experi-
    * Ofversigt of Kongl. Vetenskaps-Akademiens Fbrhandlingar, 1868)
 Pogg. Ann. cxxxvi, (1862); Ann. de Chim. et de Phys. [4] xvii. ; Phil.
 Mag. [4] xxxviii. p. 169.
    t Wied. Aim. xii. p. 425 (1881).
    X Ofvers. of Kongl. Vet.-Akad. FdrhancU. 1867 & 1868; Pogg. Ann.
 exxxi., cxxxiv. pp. 260, 337 ; Phil. Mag. [4] xxxvi. & xxxvii.
    § Pogg. Ann. cxlv.
    || In a communication to the Paris Academy of Sciences {Comptes
 Rendus for 1881, t. xcii. p. 710), M. Le Iioux states that my investigation
 on the voltaic arc has merely led to this result—that the arc does not
behave exclusively like a simple resistance ; and he then gives a proof that
 there really exists an electromotive force. Now this proof is identical
 with that which I employed in 1867 to demonstrate the existence of the
 same force.

6          Prof. E. Edlund's Researches on the Passage
ments made, in order to economize space I shall cite only
those which are absolutely necessary to furnish a complete
demonstration*.                                      Fig. 1.
    In fig. 1, ah represents the
disk of the electropborus, a, and
bi the two receiving combs, of
which o, is in metallic connexion
with the point k, and with the
brass ball e. In the vicinity of
this latter another brass ball,/,
is placed, from which an elec
trode goes to the point h. The
space in which the air is to be
rarefied is represented by c d,
and is connected with the points
h and k. From these points also
electrodes go to the galvano
meter g, in front of which the
wires are joined by a bridge n, which presents a suitable
resistance: the purpose of this bridge will be seen further on.
 Z is a copper wire connected to earth, and carries away the
static electricity which has possibly been left in the galvano
meter after the discharges, and might produce an electroscopic
effect upon the magnetized needle.
    When the disk of the electropborus is put into rotation, the
 sparks spring between the balls e and/, and the magnetized
 needle of the galvanometer g is deflected. If the rotation be
 continued for a sufficient time, the deflection will become
 constant. The arrival of that moment, however, was not
 alwa}Ts waited for; but the amount of the deflection was de
 termined by observing the degrees of the scale to which the
 needle returned in its oscillations ; then a mean of those de
 grees was taken. Several such means were taken for each
 determination. If (as indicated in the figure by an arrow)
 the positive current passes from the receiving comb Oj, this
 current divides at k, after which a portion of it traverses the
 space of rarefied air, while, on the other hand, a certain quan
 tity passes through the bridge n, and the remainder through
 the helix of the galvanometer. But when the conduction is
 interrupted between the point k and the rarefied air-space, the
 entire current passes to q, and is there divided between the
    • The observations were carried out, under my direction, by MM. S.
 Arrhonius and C. Mebius, Candidates in Philosophy of the University of
 Upsal, and Th. Ilomen, Candidate in Philosophy of the University of
 Helsinfrfors (Finland). Usually each observation was repeated three
 times, which permitted Hie observers to control each other.

                of Electricity through Rarefied Air.             7
galvanometer and the bridge. All the series of observations
agreed in this:—that if the conduction between k and the
rarefied-air space was interrupted, and consequently the entire
discharge passed to q and was there divided between the
bridge and the galvanometer to arrive at the ball /, the deflec
tion did not amount to more than 1 or 1*5 division of the
scale; but if the discharge divided at k and part of it passed
through the rarefied air, the deflection might amount to 50
scale-divisions—although a lower figure might have been ox-
pected, seeing that in this case a smaller portion of the dis
charge passed through the galvanometer.
    The question now is, to what cause must, we ascribe the cir
cumstance that the deflections were several times greater in
one case than in the other? Perhaps the first thought that
will occur to us is that the discharge is oscillatory. One
might then say:—"At the first swing positive electricity is
discharged, without dividing at k, through the bridge n and
the galvanometer to arrive at the ball f; when, at the second
swing (a little weaker than the first), the electricity returns,
it takes its path to h exclusively through the rarefied-air space;
at the third swing it again passes exclusively through the gal
vanometer and the bridge, while at the fourth it is discharged
only through the rarefied-air space, and so on. In this way
the deflections would be greater when k is in metallic commu
nication with the rarefied air than when the communication
between them is interrupted." But it will readily be perceived
that an oscillatory discharge of this kind is absolutely impos
 sible. The same direction and the same amount of deflection
have been observed, whether the point of interruption between
 the balls e and / was near to b\, as shown in the figure, or
 placed near to ax. It can therefore be said that every thing
 is symmetric around the rarofied-air space, and hence there is
 no valid reason for the electricity, in passing from left to
 right, to be brought to choose another path than that which
 it takes when it returns from right to left. Further on, more
 over, will be found some proofs demonstrating that the oscil
 lator}- discharge cannot be the cause of the great deflections
 mentioned above.
     Others will perhaps be disposed to assume that the reason
  of the great deflections which take place when the point k is
  connected with the rarefied-air space, is the rise of induction-
  currents, at the time of the discharge, in the helix of the gal
 vanometer or at some other point of the closed circuit, and
  that to these currents we must attribute the above-mentioned
  deflections. Now, further on will likewise be given proofs
 that the great deflections have just as little to do with induced

8         Prof. E. Edlund's Researches on the Passage
currents. We are therefore compelled to admit that there must
be in the electric spark a proper electromotive force sending
a current in the inverse direction of the discharge. As I had
before demonstrated that the voltaic arc is the seat of an elec
tromotive force, it was in reality easy to foresee that such a
force must also exist in the electric spark.
   Experiment 1. At the two ends of" a glass tube of 20 mil-
lim. diameter and 60 millim. length, aluminium electrodes
were fixed. The distance between the extremities of these
wires amounted to 5 millim. A glass tube of the same dimen
sions contained brass electrodes, the extremities of which were
furnished with balls of the same metal ; the distance between
the nearest points of the latter amounted also to 5 millim.
The tubes were connected with the mercury air-pump ; and
consequently the air had the same density in both. The dis
tance between the balls e and / (fig. 1) of the electrophorus
was 10 millim. At w a rheostat, presenting a resistance of
7-75 ohmads, was placed. This rheostat was composed of a
fine German-silver wire wound round four glass columns, each
turn of the spiral being sufficiently distant from the neigh
bouring turn to prevent any appreciable induction at the time
of the discharge. In this way the following deflections were
obtained :—
                           Deflections, in scale-divisions, with
      Pressure of                            K                  (
       the air, in          the brass            the aluminium
      millimetres.            balls.                poles.
         561-7 . .            14-1                   11-8
         353-0 . .              9-3                  10-3
         249-0 . .              8-8                   7-7
         138-9 . .              5-2                   4-6
           72-2 . .             3-4                   2-9
           29-5 . .             1-7                   3-0
             6-5 . .            1-5                   3-8
            4-4 . .             3-0                   8-2
             2-0 . .          13-3                   16-3
When the communication between k and the rarefied-air
space was interrupted, so that the entire discharge of the elec
trophorus must divide itself between the bridge n and the
galvanometer, a deflection of 1'5 scale-division was obtained.
Id the experiments cited, a portion of the discharge passed
through the rarefied-air space; so that the deflection proceed
ing from the quantity of electricity which came direct from
the electrophorus could scarcely amount to more than one
division of the scale. If we subtract this from the above-given

                of Electricity through Rarefied Air.            9
numbers, we get the deflections produced by the electromotive
force existing in the spark.
    The resistance of a column of gas being independent of the
cross section of the column, but being necessarily proportional
to its length, the resistance of the spark may be expressed by
rxl, in which term i\ denotes the resistance of unit length,
and I the length. If we represent by e the electromotive force
of the spark, and by m the resistance of the rest of the closed
circuit, the deflections obtained must, according to what pre
cedes, be (after deducting one scale-division) proportional to
6~~--      The experiments recapitulated above show that the
difference e—r-J, diminishes when the pressure of the air falls
from 562 to about 29 millim., but that afterwards it increases
again in proportion as the pressure descends to 2 millim.
 Now the preceding experiments show only the way in which
 the difference between e and r-J, varies with the pressure, and
 not the modifications undergone by each of these quantities.
     Before proceeding further, there is reason to pay attention
 to the following circumstances:—When an electric spark is
 formed between metal electrodes in air of great density, the
 temperature of the circuit of the spark rises, as is known, to
 such a degree that the metals are carried in the gaseous state
 from one electrode to the other. The air is therefore consi
 derably heated, and mixed besides with metallic vapours.
 Now we know from Becquerel's researches, confirmed by Hit-
 torf's experiments, that at high temperature gases become
  relatively good conductors. It is consequently impossible to
 deduce, from experiments performed at a considerable density
  of the air, what would have been the value of its conductivity
  at the same density if the air had kept its temperature un
  changed. With a greater density of the air, too, the elec
  trodes are torn by the current; and as it is then very probable
  (as I have endeavoured to demonstrate in my first researches
  upon the electromotive force in question) that e in part de
  pends on this, neither is it possible to draw, from experiments
  made with a considerable density of the air, any sure conclu
  sions concerning the dependence of that force on the density
  of the air when the tearing above mentioned does not take
  place. If, on the contrary, the air is highly rarefied, it, as
   perfectly reliable experiments have proved, is but slightly
   warmed by the electric current, and the electrodes remain
   intact or are but slightly attacked by the current. Therefore,
   in order to determine the dependence in which the electromo
   tive force and the resistance stand relatively to the density of

10         Prof. E. Edlund's Researches on the Passage
the air, one is forced to rely exclusively on the observations
made with more considerable rarefactions of the air.
   In order to be able to determine how e and rxl vary, each
by itself, with the density of the air, it is necessary to proceed
with a scries of observations in which e and i\l are combined
in a different manner from that in which they were in the
preceding series. For this purpose a Ruhmkorff induction -
apparatus was employed in the following manner :—Having
found the difficulty there was in obtaining constant deflections
when the Foucault interruptor belonging to the apparatus was
employed, I made use of only one of the induced currents
arising from the opening of the inducing current ; and that
current was measured by means of a sensitive magnetometer.
If the inducing current preserves its intensity without modifi
cation, the induced currents do not undergo, at the opening,
any modification with respect to quantity, in whatever man
ner the opening is effected. If the circuit of the induced
current is composed of solid and liquid conductors only, the
induced currents also produce deflections of equal magnitude
on a galvanometer inserted in the circuit. But when the cir
cuit of the induced current is interrupted so that the current
is compelled to traverse an extent of air, for the deflections to
be equal it is necessary that the opening always take place in
the same manner. After some fruitless attempts, this could
be done with the aid of a spiral spring arranged in the manner
indicated by fig. 2. A B is
a wooden support, on which
is placed a glass jar, a, half
filled with mercury. On the
surface of the mercury is put
an ebonite disk perforated
at its centre. At g is fixed
one extremity of a spiral
 spring, b, of steel, the other
end carrying a small iron
cylinder, c, to the opposite
extremity of which a thin
platinum wire, h, is soldered.
When the spring is kept
stretched by the lever-arm d,
the platinum wire descends
to the mercury through the
perf oration of the ebonite disk. Ono of the electrodes, e, of
the battery which produces the inducing current dips into the
mercury ; the other,/, is fixed to the iron cylinder instead of
being at y, in order that the spring may not be heated and its

                 of Electricity through Rarefied Air.            11
elasticity modified by the passage of the current. Now, when
the lever is removed, the thin platinum wire is lifted from the
mercury, and the current is then interrupted in successive
experiments with such uniformity that the currents which pass
through the rarefied air give deflections of equal magnitude
on the magnetometer.
   Experiment 2. The battery that produced the inducing
current consisted of six Bunsen elements. The glass tube
containing the rarefied air was the same as in experiment 1,
with aluminium electrodes placed 5 millim. distant from one
another. The passage of the induced current through the
rarefied air gave the following deflections:—
             Pressures of the gas,
               ininUIimetns.             n a ,.
                                         Deflections.
                    89-8                    25-8
                    79-6                    28-0
                    65-7 ......             29-6
                    58-6                    33-0
                    39-0                    38-8
                    31-1                    41-7
                     18-9                   35-0
                      8-2                   30-0
                      2-9                   19-1
                      0-58                  15-9
                      0-12                    0-0
    This series resembles those repeatedly obtained before by
other physicists : at a comparatively high pressure of the air
the current is weak ; it reaches a maximum at a certain lower
pressure, afterwards diminishing again if the rarefaction is
increased beyond this. It is from such series of experiments
that it has been inferred, inter alia, that the electric resistance
of air diminishes with the pressure until it arrives at a certain
limit, which being passed, the resistance increases again, if
the rarefaction continues to increase, and in a vacuum becomes
infinite. Here I will only remark, as a preliminary, that the
series of deflections of experiment 2 may be regarded on the
whole as a sort of inversion of the series of experiment 1. In
the latter series the deflections are considerable at the higher
pressures of the air, and then diminish till the pressure has
 fallen to about 30 millim., after which they commence to in
 crease if the increase of rarefaction be continued ; in series 2
the reverse is presented, in that the maximum occurs there at
a pressure of about 30 millim.
    If E denotes the electromotive force of the induction-appa
 ratus, e that of the spark in the rarefied air, rxl, as before, the

 12          Prof. E. Edlund's Researclies on tlie Passage
resistance of the air, and m the resistance of the rest of the
closed circuit, the deflections must, according to what pre
cedes, be proportional to —————*.
   If we exclude the rarefied-air space from the circuit, the
                                                         E
intensity of the current will be expressed by —. This inten
sity, which was measured several times between the obser
vations of series 2, remained (with insignificant variations)
constant the whole time. The deflection was too great to be
measured by the magnetometer without placing before the
latter a bridge to produce a division of the current. It was
found by calculation that, without the employment of the
bridge, the deflection would have been 1300 scale-divisions.
If we subtract from this number the deflections observed in
series 2, the remainders will be proportional to
                                                             m
   We thus get:-
                Pressure of                    e+rj
                  the air.                       m
                    89-8                      1274-2
                    79-6                      1272-0
                    65-7                      1270-4
                    58-6                      1267-0
                    39-0                      1261-2
                    31-1                      1258-3
                    18-9                      1265-0
                      8-2                     1270-0
                      2-9                     1280-9
                      0-58                    1284-1
                      0-12                    1300
   * The deflections obtained at different pressures may be regarded as
proceeding from the united action of two ditferent current", namely :—
(1) the current which would be produced by the induction-apparatus in
the case in which the rarefied-air space possessed no electromotive force,
but merely opposed a resistance to the propagation of tlie current; as this
resistance diminishes as the rarefaction increases, the current in question
would gradually increase with the latter; (2) the disjunction-current due
to the passage of the former through the rarefied air, and going in a direc
tion opposite to this. If the disjunction-current be subtracted from the
current before mentioned, the resultant will arrive at its maximum at the
pressure at which the latter current will have its minimum. Now the
observations furnished by experiments 1 and 2 show that in the former
the minimum is found at nearly the same pressure as the maximum in the
in the latter. Hence we may conclude from this that when in experi
ment 2 the induction-apparatus was employed in the formation of the
current, there was also produced in the raretied-air space a disjunction-

                  of Electricity through Rarefied Air.                    13
    The deflections, varying only 2 per cent, between the pres
sures 31*1 and 0*58, may be considered approximately con
stant. If this invariable deflection be designated by k, and if
« is a constant, we can therefore put e + rll=ak for the pres
sure between these limits. If x be the invariable deflection
between the same limits of series 1, and if b is another con
stant, we can write e—ril=bx, from which we get
                       ak + bx       , , ak—bx
                   e= —g— and rj= —^—
The observations show that x is rapidly augmented with the
rarefaction; the following results are obtained from these two
series:—If the density of the air at which the induced current
presents its maximum be taken for the starting-point, the elec
 tromotive force e increases with the ulterior increase of the rare
faction, while, on the contrary, tlie electric resistance of the air
 undergoes continual diminution during the same time. In the
 rarefied-air. space here employed the resistance of the air dimi
 nished by a quantity approximately equal to the increase of
 the electromotive force when the rarefaction of the air was
 augmented.
     If the distance between the electrodes be made greater than
 it was in the preceding experiments, the diminution of r^l, all
 other conditions remaining equal, will, when the density is
 reduced, evidently be greater than when I is less. It may
 therefore easily happen, if I is sufficiently great, that r-J. un
 dergoes, when the rarefaction is augmented, a diminution
 exceeding the increase of e, and, consequently, that the sum
 e + r-J, continues to diminish with the pressure. In that case
 the maximum of the induced current, if a maximum be pro
  duced, will be found at a pressure below that of the foregoing
  observations. In Morren's experiments the distance between
  the electrodes amounted to 240 millim. ; and it is very likely
  that we must attribute to that cause the circumstance that ho
  found the maximum of the current at so low a pressure as
  1 millim. or slightly under.
      For determining the variations of the sum e + r^l at different
  air-pressures another process was employed, which, however,
  was not capable of giving so exact a result as the experiments
  with the induced current. A spark micrometer was used,
  composed of two brass balls introduced into a wider glass
  tube, one of which balls could be moved nearer to or further
  current similar to that of experiment 1. But it will without difficulty be
  understood that in experiment 2 the disjunction-current produced in the
  tube cannot be attributed to any oscillatory discharge ; and therefore there
  is nothing to authorize us to see in a discharge of that nature the cause
  of the great deflections given by experiment f.

 14        Prof. E. Edlund's Researches on tlie Passage
from the other at pleasure by means of a micrometer-screw,
the distance separating them being read on a graduated scale.
 The spark micrometer and the glass tube with aluminium
electrodes used in the previous experiment were connected
with the electrophorus in the way indicated by fig. 3; but the
distance between the electrodes
was now 30 millim., and not 5 as                  Fig. 3.
in the foregoing experiments.
Two electrodes, connected with
one of the receiving combs of the
electrophorus, proceed from the
point g to the metal ball / (the
same as that denoted by this
letter in fig. 1). The glass tube
containing the rarefied air is inserted at a in one of the elec
trodes, and the spark micrometer at m in the other. When
the distance between the balls of the micrometer was great,
the discharge passed exclusively through the rarefied-air
space ; but if they were brought sufficiently nearer, the dis
charge passed only at m, through the spark micrometer. The
distance was now regulated so that the successive discharges
passed alternately through a and through m. For this case
the sum mentioned, e + rl, was regarded as equal in the two
tubes ; and the distance between the balls, which constituted
a measure of that sum, was read on the scale. The following
results were obtained:—
   Experiment 3.
                  Pressure of        ... ,      , ,
                    tjje ajj.        Distance between
                    millim'                the balls.
                    46-5                     1-31
                    25-1                     1-31
                    17-5                     1-36
                    13-0                     1-25
                      6-4                    1-14
                      4-0                    1-10
                      23                     1-10
                      0-8                    1-15
                      0-007                  2-33
  Experiment 4. In this experiment the aluminium electrodes
were replaced by electrodes of platinum, and the distance
between them was 30 millim. The fo lowing distances be
tween the balls of the micrometer were obtained, according to
the modification of the air-pressure in the rarefied-air space:—

                   of Electricity through Rarefied Air.            15
                   Pressure of           _, ,
                     the air.           Distance between
                    millim.'                  the bftlls-
                      117-5                     1-30
                       91-2                     1-20
                       68-3                     1-15
                       21-0                     1-15
                       14-1                     1-12
                         8-0                    1-10
                         6-1                    0-95
                         3-0                    1-00
                         2-38                   1-05
                         0-2                    1-40
     In these last two series the minimum is found lower down
  than in series 2—namely, in the first between pressures of
  2 and 4 millim., and in the second between 3 and 8 millim.
  This must probably be attributed to the distance between the
 electrodes being 30 millim. instead of 5 as in series 2. If,
 however, the pressure of the minimum be augmented to a
 higher degree, the value increases more quickly when the dis
 tance is greater than when it is less.
    Experiment 5. The object of this experiment was to deter
 mine whether the electromotive force e is dependent on the
 quantity of electricity traversing the spark in the rarefied-air
 space. The electrodes consisted of platinum wires, the dis
 tance between which amounted to 30 millim.; pressure of the
 air 1*8 millim. A rheostat being inserted at to (fig. 1) in the
 wire that went to the galvanometer, a deflection of 12-6 scale-
 divisions was obtained; while, if the rheostat was placed at p,
 in the wire going to the spark, the deflection did not amount
 to more than 7*1 divisions. When the rheostat was excluded
 from the circuit, the deflection amounted to 42 divisions.
 When the rheostat was intercalated at w, of course the quan
 tity "of electricity passing through the spark was greater than
 when the resistance was located at p, although the total resist
 ance of the closed circuit in the two cases was identical.
 Consequently the electromotive force increases with the quantity
 of electricity traversing the spark. These observations show,
further, as might have been expected, that the intensity of the
current will be diminished if a resistance be inserted in the closed
circuit.
    For the case of a constant current (from a sufficiently
powerful galvanic battery, for example) traversing the
rarefied-air space and producing there an electromotive force
e, we must take care not to draw from the foregoing result

16          Prof. E. Edlund's Researc/ies on tJie Passage
the conclusion that e increases or diminishes with the intensity
of the current. I have, on the contrary, demonstrated, in a
previous investigation on the electromotive force of the voltaic
arc, that the above-mentioned force is independent of the
intensity of the current to which the arc is due. It was only
when the current employed was so weak that it was only just
able to produce an arc that the electromotive force appeared
to have diminished a minute fraction per cent.* If it is
otherwise when the experiments bear upon the electric spark,
that must depend on other conditions. When the electricity
traverses the rarefied-air space in the form of discontinuous
discharges, and the quantity of electricity which passed in the
way indicated in the preceding experiment is augmented or
diminished, it is possible that not only the duration of the
separate sparks, but also the curves indicating the increase of
the eletricity at the commencement and its decrease at the
end of the discharge, undergo modifications. The electromo
tive force e probably depends on these circumstances, and is
not in direct relation with the quantity itself of electricity.
   Already in 1868, at the time of my first researches on the
electromotive force of the electric spark, I had found that the
deflections become smaller if an induction-coil is inserted in
the circuit conducting to the galvanometer. In those experi
ments the spark was formed in a space filled with air. There
fore, of the two induced currents due to the passage of the
discharge through the coil, only that which traversed the spark
in the same direction as the discharge had power to penetrate
the spark ; or perhaps, to express myself more correctly, that
current traversed the spark with more facility than the induced
current which traversed it in the contrary direction. As
there might be some interest in ascertaining what would be
the results of lowering the pressure of the air in the space in
which the spark was produced, the following experiment was
 made :—
    Experiment 6. At w (fig. 1) an induction-coil was inserted,
consisting of a copper wire coated with gutta percha and
 wound in 40 turns of a helix ; and then the deflection pro
duced was observed. The coil was now removed, and replaced
by a German-silver wire having nearly the same resistance as
the induction-coil, and the deflection was observed in the same
 manner as before. When no spark was formed between c and
 d, and consequently the entire discharge divided itself between
the galvanometer and the bridge, the deflection amounted to
 1'5 scale-division. In this way, at different air-pressures the
following series was obtained:—
            * 1'ogg. Aim. exxxiii. p. 363 ; Phil. Mag. [4] xxxv.

               of Electricity through Rarefied Air.                  17
                                Deflections.
  Pressure of
    the air.      Without induc          With induc      Difference.
    millim.           tion-coil.           tion-coil.
     0-24 .     .   .      1-75              1-85        + o-io
     0-99 .     .   . 27-55                50-05         + 22-80
     1-55 .     .   . 23-55                37-15         + 13-60
     2-70 .     .   . 230                   17-65        - 5-35
     3-20 .     .   . 21-0                   9-80        -11-20
     4-50 .     .   .     4-55               0-95        - 3-60
     6-00 .     .   .      7-06              2-25        - 4-80
     8-65 .     .   .     5-95               1-85        - 4-10
   There are some important circumstances to be noticed in
this series, to which another series, not reproduced here, was
perfectly conformable. Without the induction-coil the deflec
tions increase in magnitude from a pressure of 4*50 to 0-99
millim. The value oi e—rd undergoes therefore continuous
augmentation from the first limit to the second. Now, be
tween these limits the expression e+rj is, according to the
series 3 and 4, nearly constant. From this it follows that e
increases continuously between the limits in question, while
rd undergoes continuous diminution. If the pressure desoends
to 0-24 millim., the sum e+rd increases notably, according
to series 3 and 4. Now, when we increase the resistance of
the circuit kcdh (fig. 1), the quantity of electricity that tra
verses the rarefied-air space is diminished, whence it follows,
according to series 5, that the deflections are diminished also.
It is here that we must seek the reason of the fact that at 0-24
millim. pressure of air the deflection amounts to only 1*75
scale-division. This series therefore gives the same result as
experiment 1.                                         .'
   On the other hand, the observations taken when an induc
tion-coil was inserted in the circuit at w or at p gave a par
tially unexpected result. The deflections diminished for a
pressure between the limits 8-65 and 2-70 millim. Of the
two induction-currents, going in opposite directions, due to
the passage of the discharge-current through the coil, that
which traverses the spark in the inverse direction of the dis
junction-current, and consequently also traverses the spirals
of the galvanometer in a direction opposed to that current, has
 the property of asserting itself principally or exclusively. The
spark, then, acts as a sort of valve; it lets one of the induction-
 currents pass, but not the other, or at least opposes a greater
obstacle to the passage of one of the currents than to the pas
sage of the other. This is perfectly conformable to what I
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 91. Jan. 1883.                   C

 18          Prof. E. Edlund's Researches on the Passage
 have found to bo the case when tho spark is formed in a space
 filled with air*; while the opposite was presented at pressures
 below 2*7 millim. : the deflections then became greater ; that
 is to say, tho stronger current was that which traversed the
 spark in the same direction as the disjunction-current. This
 remarkable property of the spark in the rarefied-air space
 would perhaps deserve a more special study by means of a
 particular investigation.
    When the discharge-current passes through the galvano
 meter-coil, of course two induction-currents in opposite direc
 tions are produced in that coil also. For preventing the action
 of these currents upon the magnetized needle it suffices to
 insert a wire of sufficient resistance, as a bridge, before the
 galvanometer-coil ; in fact, as the resistance of this bridge can
 be made much less than the total resistance of the rarefied-air
 space, the induced currents, which are of equal intensity but
 opposite in direction, pass almost exclusively through the
 bridge, and consequently cut off their action upon the mag
 netized needle. I convinced myself, by the following simple
 procedure, that their effect upon the needle became really
 insensible:—An induction-coil, of approximately tho sanio
 quality and size as that of the galvanometer, was placed at w.
 The deflections were then seen to be considerably diminished
 if the pressure was greater, but to be increased when the pres
 sure was less. When, on the contrary, a wire of suitable
 resistance was placed as a bridge before the induction-coil,
 the deflections became perfectly equal, whether the induction-
 coil was or was not inserted in the circuit. As in all the
 experiments the galvanometer-coil was always provided with
 a bridge offering a suitable resistance, the induced current
 exercised no sensible influence upon the results obtained.
    The electric current duo to the passage of the dischargo
through tho rarefied-air space has been expressed by                   , in
 conformity with the reasons given in the preceding pages.
 In regard to this, it should be remarked that rn (that is to say,
the resistance of the part, of tho circuit composed of wires) is
infinitely small in comparison with the resistance r-J, of tho
rarefied air. The following experiment has proved that the
current in question cannot be calculated from the usual for-
mula of Ohm              ,, or since m can be neglected in compa-
                  m + r,r
rison with rxl, by the formula —,•
   • 6/versifft af Kongl. Vetensk.-Akad. Fiirhandl. 1868; Fogg. Ann.
cxxxvi. ; Ann. de Chim. et de Phys. [4] xvii. ; Phil. Mag. [4] xxxviii.

                 of Electricity through Rarefied Air.               19
   Experiment 7. Two perfectly similar glass tubes, provided
at their extremities with electrodes consisting of platinum
wires, were connected with the mercury air-pump so that
there might be equal pressure of air in both. The electrodes
were covered with glass tubes to the distance of 1 millim.
from their extremities. The distance between the electrodes
amounted to 5 millim. in one of the tubes, and six times that
sum, or 30 millim., in the other. Although the electrodes had
been rendered as equal as possible, from some unknown cause
the electromotive force of the tube in which the distance be
tween the electrodes amounted to 30 millim. was greater than
in the other. With these two tubes the following deflections,
at different pressures of the air, were obtained:—
                                          Deflections.
           Pressure of            r ¦"
             the air.              Distance         Distance
             millim.              80 millim.        6 millim.
              0-23 .      .  .  .     5-6               2-6
              0-73 .      .  .  . 17-8                 14-5
              115 .       .  .  . 16-9                 16-1
              2-13 .      .  .  .     5-5               9-1
              5-40 .      .  .  .     3-2               5-8
              8-13 .      .  .  .     1-6               2-2
   Thus, at the lower pressures from 0*23 to 1*15 millim. the
current in the tube in which the distance between the elec
trodes amounted to 30 millim. was stronger than that of the
other tube ; while the opposite took place from the last-men
tioned pressure to that of 8*13 millim. If we call the electro
motive force of the tube with 5 millim. distance between the
electrodes e, and that of the other tube eu and if r-J, denotes
the resistance of the gas in the first tubo, and consequently
6rjZ the forco of resistance of the second, we get, according to
               e         €t
Ohm's law, —. and jr-k. The observations above given show
              *\l       W       . .                        e,  e
that at a pressure of 0*73 millim., for example,              >rV ^
we pass thence to a greater pressure, as, for instance, 5'4 mil
lim., «x and e will be modified in the same proportion, and
consequently their amount at that pressure will be expressed
by pei and pe, in which case, from what precedes, p is less than
unity. The resistances change in the same manner into w6r,Z
and nrj, where n denotes a number higher than unity. We
get, therefore, at the higher pressure,                  and    ; but,
whatever numbers p and n may represent, the former fraction
                                 02

 20         Prof. E. Edlund's Researches on the Passage
 must, according to what has been said above, be greater than
 the latter. On the other hand, the observations show that the
 deflection at a pressure of 5*4 millim., for example, is smaller
 when the electrodes are at a greater distance from one another
 than when they are closer. Ohm's law therefore, in its ori
 ginal form, is not applicable to the case in which the current
 passes through a gaseous body.
    When, on the contrary, the current-intensities are propor
 tional to e— rxl and ex — &rxl, there is no contradiction in the
 circumstance that at the low pressure 61 — 6r,/>e—r1Z while
 at the same time, at the higher pressure, pex — nQr^Kpe— nrxl.
    Experiment 8. In this experiment on the passage of elec
 tricity through rarefied air, one of the electrodes consisted of
 an aluminium wire, and the other of a platinum wire of ap
 proximately the same thickness. The discharge passed alter
 nately from the platinum to the aluminium, and from the latter
 electrode to the former. In the circuit, at w, a rheostat with a
 resistance of 21*5 ohmads was inserted. In this way the fol
 lowing results wore obtained:—
            Pressure of      Deflection when the discharge went
              the air.           ,               A              ,
              millim.         from aluminium from platinum
                                to platinum.    to aluminium.
               2- 2    ... . 11-65                   6-85
               34      ... . 1435                   7-22
               3- 8    ... . 1505                   7-05
               6-5     ... . 11-90                  6-40
              24-1     ....          5-10           3-30
              35-7     ....          3-55           2-85
   If the electricity did not pass through the rarefied-air space,
a deflection of 1*9 scale-division was obtained when the dis
charge from the electrophorus passed through the galvano
meter circuit.
   The disjunction-current was therefore always less when the
discharge passed from platinum to aluminium than when it
pursued the contrary direction. Consequently aluminium as
the negative pole of the discharge gives a weaker disjunction-
current than a platinum negative pole. As, with such slight
pressures of air as the preceding, no particles of metal are
conveyed in the gaseous state from one pole to the other, the
air between the poles is not mixed with foreign particles
during the discharge ; and hence its resistance rxl is not de
pendent on whether the discharge passes from aluminium to
platinum or whether it takes the contrary direction. The
cause of the difference between the amount of current in the

                 of Electricity through Rarefied Air.               21
two cases mast therefore depend on the modification of the
electromotive force e. The experiments made show that this
force is dependent on the chemical nature of the poles, and
also that in this respect the two poles play essentially different
parts. These facts are in accordance with the observations of
Hittorf, according to which an induced current traversing a
space of rarefied air meets with a notable resistance at the
negative pole, but less if that pole consists of aluminium than
if it is of platinum*. Now, as we have seen from what pre
cedes, the obstacle encountered by the current at the negative
pole does not consist of an electric resistance in the usual
acceptation of the term, but of an electromotive force tending
to send a current contrary in direction to the principal
current.
   It has been observed that the negative pole is strongly
heated in a space of rarefied air, and that, cceteris paribus, this
heating is augmented with the rarefaction of the air. I have,
in a previous memoir, proved that, when a current traverses
an electromotor in an opposite direction to the current which
the electromotor tends to produce, there results from it an
evolution of heat proportional to the electromotive force mul
tiplied by the intensity of the currentf. Now, since (accord
ing to what precedes) the electromotive force e in the spark is
notably augmented with the rarefaction, it follows that the
heat evolved at the negative pole must be increased when the
rarefaction is increased, which accords with the results of ex
periment. Here it should be remarked that in the voltaic arc
it is the positive pole that is most strongly heated, from which
we may be authorized to conclude that the electromotive force
shown by irrefutable proofs to exist in the voltaic arc has its
seat at the positive pole. This force is not thermoelectric,
and it is not produced, as M. Le RouxJ assumes, by one
of the poles being more highly heated than the other ; on the
contrary, it is the electromotive force that is the cause of the
beating. It has been proved that the force continues to exist,
even if the negative pole of the voltaic arc be heated, by a
Bunsen burner or in any other way, so as to become hotter
than the positive pole§.
    The researches of which I have just given a brief summary
confirm therefore, in all respects, the results to which I had
   * Pogg. Ann. cxxxvi. p. 2/3 (1869).
   t Kongl. Soentka Vetentkaps-Akademiens Handlingar, xiv. (1876);
Pogg. Ann. clix. ; Phil. Mag. 1*5] iii.
   % Comptet Xendtu, xcii. p. 710 (1881).
   § O/vertigt af Kongl. Vetvensk.-Akad. Fdrhandl. 1868, p. 12 ; Po>rg.
Ann. cxxxiv. ; Phil. Mag. [4] xxxvi.

¦11                   Mr. Robert Sabine on a
already been led by my examination of the observations of
other physicists on the passage of electricity through rarefied
gases. The maximum attained by the current-intensity at a
certain pressure of the air when a current traverses a space of
rarefied air is not due in any way, as it has been generally
assumed to be, to the resistance r,Z of the air having its mini
mum at that pressure, and afterwards increasing in amount
with the increase of rarefaction, but really to this—that the
 sum e + rtl then possesses its minimum value. With the con
tinuation of the rarefaction the resistance r-J. continues to dimi
nish, while e incessantly increases. Consequently the circum
stance mentioned above, namely that the induced current
possesses its maximum value at a certain pressure of air, gives
no support to the allegation that in highly rarefied air or in a
vacuum the resistance is sufficiently great to prevent the cur
rent passing. Here it is not the resistance of the gas, but the
electromotive force ex increasing with the rarefaction and con
nected with the electrodes, that presents an obstacle to the
passage of the current. Every thing is in favour of the
hypothesis that vacuum opposes a very feeble resistance to
the propagation of electricity. One can therefore, without the
employment of electrodes, by induction at a distance, or by
friction at the surface of a tube in which the air is sufficiently
rarefied to render the passage of a strong induction-current
between the electrodes impossible, easily excite in that tube
an electric motion sufficiently considerable to produce a sen
sible development of light. Now this would be impossible if
highly rarefied gas or a vacuum were an insulator.
           II. On a Wedge-and-Diaphragm Photometer.
                       By Robert Sabine*.
nnHE photometer described by me in a paper contributed to
 J- the last Meeting of the British Association at South
ampton! was based upon the weakening of the light to a
constant value by the interposition of sheets of some absorbing
material as far as could be, and finally obtaining a balance by
varying the distance of the photometer from the light to be
measured.
    I find it, however, frequently in practice more convenient
to keep the photometer at a constant distance from the source
of light, and to effect a balance by the gradual increase of the
thickness of the absorbing material only, using at the same
                   » Communicated by the Author,
                  t Electrical Review, vol. xi. p. 197.

               Wedge-and-Diaphragm Photometer.                 23
time different illuminations of the field of comparison for ex
tending the range of the instrument.
   The photometer 1 have constructed is shown in perspective
in the figure. It consists of a hrass tuhe mounted upon a
 stand, and having an eyepiece at one end and a paraffin-lamp
 at the other. The light of the paraffin-flame, entering at the
 end of the tube, falls upon a disk of opal glass placed near the
 middle of the tube, and keeps it constantly illuminated. In
 the middle, the tube is cut away and a collar fitted over it,
 which can be turned into any required position. This collar
 has at one side of it a slit containing a strip of opal glass,
 opposite which it has fixed to it a frame carrying a wedge of
 neutral-tinted shade glass, corrected by being combined with
 a reversed wedge of white glass, with which it is mounted in
 a slide with rack-and-pinion adjustment. The thicker end of
 the wedge absorbs about eight times as much light as the
 thinner end; that is to say, the light from eight candles, after
 passing through the thicker end, has the same illuminating
 effect as the light of one candle after passing through the
 thinner end.
    When the light to be measured, which is placed on the
 right-hand side of the photometer, is above or below the hori
 zontal, the wedge is turned, with the collar which carries it, so
 that the rays from the liglit, whatever may be its position, fall

24                    Mr. Robert Sabine on a
normally upon the face of the wedge. The light then passes
through and is weakened by the wedge, then through the strip
of opal glass, through the slit behind it into the interior.
Here it is incident upon a small mirror made of a strip of sil
vered microscope covering-glass, placed at an angle of 45° to
the axis of the tube, and is thence reflected to the eye of the
observer. The other end of the photometer, close to the bright
part of the paraffin-flame, is furnished with a cap containing
a circular diaphragm disk with three different apertures, either
of which can be inserted by simply turning the disk. The
little mirror is supported from the face of the constantly illu
minated opal pane in such a way that the support is hidden
from the observer by the mirror. The object of this arrange
ment is to ensure the observed surfaces whose illuminations
are to be compared being in juxtaposition without any appa
rent division-line or separation. It is well known* that when
the two surfaces to be compared are at a perceptible distance
apart, as in Rumford's photometer, no certainty of accurate
measurement is possible. The method of supporting a small
mirror in the centre of the field of comparison in the way de
scribed is very satisfactory. The glass of the mirror being
extremely thin, I find with a moderate illumination, and when
the light reflected by the mirror is of the same colour as that
of the field, the mirror sometimes entirely vanishes from sight
at the moment of balance.
   The distance at which the light to be observed is placed
from the photometer varies, of course, according to conveni
ence; but where it is optional, I prefer for all lights under
1000 candles a constant distance of 1 metre. Stronger lights
become inconvenient to the observer if placed so near; and in
that case I increase the distance accordingly, while of course
at the same time increasing the range of the photometer.
   The degree of illumination of the field of comparison is
adjustable by means of the diaphragms. The smallest dia
phragm illuminates the field so that the light of a single
candle can be conveniently balanced. The next diaphragm
exposes an area about eight times as large of the bright por
tion of the paraffin-flame, and the largest diaphragm about
sixty-four times ; that is to say, it has about eight times the
diameter of the smallest diaphragm. The resulting degrees of
illumination of the field can be thus calculated as well as
compared by actual observation. Let the illumination of the
field with these three diaphragms be respectively X1; Xj, X3.
Of the light which falls upon the outer face of the wedge a
  * Herschel, ' On Light,' p. 29; Helmholtz, Physioloyisehe Optik, p. 329.

                Wedge-and-Diaphrac/m Photometer.                25
fraction is, of course, reflected and lost; the remaining fraction
(«) enters the wedge. Let I be the illuminating-power of the
fight (say a standard candle) at a unit distance from it, in
the direction of the photometer, n the thickness of the wedge
at the point interposed, m its coefficient of transmission, and
d the distance of the light from the opal pane in the slit;
then the illuminating-power of the light which reaches the
opal pane will be
                              slmn
   This light falls upon the surface of the opal glass; a fraction
enters it, part of which is absorbed, the remainder passing to
the mirror, a further part being absorbed in the reflection to
 the eye of the observer. After the further diminution up to
 this point the fraction of the light which leaves the opal pane
and which actually reaches the eye is         the apparent illumi
nation of the mirror with the smallest diaphragm being
                               M~ IT'
    Similarly, if we now remove the candle and substitute some
 other light whose illuminating-power at unit distance is L
 and its actual distance D, the wedge will have to be read
justed to Wj; and if beyond the range of the wedge, the field
 will have to be adjusted by the diaphragm being increased
 (say to the illumination of the field Xj); then
                           *3        1 y.
 the relation of the illuminating-powers of the two lights will
 be
                        L/LVX*
                        I ~\d) Xx
 The value of — is ascertained experimentally by obtaining a
                  1
 balance with some constant light at different distances, as well
 as by measuring the openings of the diaphragms. The values
 d and m" for the standard candle are constants.
    Let      — «, then      T      ,
         <r      '          L _ Xa«
                             I ~ X,wni
    The wedge is provided with a scale divided into millimetres,
 by which the position is observed. A table is constructed

  26                   Mr. Robert Sabine on a
 giving the values of —^ which is determined for each position
 of the wedge by obtaining a balanco with a constant light at
 different distances, and for each of the diaphragms controlling
 the illumination of the comparison-field. In using the photo
 meter in practice, it is therefore only necessary to obtain a
 balance and to read off the indication of the scale. A refer
 ence to the tablo then gives the value which, multiplied into
 the square of the distance in metres, gives the candle-power of
 the measured light, or, if the distance be exactly 1 metre,
 gives the candle-power direct.
     It happens sometimes that the degree of illumination to be
 ascertained is independent of distance, as in the case of day
 light ; in this case the diaphragm and wedge are adjusted
 until a balanco is obtained. The value given by the table
 then represents the number of standard candles which at
 1 metro distance would illuminate an object to an equal
 degree.
    In measuring tho illuminating-powers of lights the colours
 of the lights have sometimes to be taken into account. The
 way I prefer to do this is to assume the ingredient of orange
 light contained in daylight as unit for comparing the relative
 ingredient of orange light contained in the artificial light
 which is measured. By orange light I mean that ingredient
 of light which passes freely through orange glass, and which
in fact embraces nearly all that portion of the visible spectrum
between tho lines B and F—that is to say, the red, orange,
yellow, and a small part of the green rays; whilst with a
moderate illumination, such as is used in photometric compa
risons, all the more refrangible and less luminous rays from
the line F upwards are quenched.
    For convenience of observing, tho photometer is furnished
with a small disk centred inside the eyepiece and containing
small panes of white and orange glass*, either of which can
be instantly interposed when required.
    A balance of illuminating effect is first estimated with the
white pane irrespective of colour; then the disk is turned so
as to interpose the orange pane, and the wedge readjusted
accordingly. If with the orange glass the reading is f foj^j ^
than with tho white (that is, if                  light has to be ad
mitted through tho wedge in order to maintain tho balance),
   » The disk contains also rod nnd green glasses, and may be furnished
with any other colours for which the observer hits a fancy.

               Wedge-and-Diaphragm Photometer.                27
it follows that the observed light contains proportionally
 { TesT \ oranSe than the paraffin-flame.
    Thus with the white-glass pane daylight in the laboratory
was balanced by a reading which the table indicated to be
equal to 55 candles at 1 metre. Observed through the orange
glass, however, the reading indicated the orange ingredients
in the daylight to be equal to 42 candles; that is to say, with
the paraffin-flame the light which passed through orange
           55
glass was     = T3 times the corresponding ingredient of the
same coloured light in daylight. The light of an incan
descent lamp through white glass was 28 candles, while
through the orange glass it was 26 candles ; therefore the
 incandescent lamp • had ^  26 = 0*94 time the corresponding
colour in the paraffin-flame; and as the paraffin-flame had 1*3
 as much as daylight, the incandescent lamp had 1*3 x 0-94= 1*2
 as much as daylight. In other words, if we had a similar quan
 tity of light obtained from daylight and from incandescent
 lamps, we should have in the latter about 20 per cent, more
 orange-tinted light.
    This colonr-comparison is of course only very rough; but it
 enables the excess of orange light in incandescent lamps, and
 its occasional deficiency in some arc lamps, to bo approxi
 mately compared.
    I have been led to employ in practice a selected portion of
 a paraffin-flame in preference to a standard candle, partly in
 consequence of the fact that the paraffin-flame can be enclosed
 in a light-tight lantern, but chiefly on account of its superior
 steadiness and constancy. As an instance, I have obtained a
 balance between selected portions of two paraffin-flames, which
 balance has been maintained for hours at a time without the
 slightest variation. On the other hand, when a standard
 candle was compared with tho bright part of a paraffin-flame,
 the photometer had to be readjusted continually, showing
 several-per-cent. variations in the burning of the candle. I
 therefore prefer to take a long series of readings once for all
 in determining tho value of the light admitted to the compa
 rison-field of the photometer by each diaphragm, to assume
 means of these as constants of reduction to the nominal stand
 ard, and to depend upon tho constancy and steadiness of the
 lights given through the diaphragms by the paraffin-flame
 afterwards. After working practically with this system for
  some time, my opinion is that a selected area of the bright

28                Hermann W. Vogel on Lockyer's
part of a paraffin-flame would be a much better unit of light
than the present standard candle, particularly as distances
would be measured from the diaphragm and not from the
flame, by which error due to the curvature of the flame would
disappear.
   Grosmont House, Hampton Wick.
            III. On Lockyer's Theory of Dissociation.
                     By Hekmann W. Vogel*.
IN February 1880 I took an opportunity to criticise, on the
      ground of my observations of the spectrum of chemically
pure hydrogen, Lockyer's view that calcium is dissociated at
a very high temperaturef. Lockyer takes for his starting-
point, inter alia, that in the spectra of the so-called white
stars, photographed by Huggins, only the first of the two
calcium-lines H' and H" is present, and accordingly advances
the theory that calcium at a high temperature separates into
 two substances X and Y, of which the first gives the line H',
the other the line H", and that, in the stars alluded to, only
 the first exists. I showed, on the contrary, that hj-drogen
 possesses, besides the four well-known readily seen lines,
 another, singular line with extremely intense photographic
 action, which nearly coincides with Fraunhofer's line H', and
 that we are so much the more entitled to hold that the sup
 posed calcium-line observed by Huggins is the fifth hydrogen-
 line, as the known lines of hydrogen are especially well
 developed in the spectra of those stars, and also the ultra
 violet star-lines observed by Huggins coincide with the ultra
 violet hydrogen-lines photographically fixed by mej.
    Lockyer, however, has not given up his notion about disso
 ciation, but has sought in spectroscopy for new evidence in
 favour of it.
     He remarks that, inter alia, in the spectrum of the sun-
 spots certain iron-lines appear widened, others not, and,
 further, that many of them, as X4918 and \4919'7, do not
 occur in the spectrum of the protuberances (which show other
 lines of iron), but certainly do in the spectrum of the spots,
 while in these, again, iron-lines which the former contain are,
 under some circumstances, wanting ; and he then continues,
    * Translated from the SUzungtberichte der Koniglich Preutsischen Aka-
 demie der Wisienschaften m Berlin, Nov. 2, 1882, pp. 905-907.
    t Proc. Roy. Soc. xxviii. p. 157.
    \ Monattb. d. Berliner Akad. d. Witeensch. 1880, p. 192.

                        Theory of Dissociation.                       29
" Consequently there is no iron in the sun, but only its
elements "*.
   Liveing and Dewarf have already controverted this rea
soning, by showing that certain spectral lines of a substance,
e.g. \5210 of magnesium and various calcium-lines, become
visible only when certain foreign substances are present—in
the case in question, hydrogen on the one hand, and iron on
the other,—that consequently the non-appearance of certain
iron-lines in the spectra of the spots or protuberances ought
not to be attributed to a dissociation, but to the absence of
foreign substances which produce the strong coming-out of
those lines.
   Lockyer, however, now relies upon another fact, which is
not accounted for by the experiments of Liveing and Dewar,
and which at any rate seems to give a firmer support to his
dissociation theory than those above mentioned. He says:—
" The last series of observations refer to the degree of motion
of the vapours in the sun-spots, which, as is known, is
indicated by changes in the refrangibility of the lines. If all
the lines of iron in a spot were produced by the vapour of
iron moving with a velocity of 40 kilometres in a second, this
velocity would be indicated by an alteration of the refrangi
bility of all the lines. But we find that this is not the case. We
not merely ascertain different motions indicated by different
lines, but have observed in the degree of motion the same
changes as in the breadth of the lines. This fact can be easily
explained if we assume dissociation; and / know no simpler
way of explaining it " J.
   Lockyer mentions, as an instance, that in the spots on the
24th December 1880, and the 1st and 6th January 1881, a
certain number of iron-lines appeared curved, while others
remained straight.
   Now I believe I can explain these facts from numerous
observations in absorption-spectrum analysis, without needing
to have recourse to the hypothesis of dissociation.
   It is known that the position of the absorption-bands of a
substance essentially depends on the dispersion of the medium
in which it is dissolved or incorporated. It is often noticed
that in strongly dispersing media the absorption-bands of a
substance are displaced towards the red§. Now the remark-
  * Comptes Rendut, xcii. p. 866.
  t Proc. Roy. Soc. xxx. p. 93 ; Wiedemann's Beibliitter, iv. p. 366.
  \ I have here followed the rendering of Lockyer's memoir given in the
Katurforseher for June 4, 1881, in order to exclude any appearance of
individual colouring of the translation.
  § Kundt, Pogg. Ami. Jubelband, p. 620.

30            On Lockyer's Theory of Dissociat ion.
able case not unfrequently occurs, that with the increase of
the dispersion of the solvent certain absorption-bands are dis
placed, and others not. Hagenbach observed, for instance,
that bands L, III., and IV. of chlorophyll in an alcoholic
solution are situated more towards the red than those of chlo
rophyll in an etheric solution, while band II. shows the same
position in both solutions ; and I have observed similar in
stances in connexion with protosalts of uranium * and combi
nations of cobaltf.
   Now Kundt has already (loc. cit.) remarked that the same
rules hold for the absorption-spectra of gases as for those of
liquids. It is true that he adds, " Only it is questionable
whether, when hyponitrous acid gas, for example, is mixed
with various other transparent gases, the displacements of the
absorption-bands are so considerable as to be perceptible;"
this doubt, however, does not concern the rule above-men
tioned, but only the possibility of testing it by experiment^.
Hence it is an admissible assumption that, in like manner as
in liquids, so also in gases, media mixed with them act upon
the position of the absorption-bands, and that, in these as in
those, displacements of single bands may occur while the posi
tion of others remains unchanged.
   If, therefore, in the sun-spots some lines undergo displace
ment and others in the same place do not, motion is not the
cause, but the mixture of a foreign strongly dispersing gas,
which acts upon the lines displaced and not upon the others.
From this it further follows that curving of absorption-lines
of the sun-spots must not by any means always be interpreted
as motion of the absorbing gases in the direction of the line of
observation, but only when all the lines of a substance partake
of the curvature.
   That also bright lines of luminous gases under similar cir
cumstances may suffer displacement " through mixture of
another, not luminous, or a vapour giving a continuous spec
trum," Kundt has already pointed out {loc. cit. p. 620).
  Berlin, October 1882.
  • Vogel, Pract. Spectralanalyic, Niirdlingen bei Beck, p. 248.
  t Monatsb. der Akad. dcr Wissensch. Berlin, May 20, 1878.
   { Kundt previously doubted also the possibility of demonstrating an
anomalous dispersion in gitses and incondoscent vapours; but he has
recently succeeded in demonstrating it in the vapour of sodium (Wiede
mann's Aimalen, z. p. 321).

                              [   31     1
        IV. The Electrical Resistance of Selenium Cells.
             By Shelford Bidwell, M.A., LL.B*
IN June 1881 a paper was read before the Physical Society
      by Dr. Moser, on " the Microphonic Action of Selenium
Cells." In this paper a very ingenious attempt was made to
show that the effect of light in reducing the electrical resist
ance of selenium might bo accounted for on perfectly well
understood principles, without assuming the existence in the
case of this substance of some law or property sui generis and
hitherto unobserved.
   Dr. Moser's theory is shortly as follows :—There is always
imperfect contact between the metallic electrodes and the
selenium which together constitute a so-called " selenium
cell." Selenium reflects the invisible portions of the spec
trum, absorbing principally the visible or illuminating rays :
the vibrations thus taken up assume the form of heat; and the
temperature of the selenium cell is thereby raisedf. In con
sequence of this rise of temperature the selenium expands ; it
is accordingly pressed into closer contact with the electrodes,
and, as in the case of the microphone, the resistance of the
system is proportionately diminished. When the cell is
screened from the light, the absorbed heat is quickly radiated
away ; the selenium contracts to its former volume, and the
original degree of resistance is restored. Thus, according to
Dr. Moser's paper, the whole mystery is easily and completely
explained.
    This theory can evidently be submitted to a very simple
and conclusive test. If it is true that the observed effects are
due merely to a rise of temperature, then it is clearly imma
terial whether such rise of temperaturo is brought about by
the heating action of light or by the direct application of heat
in the ordinary way. Instead of exposing a selenium cell to
the light, let it bo enclosed in a dark box and warmed over a
gas-burner ; then, if the theory be correct, the resistance of
tho cell should at once begin to fall. This, however, is not
found to be the case. I have in my possession a number of
selenium cells the resistance of which is immediately dimi
nished by tho smallest accession of light ; but in the case of
all of them (except one, of which I shall say more presently)
 the immediate effect of the direct application of heat is not a
a fall, but a rise in the resistance. When the temperature of
the cell reaches a point which is in general a few degrees
   * Communicated by tho Physical Society, having been rend at the
Meeting on November 26, 1882.
   t " Selenium" Dr. Moser says, " is heated ly liyht."

32              Mr. S. Bid well on the Electrical
higher than the average temperature of the air a maximum
resistance is attained ; and if the heating is continued, the
resistance begins to decrease.
   I gave a short account of this phenomenon in the 1 Philoso
phical Magazine ' of April 1881. Since this was published, I
have made further and very careful experiments, the results
of which are shown in the curves, figs. 1, 2, and 3.
 Ohma.
       0        20°          40°             60°  80°    100°
                          Degrees Centigrade.
   A selenium cell was placed in an air-bath in absolute dark-

                     Resistance of Selenium Cells.                  33
ness, the bulb of a thermometer being very near its surface.
The temperature of the air was 17° C, and the resistance of
the cell at the beginning of the 0hmi
experiment was 140,000 ohms. ™>,<m
The bath was then very slowly
heated, and the resistance mea
sured at every degree. At first
the rise was very rapid (see fig. 1 ) ; 200,000
then more gradual until the tem
perature reached 23°, when the
maximum resistance of 150,000
ohms was attained. With conti- iso.ooo
nued heating the resistance fell,
slowly at first, then more rapidly,
then again slowly (as shown by
the curve), the final measurement l68 000
at 100° being only 1 6,000 ohms*.
   The same cell was afterwards
submitted to the combined action
of heat and light. A glass beaker
was fitted with a wooden cover,
to which the selenium cell was
attached so as to hang perpen
dicularly inside the beaker ; the
beaker was placed in a sand-bath
which was heated by a Bunsen
burner, and the cell was illuminated by a powerful paraffin-
lamp at a distance of 30 centimetres.
   At 18° its resistance was only 19,000 ohms (see fig. 2). As
in the former case, the first application of heat was accom
panied by a rise, though smaller and more gradual than before,
the maximum of 24,000 ohms occurring at about 29°. The
fall which followed was also very gradual, the resistance at
100° being 10,000 ohms, or only 14,000 less than the maxi
mum, as against a difference of 140,000 in the former expe
riment.
   In these experiments it might possibly be suspected that
the initial small rise of resistance is due to some accidental
disturbing cause, and does not point to any essential charac
teristic of selenium, or rather perhaps of selenium cells. The
following experiment seems, however, to settle the point con
clusively. One of my selenium cells (the exceptional one
  * When the cell was removed from the air-bath, its resistance in the
dark in air at 18? was found to have increased to 90,000 ohms.
   1'hil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 91. Jan. 1883.               D

34         On the Electrical Resistance of Selenium Cells.
above referred to) did not at ordinary temperatures exhibit
this peculiarity. When heated, its resistance at once went
down without any preliminary rise. This cell was placed in
air at a temperature of 0°, and after remaining for half an
hour its resistance was found to be 147,000 ohms. The tem
perature was then slowly raised ; and, as I expected, the resist
ance at first went up, attaining a maximum of 219,000 ohms
at 13°, after which it went down to 134,000 ohms at 36°, when
the experiment was stopped. The curve fig. 2, which is on
the same scale as the others, shows the results in a very stri
king manner, altogether excluding the possibility of accidental
disturbance. This particular cell differed from others only in
the fact that it acquired its maximum resistance at a tempe
rature slightly below instead of slightly above the average
temperature of the air.
    The supposition that light produces its effect by heating is
further negatived by the fact, that a comparatively high
degree of temperature is required to bring down the resistance
of the cell to the point to which it is instantly reduced by ex
 posure to a strong light. When a selenium cell is for a
moment exposed to sunlight, it does not become perceptibly
 warm to the touch ; but the amount of dark heat necessary to
 effect- the same reduction in its resistance as is caused by
 a moment's sunshine would certainly render it too hot to
 handle.
    Again, those who have experimented with the photophone
 know well that the best results are obtained only when pre
 cautions are taken to exclude those rays which are especially
 instrumental in producing heat, as by filtering the beam of
 light through a solution of alum. Dark radiation does indeed
 per se diminish the resistance of selenium ; but the diminu
 tion due to dark radiation is to some extent masked by the
  rise of temperature which accompanies it, and which gene
  rally tends to produce the opposite effect.
     To me it seems clear that the electrical effects of radiation
  are, in this case at least, no more due to the intermediate
  action of temperature than are the chemical effects which
  radiation sometimes produces, as in the various photographic
  processes. All such effects are no doubt ultimately of a mecha
  nical nature; but while increased temperature may result from
  vibrations the periodicity of which vary between very wide
  limits, the other effects arise only when there is some more
  or less definite relation between the period of the aether-waves
  and the molecular constitution of the substance upon which
  they act.

        On Central Forces and the Conservation of Energy.                35
    In its peculiar sensitiveness to the visible part of the spec-
tram selenium seems, so far as our present knowledge goes,
to stand almost, if not quite, alone*.
   Riverstone Lodge, Southfields,
       Wandsworth, S.W.
V. On Central Forces and tlie Conservation of Energy. By
    Walter R Browne, M.A., M. Inst. C.E, late Fellow of
    Trinity College, Cambridge^.
IT is well known that the ordinary proof of the principle
      known as the Conservation of Energy assumes the forces
acting to be Central ForcesJ ; but the intimate connexion ex
isting between these two facts—the existence of Central
 Forces and the Conservation of Energy—has not, so far as I
am aware, been thoroughly examined! I shall here attempt
 to show that the two necessarily imply each other; 60 that not
only is the Conservation of Energy true if the system is a
system of central forces, but the Conservation of Energy is
not true if the system is any thing but a system of central
forces.
    For the sake of simplicity I will confine myself to the case
of two particles, and suppose them so far apart, in proportion
to their dimensions, that each may be treated as if concentrated
at its centre of gravity. Let the particles be A and B, and
consider the motion of B with reference to A as fixed. Sup
pose B to be moving away from A, and to be acted upon by a
moving force due to the action of A. Let. it move from a dis
tance a to a distance a + b, and let F be the resolved part of
the moving force in the line AB. Then the energy exerted
by B during this motion in overcoming the attraction of A is
represented by
                              /»«+»
                              \     Fdx.
Let »j be B's initial velocity, m its mass. Then at the end of
the motion Vi will be reduced to v, where v is given by the
   • So far as regards Dr. Moser's application of his theory to the carbon
photophone of Messrs Bell and Tainter, I entirely agree with him ; my
own experiments showing conclusively that the effects are due to heat
only. But the best carbon cells are vastly inferior in their action to those
of selenium.
   t Communicated by the Physical Society, having been read at the
Meeting on November 11, 1882.
   J This is recognized explicitly by Clausius, 'Mechanical Theory of
Heat/ p. 16.
                                   D2

36             Mr. W. R. Browne on Central Forces
equation
Let us suppose b to be such that v=0, so that
                          m
                               ?=J     Fdx                      (1)
                          2*
Then, when B arrives at distance a + b, its velocity, and there
fore its kinetic energy or vis viva, will be reduced to zero.
There is therefore a loss of energy, so far as B is concerned.
But now let us suppose that B is left free to return towards A,
and that it passes back again over the space b. Then, if F
 continues to act, A will exert during the motion an amount of
 energy on B, or will do an amount of work upon B, which
will be represented by
                                   Fdx;
                                s+l
and when B has reached the distance a, it will have gained a
velocity V, given by the equation
                                        Fda                     (2)
                           *        Jo+4
 Now if V= — vu then Yi = v* : hence we shall have the two
 particles in the same position as at first, and the kinetic energy
 of B will be the same as at first. Therefore there will
 have been no loss or gain of energy on the whole ; and the
 energy is then said to have been conserved during the motion.
 At the time when B's velocity is zero, tbe energy of the system
 is represented by the potential energy of A—that is, the
 power A has of subsequently doing the work I F dx upon B.
                                                 Ja + b
 At other times during the motion, the energy of the system is
 partly potential energy of A, partly kinetic energy of B.
    We thus see that it is essential to the Conservation of
 Energy that V2 should = vt2. But by equations (1) and (2)
 this is equivalent to the equation
                       /*o + 4        /"a
                      \        Fdx=\ Fdx;                       (3)
 these two expressions representing the two amounts of energy
 exerted, as described above.
    It is therefore essential for the conservation of energy that

                   and the Conservation of Energy.                    37
 F should be a function of a form such that equation (3) may
hold. We have now to inquire what this form must be, or,
 in other words, within what limits F ra&y be allowed to vary
 so that the equation (3) may still hold.
    Now we have not supposed the constitution of A and B, or
 their relations to each other, to vary in any way except in
 regard to space and in regard to time ; and we have every
 reason to believe that these are the only variations which take
place in the ultimate molecules of matter. Hence we need
only consider variations with regard to space and time.
    Now if F be any function of time, then, since some time
must have elapsed between the exertion of the two amounts of
energy represented by the two sides of equation (3), it follows
that for every value of F in the right-hand expression the
time will be greater than for the corresponding value of F in
the left-hand expression ; and therefore the sums of the two
sets of values, or the two integrals, cannot be equal. Hence
 F cannot be a function of time.
    We have therefore only to consider variations in space.
Now, if we confine our attention to one plane, we know that
any variation of B's place in that plane may be represented
by a change in the values of x and 0; where x is B's distance
from A, and 0 the angle which the axis of x makes with some
fixed line in the plane*. Then it is easy to show that F must
not vary with 0. For if it does, let us suppose that when B
has come to rest, and before it is allowed to return, it is made
to rotate about A through an angle dd, and again brought to
rest. Then the circumstances of A and B are unchanged ;
for the kinetic energy given to B during the rotation has been
taken out again in stopping it. But if B is now allowed to
return towards A, then, for every value of F in the right-hand
expression, the value of 0 will bo greater or less by d0, the
amount of the change, than for the corresponding value in the
left-hand expression; and therefore, as before, trie two inte
grals cannot be equal. Similarly, if we take coordinates x, 0, <f>,
in three dimensions, it will follow that F cannot be a function
of <£.
    Hence we are left with the conclusion that F can only be a
function of r ; in other words, the force with which A acts
upon B always tends towards A, and varies, if it varies at all,
according to the distance from A only. But this is the defi
nition of a central force.
    [The proof just given, that F cannot vary with 0, appears
   » We here make no assumption except that the force varies as B's
position in the plane varies ; which is essential to every theory on the
subject.

38               Mr. W. R. Browne on Central Forces
quite general. But it is easy to show that any particular law
of force which can be imagined, other than that of a central
force, is inconsistent with the conservation of energy. Thus,
suppose the force to vary according to B's distance from some
other point in the plane than A; then that distance can always
be expressed in terms of the coordinates of its extremities, and
therefore in an expression involving 6, which is inadmissible.
Again, suppose the force to vary according to the perpendi
cular distance of B from some line in the plane. Then, if B
move parallel to that line the force is constant, while if it be
perpendicular it varies from zero; and it is easy to see that if
B moves perpendicular to that line, and if, before it is allowed
to return, it is rotated till the line AB is parallel to that line,
then the two integrals will not be equal. Again, suppose the
force to act upon a certain line only, so that when B is off
that line no force acts upon it ; then, if we suppose the return
journey made parallel to that iine, the energy on that journey
is zero.]
    We have throughout taken F as the force between A and B,
resolved along the line joining them. We have still to con
sider the possibility of there being another component always
at right angles to this line. This component, if it exists, will
Eroduce a rotation of B round A, which will increase B's
   inetic energy ; and as there will be nothing to balance it, this
increase will go on for ever; so that the conservation of energy
would not be true in this case.
    I have thus proved, I believe, the proposition with which I
started—namely, that the doctrine of central forces and that
of the conservation of energy are mutually interdependent, so
that one is not true without the other. In general, as remarked
at the beginning, the existence of central forces is assumed,
and the conservation of energy deduced from it. But the
process may be reversed. The conservation of energy may
 be considered to rest, as a general law of nature, on the broad
basis of observed facts, such as the conversion of heat, elec
 tricity, chemical actions, &c. into mechanical work, and the
 reconversion of mechanical work into these other forms of
 energy. There can be no doubt that the evidence of this
 character is of very great weight ; and I am myself disposed
 to accept it as conclusive. But it must be pointed out that,
 unless the above investigation be false, it involves our accept
 ing a mechanical definition of matter substantially to the fol
 lowing effect * :—" Matter consists of a collection of centres
     * This definition has been already given in a pamphlet entitled ' The
  Foundations of Mechanics' (Charles Griffin and Co., 1882).

                 and the Conservation of Energy.               39
of force, acting upon each other according to laws which do
not vary with time but do vary with distance."
   This conception of matter is of course an old one, being
that usually known by the name of Boscovitch. It has not,
however, been generally accepted by writers on Mechanics ;
and in recent times certain special objections have been raised
against it, which it seems well briefly to consider.
   1. An objection, due to Professor Maxwell*, is that the con
ception does not comprise the idea of inertia, which is a fun
damental fact with regard to matter. But when we say that
a body has inertia, we simply mean that a finite force, acting
upon it for a finite time, generates only a finite velocity.
Hence it follows that any body we can see or feel, or know and
investigate in any way, must have inertia; for suppose a body
to possess no inertia, then the first time any force was applied
to it, it would at once be removed to an indefinite distance,
and would therefore be beyond the reach of investigation. To
say that matter has inertia is therefore merely to assert the
general principle that any thing our senses can deal with must
be finite; and it is therefore a condition anterior to any theory
of matter, not a part of such theory.
   2. An objection given by Lam6 f is that bodies, and espe
cially homogeneous crystals, are not, within the limits of
observation, denser at the centre than they are at the surface,
which on the theory of central forces they apparently should
be. But on this it may be observed as follows.
    It may be admitted that collections of centres of force, at
rest under their mutual actions, would be more dense towards
the centre. We know no such bodies in nature. The nearest
 approach to it is the case of bodies so large that their mole
 cular motions, and also their want of homogeneity, may be
 neglected in comparison of their mass. But the condition of
 large bodies does appear to agree with the theory ; e. g. even
 the mean specific gravity of the earth (5-6) is greater than that
 of all bodies, except a few metals, at the surface. The want of
 homogeneity can have little influence at the temperature and
 pressure which prevail in the interior.
    Again, it is known that, in all bodies, the actual centres of
 force must be bound up together in molecules so closely as to
 form coherent wholes, which no known force can change or
 break up. The relations in a crystal therefore are not those
 among separate centres of force, but among separate molecules.
    Again, these molecules, being hot, are in rapid and conti
 nuous motion.
                   • 'Theory of Heat,' p. 86.
                   t ElaiticiU de$ Corps tolidet, p. 333.

 40            Mr. W. R. Browne on Central Forces
    Lastly, the laws of the forces of cohesion, whether in the
 interior of a molecule or between one molecule and another,
 are unknown.
    In such circumstances, can it be held impossible that there
 should be laws of distribution of force such that in small
 bodies like crystals the difference in density at the centre and
 surface should be insensible ? Lame does not attempt to give
 any rigid proof that the uniform density of crystals (even if
 accurately true) is really incompatible with the theory of
 central forces. It is therefore merely a presumption, and a
 presumption which seems seriously weakened by the fore
 going considerations ; it cannot therefore be allowed to have
 any weight as against actual evidence.
    3. An objection, due to Prof. Tait, is that we have no right
 to assume that force has any objective existence at all, or is
 any thing more than the rate of change of motion—and that
 in fact it cannot have an objective existence, because it can be
 affected with a positive or negative sign. But, with regard
 to the first part of this objection, a force is defined in Mecha
 nics simply as a cause of motion ; and therefore the remark is
 a mere denial of the general principle of causation. This is
 not the place to discuss the truth of that principle ; but it
 may be observed that it is perhaps almost the only principle
 which may claim to have been accepted by all thinkers of all
 schools and in all ages. With regard to the second part of
 the objection, the circumstance that a force, or rather the
 symbol of a force, may be affected, for purposes of calculation,
 with a + or — sign is simply due to the fact that a force
 has a definite sense, or direction ; and that direction is one of
 the properties of things to which the conception of positive and
 negative may properly be applied. For the same reason lines
may be represented as + or — , as in algebraical geome
 try ; but they are not therefore regarded as non-existent.
Nor is direction the only fact to which the conception applies;
e. g. in treatises on algebra it is often pointed out that capital
may be taken as positive and debt as negative. Will it there
fore be argued that money has no real existence ?
   4. In some quarters an objection appears to be felt to the
theory of central forces, on the ground that it involves the
conception of action at a distance, which is supposed to be
" unthinkable." I am not aware that the term " unthinkable,"
which is a new one, has ever been defined. Until it has been,
it is impossible to say whether action at a distance is un
thinkable, or whether the fact of a conception being unthink
able is sufficient reason, or any reason, for holding it to be
untrue.

                  and the Conservation of Energy.               41
    It seems desirable, before leaving the subject, to say a few
 words upon a theory which has been set up as a rival to that
 of central forces, and in some quarters has met with consider
 able favour. This theory supposes that bodies can act on each
 other only when in absolute contact; and that all the pheno
 mena of the universe may be accounted for by the knockings
 together of a number of ultimate atoms, considered as very
 small impenetrable bodies, moving with high velocities in
 space.
    It might be urged that before such a theory can be seriously
discussed, it must be shown capable of explaining (as the
theory of central forces certainly does explain) the facts and
 principles of Mechanics. I am not aware that this has been
 done. I may, however, point out that the theory is not incon
 sistent with the conservation of energy ; that is to say, it can
 be reconciled with it by certain special assumptions. For the
 proof of that principle, as given above, does not necessarily
 imply that the forces acting are continuous. If the attraction
 of A be supposed to act on B by equal impulses at certain
 intervals of space, or distances from A, which distances remain
always the same, then the proof will still hold ; for B will bo
 acted upon by exactly the same number of impulses, and at
exactly the same places, on its return journey as on its outward
journey, and the effects will therefore be the same. Now the
 " collision " theory above mentioned may be taken to repre
 sent the extremest possible case of this discontinuous action—
there being then but one impulse, and that acting when A and
 B are in absolute contact.
    Let us, however, consider the assumptions involved, if the
 conservation of energy is to hold in this extreme case. Imagine
 two " ultimate atoms," of equal mass, to meet each other with
 equal velocities in the same straight line. This is clearly a
possible case under the theory; and the conservation of energy
must therefore be consistent with it. Then the instant before
the atoms meet they have no action upon each other, and the
instant after, by symmetry, they must either be at rest or
must have passed through one another. As the latter is con
trary to the hypothesis, they must be at rest. Hence a finite
mass moving with a finite velocity has been brought to rest
in a space infinitely small ; and therefore the impulse acting
upon it must have been strictly infinite in amount. This col
lision therefore (and it is easily seen that the same will be true
of all collisions) occasions the instantaneous development of a
strictly infinite force. The atoms being brought to rest, there
is no reason to be given why any thing further should happen.
But we must assume it as an axiom that a further mutual im

42    Mr. A. P. Laurie on the Relation between the Heats of
pulse is then given, sufficient (if the bodies are supposed per
fectly elastic) to cause each to return on its path with a velocity
exactly equal to that with which it arrived. This further impulse
must also be instantaneous and infinite ; for, force being the
cause of motion, if the impulse were finite it would at once
cause the bodies to separate through an indefinitely small
space, and then, ex hyp., no further action could take place, and
the bodies would recede from each other with indefinitely small
velocities. If, then, we make these three assumptions—(1) that
there is an infinite impulse developed on the collision, which
brings the atoms to rest, (2) that there is a further infinite
impulse, which separates them, (3) that this further impulse,
while infinite, is such as exactly to reverse the previous motion
of each particle—then the conservation of energy may still be
supposed to hold through the collision.
   It remains to ask whether there are any advantages in the
collision theory such as would warrant us in discarding the
I)rinciple of continuity, and in making the somewhat vio-
 ent assumptions described above. The advantages specially
claimed by its advocates appear to be that it does away with
the conception of action at a distance, and also with that of
potential energy. The latter supposition, however, is not cor
rect. At the instant when the two atoms are at rest their
actual energy is zero, and the energy existing is entirely
potential, being due to their capacity of generating a return
velocity equal to that of arrival. Of the former supposition I
have already spoken; and I may add that I have elsewhere*
shown it to be impossible to explain certain elementary facts
of physics without the hypothesis of action at a distance.
     VI. Relations between the Heats of Combination of the
               Elements and their Atomic Weights.
          To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine.
      Gentlemen,
THE periodic variation of the properties of the elements
       with their atomic weights is now accepted as proved by
chemists; but nosimilar connexion seemsyet to have been estab
lished between the atomic weights and heats of combination of
the elements. Now, if the atomic weights of the'elements are
taken as abscissae, and their atomic heats of combination with
chlorine as ordinates of a curve, the heats of combination will
be seen to be a periodic function of the atomic weights.
   • "On Action at a Distance," Phys. Soc. 1881 ; Phil. Mag. Dec. 1880.

                                                              «
     Combination of the Elements and their Atomic Weights.     43
    The curve thus produced may be divided into three principal
series, with subordinate series between these. The curve is
not complete, many of the elements theoretically required to
form the fourth and fifth series not having yet been discovered.
    The first four principal maxima correspond to every other
element in Mendelejeff's first column—namely, lithium, potas
sium, rubidium, caesium. Of the other elements in Mendele-
jeff's first column, sodium occupies the first subordinate
maximum, and copper and silver subordinate minima.
     I enclose a copy of the curves for chlorine, bromine, and
iodine. The numbers for the heats of combination are taken
from the table in Naumann's Thermochemie (page 451), con
taining values for about thirty elements. Wherever possible,
 a compound containing two atoms of chlorine was chosen, and
 all other compounds were expressed in terms of two atoms of
 chlorine. Thus the number for KC1 was multiplied by two,
 the number for Al2 Clg was divided by three, &c. The num
 bers on the diagram are therefore the atomic heats of combi
 nation of the elements with equal weights of chlorine. The
 numbers for the heats of combination in presence of water
 have been preferred.
     The heats of combination of rubidium, caesium, gallium, and
 indium with chlorine have not yet been determined; the curve
 is therefore represented by broken lines above strontium,
 barium, zinc, and cadmium.
     Small negative values are given in Naumann's table for
 some of the minima placed along the zero-line of the curve.
  The heat of combination of chlorine with chlorine is, of course,
  zero in terms of the other numbers.
     The curve is drawn through among the observations, and
 not from point to point. This shows the curve better; and is
 quite justifiable when the inaccuracy of the heat-values (due
  to physical changes) is considered. The curves for bromine
  ana iodine compounds agree very closely with the chlorine
  curve. An oxygen curve is very irregular, and does not seem
  to follow any law. Any one who will examine the tables for
  the heats of combination with oxygen will see how difficult
  it is to get numbers that have been taken under the same
  physical conditions.
      In the case of chlorine compounds, by taking the numbers
  expressing the heats of combination in presence of water we
  get most of the elements combining under similar conditions.
  The curve plotted from these values is more regular and sym
  metrical than the curve plotted from the values usually called
  the heats of combination with chlorine.
      I can hardly believe the relations shown in these curves to

44 Mr. A. P. Laurie on the Relations between the Heats of
                              Chlorine.
                              Atomic weight*.
                              Bromine.
                                                  © © r»as
    © © n© *© «o© <o© »-»o ©j. Oi© ©© —© «© «© o"»^«© © © ©©>©© c--
                           Atomic weights.

   Combination of the Elements and their Atomic Weights.            45
be unknown; but I have not been able to find any account of
such a relation, and therefore venture to send it for publica
tion, as it seems to be of some interest.
   I append a list of the elements plotted on the curves.
             List of Elements in the Chlorine Curve.
                           Name.                 Atomic weight
              (i) (br) Hydrogen ....                    1
              (i) (br) Lithium                          7
              — (br) Boron                            11
              (i) (br) Oxygen                         16
              (i) (br) Sodium                         23
              (i) (br) Magnesium .... 24
              (i) (br) Aluminium .... 27
              h) ?br) Silicon                         28
              (i) (br) Phosphorus . . . . 31
              (i) (br) Chlorine                       35*5
              (i) (br) Potassium .... 39
              (i) (br) Calcium                        40
              (i) (br) Manganese .... 55
              (i) (br) Iron                           56
               (i) (br) Nickel ..... 59
              (i) (br) Copper                          63
              (i)(br) Zinc                             65
              (i) (br) Arsenic                         75
              (br) (i) Bromine                         80
              (br) (i) Strontium .... 87
                — (i) Palladium .... 106
              (br) (i) Silver                        108
              (br) (i) Cadmium .... 112
                        Tin                          118
              (br) (i) Iodine                        127
              (br) (i) Barium                        137
              (br) (i) Gold                          196
              (br) (i) Mercury                       200
               (br) (i) Thallium                     204
               (br) (i) Lead                         207
   Those marked (i) appear in the Iodine curve, those marked (br) in
                         the Bromine curve.
                               I am, Gentlemen,
                                        Your obedient servant,
   Cambridge (Caius College Laboratory),              A. P. LAUIUE.
              November 1882.

                             [  46   ]
      VII. Amount of Carbon Dioxide in the Atmosphere.
   To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
       Gentlemen,
IN the ' Philosophical Magazine' for November 1882, p. 388,
       Mr. Ernest H. Cook, in his paper on " Carbon Dioxide
as a Constituent of the Atmosphere, ' has fallen into numerical
errors in estimating the total amount of COs existing in the
atmosphere. Inasmuch as these erroneous results do not
materially concern his very interesting discussion of the
" Sources of Carbon Dioxide," they would not have called for
any notice, but for the fact that his figures are put forward as
corrections of the estimates made by his predecessors. I have
not been able to discover the precise source of his errors in
numbers ; but they seem to have originated in the " cubic
mile " estimates. It may be worth while to indicate the me
thod of obtaining the correct numbers.
   Let a = equatorial radius of the oblate spheroid;
        b = polar          „       „        „         ;
         h = height of homogeneous atmosphere enveloping it.
Then
   volume of spheroid + volume of homogeneous atmosphere
                     =$7rx(a + A)sx(6 + /t);
   volume of spheroid or earth,
                     =§ irxa2 + b.
   Taking Bessel's values of a and b for the terrestrial oblate
spheroid, and assuming A=7990 metres (Phil. Mag. 4th series,
vol. xxvii. p. 16, Jan. 1864), we have
                        o = 6377398 metres,
                        6 = 6356080 „
                        h =    7990
Hence it follows:—                                 Cubic metres,
vol. of earth + vol. of homog. atmos. = 1,086,921,403,060 x 10*
    „      „ itself                    =1,082,841,791,538x10'
/. vol. of homogeneous atmosphere =          4,079,611,522 x 10'
If we assume the C02 in the air = 4 vols, in 10,000 we have
   volume of COs= 1,631,845 x 10' cubic metres or kilolitres.
Now, as a cubic metre of COs (density =1*5291, air = 1) at
Paris, under standard conditions, weighs 1-977467 kilo
gramme,
    .•. weight of C03 in atmos. = 3,226,917 x 10° kilogrs.

      Attractions and Repulsions of small Floating Bodies.      47
   The foregoing corrected numbers do not differ materially
from the rough estimates of Dumas and Boussingault in rela
tion to the volume of the homogeneous atmosphere, and of
Boscoe and Schorlemmer in relation to the total weight of COj
in the air, as cited by Mr. Cook.
    Similarly, if we assume the COs in the air =3 vols, in 10,000,
.*. volume of COs=l,223,884 x 109 cubic metres or kilolitres,
     weight of C02 =2,420,188 x 10" kilogrammes.
    We may estimate the weight of C02 in the atmosphere in a
much simpler (and scarcely less exact) manner by computing
its pressure on a unit surface. Thus, under standard condi
tions, the pressure of the atmosphere on a square metre at the
surface of the earth =s 10,332*9068 kilogrammes. Assuming
the amount of C04 in the air = 4 vols, in 10,000, its weigld or
pressure would be 6'1164 parts in 10,000. Hence the pres
sure of C02 on one square metre at the earth's surface is equal
 to 6*320019 kilogrammes.
    Now the surface of the terrestrial oblate spheroid, of the
dimensions above given, = 509,950,861 x 108 square metres.
 Hence the pressure of COs on the entire surface of the sphe
roid = 3,222,900 x 108 kilogrammes.
    And, similarly, assuming the amount of COa = 3 vols, in
 10,000, its weight or pressure would be 4*5873 parts in 10,000.
 Hence the pressure of COa on the entire surface of the spheroid
would be = 2,417,175 X 108 kilogrammes.
                                  I am, yours sincerely,
   Berkeley, California,                           JOHN LeConte.
    November 30, 1882.
 VIII. Apparent Attractions and Repulsions of Small Floating
                   Bodies. By John LeConte *.
                               [Plate I.]
 ALTHOUGH the apparent attractions and repulsions of
         small floating bodies is one of the most familiar pheno
 mena, and one of the earliest to which the physical theory
 of capillarity was applied, yet it remains a perplexing puzzle
 to a large number of intelligent students. This arises from
 the fact that the popular explanations given in many stan
 dard works on elementary physics do not bear a critical exa
 mination, and are consequently any thing but satisfactory to
 the student who endeavours to secure a clear physical concep
 tion of the cause of these motions.
         * From Silliman's American Journal for December 1882.

 48           Mr. J. LeConte on the Apparent Attractions
     This class of phenomena seems to have been first explained
 by the celebrated Mariotte about 1655; but more particularly
 by the great geometer Monge *, who distinctly and correctly
 referred them to the action of the surface-film of the liquid,
 as modified by the presence of the partially immersed solid
 bodies. In more modern times the improved theory of capil
 lary action of Young f and Laplace %, as modified by the re
 fined physico-mathematical investigations of Gauss § and of
 Poissonf, refers all capillary phenomena not only to the reci
 procal attractions between the liquid and the solid, but also to
 the existence of a tense superficial film at the free surface of
 every liquid, which gives origin to a tensile elastic reaction
 resulting in the development of a force tending to elevate or
 depress the liquid according as its terminal surface adjacent
 to the solid is concave or convex. The actual existence of
 such an elastic contractile film at the bounding surfaces of
 liquids is abundantly verified by numerous conclusive experi
 ments with films of soapy water, as well as by the whole class
 of striking phenomena rendered prominent by the admirable
 researches of Plateau % and the equally satisfactory investiga
 tions of Dupre** and of Quinckett-
     Even according to the more exact mathematical theories of
 capillarity of Laplace and of Poisson, the explanation of this
 class of phenomena is not altogether free from ambiguity.
 Thus, in Laplace's investigation, as the pressure of the atmo
 sphere appears as a prominent element in producing the
 motions of such floating bodies, the student is naturally per
 plexed when he is confronted by the somewhat awkward fact
 that capillary phenomena are entirely independent of the pres
 sure to which the apparatus is exposed, as was long ago proved
 by the experiments in vacuo, executed by the members of the
 Accademia del Cimento of Florence. It is proper to add,
 however, that a critical examination of the explanation given
 by Laplace, as well as by Poisson {}, very clearly indicates that
   * Mtmoires de tAcad. des Sciences for 1787, p. 506 et seq.
   t Phil. Trans, for 1806, p. 65 et seq., on the " Cohesion of Liquids."
   % Mecanique Celeste, tome iv., " Supplement au Livre x.," " Sur l'Action
capillaire (1806). Also " Supplement a la Theorie de l'Action capillaire "
(1807).
   § Prindpia Oeneralia Theoria Figures FhUdorum in Statu sEquilibrii:
Gottingen, 1830.
   || A'ouvelle Thtorie de T'Action capillaire: Paris, 1831.
   II Statique Exptrimentale et Thiorique des Liquides.
   ** Theorie Micanique de la Chaleur, chapitre ix., " Capillarity," p. 206
et seq. : Paris, 1869.
   tt Phil. Mag. [4] xxxviii. p. 81, and xli. pp. 245, 370, 454 ; [5] v. pp.
321, 415, and v ii. p. 301.
   X\ Laplace, Mtcanique Celeste, tome iv. "Supplement au Livre x." art.
11, p. 41 et seq. Poisson, op. cit. supra, arts. 81-85, pp. 162-173.

             and Repulsions of Small Floating Bodies.                   49
when the effective forces are considered, the pressure of the
atmosphere is practically eliminated from their equations ; so
that finally the forces actually in operation which produce the
tendency of such bodies to approach or to recede from one
another are due exclusively to molecular actions.
    Nevertheless, inasmuch as Laplace's explanation contains
the pressure of the atmosphere as a term, while at the same
time it makes the effective force equivalent to a modification
of hydrostatic pressure, which is negative or positive accord
ing as the surface of the liquid adjacent to the solid bodies is
concave or convex; it is by no means surprising that the idea
of atmospheric pressure should have been associated with these
phenomena. Hence we find that many first-class physicists,
such as Lame, Desains, Jamin, Everett*, and others introduce
the pressure of the atmosphere as a fundamental element into
their explanations of these motions. Indeed, Laplace himself
seems to have been impressed with the apparent conflict between
theory and experiment; for after giving the result in relation
to the case of two solids moistened by the liquid (in which the
hydrostatic pressure between them has a negative value), he
significantly adds:—" Dans le vide les deux plans tendraient
encore a se rapprocher ; l'adherence du plan au fluide, pro-
duisant alors le meme effet quo la pression de l'atmosphere " t-
    Doubtless the view which ascribes these apparent attractions
 and repulsions to the modifications of hydrostatic pressure due
 to the action of capillary forces is a philosophical one, and
 capable of being put into a mathematical form ; yet when tho
 physical cause of the disturbance of hydrostatic equilibrium is
 kept in the background, the student is greatly embarrassed
 and perplexed in obtaining clear conceptions of negative and
 positive pressures, complicated as they are with considerations
 relating to the pressure of the atmosphere, especially when he
 is assured that the lasHndicated pressure must be inoperative,
 from the experimental fact that the phenomena take place in
 vacuo. Moreover, from this point of view, he is liable to lose
 sight of the real physical cause of all capillary phenomena,
 viz. the reaction of the tense superficial film of the liquid—
 the true and efficient cause of the disturbance of hydrostatic
     • Lam£, Cours de Physique, 2nd ed. (Paris, 1840), tome i. p. 188 et seq.
 art. 143. Desains, TraiU de Physique (Paris, 1857), tome i. pp. 603-600.
 Jamin, Cows de Physique, 3rd ed. (Paris, 1871), tome i. pp. 229, 230.
 Everett, translation of Deschanel's Traiti Elhnentaire de Physique (N.Y.,
 1880), part i. p. 136, art. 97 D. Pec let, in his TraiU de Physique (4th ed.
 Paris, 1847, tome i. p. 158, art. 224), leaves out the pressure of the
 atmosphere, and ascribes the motions exclusively to negative and positive
  hydrostatic pressures.
    t Micanique Celeste, Supplement au Livre x. art. 11, p. 44.
  PhU. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 91. Jan. 1883.                        E

 50         Mr. J. LeConte on tlie Apparent Attractions
  pressure. It seems to me that, by referring the motions of
  such bodies directly to the action of this tensile superficial film,
  a fundamental principle in the physical theory of capillarity- is
  secured in the mind of the student; while the resulting dis
  turbances of hydrostatic equilibrium are not primary facts, but
  secondary consequences of the more fundamental cause.
     The general explanation which I am about to offer of
  the "apparent attractions and repulsions of small floating
  bodies ' is so simple and obvious a deduction from the funda
 mental laws of capillary action, as expounded by Laplace
 and Poisson, that it is difficult to bring myself to believe that
 it has hitherto escaped the attention of physicists. Neverthe
 less I have not, thus far, been able to find it in any of the
 treatises on physics.
     In order to render my explanation more clear, it will be
 necessary to present the commonly received popular explana
 tions of those phenomena, and to indicate their defects.
    Two methods of experimental illustration may be adopted,
 viz.:—1st, by floating in water two small bodies whose sur
 faces have been so prepared as to be moistened or non-mois
 tened by liquid ; and 2nd, by plunging vertically into water
 or into mercury two parallel plates of clean glass suspended
 by threads.
                  Ordinary Popular Explanations.
    Case 1. When both bodies are moistened. — In this case
 (Plate I. fig. 1, A, B, and A'B'), when the two bodies are
 brought so near that their intervening concave meniscuses join
 each other, the bodies are drawn together by the weight of the
 column of the liquid m, elevated above the level ab, acting
 like a loaded cork secured to each of the bodies.
    Case 2. Wlien both bodies are not moistened. In this case
 (fig. 2, A, B, and A' B'), when the two bodies are brought so
near that the intervening convex meniscuses unite, e and g are
more depressed than d and /; consequently the two bodies are
pushed toward each other by the greater exterior hydrostatic
pressure exercised by the portions dh and fx.
    Case 3. When one body w moistened and the other is not mois
tened.—In this case (fig. 3, A, B, and A' B'), if the moistened
body B or B' were alone, the concave meniscus would be
elevated to o ; in like manner, if the non-moistened body A or
A' were alone, the convex meniscus would be depressed to r.
Now if the two bodies are brought so near that their menis
cuses join each other, the intervening liquid surface will take
an intermediate position n k. Hence the point n will be below
the point o; and the point k will be above the point r. It is

               and Repulsions of Small Floating Bodies.                    51
   therefore assumed that the moistened body B or B' will be
   drawn away from A or A' by the excess of the weight of the
   exterior above the interior meniscus, due to the difference of
   height o n or o' n'. In like manner, the non-moistened body
   A or A' will be pushed away from B or B' by the excess of
   interior hydrostatic pressure due to the difference of level k r
   Hence there is apparent mutual repulsion.
      Defects of theforegoing explanations.—Leaving out of consi
   deration those physicists who have adopted, more or less com-
   p'etely, the mathematical methods of Laplace and of Poisson,
   the foregoing seem to be the generally received popnlar expla
  nations of this class of capillary phenomena. They are those
  given by Brewster, Daguin, Silliman, Snell, and other writers
  on elementary physics, and are essentially identical with the
  explanations originally proposed by Monge*. The most cur-
  sory examination will serve to show their unsatisfactoriness.
      In the first place, each case requires a special explanation:
  there is no common physical principle coordinating the three
  cases under consideration. Thus, in case 1 the weight of the
  intervening elevated column of liquid draws the bodies toge
  ther, without reference to the modification of hydrostatic
  pressure due to the elevation. On the other hand, in case 2
  the bodies are pushed together by the excess of the exterior
  hydrostatic pressures. Finally, in case 3 it will be noticed
  that the excess of hydrostatic pressure due to the difference of
  height equivalent to on or o' n' is made a pulling force, urging
  B or B' to the right ; while the excess of hydrostatic pressure
  due to the difference-height equivalent to k r is made a push
  ing force urging A or A' to the left. Now, why this difference
 in the direction of action of the excess of hydrostatic pressures ?
  Why not regard the excess of pressure on the right of B or B'
  (equivalent on or o'n') as a pushing force urging B or B'
  towards A or A'?—a result which is evider?Uy at variance with
 experiments.
     In the second place, it is very clear that the laws of hydro
 statics are so seriously modified by the action of capillary
 forces (the disturbances of level being in fact due to them),
 that it is very questionable whether hydrostatic pressure can
    * Brewster, Encyc. Sritannica, 8th ed., art." Hydrodynamics," chap. iii.
 " On Capillary Attraction and the Cohesion of Liquids." Daguin, Traiti
EUmentaire de Physique, 3rd ed. (Paris, 1867), tome i. art. 226, pp. 209,
210. Silliman, 'Principles of Physics,' 2nd ed., revised and rewritten,
(Philad. 1861), art. 242, pp. 195-196. Snell's Olmsted's ' Nat. Phil.' 2nd
revised ed. (N. Y. 1870), art. 229, pp. 150, 151 ; also Kimball's 3rd re
vised ed. (N.Y. 1882), art. 202, p. 135. Monge, M(m. de VAcad. cit. ante.
Of the above, Daguin gives the most explicit and clear statement of these
explanations.

52        Mr. J. LeConte on the Apparent Attractions
be properly or safely invoked to explain these phenomena
without the restrictions imposed by the introduction of the
negative and positive molecular pressures, which constitute
such important factors in the physico-mathematical analyses
of these questions.
                 Proposed General Explanation.
   In the following explanation of the " apparent attractions
and repulsions of small floating bodies," I have referred this
class of phenomena to two fundamental principles of capil
larity which are abundantly verified by observation and expe
riment, viz.: 1st, that in every case, whether of moistened or
non-moistened bodies, there exists an adhesion between the
solid and the liquid; and 2nd, that the capillary forces are, in
any given case, inversely proportional to the radii of curva
ture of the meniscuses, and their resultants are directed toward
the centres of concavity. It seems to me that these two fun
damental and well-established principles of capillary action
will . explain the whole class of phenomena in a much moro
consistent and satisfactory manner.
    Case 1. Fig. 1. Before the two bodies are brought near each
other, the concave meniscus around each of them having the
same radius of curvature on all sides, each of the floating
bodies is in equilibrium under its action. But when brought
so near that their meniscuses join each other, the radius of cur
vature of the united intervening concave meniscus at m
(fig. 1) is less than that of the exterior concave meniscuses at
a and b, and its superior tension acts upon both bodies toward
a common centre of concavity at 5. Hence, by virtue of the
 smaller radius of curvature of the intervening tense film, the
 interior forces prevail, and the two bodies are drawn together.
    Case. 2. Fig. 2. The same explanation applies to this case.
 The common or united intervening convex meniscus being
 attached to the bodies at e and g (fig. 2), has a smaller radius
 of curvature than the exterior convex meniscuses at d and/.
  Hence in this case likewise, by virtue of the smaller radius of
 curvature of the intervening contractile elastic film, the inte
 rior forces necessarily prevail, and the two bodies are drawn
 together.
    Case 3. In this case (fig. 3) it is evident that as the centres
 of concavity of the interfering meniscuses are in opposite
 directions, the common or united meniscus formed by tbeir
 union, as kn, must have a radius of curvature greater than
 that of either of the exterior meniscuses at c and of. Hence,
 by virtue of the smaller radius of curvature of the exterior
 tense elastic films at c and o', the exterior capillary forces must

             and Repulsions of Small Floating Bodies.            53
prevail, and the two bodies are drawn apart by the superior
tensile reactions directed toward the centres of concavity at 3
and at 4 (fig. 3).
    It will be noticed that in the preceding explanations of this
class of capillary phenomena I have referred the apparent
attractions and repulsions exclusively to the elastic reactions
of the tense surface-film, whose form is modified by the proxi
mity of the partly immersed solid bodies. For the reasons
previously assigned, I have left out of consideration the modi
 fications of hydrostatic pressure, which are, after all, really
 due to these elastic reactions. To those physicists who prefer
 the mathematical methods of Laplace and of Poisson, my
explanations may seem to be less complete and exhaustive;
 but in such general explanations it is of primary importance
 to keep steadily before the student the fundamental physical
principle which constitutes the fons et origo of these phe
nomena.
    There is, however, an objection to the explanation which
 refers this class of capillary phenomena to the contraction of
the tensile film of liquid adjacent to the sides of the partly
immersed solids, which it is proper to notice. Since the
capillary force thus developed is inversely proportional to the
radius of curvature and directed toward the centre of conca
vity, it has been urged that when an isolated vertical plate that
has its two parallel faces of different substances is partly im
mersed in the liquid under such conditions that the radii of
curvature of the meniscuses on the opposite faces are unequal,
there should result a difference of pressure; so that such an
isolated body floating on an indefinite surface of a liquid would,
under the mutual action of the fluid and solid, take on a hori
zontal and perpetual motion of translation. There are obvious
mechanical difficulties in the way of the admission of such a
result; for, as suggested by Poisson, in such a movement the
centre of gravity of the entire system is not displaced. Laplace
seemed to think that there would be some difference of pres
sure in such cases, but that it would be so small that it might
be neglected *. It is evident that, however small it might be,
a motion of translation would be the consequence; and this it
seems difficult to admit. Dr. Thomas Young, in a letter to
Poisson, insists upon this as a most serious objection to Laplace's
theory of Capillarity f. On the contrary, Poisson shows that
his own modified theory does not lead to this mechanical dif
ficulty; for it indicates that, under the foregoing conditions,
the horizontal pressures on the opposite faces exactly counter-
          * SuppUmeni a la Theorie de FAction CapUlaire, p. 43.
          t Poisson, op. ext. ante, art. 128, p. 265.

54          Mr. J. LeConte on the Apparent Attractions
balance each other, so that the floating solid can have no motion
of translation *. In like manner, Dupr^, in his admirable
researches on " Molecular Actions," investigates this anoma
lous deduction from Laplace's theory, indicating the com
pleteness of the latter, and showing that Poisson is correct in
the conclusion that the horizontal molecular forces exactly
balance one another t.
   Notwithstanding the a priori mechanical impossibility of an
isolated floating body taking on a motion of translation under
the conditions above designated, I made the following arrange
ments with the view of experimentally testing the question.
A plate of well-cleaned glass (fig. 4), gg', and a plate of
polished steel, s s', were cemented together so as to constitute
a single compound plate of these substances. This was floated
in a vertical position by securing masses of cork c and c' to
the two faces, and attaching a leaden sinker (w) of the proper
weight to the lower extremity of the plates. If such a com
posite plate is plunged vertically into alcohol contained in a
large vessel, a concave meniscus will be formed by the ascend
ing liquid on the glass face, while on the steel face no meniscus
will be formed, and the adjacent surface of the alcohol will be
horizontal. Now Dr. Young insisted that, according to
Laplace's theory-, the horizontal molecular pressures on the
opposite faces being unequal, the composite plate should be
drawn in the direction of the centre of concavity of the meniscus
on the glass face, and thus cause the entire system to take on
a motion of translation toward the right. The arrangement
represented in fig. 4 was so sensitive that it was difficult to
avoid the influence of slight currents of air; nevertheless
there were no indications of the action of unbalanced forces on
the floating apparatus. Hence the idea that such a system
would take on a horizontal and perpetual motion under the
action of molecular forces is not only inconsistent with funda
mental mechanical principles, but is contradicted by direct
experiment ; for no motion takes place in such a composite
vertical plate when partly immersed and floating in the liquidf.
    Moreover it seems to me that, according to any theory of
capillarity which is based upon the action of a tense elastic
superficial film, it is clear that the tensile reaction of the
   • Poisson, op. cit. aTiti, arts. 86 and 90, pp. 172 and 194.
   t Dupr6, op. cit. attti, chap. ix. pp. 396-400.
   I It is scarcely necessary to add that the irregular and perplexing capil
lary motions due to the difference in the surface-tensions of different
liquids or of the same liquid in different states are here excluded from
consideration. The curious motions of small isolated masses of camphor,
when floating on the surface of warm water, come under this category
These phenomena have been carefully studied by Tomlinson and others.

              and Repulsions of Small Floating Bodies.                    55
bounding film which envelops such a floating composite plate
mnst necessarily be exactly the same in all parts of its peri
meter ; so that it is impossible for the forces due to capillary
actions to disturb the equilibrium of such a body while float
ing in the liquid so long as its component plates are main
tained at a fixed distance apart. It is obvious that the tensile
reaction can only tend to press the plates together ; it cannot
produce a motion of translation. It is almost needless to add
that in the cases previously considered, where the floating solids
were separated and movable, the conditions of equilibrium
were disturbed by the modifications of the interfering menis-
cuses due to their proximity; and these conditions of equili
brium could only be realized by mutual contact, or by reces
sion beyond the reach of disturbing influences.
    It is likewise evident that in cases 1 and 2 the interfering
and modified united bounding films tend in each case to assume
a minimum perimeter, which is only secured when the two
bodies are brought into contact. In the composite plate above
considered this condition is instantly realized upon partial im
mersion in the liquid. This principle explains why it is prac
tically so much more difficult to experimentally verify case 3
than cases 1 and 2. For in case 3, when the floating bodies
are brought so near to one another that the interfering menis-
cuses form a common enveloping film, the principle of mini
 mum bounding perimeter prevails, and the verification of
 apparent repulsion fails; for the two bodies are drawn together
 as in cases 1 and 2. The fact that in such cases floating bodies
 apparently repel one another at a certain distance; but on
 nearer approach apparently attract, is noticed both by Laplace
 and by Poisson as a deduction from their respective theories
 of capillarity, and was experimentally verified by the Abbe
 Haiiy and others.
     Finally, it may be proper to add that the reaction of the
 surface-tension of liquids always tends to reduce the surface to
 the smallest area which can be enclosed by its actual boundary.
 This fundamental principle of the tensile reaction tending to
 reduce the bounding area or bounding perimeter to a minimum
 affords a very simple and elegant explanation of the whole
 class of phenomena under consideration*. As already inti
 mated, cases 1 and 2 evidently come under this principle; for
  the common bounding perimeter produced by the union of the
  meniscnses, in tending by virtue of its elastic reaction to become
    * This principle ia very elegantly deduced by the great geometer Gauss
 by the application of the principle of mutual velocities. He shows that
  the condition of capillary equilibrium is that the expression for the force-
 function shall be a minimum (vide op. ext. ante).

 56                  Notice* respecting New Book*.
 a minimum, draws the two floating bodies together. The same
 is true of case 3, provided the floating bodies are brought into
 such proximity that a common bounding perimeter is pro
 duced by the interfering meniscuses. But when the proximity
 is not sufficient to secure this condition, the disturbance of
equilibrium due to this interference results, as we have seen,
 in the recession of the floating bodies. For in the latter case
 the first effect of the interfering meniscuses (as previously
 shown) is to augment the radius of curvature at the intersect
 ing portions; this is evidently equivalent to a tendency to
 increase the bounding perimeter of the meniscuses enveloping
 each of the bodies; so that the minimum principle operates to
 separate them.
     Hence the two fundamental principles of capillarity—1st,
 that the elastic reaction is inversely proportional to the radius
 of curvature of the meniscus, and 2nd, that the same contractile
 reaction tends to reduce the perimeter to the smallest which
 can be enclosed by its actual boundary, are coordinated, and
 alike concur in furnishing complete explanations of this class
 of phenomena, without the necessity of invoking the agency
 of atmospheric pressure or the modifications of hydrostatic
 pressure due to the operation of these molecular forces.
    Berkeley, California, October 10, 1882.
                  IX. Notices respecting New Books.
       Physics of the Earth's Cinst. By Eev. Osmond Fisheb.
                London: Macmillan. (Pp. xiv + 209.)
fTVHIS work is not a mere reprint of papers well known to many
        of our readers, some of them having been printed in our
columns, though free use has been made of them. The author has
 been " for many years past convinced that various questions of
 Physical Geology might be answered negatively, if not positively,
 by applying to them simple mathematical reasoning and quantita
 tive treatment." He candidly confesses that his views, " in some
respects, have been greatly altered by the application of this me
thod." In evidence of this he expressly states that " the views now
 put forward differ in some respects from those which I have pre
 viously published in contributions to scientific periodicals. But the
effect of the progressive application of the quantitative method
may be traced in the book itself ; and the development of ideas,
proposed in the earlier chapters, will sometimes be found to have
taken an unexpected turn later on. This remark applies especially
to certain hypotheses, which at first presented themselves in a
favourable light, to account for compression and for the formation
of ocean-basins." The same spirit is seen in what follows :—" On
a review of what I have written, I feel how many difficulties have

                    Notices respecting New Books.                       57
been left unsolved, and some which have occurred to me not even
mentioned."
    The first question discussed (Chap. I.) is the underground tempe
rature* ; and a result given as approximately true near the surface
is, in agreement with the view, we believe, now generally adopted,
that the law of increase of temperature is " on the whole an equable
one, amounting on an average to about one degree Fahrenheit for
every 51 degrees of descent."
    Mr. Fisher's theme is the Physics of the Earth's Crust ; for if
we know little comparatively of this, much less do we know of the
condition of the interior of the earth. Chapter II. deals specially
with this subject ; and in it we have an interesting discussion of the
views of Sir W. Thomson, Messrs. Delaunay, Hopkins, and others.
Is any portion at the present date liquid ? and if so, how much of
it ? As a matter of comparative certainty, Mr. Fisher, in agree
ment with other physicists, infers from the present form of our
globe, and from the law of variation of gravity on its surface, that
it was once wholly melted, and now consists of concentric sphe
roidal shells, each of equal density throughout and of definite form
(cf. J. D. Forbes, § 256 &c, ' Progress of Mathematical and Phy
sical Science,' and Col. Clarke's 'Geodesy,' cap. iv. & xiii.). We
give here the author's summing-up in partial opposition to Sir
W. Thomson's hypothesis of a rigid earth :—"It does not appear
necessary that the earth should be absolutely solid from the centre
to the surface to satisfy the requirements of great rigidity as a
whole. May this not be satisfied by the hypothesis of a rigid
nucleus nearly approaching the size of the whole globe, covered by
a fluid substratum of no great thickness compared to the radius,
upon which a crust of lesser density floats in a state of equili
brium ? " On the other side we may cite Prof. Green (' Nature,'
March 23, 1882), who considers that Mr. Fisher's work " seems
rather to show that the earth did not consolidate in the way sup
posed by Sir W. Thomson," and that there are other equally pro
bable hypotheses as to the way in which the earth may have passed
from a fluid to a solid state. In Chapter III. we have a discussion
of the internal densities and pressures—corrections of Walters-
hausen's theory, and fluid pressures within the earth calculated
from Laplace's law of density. Chapter IV. treats of the lateral
pressure, and examines the generally received views of the effect of
lateral pressure on the contortion of rocks. Chapter V. examines
the truth of the assumption that, because the pressure thus pro
duced would be sufficient for the purpose, the work has been
accomplished in this way. The next Chapter is principally occupied
with a criticism of Sir W. Thomson's paper " On the Secular Cool
ing of the Earth," and an account of Mr. Mallet's experiments. The
following chapter (VII.) summarizes the results of this, and con-
   * Our author commences with this discussion, because ''the distribu
tion of heat in the interior of the earth is one of the cardinal conditions
upon which all physical questions connected with it depend."

 58                Notices respecting New Books.
eludes that " the large discrepancy (pointed out in chap, vi.) shows
 that the hypothesis, that the inequalities of the surface have been
 caused by the cooling and consequent contraction of the earth re
 garded as a solid globe, is untenable." Hence the author thinks
 we are shut up to one or both of the following alternatives : "either
 the inequalities of the surface are not altogether, or even chiefly,
 due to lateral compression ; or there has been some other cause in
 volved in producing the inequalities of the crust other than the
 contraction of a solid globe through mere cooling           The shift
 ing of the crust towards a mountain-range, which is testified by the
 corrugation of the rocks of which it is formed, requires a more or
 less fluid substratum to admit of it. The sinking of areas such as
 deltas, and other regions of deposition, demand a like arrange
 ment; and, in short, it appears that the crust, in the form in
 which it exists, must be in a condition of approximate hydrostatical
 equilibrium, such that any considerable addition of land will cause
 any region to sink, or any considerable amount denuded off an area
 will cause it to rise." In Chapter VIII. the hypothesis of a fluid
 substratum is discussed in connexion with Mr. Hannay's recent
experiments ; in Chapter IX. the supposition of an inflexible crust is
dismissed ; and in Chapter X. the analogy between the condition of
the crust and the case of a broken-up area of ice, refrozen and float
ing upon water, is worked out to the conclusion that " the crust is
certainly less than 30 miles thick." In Chapter XII. we get the
result, " The crust of the earth at a place near the sea-level is about
25 miles thick ; beneath the central parts of the ocean it is about
20 miles thick, or perhaps less, and that it is more dense in those
regions " *. The contraction is next calculated on the two suppo
sitions that oceans are due (1) to compression, (2) to a denser
crust ; and the outcome of the discussion is that the ocean-basins
are thought to be due to a greater density and general depression
of the suboceanic crust. Then it is shown that the oblateness
may have been altered by changes in the rotational velocity ; but
Mr. FiBher thinks there is no indication in the arrangement of
mountain-chains of their having been connected with such a mode
of action. In Chapters XV. to XXI. the alternative hypothesis is
examined, viz. that the causes of compression are situated within
the crust itself. We content ourselves with giving the titles of
these Chapters:—Compression and Volcanic Action (Prof. Nor-
denskiold's theory and the views of American geologists are
amongst the matters treated of in this chapter) ; on Faulting ;
Geological Movements explained; Mr. Mallet's Theory of Volcanic
Energy (opposed to Mr. Fisher's results) ; the Volcaiio in erupl ion
(discussion of theories of Serope, Dalton, Mallet, and Bichthofen) ;
Sequence of Volcanic Eocks ; and, lastly, Geographical Distribution
of Volcanos.
   Mr. Fisher closes with reminding his readers that his work
"deals with a great number of questions, each in a very superficial
     * The densities given are—suboceanic 2-955, continental 2-08.

                      Notices respecting New Books.                 59
 manner, and that indeed entire treatises might be written upon the
 subject of some chapters           There are phenomena which appear
 to require for their production causes hitherto unexplained, which
 must be looked for possibly outside the globe itself. Such are cli-
 matal changes. Such is also the remarkable fact that the grand
 efforts of elevatory action appear to have been paroxysmal, and
 after slumbering for long ages to have been more intense at cer
 tain periods, the last of which was subsequent to the Eocene.
 These questions are left for a rising generation of physicists and
 astronomers, who, it is hoped, may think the ascertained facts of
 Geology a worthy field for the application of exact scientific
methods."
    There is a good summary of the contents of the several chapters,
and an Appendix, which takes notice of two memoirs (unpublished
 at the date of publication ol the ' Physics ')—one by Mr. G. H.
 Darwin, " On the Stresses caused in the Interior of the Earth by
 the Weight of Continents and Mountains," and the other by M.
 Ed. Eoche. An Index closes the volume.
 Hie Solution of the Pyramid Problem. By Eobeet Ballabd. New
    York : John Wiley and Sons. 1882. (109 pp., 75 woodcuts.)
This is another addition to the " curious " literature about the
 great pyramids. Taking the principal pyramids at Cbizeh, the
author states that the lines joining their centres form, together
with the meridional and east-to-west lines through them, a system
of right-angled triangles whose sides are in simple ratios, e. g. as
3 : 4 : 5, or as 20 : 21 : 29, &c. Also the sides of these triangles
are said to contain each an exact number of a new cubit, styled by
the author "E.B. cubit" [query, "Eobert Ballard cubit'"?], so
called " because it closely resembles the Eoyal Babylonian cubit :" it
seems also that this " E.B. cubit " is exactly one geodetic " third,"
i. e. ^!ffth part of one second of the earth's polar circumference. A
new theory is advanced, that the pyramids were intended as a sort
of fixed surveying-instrument, viz. as great marks for ranging out
lines on definite bearings, and for recovering landmarks lost in the
annual inundations of the Nile : this may be so, but thoy would be
a very expensive form of landmarks. A whole chapter is devoted
to the advantages to surveyors and engineers of the use of right-
angled triangles, especially of the " beautiful triangle " whose sides
are as 20 : 21 : 29. Another chapter is devoted to the " beautiful
symbol " of the pentangle (or 5-poiuted star), which it seems is the
" geometric emblem of extreme and mean ratio," and also the " sym
bol of the Egyptian pyramid Cheops " (the pyramid, however, is
four-sided). Moreover, if "we close the geometric flower Pentalpha,"
and thereby " convert it into a pyramid," it appears that " such
transitions point to the indissoluble connexion between plane and
solid geometry." This work is handsomely got up.
                                     Allan Cunningham, Major R.E.

60                        Geological Society:
 Saturated Steam the Motive Power in Volcanoes and Earthquake* ;
   great Importance of Electricity. By B. A. Peacock, C.E. $c.
   London : E. and F. N. Spon. 1882. (136 pp.)
The object of this little work is (as expressed in the title) to show that
saturated steam is the motive power m volcanic eruptions and earth
quakes. Evidence is quoted from various authorities to the effect
that (1) free hydrogen has been detected in the flames issuing from
certain volcanoes; (2) the temperature of combustion of hydrogen
with oxygen is 14,541° F.; (3)clouds of steam are frequently ejected
from volcanoes ; (4) the pressure of saturated steam at 14,541° F. is
about one million tons per square inch. Hence the conclusion that
 " there is no other terrestrial force at all approaching to saturated
steam in power and magnitude," and the question (about volcanic
eruptions and earthquakes) " Will any man venture to deny that
 saturated steam was the active agent on these occasions ? " answered
 further on thus : —" This steam necessarily causes earthquakes and
 volcanoes ; for how is it possible so very vast a power can remain
idle?"
   In part evidence of the great resistance of the air to a body in
rapid motion, a graphic account is given of the author's personal
experience thereof on a runaway horse forty years ago. In other
cases statements of fact are generally freely supported by quota
tions from authority : the author even thinks it as well to " prove
by a quotation from ' Chemistry ' that, since air and water were pre
sent in the volcano of Java, oxygen and hydrogen were necessarily
present also." The figure 14,541° F. quoted above seems very pre
cise iu the units, but it is quoted (as 8061° C.) from Prof. Tyndall
with the remark that " Professor Tyndall is a safe man to follow."
   The style is not always clear; e. y. the phrase " being about equally
and very great " occurs thrice ; and the terminology is sometimes
loose ; e,g. steam is described as a " force'- (v. svpra).
                                     Allan Cunninuham, Major R.E.
                X. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                         GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                    [Continued from vol. xiv. p. 478.]
        November 15, 1882.—Dr. J. Gwyn Jeffreys, F.R.S.,
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
THE following communications were read :—
      1. " The Drift-beds of the North-west of England and North
Wales.—Part 2. Their Nature, Stratigraphy, and Distribution."
By T. Mellard lleade, Esq., C.E., F.G.S.
   The author stated that the first part of this paper, read in 1873,
treated of tho low-level Boulder-clay and sands, specially in relation

 Drift-beds of the North-ioest of England and North Wales. 61
to tho contained shells. Since that timo he has been diligently col
lecting information to enable him to treat of the nature, origin, and
stratigraphy of the Drift lying between Liverpool and St. Bees, and
Liverpool and Caernarvonshire. He finds that, in the basin of the
river Mersey, the Triassic rocks underlying the low-level Boulder-
clay and sands are cut up by a system of preglacial valleys, in some
cases presenting very precipitous sides and not in all cases following
the present course of the rivers. If tho mantle of clay and sands
could be stripped off, we should have scenery differing considerably
from tho present surface-features. These preglacial valleys are, in
parts of their courses, considerably below the present low-water
level.
    Where tho rock has been bared and is of a nature capablo of
retaining striations, we almost invariably find it planed and grooved
in a direction approximately from N.W. ; and when the rock is
soft, it is broken up into rubble and red sand.
    Upon this debris of the Trias lie the low-level Boulder-clay and
sands of the plains, the clay lying immediately on the rock being
 frequently, but not invariably, of a sandier and harder nature than
 the upper beds. Lines of erosion of a local nature, but often of con
siderable extent, often occur at the top of this clay and then die
 out ; or there are thin or thick beds of sand and gravel intercalated
 at the junction and also dying out. Sometimes sand and gravels
 underlio this harder clay ; but the larger mass of the low-level
 clay is of a more plastic nature, and is used in brickmaking. Inter
 calated sand-beds also occur in this ; and sometimes the clay gets
 stonier again near the top.
    If we trace the drift from the sea up each river-valley to the high
 lands, we see at once that the nature of the clay gets moro intimately
 connected with the rocks in the basin abovo. This is specially
 noticeable in the Kibble valley, where the brown marine Boulder-
 clay gradually, above Milton Bridge, gets replaced by a drift com
 posed almost wholly of the debris and grindings of the Carbo
 niferous limestone and grits above. In the mountain-districts,
 also, the drift becomes more localized both in Cumberland and
 Wales.
    The author's conclusions are that an ice-sheet, radiating from the
 mountain-district of the English lakes and the south of Scotland,
 produced the planing and grooving of the rock and the red sand and
 rubble debris ; then the ice melted back into local glaciers, and the
 submergence began. The low-level Boulder-clay and sands wore,
 during a slow submergence, laid down probably at depths of from
  200 to 300 feet ; and the author considers that all tho phenomena
  can be satisfactorily accounted for by ordinary river-action and
  fraying of the coasts by the sea, combined with frost and ice due
 to a severer climate bringing down the materials of such river-
 basins to tho sea, while icebergs and coast-ice sailed over, dropping
  on the sea-bottom their burdens of erratic stones and other materials
 from the mountain-districts of the north. He pointed out, also,
 that the great majority of the well-glaciated rocks were specially

 62                       Geological Society:—
those that could be traced to the high lands. This fact was forced
upon his notice after making a large collection of glaciated
boulders and pebbles. Among the rocks he had been able to identify,
 with the help of Professor Bonney and Mr. P. Dudgeon, of Dum
 fries, Scawiell granite (Eskdale of Mackintosh) was the most
 abundant granite ; then came groy granites from Dumfries ; syenite
 from Buttermere, which occurred all over the area described, and up
 to 1200 feet on the Macclesfield Hills ; and syenite from Cannock
 fell. Other probable identifications were also namod. The whole
 series of rocks from the Silurian to the New lied Marl were repre
sented in the low-level Boulder-clay ; a few flints also occurred,
 and one piece of what was believed to be chalk.
    The paper concluded with an Appendix by Mr. David Bobertson,
giving a list of the Foraminifera aud other organisms found in the
various beds of Boulder-clay in the Atlantic Docks, Liverpool.
    2. " On the Evidences of Glacial Action in South Brecknockshire
and East Glamorganshire." By T. W. Edgeworth David, Esq.
Communicated by Professor J. Prestwich, F.G.S., F.R.S.
    The area which is included in this paper is about 200 square
miles, extending north and south from the Brecknockshire Beacons
to a line between Cowbridge and the mouth of the Rhymney, of
which tho Cly valley has been more particularly studied. Most of
the rocks in this district, and particularly tho Millstone Grit, retain
tracos of glacial markings. The whole area has a moutonnee aspect.
The evidence of glacial action is classified under the following
heads :—(1) erratics ; (2) Boulder-clay ; (3) shattered and con
torted rock-surfaces ; (4) grooved and striated rock-surfaces. The
first three obtain everywhere ; but the last is confined to the coal-
basin sandstones in certain localities, to the Millstone Grit at its
northern outcrop, and to a small extent of Carboniferous Limestone
to the north of the latter.
    (1) The erratics consist of Old Red Sandstone, of various members
of the Carboniferous series, of dolomitic conglomerate, Lias, and
chalk flints. These, in one district, are derived from Brecknockshire
rocks, in another from Glamorganshire.
    (2) The Boulder-clay contains boulders which are sometimes
5 feet in diameter, generally smoothed, rounded, and striated. It
is sometimes 100 feet thick, and is found as high as 1200 feet above
the sea. Many sections are described, and percentages of their
contents given.
    (3) In certain districts the rocks are much shattered, so as to
resemble a breccia, and Boulder-clay has been forced into this—as,
for example, near St. Fagan.
    (4) Grooved and striated surfaces are preserved under favour
able circumstances. A full description is given of a number of
instances, the direction of the strise being recordod, as well as the
fall in feet per mile from the summit of the Beacons. The author,
in summing up his observations, comes to the conclusion that the
erratics in the Eglwysilian and Caevan group were probably, as a

            Rev. A. Irving on ilie Mechanics of Glaciers.              63
rule, transported by floating ice, but that some may be the relics of
old moraines, that the Boulder-clay of South Brecknockshire is
chiefly the product of land-ice, and that the striated rock-surfaces
are in some cases the result of glaciers which have descended exist
ing valleys. In other cases they may have been produced by an
ice-sheet, which it is possible may have come from the N.W.
             December 6, 1882 J. W. Hulke, Esq., F.E.8.,
                         President, in the Chair.
   The following communications were read :—
    1. Note on a Wealden Fern, Oleandridium (Tamiopteris) Bey-
ricfrii, Schenk, new to Britain. By John E. H. Peyton, Esq.,
F.G.S.
    2. " On the Mechanics of Glaciers, more especially with relation
to their supposed Power of Excavation." By the Bev. A.. Irving,
M.A., F.G.S.
    1. The author commenced by showing that ice is comparable
in some respects to glass, with which (at temperatures not far
removed from their several points of liquefaction) it has many
points of physical resemblance, the chief point of difference between
the two bodies being the absence in ice of the great ductility which
characterizes glass. Ice may therefore be regarded as a near
approximation to the " vitreous condition " of water.
   2. The remarkable yielding property (" plasticity," " Nachgiebig-
keit") of ice as it exists in glaciers (which constitutes its moBt
important point of resemblance to heated glass) being recognized as
a fact of observation (the experiments of Tyndall and Helmholtz,
and the measurements of glacier-movements by tho former being
referred to), the deduction drawn from these facts (irrespectively of
the theoretical explanation of the facts themselves) in the light of
the simple law of conservation of energy, is that in the movement of
glaciers only a small residuum of " energy of motion " of the glacial
mass is available for the work of erosion ; most of the energy is
expended within tlie mass of the glacier in overcoming cohesion.
   3. If the ice, though flowing really in a way comparablo to the
motion of a river-current (the upper layers moving faster than the
lower, the median portions faster than the lateral), retained its con
tinuity, the strain against the rocks might be great enough to do
much that is required of it by the " erosion-theory ;" but here comes
in the remarkable absence of ductility of ice, giving birth to crevasses,
the varieties of which are all referable to one common principlo, and
adverse to erosion.
   4. Prof. Tyndall was quoted as an authority for the fact that there
is a gradual transfer of ice-particles from the bed towards the sur
face of the glacier, a fact which the author attempted to explain
later on in the paper by reasoning adopted from Helmholtz. The
fact itself is directly opposed to erosive action.

64                       Geological Society:—
    5. The instance of the Morteratsch glacier was more particularly
considerod ; and an attempt was made to show that the assumptions
which underlie the reasoning by which Prof. Tyndall has endea
voured to meet the objections which have been raised to the erosion-
theory from observations of the Morteratsch, are incompatible with
sound mechanical principles.
    6. The important law of the lowering of the freezing-point of
water by pressure was next discussed, and reasoning adopted from
Helmholta, which loads to the remarkable conclusion that within
the glacier water at 0° C. exists in contact with ice below 0° C.
This was accepted by the author as the explanation of the otherwise
unintelligible fact referred to in 4.
    7. The last point led to the discussion of Dr. Croll's viows on
glacier-movement. The author gave reasons for rejecting Dr. Croll's
so-called " molecular theory " of the movement of glaciers (it is
really little more than a restatement of the regelation thoory, dis
guised by a misuse of the terms " molecule " and " molecular " ),
and for not sharing his feeling of " mystery " about the theory of
regelation.
    8. A real work of erosion was shown to go on in connexion with
glaciers, by the direct action of the glacier-streams ; but the same
objections apply to these as to streams flowing in an open valley, as
agents capable of excavating basin-like hollows.
    9. The remainder of the paj>er was mainly occupied with a consi
 deration of " tarns " among the mountains. Hero it was admitted
 that a glacier may work in a different manner from a glacier moving
 down a valley ; and so it was thought many small rock-basins
 (now tarns) may have beon formed at the foot of precipices.
 On the other hand it was maintained that many tarns occupy
hollows formed by earth-movements on the mountain-slopes, or by
moraines.
     10. In conclusion the author strengthened his position by point
 ing to the rejection of the erosion-theory by such high authorities as
 Professors Bonncy, Helmholtz, and Credner, and Mr. John Ball,
 and expressed his regret at finding himself at issue with Sir A-
 Ramsay, to whose geological writings we all owe so much.
     Generally, the author concluded, from mechanical and physical
 considerations, that far too much erosive power has been attributed
 by some writers to glaciers, and that it is doubtful if the work of
  actual excavation has been accomplished by them at all. The dif
 ferential movement of glaciers he attributed to three causes :—
  (1) cracking and regelation (Tyndall and Helmholtz) ; (2) genera
 tion of heat by friction within the glacier (Helmholtz) ; (3) the
  penetration of the glacier by luminous solar energy, the absorption
  of this by opaque bodies contained in the ice (stones, earth, organic
  germs, &c), and the transformation of it in this way into heat. To
  this last he attributed the greater differential movement of the
  glacier (a) by day than by night, (b) in summer than in winter.

           Eev. A. Irving on the Origin of Valley-Lakes.              65
           December 20, 1882.—J. W. Hulke, Esq., F.R.S.,
                         President, in the Chair.
    The following communications were read :—
    1. "On Generic Characters in the Order Sauropterygia." By
 Prof. Owen, C.B., F.R.S., F.G.S., &c.
   2. " On the Origin of Valley-Lakes, mainly with reference to the
 Lakes of the Northern Alps." By the Rev. A. Irving, B.A., B.Sc,
 F.G.S.
  The author, having given reasons for considering this question still
 an open one, proceeded to criticise Prof. Ramsay's theory as it was
 expounded by him in 1862. The defects in Prof. Ramsay's argu
 ment are, he considers :—(1) the non-recognition of the fact that
 many lakes in the Northern Alps lie in longitudinal valleys ; (2)
 the omission, in the discussion of the relation of valleys to lines of
 fracture, of the consideration of anticlinal lines of fracture, which
 can be shown to be very common in the Alps ; (3) the illogical
 inference from conditions existing in crystalline metamorphosed rocks
 as to what could or could not occur in the stratified sedimentary de
posits of the Alps, among which the Alpine lakes chiefly occur; (4)
 the rejection of the hypothesis of subsidence on the mere ground of
 the number of instances. The author proceeded to show that the
 lakes of the Northern Alps are found, as a rule, just among those
 strata where subsidence would be most likely to occur. In this
 way it was shown that we are not shut up, by Prof. Ramsay's reason
 ing, to the hypothesis of glacial excavation.
    Further, other agencies than those discussed by Prof. Ramsay
 may have cooperated to form lakes, such as :—
    (a) Alterations in the relative levels of different parts of a floor
 of a valley, connected with movements of parts of a mountain-
system on a large scale. The effects of (1) lines of flexure crossing
older lines of valley-erosion, (2) of lateral thrusts closing in a
valley (partly), were here considered.
   (b) Upthrust of the more yielding strata (as in the " creeps " of
coal-mines) by resolution of forces due to pressure of the mountain-
masses at the side of a valley.
   (c) The dead weight of the huge glaciers which filled the Alpine
valleys, and crushed in the floor, in places where extensive under
ground erosion had gone on in preglacial times.
   (d) The partial damming up of valleys, (1) by diluvial detritus,
(2) by moraines, (3) by Bergstiirze (recently investigated by Prof.
Heim of Zurich).
   (e) Faults.
   (f) Chemical solution, by Alpine waters derived from the melting
of the snow, which has undergone long exposure to the atmosphere.
   It was shown that the very situation of the great majority of the
lakes of the Northern Alps is distinctly favourable to the operation
of one or more of these agencies. The Konigsee was mentioned
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 91. Jan, 1883.                  F

 6.6          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 as a special instance of subsidence, the Achensee of a lake lying in
a faulted line of dislocation ; L. Alleghe and L. Derborenee as lakes
 formed by Bergstiirze during the last century ; the prehistoric delta
 of the Arve as the most conspicuous instance in the Alps of the
 partial damming-up of a valley by diluvial detritus ; the quawUtm
 Lake of Reutte as an instance connected with violent inversion of
 strata ; and the ancient lakes of the Grodner and Oetz Thais as in
 stances of the action of moraines.
    The common fact of observation that lakes are more numerous in
 glaciated than in non-glaciated countries, the author thought, was
partly explained by some of the foregoing principles, partly by the
 better preservation of lake-basins in glaciated countries from silting
up and from becoming thus obliterated, while in some glaciated
 regions lakes are wanting.
            XI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
      ON THE EXACTNESS OF THE MEASUREMENTS MADE WITH
          MEECUKIAL THERMOMETERS. BY J. M. CRAFTS.
ATHERMOMETER with a large bulb readily indicates 0°-002 ;
       but the preciseness of the observation is restricted by slight
perturbations caused by variations in the capillary resistance of the
stem, by changes of pressure proceeding from barometric changes or
owing to the position of the thermometer, and also by calibra
tion-errors and the difficulty of getting a large thermometer to take
the temperature of its surroundings.
    Neglecting these errors, the sum of which does not exceed 0o-02
in suitably arranged experiments, let us examine those which are
due to movements of the particles of the glass, slow movements
which succeed expansion by heat, and which would involve errors
if their effect could not be estimated. Some distinguished physi
cists have compared glass to sealing-wax : according to them, it
yields to pressures, and those of the atmosphere and of the air left
in the stem determine the changes of volume of the bulb of a ther
mometer. Others, estimating at less the part played by pressure,
have cited the case of a bar of metal suspended by its extremities,
which slowly becomes permanently deformed. These analogies
appear to me fallacious : we have not here to do with pressures
similar to the enormous force that causes the bending of a bar ; we
ought rather to compare the bulb of a thermometer to a leaden
pipe, which nevertheless supports for years the pressure of a high
column of water, whilst the least bending deforms it. Person's
experiments, moreover, since confirmed by mine, showed that no
important influence could be attributed to pressure.
    Numerous determinations tend to prove that we have to do with
motions which are but little under the influence of external forces,
and that their effects can be foreseen and regulated, by which the
precision of thermometric measurements can be considerably
augmented.

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.             67
    Depression of the Zero.—Person supposed that, thermometers
heated for a long time would be rendered incapable of a depression
of the zero-point ; but that expectation has not been realized : the
depressions produced when the thermometer is heated after a long
rest cannot be put an end to. The values of these depressions have
been determined by several authors ; and it has been ascertained
that similar experiments give numbers identical to within 0°-01
when the thermometers are heated to 100°; and the errors do not
exceed 0°-04 for higher temperatures up to 300°. The only pre
caution necessary is to follow one invariable method of observa
tion : that which appears to me preferable to the rest is to let the
thermometer cool in the air and then immediately observe the zero.
Some observers, after an experiment at 100°, plunge the thermo
meter into a bath heated to 50°, and afterwards into cold baths to
accelerate the cooling: equally constant results are obtained by
this means ; but the position of the zero is about 0°-05 lower than
in the first case. If the thermometer be heated in a large bath
holding 20 litres, and the bath and thermometer be left to cool
together during twenty-four hours, the zero will be about 0°-15
higher than in the first case. If fie zero-point be tal en before the
experiment, or if the experimenter wait some time before observing
it, the positions will be higher, but will be more constant if he pro
ceed methodically.
    Permanent Elevation of the Zero.—The observations above referred
to, as well as all measurements to be made with a mercurial thermo
meter, are singularly impeded by the permanent eleval ion of the zero ;
and the alteration of the coefficient of expansion of the glass which
accompanies that phenomenon falsifies all measurements. This
movement of the glass-particles varies enormously in its extent,
according to the circumstances. Thus in a few hours at 430°, or
in a few days at 355°, the zero can be raised 17° or 26°, whilst the
writings of M. Libri and later a publication of M. Meucci's estab
lish that, of some thermometers preserved at Florence for more
than two centuries, the position of the zero has not notably changed.
A fact of especial importance to us is that the permanent e'evation
of the fixed points, produced at a high temperature, preserves the
thermometer from the effect of heat in this respect at lower tempe
ratures. Some thermometers which were kept for e^ven days
heated to 355°, and were afterwards constantly, during two years
and a half, submitted to experiments at all temperatures up to
326°, showed again, after being heated for half an hour to 355°,
the same position of the zero, within 0°"1, as after the first heating
to 355°.
   Thermometers intended for our ordinary laboratory experiments
should be heated, before graduation and calibration, for a week or
ten days in boiling mercury. That is the only appropriate way to
obtain instruments that preserve the value of the degree fixed during
graduation ; and the errors of thermometers which have not under
gone this treatment may amount to 4° for a length of 300°.
   When the thermometer is intended to give lower temperatures,

 68            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 it is sufficient to heat it to the highest temperature of the experi
 ments during a very long time relatively to the duration of the sub
 sequent experiments.
    Thus a thermometer which indicates the temperature of the
 atmosphere, and from time to time is raised to 100° in order to fix
 the value of the degree, is prepared for that use by three or four
 days' heating to 100°. If, however, it is to serve for prolonged ex
 periments at temperatures near 100°, the whole length of it must
 be heated to 100° for three or four weeks before graduation and
 calibration.
    If a new thermometer is examined during this treatment, the
 value of a degree is seen to change in the proportion of about
 1 : 1"0004 ; and with the fixity of the zero towards the end of the
 heating, the value of the degree is observed to have also itself
 become fixed ; and it remains constant if the thermometer is left at
 the ordinary temperature before a fresh determination of the
 interval from 100° to zero*.
    I agree with M. Pernet in admitting that the value of the degree
 does not change in ordinary observations, when there is no percep
 tible change in the position of the zero ; but a new thermometer
 cannot undergo a great number of operations at 100° without one
 or other of its constants varying. Thanks to the kindness of M.
 Mascart, I have been able to submit to a long heating to 100° a
 thermometer which had been in use during more than ten years ;
 and with that instrument no notable change was seen to be pro
 duced in the position of the zero. The treatment at 100° does
 nothing but imitate the effect of long use. The time necessary for
 the treatment is abridged by heating for twenty-four hours in
 boiling essence of turpentine, and afterwards from four days to a
week to 100°; and an analogous procedure serves for higher tem
peratures.
    The glass must not be exposed to the corrosive action of boiling
water ; and metallic apparatus of easy construction permits those
 operations to be effected without escape and without contact of
 vapours of either water or mercury.—Comptes Rendus de I'Academie
 des Sciences, Nov. 13, 1882, t. xcv. pp. 910-912.
THEORETIC INTERPRETATION OF THE EFFECT PRODUCED BY A
    THIN LAYER OF OIL SPREAD OUT AT THE SURFACE OF THE
    SEA TO CALM THE AGITATION OF THE WAVES. BY M. VAN
    DER MENSBRUGGHE.
   Since the remarkable experiments of Mr. Shields in Scotland,
public attention has been called to the marvellous efficacy possessed
by oil for calming the surges of the sea. I have the honour of
   * It is to be noted that the thing required is to compare zeros de
pressed to the maximum, and that the depression does not attain its limit
at 100° until after an hour or an hour and a half. The time necessary
to complete the depression diminishes with the elevation of the tempe
rature.

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.                  69
addressing to the Academy a summary of the propositions with
the aid of which I believed I could explain, at the August meeting
of the Royal Academy of Belgium, how a small quantity of oil
spread out upon a large surface can overcome an enormous quan
tity of vis viva of the waters*.
    1. The quantity of work necessary for increasing by 1 square
metre the free surface of a mass of water is about 0-0075 kilo
gramme-metre ; this work is stored up, in the form of potential
energy, in the fresh surface layer of the water ; the thickness of the
layer in which that energy resides does not reach -g-^ J ,j-0 millim.
    2. Reciprocally, if the free surface of the water rapidly dimi
nishes, to each square metre of surface lost an energy of motion
equivalent to 0*0075 kilogramme-metre corresponds.
    3. Let us in thought isolate a mass of water having a base of
1 square metre and a thickness of 1 metre, and imagine that a
mechanical action, such as the wind, rapidly rolls up a superficial
layer of 1 square metre base and •3lr^tr0- millim. thickness, laying
bare a fresh layer of the same extent ; then the potential energy of
the first layer will be entirely transformed into energy of motion.
If all the layers in succession, each ^o^iro millim. in thickness, are
likewise rolled up, the application of the principle of vires vivce
shows that theoretically the cubic metre of water can store up
 150,000 kilogramme-metres of work, capable of impressing on the
 total mass a velocity of 54*2 metres.
    4. If a superficial layer of water of 1 square metre surface is
 caused by the action of the wind to slide over the next layer, of the
 same extent, the latter, being covered by the former, loses its po
 tential energy, but acquires an equivalent quantity of energy of
 motion ; if the action of the wind makes a fresh layer slide over
 the first two, there is again developed a vis viva equivalent to the
 lost potential energy of the free surface, and so on.
    5. Let us now suppose that a layer of pure water Blides over a
 layer next to it, covered with oil ; from that time the potential
 energy (0-0055 kilog.-m.) of the water covered by a thin greasy
 layer is replaced by the potential energy of the free surface of
 pure water (0 0075 kilog.-m.), an energy augmented by those of the
 two surfaces of contact of the submerged thin layer of oil with
 the water below and the water above : the value of each of these
 latter is, according to M. Quincke's measurements, 0-002 kilog.-m.
Therefore the sliding of the layer of pure water over the oily layer
has produced a gain of potential energy of 0-006 kilog.-m. per
 square metre. But to such a development of potential energy
    • It is highly desirable that trials should be made at the mouth of
 the Seine for the purpose of ascertaining if a relatively minute quantity
 of oil can, as the facts alreadv known and my theory of the potential
 energy of liquid surfaces would lead us to presume, prevent the disastrous
effects of the violent eddy of the tide. In case of success the employment
 of oil during storms in harbours, in the vicinity of lighthouses, at dan
 gerous parts of the coasts, &c. would become a duty.

70             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
an equivalent loss of vis viva necessarily corresponds ; and that is
the reason why the waves must quickly lose their force as soon as
they come into contact with an oily layer.
    Such are the very simple propositions which permit me to account
for a phenomenon known from ancient times, but which, even on
account of its singularity, has not yet obtained the valuable appli
cations it deserves.— Comptes Iiendus de VAcademie des Sciences,
Nov. 27, 1882, t. xcv. pp. 1055, 1056.
     ON THE ELECTRIFICATION OF THE AIR. BY M. MASCART.
    At one of the meetings of the International Committee for the
determination of the electric units, lately assembled at Paris, Sir
"W. Thomson pointed out the importance to science of continuous
observations of the proper electrification of the lower strata of the
atmosphere by determining the potential in a limited volume of gas
taken from the surrounding air and withdrawn from the action of
foreign electrical masses.
    I have essayed to see by experiment how a mass of air thus iso
lated preserves its electrification, in order to define the conditions
under which it would be expedient to place one's self for the pur
pose of continuous observation.
    The air of the amphitheatre of the College de France, which
represents, roughly, a cube of 9 or 10 metres side, was electrified
 by discharginq; into it a Leyden jar during 10 seconds by a conduct
 ing flame. An electrometer, placed in the room, was in communi
cation with a receiving flame placed about 8 metres from the spot
where the discharge took place, and ]-5 metre from the ground.
As soon as the discharge is commenced the electrometer is affected :
 the deflection at first undergoes a series of oscillations of great am
plitude, then increases in a more regular manner, reaches a maxi
mum at the end of from 10 to 15 minutes, and afterwards decreases
 very slowly.
    The larger oscillat-'ons at the outset appeared to result from a
 direct action of the electrified strata of air upon the conducting
 wires of the electrometer, which were too near them. To eliminate
 this cause of error, the electrometer was placed in an adjacent room,
 the communication with the receiving flame being established by a
 wire passing through the parti ion. In this case the effects are
 more regular : the maximum deflection was again reached in about
a quarter of an hour; it then diminished slowly, obeying a law
 clearly indicated by the form of the curve to be an exponential,
 like that for thermal radiation. After two hours the potential was
 still    of its maximum value. Nevertheless there was still mani
 fested, especially during the first minutes, a series of oscillations
 of small amplitude ; and those oscillations were exaggerated as soon
 as a door was opened even for a very short time, or if an observer
 crossed the room at several metres distance from the receiving
flame.
    These phenomena can be naturally explained if it be admitted

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.            71
that the electrification remains adherent to the strata of air which
were directly in contact with the flame during the discharge. The
electrified gases ascend by virtue of their raised temperature, then
move and disseminate themselves after the manner of smoke until
they are uniformly distributed in the atmosphere of the room : the
deflection of the galvanometer is then near its maximum. As to
the disappearance of the electricity, it takes place either by ex
change with the outer air, or by the receiving flame itself conti
nually neutralizing the surrounding electricity, or by contact of
the air with the walls of the room.
   The loss will be diminished when the movements of gas due to
the presence of the flames are suppressed. This is shown by expe
riment when the discharge is effected by a sharp point and the
receiving flame is replaced by running water : the needle of the
electrometer is again deflected                        discharge com-
mences ; but after this it remains some time stationary, attains
the maximum deflection a little later, and the return to zero takes
 place more slowly. At the end of an hour the loss was only two
 thirds ; it would doubtless be much slower in air absolutely still.
We have moreover obtained an identical proof of it by studying the
 air enclosed in a room communicating with the outside only by the
 usual leakages of the doors and windows : electricity was almost
 always found there, of the same sign as that of the outer air ; for
 opening a window was sufficient to augment greatly the indications
 of the instrument.
    The electrification produced by a Leyden jar is always very
 slight; but much more energetic effects can easily be obtained.
 On the electricity furnished by a Holtz machine being discharged
 by a flame during one minute, the air was so much electrified that
 the potential about the middle of the room at the instant of the
 maximum exceeded 2000 volts ; from this the mean density of the
 electricity in the air can be deduced, supposing its distribution
 uniform.
    From these experiments it follows that, for the examination of
 the lower strata of the atmosphere, it is sufficient to determine the
 potential in a room of some metres dimensions, the walls of which
 should be formed by wire netting with large meshes, in communi
 cation with the ground, in order to eliminate the action of external
 electric masses. The exchanges of gas with the atmosphere, how
 ever gentle the wind may be, will be sufficient to compensate the
 loss produced by the wails and the collecting-apparatus (flame or
 running water), and to communicate to the electrometer a potential
 constantly proportional to the electrification belonging to the sur
 rounding air. That potential will be quite different (most fre
 quently of contrary sign) from that obtained by the usual methods.
 If electricity plays an important part in natural phenomena, it is to
 be presumed that the proper electrification of the air is peculiarly
 effective ; Sir W. Thomson's suggestion therefore merits the atten
 tion of all observers.— Comptes Rendus de VAcademie des Sciences,
  Nov. 13, 1882, t. cxv. pp. 017-919.

 72            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
  THE DISPLACEMENTS AND DEFORMATIONS OF ELECTRIC SPARKS
            BY ELECTROSTATIC ACTIONS. BY AUG. RIGHI.
    Known experiments show that the electric discharge commences
when the electric density on the electrodes has attained a sufficient
value relatively to the dimensions of the balls, their quality, dis
tance, &c.* Supposing that the discharge is constituted by the
emission of electrified particles, it will commence at that one of the
two electrodes on which the density is the greater—from which we
 derive the explanation of many phenomena.
    If, then, at but little distance from the place where the spark is
formed there are other electrified bodies, the particles will deviate
from their path, moving away from the bodies which have charges
of the same name as that of the electrode which repels them, and
approaching the bodies charged with the contrary electricity.
    Now the spark must pursue the path of the first particles re
pelled ; for, by reason of the heat evolved, it offers less resist
ance. Therefore the spark itself will deviate, as if it were a body
charged with electricity of the same sign as that of the electrode on
which the density previous to the discharge is the greater.
    The following is one of the ways in which I have verified this
class of facts :—The two stems bearing the discharge-balls are
arranged vertically one below the other, and at equal distance two
parallel vertical disks are kept constantly charged, the one with
positive, the other with negative electricity, by a Holtz machine
with auxiliary combs, the exciters of which are sufficiently distant
from one another for the sparks not to explode. It is readily ob
 served that, when the two disks are not charged, the form of the
 spark produced between the two stems by the discharge of a con
denser charged by another Holtz machine is nearly a straight line
(if the distance between the balls is not too great) ; but if the disks
are charged and if the two balls are not in all respects identical,
the spark is curved, approaching the one or the other disk. The
 changes of shape are very remarkable when a liquid resistance such
that the spark becomes yellow is inserted in the discharge-circuit.
The spark then takes very curious forms ; and at the same time it
is observed to start from points of the electrodes situated laterally.
    Suppose, for example, that the two balls are identical in dimen
sions and quality, but that one of them, the negative, communi
cates with the earth ; the greater density is then on the positive
ball, and it is there that the discharge will commence. The spark,
in fact, is displaced and deformed as a positively electrified flexible
body would be. The same effect is obtained if, both balls being
insulated, the diameter of the negative is greater than that of the
positive ball.—CompUs Rtndus de VAcadimie des Sciences, Dec. 11,
1882, t. xcv. p. 1223-24.
   * A. Righi, " Sulle scariche elettriche," Ntwvo Cimento, ser. 2, xvi.
pp. 89 & 97.

Miru-erri. Bros lilH
1
THE ANNALS AND                                  MAGAZINE
                                      or
        NATURAL                          HISTORY,
                                 INCLUDING
             ZOOLOGY, BOTANY, AND GEOLOGY.
                       MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. M.
   Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following
 prices:—
     The First Series, in 20 volumes, from 1838 to 1847.    Price £10.
     The Second Series, in 20 volumes, from 1848 to 1857.     „ £10.
     The Third Series, in 20 volumes, from 1858 to 1867.      „ £12.
     The Fourth Series, in 20 volumes, from 1868 to 1877.      „ £12.
         Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.
         THE LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL                                MAGAZINE
                                    AND
             JOURNAL                 OF      SCIENCE.
A J0UENAL DEVOTED TO PHYSICS, ASTRONOMY, MECHANICS,
   CHEMISTRY, MINERALOGY, AND THE ALLIED SCIENCES.
                        MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. 6d.
  Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following
prices :—
  The First Series, in 68 volumes, from 1798 to 1826.     Price £15.
  The Second Series, in 11 volumes, from 1827 to 1832.      „ £2 4*.
  The Third Series, in 37 volumes, from 1832 to 1850.       „ £6.
  The Fourth Series, in 50 volumes, from 1851 to 1876.      „ £25.
        Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.

               CONTENTS op N° 91.—Fifth Series.
   I. Researches on the Passage of Electricity through Earefied Air.
By Prof. E. Edlund                                                         page 1
   II. On a Wedge-and-Diaphragtn Photometer. By Robert Sabine. 22
   III. On Lockyer's Theory of Dissociation. By Hermann W.
Voom                                                                            28
   IV. The Electrical Resistance of Selenium Cells. By Sheuord
Bidwell, M.A., LL.B                      ,                                      31
   V. On Central Forces and the Conservation of Energy. By
Walter B. Browne, M.A., M. Inst. C.E., late Fellow of Trinity
College, Cambridge                                                              35
   VI. Eelations between the Heats of Combination of the Elements
and their Atomic Weights. By A. P. Laurle                                       42
   VII. Amount of Carbon Dioxide in the Atmosphere. By John
LeConte                                                                         46
   VIII. Apparent Attractions and Repulsions of Small Floating
Bodies. By John LeConte. (Plate I.)                                             47
   IX. Notices respecting New Books :—Eev. 0. Fisher's Physics
of the Earth's Crust.—Mr. E. Ballard's Solution of the Pyramid
Problem.—Mr. B. A. Peacock's Saturated Steam the Motive Power
in Volcanoes and Earthquakes ; great Importance of Electricity . .56-60
   X. Proceedings of Learned Societies :—
      Geological Society :—Mr. T. M. Eeade on the Drift-beds of
         the North-west of England and North Wales ; Mr. T. W. E.
         David on the Evidences of Glacial Action in South Breck
         nockshire and East Glamorganshire ; Eev. A. Irving on the
         Mechanics of Glaciers ; and on the Origin of Valley-Lakes. 60-65
   XI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
      On the Exactness of the Measurements made with Mercurial
         Thermometers, by J. M. Crafts                                          66
      Theoretic Interpretation of the Effect produced by a Thin Layer
         of Oil spread out at the Surface of the Sea to calm the Agita
         tion of the Waves, by M. van der Mensbrugghe                           68
      On the Electrification of the Air, by M. Mascart                          70
      The Displacements and Deformations of Electric Sparks by
         Electrostatic Actions, by Aug. Eighi                                   72
     It is requested that all CommunicatioDs for this Work may be addressed,
        post-paid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office, Red
        Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

Vol. 15.                      FEBRUARY 1883.                                 No. 92.
            -Publisligct'the First Day of every Month.—Price 2s. 6d.
               . - A)                  m^m
                   . JJ                   THE
                  LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
   PHILOSOPHICAL                                     MAGAZINE,
                                          AND
                 JOURNAL                  OF     SCIENCE.
      Being a Continuation of Tilloch's 'Philosophical Magazine,'
        Nicholson's 'Journal,' and Thomson's 'Annals of Philosophy'
                                      CONDUCTED BY
         SIR ROBERT KANE, LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.A. F.C.S.
          SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, Knt. LL.D. F.R.S. &c.
                                           AND
          WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
                               FIFTH          SERIES.
                          N° 92.—FEBRUARY 1883.
                                     LONDON:
         PEIMTBI) BY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS, BED LION COUET, FLEET STREET,
   Sold by Longmans, Green, Reader and Dyer ; Kent and Co. ; Simpkin, Marshall and
     Co. - and Whittaker and Co. ;—and by A. and C. Black, and Thomas Clark, Edin
     burgh ; Smith and Son, Glasgow :—Hodges, Foster and Co., Dublin :—Putnam,
     Is ew York : —and Asher and Co., Berlin.

                     Crown 8vo, cloth, price 2t. 6d., post free.
                       TRANSIT TABLES FOB 1883,
Giving the Greenwich Mean Time of Transit of the Sun, and of about Twenty
     Stars for every Day in the Year, with other Astronomical Information for
     Popular Use.
                  By LATIMER CLARK, Memh. Inst C.E.
   By the aid of these Tables accurate Time may be obtained in any part of the
World.
                         Demy 8vo, cloth, 5s., post free.
              TREATISE ON THE TRANSIT INSTRUMENT,
  As applied to the Determination of Time, for the use of Country Gentlemen.
                   By LATIMER CLARK, Memb. Inst. C.E.
                AN IMPROVED TRANSIT INSTRUMENT
                       Of the Highest Quality. Price £8.
        ALFRED J. FROST, 6 Westminster Chambers, London. S.W.
                    Joh. Ambr. Barth, editeur.
                         LEIPZIG, Johannesgasse 34.
                             PERIODICA.
    Annalen der Physik und Chemie. Herausgegeben von Gilbert (von
1799 bis 1824), von Poggendorff (von 1825 bis 1876), von G. Wiedemann
(seit 1877). Jahrlich 3 Bde. oder 12 Hefte. 8°.                            81. —
   Beiblatter zu den Annalen der Physik und Chemie. nerauagegeben
seit 1877 von G. u. E. Wiedemann. Jahrlich 12 Hefte. 8°.               M 16. —
    Journal far praktische Chemie (von 1828 bis 1834 unter dem Titel:
 'Journal fur technische und oconomische Chemie') herausgegeben von Erd-
mann, Sekweigger-Seidel, Marchand, Werther; (bis 1869). Neue Folge (seit
 1870) herausgegeben von H Kolbe und E. v. Meyer. Jahrlich 2 Btinde in
 22 Heften. 8o.                                                         Af 22. —
     Vollstandige Verlagsverzeichnisse werden jederzeit, auf Verlangen franco
                                    zugesandt 1
                              New Edition, price 1».
              TABLE OF CORRECTIONS FOR TEMPERATURE
  to Reduce Observations to 32° Fahrenheit for Barometers, with Brass Scales
          extending from the Cistern to the top of the Mercurial Column.
                        By JAMES GLAISHER, F.R.S.
             Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                        [AD VER TISEMENTS continued on 3rd page of Cover.

                               THE
          LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL                         MAGAZINE
                               AND
        JOURNAL                OF      SCIENCE.
                      [FIFTH SEBJES.]
                    FEBRUARY 1883.
XII. Elementary Investigations relating to Forced Vibrations ;
    with Applications to the Tides and to Controlled Pendulums.
    By Prof. J. D. Everett, F.R.S., Queen's College, Belfast*.
1. T ET there be a body whose free vibrations are simple-
     J-J harmonic, the acceleration for a displacement s being
fi^s, and the period being therefore 2w/V         If this body be
acted on by an external force which is a simple-harmonic
function of the time, and which urges the body along the
same path which it would take if vibrating freely, the body
will ultimately be brought into a permanent state of simple-
harmonic vibration with the same period as the external force.
This is on the supposition (which is practically fulfilled in the
majority of actual cases) that, though friction can be neglected
in considering a single vibration, its accumulated effect in a
great number of vibrations is sufficient ultimately to destroy
any previously existing free vibration if the body were left to
itself.
    2. It is easy to show, by reductio ad absurdum, that in the
permanent state the maxima of the external force must coincide
tcith the maxima of displacement. Let us, for instance, try the
supposition that the force attains its maximum after the mean
Eosition has been passed but before the extreme position has
  een attained (and if this be true on one side, it must also, by
symmetry, be true on the other). The force in any given
                   • Communicated by the Author.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 92. Feb. 1883.            Q

74       Prof. J. D. Everett's Elementary Investigations
position will then be greater in the outward than in the return
movement; the work done by the force in the outward move
ment will therefore not be equal to the work of opposite sign
which it does in the return movement ; and this difference of
work will produce a steady gain or steady loss of energy from
one passage through the mean position to the next, which is
contrary to the supposition of a permanent state having been
attained.
    3. The external force then is a maximum in the extreme
position; and as this maximum force may either act outwards
or inwards, two opposite cases are possible. Either the ex
ternal force urges the body outward during the whole of the
outward movement, and by continuing to act outward opposes
the motion during the whole of the return movement; or else
 it opposes the whole of the outward movement and assists the
 whole of the return. In this latter case the external force
 always urges the body towards the mean position, and this is
 precisely what the internal forces (on which free vibration
 depends) are doing. Moreover, since the displacement, the
 internal force, and the external force are all three of them
 simple-harmonic functions of the time, with the same period,
 and they attain their maxima simultaneously, tJie external force
 has a constant ratio to the internal force.
    4. The acceleration due to the internal force is /its ; the
 acceleration due to the external force must therefore have the
 value /xj«, where /i? is a constant. The actual acceleration
 will be (fti+A^)*, directed towards the mean position.
    This reasoning also applies to the other alternative, except
 that nt must be regarded as negative, because the acceleration
 due to the external force will always be from the mean posi
 tion, and therefore opposite in direction to that due to the
 internal force. In this case /aj must be less in absolute mag
 nitude than /xj ; for otherwise the actual acceleration would be
from the mean position—a supposition inconsistent with vibra
 tory movement.
     In all the foregoing reasoning, the displacement s may
  either be a linear distance, or an angular distance, or any
  other quantity which serves to measure the displacement of a
  body with one degree of freedom.
     5. Denoting the actual period of vibration by T, and the
  period of free vibration by T„ we have
  If the forced vibrations are quicker than the free vibrations,
  T is less than T„ and /tj+ytij must be greater than ftx, hence
  the external force always acts inward; but if the forced vibra

                  relating to Forced Vibrations.              75
tions are slower than the free vibrations, fi\ + /ii must be less
than /i„ and the external force must always act outward.
   6. If a denote the amplitude, or maximum value of s, and /
the maximum acceleration due to the external force, which is
supposed to be a known quantity, we have
                            /=/***>
from which equation we can obtain a determination of « in
terms of the free and forced periods, as follows :—
             Pi + Hn   :  /ii : :   Tj        :  T2
                  ^    :  K ::      T?-T*     :  T2
                          /_/        F .
   7. We shall now apply some of the above results to the
lunar tides in a uniform canal encircling the earth at the
equator, the moon being supposed to be always vertically over
the equator, and to revolve round the earth at a constant dis
tance with constant angular velocity.
   Let 0 denote the difference of longitude of any point of the
canal from the point vertically under the moon, and M the
moon's attraction upon a unit of mass on the earth multiplied
by the ratio of the earth's radius to the moon's distance.
Then, as is well known, the moon's disturbing force at any
point of the canal can be resolved into a component M sin 6
perpendicular to the line of centres of the earth and moon,
and a component 2M cos 0 parallel to the line of centres—the
direction of the former component being towards the line of
centres, and the direction of the latter component being from
the medial plane of the earth which separates the hemisphere
enlightened by the moon from the other hemisphere. By
resolving each of these components along a tangent to the
equator, we get 3M sin 0 cos 0, or | M sin 20, as the horizontal
force urging the water along the canal, due to the moon's
action, its direction being always that which would bring the
water nearer to the line of centres. As the value of 0 for a
given point of the canal increases at the uniform rate of 2tt
 per lunar day, the expression § M sin 20 represents a simple-
harmonic function of the time with a period T of half a lunar
day. As the amplitude of vibration of' a particle of the water
will be insignificant in comparison with a quadrant of the
equator, we may identify the actual disturbing force on a par
ticle with that which would be exercised if the particle were
in its mean position, and may therefore adopt % M sin 20 as
 the expression for the disturbing force on a particle.
                               G2

76        Prof. J. D. Everett's Elementary Investigations
    8. The actual horizontal acceleration of a particle of the
water at any moment is the algebraic sum of two horizontal
components—one due to the moon and equal (as just shown)
to |rM sin 26, and the other due to the slope of the surface.
The magnitude of the latter component is g multiplied by the
 tangent of the slope ; and its direction is always towards the
 lower side. The particle vibrates under the joint action of
 these two accelerations, each of which is a simple-harmonic
 function of the time with a period of half a lunar day. Hence,
 by the reasoning of section 2, they attain their maxima
 together. The maxima of the component due to the moon
 are at the points 45° distant from the line of centres ; these
 must therefore be the points of steepest slope ; and as the
 points of steepest slope in a simple-harmonic wave are mid
 way between crest and trough, there will be either a crest or
 a trough exactly under the moon. The reasoning of section 5
 shows that, if the actual period be less than the period offree
 vibration, the two components conspire; but if greater, they are
 in opposition. If they conspire, the slope for 45° on each side
 of the point under the moon must be towards this point ; that
  is to say, there must be low water under the moon. If they
  are in opposition, the slope must be the other way, and there
  must be high water under the moon.
     The periods of the free and forced vibrations are inversely
 as the velocities of free and forced waves, since a wave of
 either kind travels half round the equator in one period.
  Hence, if the forced xcave travels faster than thefree wave, there
  is low water, and if slower, high water, under the moon*.
      9. We can now calculate the height of the tide, if the ratio
  of the actual period T to the free period 1\ be known.
      Let z denote the height of any point of the surface of the
  water measured from mean level at time t, at a point of the
  canal distant x in the forward direction from a fixed point of
  reference, V the actual velocity of the wave, X the wave
  length, which is trr (where r denotes the earth's radins), and
  %h the difference between high and low water. Then, by the
  standard formula for simple-harmonic waves, we have
               z=h cos ^ (Yt— x) = hcos^(Vt— x),
 The acceleration due to the slope is
                       dz        2/t . 2/T,        N
                  Sdx           9-*™-<yt-x),
     * On comparing the reasoning of this section with that employed by
  Mr. Abbott in a paper on the same subject (Phil. Mug. January 1870), it
 will be seen that Mr. Abbott has neglected the acceleration due to slope.

                  relating to Forced Vibrations.              77
the maximum value of which is
                               2gh/r.
The maximum value of the component due to the moon is 8M;
and the quantities fa and       in section 5 are proportional to
these maximum values. We have therefore
               T2 : Tf-T» :: ^ : |M,
                             rM     T2
                     2A=| —
                              0 T»-T«
   10. By making T indefinitely great compared with T„ we
obtain the height of the equilibrium tide, which is therefore
(neglecting sign)
A positive valuo of 2h indicates low, and a negative value
high, water under the moon ; because we have taken as the
standard case that in which       has the same sign as pt.
   Taking the moon's mass as one 80th of the earth's, the
moon's distance as 60 times the earth's radius, and this latter
as 4000 miles, the value of § rM/g comes out exactly 22 inches.
   11. The height of the equilibrium tide, and the distribution
of elevation and depression over the whole ocean on the equi
librium theory, can be independently calculated by the follow
ing simple method, which I have not been able to find in print,
though I am informed that it is not new.
   Imagine narrow tubes leading down from two points (or
any number of points) on the surface to the centre of the
earth. The same distribution of water which gives equilibrium
when there is freedom for the water to traverse these tubes,
will still give equilibrium when they are blocked by dia
phragms ; for the introduction of diaphragms cannot destroy
previously existing equilibrium.
   To determine the height of the tide, it suffices to consider
two points, one directly under the moon and the other 90°
distant.
   In the column of water which goes down from the first of
these points to the centre of the earth, the moon's disturbing
force is vertically upward, and varies as the distance from the
centre of the earth. At the top of the column the disturbing
force (with the notation of section 7) is 2M ; and its average
yalue for the whole column is therefore M.

78    Elementary Investigations relating to Forced Vibrations.
   In the column at right angles to this, which goes down from
the second point, the disturbing force is vertically downward,
and has the average value £ M.
   As each column has the length r, the pressure to be coun
terbalanced by difference of levels at the tops of the two
columns is (M + ^M)r; and this must be equal to 2hg, where
2A denotes the height of the equilibrium tide. We have
therefore
                                   9
as previously found.
    12. The vertical component of the moon's disturbing force
at a point of the surface at angular distance 6 from the point
under the moon, is found by compounding the upward com
ponent of a force 2M cos 6 parallel to the Tine of centres With
the downward component of a force M sin 6 perpendicular to
the line of centres, and is therefore an upward force,
    M(2 cos2 6 - sin2 6) =M(3 cos2 8- 1) = M(i + § cos 26).
The average force through the column which goes down from
the point in question to the earth's centre will be half of this,
or will be
                       ±M(l+3cos20);
and to prevent the column from moving upward we must have
an elevation at its summit equal to
                       rM
                     i — (1 + 3 cos 26).
                        9
The elevation measured from the mean level of a great circle
passing through the point under the moon is
                          f— cos 20,
                            9
which follows the simple- harmonic law.
   13. We have taken no account of the attraction of the ele
vated water upon the general mass of water. When this effect
is included, it makes the height of the equilibrium tide greater
by about one eighth part.
   14. The principles of sections 1 to 6 have an important
bearing on the control of pendulums.
   Suppose that the controlling clock gives the controlled
pendulum an impulse in one direction at the beginning of
every even second of Greenwich time, and an impulse in the
opposite direction at the beginning of every odd second. Then,
if the controlled pendulum is naturally too slow in its move
ments, it will adjust itself so as to receive an inward impulse

  Connexion between the Units of Magnetism and Electricity.               79
at each extremity of its swing ; but if it is naturally too quick*
it will receive an outward impulse at each extremity. If its
natural rate is sometimes too quick and sometimes too slow,
according to temperature, it must therefore either gain or lose
 (practically it would probably always lose) an odd number of
seconds when the temperature passes through the critical
 value.
   XIII. On the Connexion between the Units ofMagnetism and
                Electricity. By Prof. R. Clausius*.
IN a paper published in March of this yearf, I made some
       remarks upon the systems of measures to be employed
for the measurement of electric and magnetic quantities ; and
therein one point occurs which has given occasion to various
objections—namely, the determination of the unit of magnetism
in the .electrostatic, system. Some of these objections, which
appeared in the June Number of the ' Philosophical Maga
zine,' I have already replied to in the August Number of the
same journal. Since then, however, some further remarks,
proceeding in part from parties worthy of high regard, have
been made ; so that I think it necessary again to introduce
the subject.
    In former times magnetism was regarded as an agent exist
 ing apart, independent of electricity. If that view were still
adhered to, it would not be necessary, in establishing a system
 of measures for magnetism, to take into consideration the
 system employed for electricity. It is, however, Ampere's
 great merit, and, I believe I may add, one of the greatest
 advances made by physics, that an indissoluble connexion
 between electricity and magnetism has been demonstrated ; so
 that we no longer need to consider magnetism a separate
 agent, but can regard all the forces usually called magnetic
 as electrodynamic.
    For. if we imagine, in a given magnet of measurable mag
 nitude, each of the innumerable little magnets of which it
 consists replaced by a small electric current of which the defi
 nition is that the product of the current-intensity and the area
 round which the current flows is equal to the product of the
 length of the little magnet and the strength of its poles, or,
 differently expressed, equal to the magnetic momentum of the
little magnet, then the totality of these small currents exerts
   * Translated from a separate impression, communicated by the Author,
from Wiedemann's Annalen, xvii. (1882) pp. 713-719.
   f Verhandl.dematurhist. Vereinsderjrreust. Rheinlande undWestfal&nt,
ixxix. p. 105 ; Phil. Mag. June 1882, p. 381; Wied. Ann. xvi. p. 529 (1882).

80         Prof. R. Clausius on the Connexion behceen
npon other electric currents or other magnets the same forces
as the given magnet. Magnetism can thus, according to
Ampere, be accounted for, without assuming the existence of
a second agent besides electricity, from the existence of those
electric currents.
   According to this explanation, by the term Magnetism
we are to understand only an electrodynamic conception ;
and hence, in every system of measures, the unit which is to
be employed for measuring magnetism must be chosen in ac
cordance with that conception—that is, so that the product of
the unit of magnetism and the unit of length, and the product
of unit current and unit area, become equivalent quantities.
Theiefore, if [m] denotes the unit of magnetism, and [t] the
unit of current-intensity, and, further, [L] the unit of length
and accordingly [L2] the unit of area, the following equation
must hold :—
                           [mL] = [tL»];                     (1)
from which follows
                             [m] = [iL].    ...... (2)
Now, since the unit of current-intensity is the intensity of a
current in which, in the unit of time, the unit of electricity
passes through a cross section, we have, if [e] denotes the unit
of electricity and [T] the time-unit, to put
by which the preceding equation is changed into
                             [«]-[eLT-»]                     (3)
    This equation expresses the relation between the units of
magnetism and electricity corresponding to Ampere's expla
 nation of magnetism. If we apply it to the electrostatic
 system of measures, and hence define the quantity [e], which
 in this case must, in order to distinguish it from the electro-
 dynamic unit of electricity, be written [«#], by the equation
                         [,.] = [Mi LIT"'],                  (4)
 in which [M] denotes the unit of mass, we get for the defini
 tion of the electrostatic unit of magnetism the following equa
tion :—
                        [m,] = [M*LST-s]                     (5)
    It was this equation that gave rise to the above-mentioned
 objections, because it differs from Maxwell's, which reads as
 follows:—
                        [fn.] = [M*L»]                        (6)
    The way in which Maxwell arrived at his equation, as may
 bo inferred from the connexion of his analyses, was based on

               the Units of Magnetism and Electricity.          81
the employment of an equation which differs from Ampere's
with respect to its attitude towards the electrostatic and elec-
trodjnamic systems. For a distinction must be made between
equations which belong exclusively to one- of those systems
and those which are applicable to both. Exclusively electro
static or electrodynamic equations are those which represent
an electrostatic or an electrodynamic force by the formula of
mechanical force.
    Now, as to Ampere's equation, it certainly resulted from the
consideration of electrodynamic forces—that is to say, from
the comparison of the forces exerted by a magnet and by
an electric current ; but it does not represent these forces
either by the mechanical-force formula or by any other for
mula, but merely expresses that the magnet and the current
are, in respect of the forces exerted by them, equivalent to one
another. It is therefore not to be regarded as an exclusively
electrodynamic equation; much rather, since it expresses only
the relation which, according to Ampere, subsists between
magnetism and electricity, to it must be ascribed, so far as
 Ampere's theory is at all recognized as correct, a general
 validity independent of the system of measures employed: and
 this justifies my application of it.
    Maxwell's equation, on the contrary, was produced by repre
 senting an electrodynamic force, namely the force which a
 magnetic pole exerts upon an electric current, by the mecha
 nical-force formula. It consequently has in itself the cha
 racter of an exclusively electrodynamic equation ; and its
 employment for the determination of the electrostatic unit of
 magnetism cannot be acknowledged as justified.
     On the reasons alleged by various English authors in sup
 port of this mode of determination I have already expressed
 myself in my above-mentioned article in the ' Philosophical
 Magazine,' and will not repeat what I have there said, but
 will confine myself to noticing some points which appear to
 me to furnish a standard for judging the mutually contrary
  modes of determination.
    Maxwell's determination is not only carried out without regard
  to Ampere's explanation of magnetism, but is even in contra
  diction to it, as will readily be seen if the formula (6) above
  given for [»»»], and at the same time formula (4) for [«,], be
  inserted in equation (3), because then on the two sides there
  will be different expressions, and, indeed, expressions of differ
  ent dimensions. And I must say that, if Ampere's explana
  tion of magnetism, by which the great department of science
  embracing electricity, magnetism, and electromagnetism is so
  essentially simplified, were given up again, I should hold that
  a decidedly retrograde step had been taken.

 82         Prof. B. Clausius on the Connexion between
   It is further to be remarked that, if once Ampere's expla
nation is abandoned and the electrostatic unit of magnetism is
sought to be determined in another way, by employing one of
the forces exerted by a magnetic pole, then Maxwell's formula
is not the only possible one. I am induced to make this
remark especially by a memoir recently published by Prof.
 Helmholtz*.
   M. Helmholtz speaks of Gauss's units of electricity and
magnetism, which are defined by the following propositions:—
 (1) The unit of electricity is that quantity of electricity which
at unit distance exerts the unit of force upon an equal quan
tity of electricity; (2) The unit of magnetism is that quantity
of magnetism which exerts at unit distance the unit of force
upon an equal quantity of magnetism. From these proposi
tions result the equations :—
                      W = [M*L«T-],|                           (7)
                     [m] = [M»L*T-1].J
   A system of measures based upon the simultaneous employ
ment of these two equations M. Helmholtz calls the hitherto
employed electrostatic system, and in one place also the electro
static magnetic system of Gauss.                                 ¦
   Now 1 certainly do not believe that Gauss intended to make
these two equations the foundation of one and the same co
herent system of measures ; I am much rather of the opinion
lhat he regarded the electric and magnetic systems as two
separate and independent systems, of which each would have
one of the two equations for its basis. On the other hand,
however, I willingly admit that, if we once abandon Ampere's
explanation of magnetism, we can just as well combine these
two equations into one system as those which underlie Max
well's electrostatic system of measures.
   We have consequently, including the system recommended
by M. Helmholtz, three different electrostatic systems of mea
sures, which agree perfectly with each other in relation to
the purely electrical quantities, and differ only with respect
to the unit of magnetism ; and here, for the sake of distinct
ness, the three formula? representing the latter may be placed
side by side.                         *\
                    Maxwell.       Helmholtz.        Clausius.
        ['».]       [M*L*]       [M»L*T->]        [M*LiT->]
   So far as we have to do only with the comparison of mag-
       • Wied. Ann. xvii. p. 42; Phil. Mag. Dec. 1882, p. 43).

              the Units of Magnetism and Electricity.          83
netic quantities with one another, all three formulae can serve
equally well as formulae for the unit of magnetism ; but if we
compare magnetic with electric quantities, the question arises,
to what relations' between magnetism and electricity do the
different formulae lead ?
   In the electrodynamic system, between the units of mag
netism and electricity the following universally accepted equa
tion holds :—
                              = [^LT-1]                       (8)
With this we will compare the equations which in the electro
static system have to be formed, according to the three differ
ent conceptions of it, between the units of magnetism and
electricity.
   According to my conception we must put
                         K] = [>,LT-']. ...... (9)
This equation has the same form as that which holds good in
 the electrodynamic system ; and consequently with this con
 ception we get a definite relation between magnetism and
electricity, independent of the system of measures employed.
 In the equations it is expressed that the unit of magnetism is
a quantity having the dimension of a product of the unit of
electricity and the unit of velocity. The occurrence of a velo
 city as a factor expresses that magnetism is to be placed in the
 same rank, not with resting (static), but with flowing (current)
electricity, in accordance with Ampere's explanation.
    According to Helmholtz's conception we must put
                         [«.] = [«.]               • • • (9a)
 This is quite another equation than that which is valid in
the electrodynamic system ; and I must confess I know not
 ¦what idea is to be formed of the nature of magnetism if in one
system of measures the unit of magnetism appears as a quan
 tity having the same dimension as the unit of electricity, and
in the other system as a quantity having the dimension of a
product of the unit of electricity and the unit of velocity.
    According to Maxwell's conception we must put
                         K] = pftij- ......                  (9b)
This is likewise a different equation from that current in the
electrodynamic system. Instead of a product of the elec
tricity- and velocity-units, here is a fraction having the
electricity-unit for the numerator and the velocity-unit for the
denominator; and the question again arises, What idea of the
nature of magnetism is to be formed from two expressions so
different ?
   Bonn, September 1882,

                             [  84   ]
   XIV. A Method for Determining the Rate of Tuning-forks.
                 By Albert A. Michelson*.
THE tuning-fork is already employed to a great extent as
       a measurer of small intervals of time ; and this use
promises to become more extended as its advantages become
more fully appreciated. Any method which will facilitate
the operation of finding the rate, or increase its accuracy,
should therefore merit consideration.
   The following plan appears to be open to fewer objections
than any now in use; and its accuracy is limited only by the
accuracy of the pendulum.
   The fork to be rated, for example an Utj making about 128
double vibrations per second, is compared with an Utj kept
in vibration by electro-magnets and which shall be designated
EUt3 ; and this is compared directly with the seconds pendu
lum ; and then the two forks are once more compared, to make
certain that EUtj has not changed in the interval. Thus Utj
is determined. The whole operation may be performed in
less than ten minutes.
   To determine the rate of EUt2 we will suppose that this is
within a small fraction of the whole number of vibrations per
second, and that this whole number is known, say 128 v. s.
A mirror is attached to one prong of EUt, ; and in front of
this, and at a distance of two or three feet, is placed a Geissler
 tube. This last is illuminated once every second. The
 tube itself is continuously illuminated, and its image in
the mirror presents the appearance of a broad band with well-
 defined edges. Against this the narrow flash is projected.
    Evidently if EUt, makes an exact whole number of vibra
 tions per second, then this flash will always find the fork in
the same phase of vibration ; and consequently its image will
always appear at the same part of the band. If, however, the
 fork makes, say, 128'1 v. s., then it will occupy successively
the positions
                0123456789 10
That is, there would be ten flashes between the positions (0)
and (10). If, therefore, ten flashes occur in one "period,"
then the whole number 128 is to be increased (or diminished)
       • From Silliman'a American Journal for January 1883

     A Method for Determining tlie Rate of Tuning-forks.       85
by one tenth ; and in general if a flashes occur in one period,
then EUtj makes 128 + ^ vibrations per second.
   Since EUtj vibrates continuously, the number of periods
which may be counted is unlimited; hence a can be found
with any desired degree of accuracy.
   It was found that the chief difficulty in executing this plan
lay in the imperfections of the break-circuit. If thereby the
seconds intervals differed as much as O002 second, then the
operation would be impracticable, on account of the irregu
larities in the position of the flashes. A great many break-
circnite were tried; and the one which was finally adopted as
being the most reliable and giving the least trouble was the
" mercury globule." Even this, however, in its usual form
was unsatisfactory. A great improvement was effected by
narrowing the globule in the direction of the swing of the
pendulum, by placing it in a small tube whose upper end
was flattened. If the current from a " bichromate ' cell is
interrupted by this break-circuit, the mercury oxidizes rapidly,
and the flashes (given by a small induction-coil through the
Geissler tube) become irregular.
   To obviate this difficulty, the circuit of a" gravity" battery
was interrupted; and this worked a relay, which in turn inter
rupted the circuit of the induction-coil. The results thus
obtained left nothing to be desired.
   In order that the rate of EUt, remain constant, it is neces
sary that the current passing through its electro-magnets be
constant. Hence the necessity for constant batteries, which,
however, have a comparatively great resistance. Several
might be joined in parallel circuit; but it was found that much
better results were obtained by using six " gravity " cells in
series, and using fine wire magnets. Such aTbattery will keep
the fork in vibration indefinitely with but little alteration in
its rate except that due to variations in temperature.
   In comparing the forks a convenient plan is to weight the
EUt2, so that it gives with the fork to be rated about 9 beats
in 10 seconds, and then to time the " coincidences" between
the beats and the ticks of the pendulum. By this means the
comparison can be much more accurately determined than by
counting the beats for sixty seconds. This may also be done
by the optical method. It was found that the " gravity "
battery which kept the EUtj in vibration could serve at the
 same time to work the relay.
   The whole arrangement is shown in fig. 1, in which, for
clearness, all the parts to the right of i have been shown in the
plane of the drawing, instead of at right angles.

 86 A Method for Determining tlie Rate of Tuning-forks.
                               Fig. 1.
  p,  pendulum.
  m,  mercury globule.
  g,  gravity battery,
   r, relay.
   J, bichromate battery.
  i,  induction coil,
  s,  (Teissier tube.
  /,  fork to be rated.
   «, " electric" fork.
    In practice only the even flashes are counted, the odd ones
being disregarded. Consequently if a be the number of these
per period, n the rate of the fork, and 2N the whole number
nearest to 2n, then n = N ig- •          To determine which sign is
to be used, EUt2 is weighted by a very small piece of wax.
If a is greater than before, the sign is + ; if a is less, the
sign is — .
    The electric fork may be dispensed with entirely by the
following method. The fork to be rated is placed vertical, so
that one edge is in the focus of a microscope provided with
cross-hairs. Behind the fork the Geissler tube is placed hori
zontal. The appearances observed in the microscope at each
flash would then be as follows:—
                                 Fig. 2.
mm®mme €>®®€>€)
 0123456789                                                      10
From these we can deduce the rate as before.
    This method would probably give results almost if not quite
as accurate as the preceding, and has the advantage of being
more direct. The nearest whole number may be found by
comparison with one of Konig's standards, or by the following
method.
    The fork is, in turn, compared with two pendulums, whose
times of vibration are tt and ts, tj — <s being small.
       Let n, = number of vibrations of the fork in time <, ;
       Let n2= number of vibrations of the fork in time f2 ;
n, and        differing from a whole number by less than a small
fraction, ex.

                   On a New Form of Ergometer.                          87
  Let a. = number of beats of pendulum (1) per period=— ;
   Let a,= number of beats of pendulum (2) per period =— ;
c, and c2 being small fractions less than e3.                        C*
              Let Ni= whole number nearest to r^;
              Let Ns = whole number nearest to nj.
Then                         «1+<^=N1.
                             ms + cs=N2.
         ni —«j + Ci — cs = N\ — N2 = M, a whole number.
               n\~ "a+c,— c2 is less than 2(el-\-e3).
If, therefore, 2(ei-tet) is numerically less than            then M = 0,
whence N! = N,=N.
 Eight determinations of the rate of an Uts fork, made by the
 preceding method, gave the following results :—
 Temp. Fahr.          V. 8.        v. s. at 60° F.       Diff. from me
    540             128-134           128-090                 + 0-003
    56-3            128-114           128-087                   0-000
    58-0            128-102           128-087                   o-ooo
    60-0            128-090           128-090                 + 0-003
     62-2           128-077           128-093                 + 0-006
     63-0           128-060           128-082                 -0-005
     64-5           128-050           128-083                 -0-004
     735            127-984           128-084                 -0-003
               XV. On a New Form of Ergometer*.
                By Frederick John Smith, B.A.f
  IN the present period of electrical science, in addition to
        that branch which deals with lighting, another very im
  portant branch has grown out of the great stock, viz. the
  distribution of power, as the different Companies call it.
     In estimating the qualities of various electromotors, and
  also in certain physical experiments connected with motion
  (for instance, to illustrate the amount of work done to keep
  the balls of a centrifugal governor at any given angle), some
  sort of very sensitive ergometer is required. In dealing with
  a few foot-pounds per minute instead of many horse-power,
  great care must be taken that the ergometer be of consider
  able range, dead-beat in its action, and that it have no internal
     * The term " Ergometer " ia now logically used for Dynamometer. See
  Thomson and Tait's ' Elements of Natural Philosophy.'
     t Communicated by the Author.

88                   Mr. F. J. Smith on a New
source of error arising from the position of the spring by
which the tension of a Delt is estimated.
    There are several forms of ergometer in which a fast-and-
loose pulley are connected together by             Fig. L
a spring b (fig. 1) or springs, and in
which any advance of the loose pulley
on the fast one extends the springs.
Now as long as the springs are very
rigid, such as those used in large ergo-
meters, there is but little tendency to
bulge out as they fly round and assume
the position shown at a (fig. 1). But
if the springs are suitable for measuring
small quantities, then they are not rigid
enough to keep their shape while subject to centrifugal force:
such deformation introduces serious error into the total result ;
it is therefore necessary that the spring be so placed that it is
in no way, or but very slightly indeed, affected by centrifugal
force. The author finds that this end can be attained if the axis
of the spiral be made to coincide with the axis of the moving
pulleys. In fig. 2 it will be seen that the spring A is placed
in a hollow shaft B 0, part of which E F is in the form of a link
                               Fig. 2.
 to take the spring. This shaft carries three pulleys ; of these
 L is loose, G fast, and D is geared to G by means of three
 mitre-wheels (part of the wheel G is supposed to be removed
 to show these). The mitre-wheels K and M are provided with
 flat pulleys, to which the cross bar P is attached by two pieces
 of strong catgut. By this arrangement any advance of D upon
 G extends the spring A, a light rod connected to the cross bar
 moves in the tubular shaft, and the projecting end actuates
 either a pointer Q, or an integrating apparatus not shown.
 With regard to the latter apparatus, the most convenient form
 perhaps is that in which a diagram of the work done is drawn
 on a sheet of paper attached to a revolving drum, as used in the
 ergometer of the late Mr. W. Froude and some others. The area
 of the diagram can be estimated by the well-known method of

                          Form of Ergometer.                        89
  the planimeter; or, if the paper is of great homogeneity, the
  area may be cut out out and estimated by weight (this method is
  Morin's). The author finds that far the best results are obtained
  by the use of tinfoil or thin lead instead ofpaper, as paper is sub
 ject to damp and rapid variation of weight. In order that the
  instrument may be of considerable range, springs of different
  strengths can be easily interchanged. Since the weight of
 the indicating rod and bar is slight, the indications are dead-
 beat. A speed-indicator (this is Young's form of instrument),
  R, showing the number of revolutions at any instant, is
 attached to the hollow shaft, and is so placed that its reading
 and that of the tension-indicator can be seen at a glance. This
 is found sufficient for most purposes; but when continuous
 work is being done, such as charging a Faure battery, then
 the diagram-drum is attached.
     For a continuous record, the following form of integrating
 apparatus has been also employed :—
                  Hydraulic Integrating Apparatus.
     In using the ergometer, it is not always necessary to attach
 the recording drum, unless some special curve be sought for,
 such as that which is produced when the instrument is mea
 suring the work done in                      Fig. 3.
 charging an accumulator.
 The following apparatus
 has been devised by the
 author to take the place
 of a disk integrator.
     A very small double-
 acting pump, D, oscilla
 ting about the point H,
 and having a long rod,
 E Gr, not shown at full
 length in fig. 3, is actuated
by a link AB (rocking
 about the point B), to
 which reciprocal motion
is given by the connect
ing-rod, 0.         This rod
receives its motion from
the revolution of the shaft;
the position of the end of
the pump-rod, E, and
hence the length of the
stroke, is controlled by
the rod E F, which is con-
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 92. Feb. 1883.             H

90                On a New Form of Ergometer.
nected to the spring of the instrument, so that any extension
of the spring moves E towards A, and consequently lengthens
the stroke of the pump. Now, when no energy is being trans
mitted the spring of the ergometer is not extended and E has
a definite position between C and B ; and then the water dis
charged by the pump is proportional to the number of revolu
tions of the shaft ; but as soon as energy is transmitted the
spring is extended, and the discharge of water is increased by
the stroke being thus lengthened : the discharge then becomes
a measure of the work done in driving any given machine.
 Instead of a small pump, a ratchet arrangement was tried ;
 but the results were somewhat inferior to those with the pump.
 The constants of the ergometer are found in the same manner
 as when a disk integrator is used.
       The Speed-Indicator (second form, by the Author).
    This is based on the principle involved in the velocimeter
 of Eamsbottom. In this instrument oil in a glass cylinder is
 caused to rotate, the depression caused by rotation being a
 measure of the number of revolutions. As this instrument
 does not admit of sufficiently close reading for the ergometer,
 the author uses mercury instead of oil ; this is whirled in a
 cup with inverted edges. Into the centre of the mercury a
 fixed tube dips, the end of the tube in the mercury being of
 twenty times the capacity of the rest of the tube ; the tube is
 partly filled with a tinted liquid ; the column of liquid is sup
 ported by the mercury. Now, when the mercury is whirled
 the centre, in sinking, alters the capacity of the large end of
 the tube ; and therefore the indications of the liquid in the
  small end of the tube are very large for any change in the
  depression of the mercury. The cup is caused to rotate by
  means of any two of a set of change-wheels, these wheels
  being used either to reduce or augment the speed of rotation
  of the cup as the case may require.
     The speed-indicator is attached to the shaft driven by the
  engine, and not always to the ergometer itself, because in
  dealing with small amounts of work it is well that the work
  done in moving the speed-indicator should not be added to the
  work under test.
     The central shaft was made of compressed steel, by Sir J.
  Whitworth Co.
    Taunton, December 19, 1882.

                                [   91    ]
XVI. The Nature of Solution. By W. W. J. Nicol, M.A.,
   B.Sc, F.R.S.E., Lecturer on CJtemistry, Mason College,
   Birmingham*.
THE solubility of a salt in water is usually explained by
        the supposition that it combines with a portion of the
water to form a hydrate, more or less stable, and that this
hydrate diffuses throughout the mass of the liquid, forming a
homogeneous solution. This is more fully stated by Berthelotf
as follows:—
   " Les phénomènes de la dissolution normale sont en quelque
sorte intermédiaires entre le simple mélange et la combinaison
véritable. En effet, d'une part, l'aptitude à s'unir pour
former une système homogène indique une affinité réelle
entre le solide et le dissolvant ; mais, d autre part, cette union
cesse sous l'influence d'une simple évaporation, et elle se
produit, en apparence du moins, suivant des proportions qui
varient d'une manière continue avec la température.
   " Cependant il me paraît probable que le point de départ de
la dissolution proprement dite réside dans la formation de
certaines combinaisons définies entre le dissolvant et le corps
dissous. Tels seraient les hydrates définis formés au sein de
la liqueur même, entre les sels et l'eau existant dans cette
liqueur; hydrates analogues ou identiques aux hydrates définis
des mêmes composants, connus sous l'état cristallisé            Je
pense en effet qu'il en est ainsi, et que chaque dissolution est
réellement formée par le mélange d'une partie du dissolvant
libre, avec une partie du corps dissous, combinée au dissol
vant suivant la loi des proportions définies. Tantôt cette com
 binaison se formerait intégralement et d'une façon exclusive ;
          Tantôt, au contraire, cette combinaison ne se formerait
 qu'en partie, le tout constituant un système dissocié, dans
 lequel le corps anhydre coexiste avec l'eau et son hydrate,
           plusieurs hydrates définis d'un même corps dissous,
 les uns stables, les autres dissociés, pouvant exister à la fois
 au sein d'une dissolution. Us constituent alors un système
 en équilibre, dans lequel les proportions relatives de chaque
 hydrate varient avec la quantité d'eau, la température, ainsi
 qu'avec la présence des autres corps etc. Ce serait le degré
 inégal de cette dissociation des hydrates, variable avec la
 température, que ferait varier le coefficient de solubilité du
 corps dissous lui-même."
     I have quoted the above as the most concise and definite
 statement of the generally received hydrate theory of solution
    * Communicated by the Author, having been read before the Royal
 Society of Edinburgh, January 16, 1888.
    t Mécanique Chimique, ii. p. 160 et seq.
                                   H2

92                   Mr. W. W. J. Nicol on tJie
that I have been able to find; but it fails to explain in a satis
factory way many of the phenomena of solution, amongst
others the following :—
    The alteration in the solubility of salts when simultaneously
dissolved in water. The experiments of Karsten * and Kopp t
show that in very many cases the solubility of a salt is in
creased by the presence of a second salt in the solution,
while in others, notably in the case of sparingly soluble salts
in the presence of more soluble ones, the solubility of the
former is diminished while that of the latter is increased.
    Again, no explanation is offered of the almost total insolu
bility of some salts {e. g. barium sulphate) and the great solu
bility of others, nor why the solubility of some salts should
increase but slightly with rise of temperature whereas that of
others increases rapidly ; nor does the explanation admit of
extension to such cases of solution as that of glue, where there
is no saturation-point, but the solid is soluble in all propor
tions in water.
    Lastly, if the experiments of WiedemannJ on the effect of
heat on sodium sulphate in the solid state, and my determina-
tions§ of the coefficient of expansion of solutions of that salt,
be admitted to have proved that the crystallized salt parts with
its water of crystallization at 34° C, whether in solution or
not, and, as a consequence, the salt dissolves in water above
that temperature in the anhydrous state, we are brought face
to face with the difficulty that we have explained solution by
hydration and increased solubility by diminished hydration,
and at the same time have an example of a salt dissolving in
the anhydrous condition, and being then less soluble than in
the hydrated state.
    The hypothesis I have to offer in place of the foregoing
is, I believe, applicable to all cases of solution whether of
liquids or solids either in water or other liquids ; but the
proofs I shall adduce in the present paper are confined to the
solution of salts in water. In a paper " On the Condition
of Ammonium Salts when dissolved in Water," communicated
to the Royal Society of Edinburgh last July, I made the fol
lowing statement :—
    "If we wish to observe the results produced solely by the
mutual action of the salt and the water, we must take care
that our solutions are sufficiently dilute; as the solution
becomes more concentrated the observed specific gravity de
pends, not only on the attraction of the salt for the water, but
also on that of the salt-molecules for one another." This
   * Ann, der Chem. and Pharm. xl.p. 197.         t Ibid, xxxiv. p. 200.
   % Annalen der Phys. und C/iemie, 1882, p. 561.
   § Ber. derdeut. chem. Get. xv. p. 1931.

                          Nature of Solution.                            93
gives, I believe, the key to the problem of solution ; it is this
mutual attraction of the salt-molecules which, in conjunction
with that of the water for the salt, conditions the solubility or
insolubility of a salt.
   The solution of a salt in water is a consequence of the
attraction of the molecules of water for a molecule of salt ex
ceeding the attraction of the molecules of salt for one another.
It follows, then, that as the number of dissolved salt-molecules
increases, the attraction of the dissimilar molecules is more
and more balanced by the attraction of the similar molecules :
when these two forces are in equilibrium, saturation takes
place. At the saturation-point the force tending to keep in
solution any single molecule of salt (attraction of dissimilar
molecules) is balanced by the force tending to produce sepa
ration of that molecule from the solution (attraction of similar
 molecules). Further, any external cause tending to alter the
intensity of either of these two forces or to modify both in
 unequal degrees disturbs the condition of equilibrium, and
 further solution or solidification ensues*.
   Before proceeding to a consideration of the experimental
results on which the above statement is based, an account of
the mode in which my experiments were made is necessary to
show the extent to which experimental errors affect the results.
    All the determinations of specific gravity of solutions were
made in Sprengel tubes ; and these were immersed in a con
stant-temperature bath at 20° or 40° C, the variation in tem
perature never exceeding one tenth of a degree. The solutions
containing definite quantities of salts were prepared by weigh
ing a quantity of water, calculating the required amount of salt
and weighing that directly. The accuracy of this method is
shown by the following three determinations of the specific
gravity of a solution of sodium chloride containing 2 molecules
of salt to 100 molecules of water :—
          (1) September 21st, spec, gravity = 1*04387
          (2) October 4th,             „       „       = 1-04393
          (3) October 26th,            „       „       = 1-04388 _
The solutions were made afresh each time ; and the maximum
difference is -00006. But in most cases the error is even less ;
for in the experiments on dilution the same solution was
 diluted at 20° and 40°, thus eliminating error in the weight
 of salt dissolved; and thus the limit of error is reduced to that
   * In addition to the attraction of water for salt, and of salt for salt,
there is that of water for water ; hut as that for one temperature and for
 the cases we are considering is practically a constant quantity, I have not
 thought it necessary to introduce this third factor in the above account of
solution ; we shall see further on what part it plays.

04                       Mr. W. W. J. Nicol on the
of the variation in the weight of the contents of the Sprengel
tubes. This was found in three cases to vary from •0002
to *0004, that is '3 milligramme. A difference of 1 milli
gramme in the weight of the solution corresponds to '00006
in the specific gravity ; consequently the limit of error is
•00002, and is generally less than that. No appreciable in
crease of this quantity is caused by the fact that the weighings
were made in air, without correction ; for the Sprengel tubes
varied but slightly in size, and care was taken to use the same
tube throughout each series of experiments : these results then,
being comparative, are strictly comparable. The dilutions
were made by mixing equal volumes of salt-solution and water.
The quantities taken were ten times the specific gravity in
grammes and ten grammes of water. The error in volume
in no case exceeded *0003 cub. cent. The specific gravities
of the solid salts (finely powdered and sifted through muslin)
were determined in paraffin by means of a special form of
Sprengel tube, thus eliminating errors unavoidable when
bottles with movable stoppers are employed. The limit of
error is the same as that in determining the specific gravity
of the paraffin by means of the same tube. Eleven determi
nations gave results varying from '81831 to "8184, with a
mean of '81836, error +'00005. The specific gravity of the
solid salt is therefore correct to the fourth place.
   Kremers, in 1852*, found that the specific gravity of a solid
salt was influenced by the temperature at which it was crystal
lized from its solution ; and that if the solubility of the salt
increased with the temperature, the specific gravity of the solid
salt diminished with the rise of temperature of the solution
from which it separated ; if, however, the solubility diminished
with the temperature, the specific gravity increased. I have
repeated the experiments of Kremers, and the results are con
tained in Table I. ; they agree substantially with his. There
                                    Table I.
  Salt.'        t°.  Sp. gr.    Salt    t°.   Sp. gr.   Salt.    t°.  Sp. gr.
                  O                       0                        O
 KNOa...        20   210365 Na,SOt       40 266180 NaCl           20  216171
   »i    ¦ ¦ ¦ 110   209916      tf     110 266372        -     108   215494
   Difference ... - 00439                    +•00192                 —00677
               Water at 20° = 1. t°= temperature of crystallization.
                      " l'oggendorfl"s Anna/en, vol. lxxxv.

                         Nature of Solution.                       95
can be no doubt of the meaning of this; the specific gravity
of a solid is an index of the amount of attraction exercised by
its molecules on one another at the moment of solidification (if
the determination be made at once); and any further alteration
of the extent of the intermolecular spaces can go on but slowly,
owing to the exceedingly small internal motion of the mole
cules of a solid. The separation of a salt from its solution is
really a slow process, however quickly (relatively speaking)
the solution may be cooled ; the molecules consequently are
able to arrange themselves in positions of stability for that
particular temperature ; and once this arrangement has taken
place, any further arrangement is, as has been said, extremely
slow. Kremers's experiments and mine show that the inter
molecular attraction of salts is altered by the temperature,
and that this alteration is connected with the solubility : in
cases where the solubility increases, the attraction is weakened ;
and with sodium sulphate diminution in solubility is accom
panied by increase of attraction.
    Further evidence on this point is furnished by Berthelot's
recent experiments on the heat of solution of various salts
before and after fusion*. When a salt dissolves in water the
thermal equilibrium is usually disturbed; in the case of most
salts, whether they contain water of crystallization or not, the
 solution of the form which crystallizes at ordinary tempera
 tures is attended by absorption of heat, due to the heat ab
 sorbed by the liquefaction of the salt exceeding the heat evolved
 by union with the water ; or, in other words, the work done
 in separating the molecules of the salt requires more heat than
 that given out by the union of water and salt. If the mutual
 attraction of the salt-molecules be in any way weakened, then
 less work has to be done to separate them, and consequently
 the total absorption of heat is diminished. Berthelot finds
 that in a number of cases the heat absorbed on the solution of
 a salt in its normal state is greater than that absorbed when
 the salt has been fused, allowed to cool, and at once dissolved ;
 lastly, if a length of time sufficiently long be allowed to elapse
 after fusion and before solution, the thermal effects of solution
 are identical with those observed before fusion. Now a refer
 ence to Clarke's tables of specific gravityf shows that in nearly
 every case where the specific gravity of a substance has been
 taken before and after fusion, it has been found that the result
 of fusion has been diminution of specific gravity : but the
 data existing on this subject are very incomplete and in many
  instances contradictory, as indeed is the case with the greater
        * Comptes Itendus, July 1882.
        + ' Constants of Nature,' Part I. Smithsonian Institution.

9fi                 Mr. W. W. J. Nicol on the
number of specific-gravity determinations. I hope soon to
be able to investigate this point more fully.
    The next evidence I have to bring forward is that based on
the volume-alteration attending the solution of salts in water
and the dilution of these solutions at various temperatures ;
but before doing so it is necessary to have a clear understand
ing of what is meant by saying that one salt is more soluble
in water than another, and that two solutions of different salts
are of the same strength. As solution, however it may be
 explained, is evidently a molecular process, I will in the fol
 lowing pages express the solubility of a salt in water in terms of
 salt-molecules to a fixed number of water-molecules (100H30),
 and consider, as indeed my experiments show, that salt^solu-
 tions are of the same strength, and are therefore comparable,
 when they contain an equal number of salt-molecules dissolved
 in each case in 100 molecules of water.
    When a salt is dissolved in water, the volume of the solu
 tion is usually less than the sum of the volumes of the salt
 and the water before solution takes place. This has long been
 stated as a general rule, to which, among anhydrous salts,
 ammonium chloride formed the only exception. I have re
 cently shown* that this property is shared by other ammonium
 sails ; and I believe that, on further investigation, it will be
 found that contraction is by no means the necessary or even
 the usual concomitant of solution. But in cases where such
 contraction does occur, it is found that the amount increases
  as the amount of salt in solution increases, but that the
  amount of contraction produced by the solution of each suc
  cessive molecule is less than that produced by the preceding
  one, as stated by Gerlachf:—
     " Die Contraction wachstetetig in alien Fallen, wenn in
  einer constantbleibenden Wassermenge eine stetig wachsende
  Anzahl gleicher Salzatome gelost wird. Die Zunahme der
  Contraction steht indess keineswegs in einfachem Verhaltniss
  mit der Zunahme geloster Salzatome ; ist letztere eine stets
  gleiche, so ist erstere eine stetig abnehmende."
     This is shown by Table II., which gives the specific gravity
  of molecular solutions of sodium chloride, ranging from 1 mo
  lecule in 200 of water up to 10*99 molecules in 100 of water
  (saturated solution).
     This is entirely in accordance with my statement of the
  nature of solution :—the greater the amount of salt already
  in solution the less the result of the attraction of dissimilar
  molecules and the greater that of similar molecules.
               * Proc. Roy. Soc. Edinb. July 1882.
               + Spec. Gewicht d. SalzUismujen, 1850, p. 68.

                               Nature of Solution                                97
                                       Table II.
                                    Water at 20°=1.
                   t°.        Strength.     Spec. grav.    Differences.
                     0                                        •02226
                   20           ^NaCl         101146
                                  NaOl        102258             2
                                                              •02131
                                 2NaCl        1-04389
                                 3 „          1 06437         -02048
                                                              •01972
                                 4 „          108409
                                                              ¦01857
                                 5 „          1 10266
                                 6 „          1 12099          01833
                                                              •01739
                     Fl          7 „          1-13838
                                                              •01665
                                 8 „          115603
                                 9 „           117140          01637
                                10 „           1-18707         01567
                                                              •01484
                     11         10-99Na01      1-20191
     This change of volume on solution can also be investigated
in another way—the change of volume attending dilution ;
and it is this method that is at once the simplest and most
accurate. Table III. contains the results of my experiments
under this head. In each case a solution of the salt containing
approximately 1 molecule to 100 molecules of water was pre
pared, its specific gravity determined, and then diluted with
an equal volume of water.
                                       Table III.
      Water at 20° = 1. 0=contraction. Volume before miiing= 100,000.
 1
                        1st dilu        2nd dilu        3rd dilu        4th dilu
    Salt     Spec,        tion.     C.    tion.           tion.           tion.
             grav.        Spec,           Spec, C. Spec,           0.    Spec, C.
                          grav.           grav.           grav.          grav.
    NaCl 1-02252         1-01142 16 1-00571         1
    KC1     102542* 1-01283 12           1-00641 0
   NaNO,* 1-03304 1-01667 15 1-00841 7 10042 0
 'kno3                   1-01706 16 1-00857 4 1-00428 0
          j 1 03379
 |kcio3                  102088 23 1-01052 8 100529 3                    1-00265 0
          j 1-04131
                          * This solution is weak. See Table V.

98                  Mr. W. W. J. Nicol on the
   The specific gravity of the diluted solution having been
determined, it was in its turn diluted with an equal volume of
water. This was repeated till further dilution was unattended
by change of volume. With some salts this was found to be
the case after the first dilution, whereas with others a second
and even a third dilution was required. It may be noted here
that, in the case of the less soluble salts, the dilution has to be
carried further than with the more soluble ones. I will return
to this later on. Now this change of volume on dilution can
not be explained by the hypothesis that, on each dilution, the
salt combines with a further quantity of water to form hy
drates richer in water ; for Guthrie's experiments* show thai
the cryohydrate is the salt which contains the maximum num
ber of water-molecules with which the salt can combine; and,
as shown in Table IV., the solution which gives no change of
volume on dilution contains far more water than that required
by the corresponding cryohydrate ; in addition, the tempera
ture 20° C. is in every case much higher than the temperature
of formation of the cryohydrate, consequently the dispropor
tion of water to salt is much greater.
                             Table IV.
           Salt     Approximate strength.       Cryohydrate.
                         (Table III.).
        NaOl        1 molecule to 200 H2 0 1 molecule 105 HaO
        KC1         1    „   „    200 H2Q 1             16-6 H30
        NaN03       1    „    „   40oa,o!i               813 H,0
        KNO,        1    „    „   400 H20 1            446 H20
        K01O3       1    „    „   SOOHjOjl       „    222 H20
   Berthelot's experimentsf are equally conclusive. He found
that the heat of solution of a salt varied with the temperature,
that the higher the temperature the greater the amount of heat
evolved. This appears quite irreconcilable with the hypothesis
that the salt combines with less water at a high temperature
than at a low one, while it is in accordance with the results of
my experiments on the molecular attraction of salts at various
temperatures. Further, Table V., which embodies my expe
riments on the effect of dilution of salt-solutions at 20° and
40°, shows that the effect of a rise in temperature is to lessen
         • Phil. Mag. [4] xlix p. 1 &c.
         t Annate* de Chimie et de Physique, [5] 1875, iv. p. 28.

                         Nature of Solution.                             99
the contraction on dilution in the case of salts whose solubility
increases greatly with the temperature, while it scarcely
affects those salts whose solubility remains nearly constant.
                                Table V.
     Salt.                        Spec. grav. Mean spec, C. Solubility.
               t°. Spec. grav. after  dilution.     grav.
  NaCl      [ 20     1-02257       1-01147        1-01128  17+   10-99 mol.
               40    1-02182       101103         1-0109   13    11+ „
  KCl       | 20     1-02569       1-01301         101284  17     8+ „
               40    1-02516       1-01272        1-01258  14     9+ „
               20
  NaN03 ... | 40     1-03161       1-01596        1-0158   15+   10+ „
                     1-02998       101509          101499  10    18+ „
  KNO, ,. { 20       1-03352       101692          101676  l(i    5+ „
               40    103232        101619         1-01616   3    10+ „
  KCIO, ...j 4020    104131        1-02088         102065  23     1+ .,
                     1-04014       1-02024         1-02007 17   (2-?) „
                    Solubility x molecules in 100 Ha O.
    Again, the determinations of the coefficient of expansion of
salt-solutions lend additional support to this view of their con
stitution. Gerlach* and Kremersf have, with others, done a
large amount of work in this direction; and the result appears
to be that, for weak solutions of salts, the coefficient of expan
sion is in most cases greater than that of water for the whole
range of temperature from 4° to 100° C. ; and this is also the
case with strong solutions up to a certain temperature, which
varies with the salt and with the degree of concentration, but
is lower the more concentrated the solution. These pheno
mena may, I think, be satisfactorily explained as follows,
according to the statement on page 93. We have tbree factors
to consider in a solution :—
           The attraction of water for water . = x,
           That of water for salt                          =y,
           That of salt for salt                           = z.
    Now, in a solution the effect of heat on x and y will be to
 produce expansion, and on z to produce contraction ; for if z
 be weakened y is increased. If z be very small, as in a weak
 solution, it will scarcely affect y; and the result will be that,
 in addition to the expansion of water, there is the expansion
 due to the effect of heat on y. If, however, z be very large,
 as in a strong solution, y is correspondingly smaller in pro
 portion ; and a weakening of z is accompanied by a large
              * Spec. Gewicht der Salzldsungen, Part III.
              t PoggendorfTs Annalen, vol. c. &c.

100                  On the Nature of Solution.
increase of y—it may be, more than equal to the weakening
due to heat ; consequently contraction ensues, tending to de
crease the expansion due to the water.
   Table VI. is partly taken from Kremers's paper, and will
show that the above is the case.
   Volume at 20° = 100,000.
   A = difference between the volume of the solution and that
      of water at the same temperature.
   The strengths are respectively 10 and 40 " salt atoms " to
100 parts by weight of water (see Poggendorff's Annalen,
xcv., xcvi., xcviii., &c.).
                              Table VI.
                                 KC1.
        t°.    Vol. 10 8. 8.      A.    Vol. 40 8. a.   A.
          o
        20        100,000          0       100,000         0
        40        100,700       4-107      100,807    +214»
        60        101,626       +110*      101,727    +211
        80        102,767       + 60       102,782    + 87
       100        104,134       + 5        103,954    -175
                                 NaCl.
        20        100,000          0       100,000         0
        40        100,730       + 137      100,895    +302
        60        101,673       + 157*     101,880    +364*
        80        102,826       + 125      102,983    +282
       100        104,187       + 68       104,213    + 84
                                 LiCl.
        20        100,000          0       100,000         0
        40        100,613       + 20»      100,592    - 1
        60        101,480      - 34        101,327    -189
        80        102,565       -136       102,206    -495
       100        103,866       -263       103,220    -909
                     * Point of maximum expansion.
   In conclusion I may point out that, in cases where the same
substance exists in more than one form, the variety that is
most soluble or is most readily attacked by acids is the one
with the least specific gravity. Sulphur forms, I believe, the
solitary- exception to this rule, which is followed by phos
phorus, arsenic, arsenious oxide, selenium, carbon, and also
by that class of compounds of which ferric and aluminic

               M. E. Pringsheim on the Radiometer.                       101
oxides are well-known examples, the specific gravity of which
increases with the amount of heat to which they are subjected,
while their solubility in acids diminishes.
   I believe, then, that it will be possible to connect together
the molecular volume and the solubility of solids, just as the
molecular volume and the boiling-point of liquids have been
shown to be connected. The problem is necessarily a more
complex one, as we have to deal not only with the mutual
attraction of the molecules of the solid, but also with that of
the water for the solid, which varies not only with the tem
perature, but also with the nature of the solid. However,
some experiments I have already made lead me to believe that
such determinations are possible.
    Since the above paper was written, my attention has been
drawn to an article on Solution by Dossios*, which I had
 known only in abstract : our theories have much in common ;
 but Dossios's is unsupported by experimental evidence.
     XVII. On the Radiometer.             By Ernst Pringsheim f.
 THE uncertainty and differences of opinion which still exist
         respecting the cause of the motion in the radiometer
 and similar apparatus appear to arise from the circumstance
 that in fact the motion of these instruments is essentially in
 fluenced by several different things, the actions of which are
 reciprocally so complementary and disturbing that by the
 complexity of the different results the conformity to law which
 prevails among them is often obscured.
    If we ask what are the things which may have influence
 upon radiometer-motion, they are, first, the different parts of
 the apparatus itself—namely the glass case, the enclosed gas,
 and the vanes. Therefore the only right way to study the
 mode of working of radiometric apparatus will be, to separate
 as much as possible the effects of these different parts experi
 mentally, and to treat each of them singly.
                                Apparatus.
     For this purpose the ordinary radiometers are extremely
  unsuitable, as in them the phenomena are very much com
  plicated by the moving force always appearing simultaneously
    * " Zur Theorie der Losungen," Vierteljahrsschrift der ziirichischen JVa-
  turforschenden Oeselkchaft, xiii. pp. 1-21 ; Jahresberieht, 1867, pp. 92-95.
    T Translated from Wiedemann's Annalen, 1883, No. 1, pp. 1-32.

102           M. E. Pringsheim on the Radiometer.
at several vanes, so that any possible opposed actions of two
vanes must first be ascertained by special experiments ; while
it is very difficult really to determine what portion of the
motion proceeds from one vane alone, since this is frequently
disturbed by reflections of light, which, especially when the
action of bright surfaces blackened at the back, with radiation
of the bright side, is to bo ascertained, are often apt to reverse
the entire motion. Besides, the vanes in their rotation change
their position with respect to the source of heat, and there
with the essential conditions of the motion, so quickly, that
perhaps dissimilar phenomena, separate in time, occurring at
one vane, are completely obliterated and rendered undistin-
guishable. And, lastly, a relatively strong force is requisite
in order to overcome the resistance presented by friction and
set the radiometer rotating ; so that it is a comparatively
insensitive apparatus.
    These inconveniences are avoided when, instead of a radio
meter, a so-called torsion-apparatus (like several constructed
by Crookes) is employed. In these we have, as a rule, to do
(unless the differential actions of several faces are to be
observed) with one vane only, which is suspended by a thread
and, on receiving the radiation, is deflected a certain angle,
till the torsion of the thread counterbalances the effective
force. Such an apparatus, but of more simple construction
than most of Crookes's, I constructed for myself ; and with
it I carried out the experiments particularly described below.
    It consisted of a glass tube r, 435 millim. in
 length and 22 millim. in diameter, blown out at
one end into a spherical bulb, k, of 80 millim.
 diameter ; into the other end a ground glass
 stopper fitted air-tight. To a small hook pro
jecting from the stopper a very fine glass thread,
/, 420 millim. long, was cemented, to the other
 extremity of which a small, very thin microscope
 covering-glass, d, silvered behind, was fastened,
 to serve as a mirror. To the back of this mirror
 one extremity of the rectangular disk «, of 24
 millim. length and 16 millim. width, serving as
 a vane, was cemented with hot wax, while on the
 other side the disk was counterpoised by a pin,
      The whole, attached to the glass thread, was
 slowly lowered through the glass tube ; and then
 the stopper, previously greased, was inserted,
 air-tight, so that the mirror hung in the centre
 of the bulb.
     From the glass tube two lateral branch tubes, rx and ra,

              M. E. Pringsheim on the Radiometer.             103
furnished with glass cocks, proceeded, by which the apparatus
could be connected with the air-pump and a gasometer. To
produce a vacuum in the apparatus a Geissler mercury air-
pump was employed ; and the exhaustion was always carried
on till the volume of air expelled by the rise of the mercury-
level ceased to diminish, in spite of continued pumping. This
pump being employed, the finally remaining pressure could
not be determined, because the pump possessed only an ordinary
mercury manometer ; in this, however, on exhausting, the
mercury stood somewhat higher in the open than in the
closed leg ; so that the rarefaction was at all events consider
able, and, as may be inferred from the sensitiveness of the
 apparatus, not far from the pressure at which the mobility
 reaches ite maximum. Moreover, an exact knowledge of the
 amount of pressure is immaterial in our experiments.
    For the experiments the instrument was fixed, as perpendi
 cular as possible, on a tripod, so that the vane' could rotate
 with perfect freedom. The reading-off of its position was
 secured by the following arrangement:—The image of a fine
 slit illuminated by a petroleum lamp was concentrated upon
 the mirror by a lens, and reflected thence to a scale divided
 into millimetres at about 1100 millim. distance. In order,
 however, to be quite safe from any disturbing action of this
 light, the latter should first be caused to pass through a layer
 of water and solution of alum, and thus deprived of the rays
 which are effective upon the apparatus.
    To protect the whole from air currents it might be put into
 a tin case stuffed with wadding, having only two apertures to
 permit the luminous index and the rays of the source of heat
 to fall upon the mirror and the disk respectively.
     This apparatus permitted a relatively convenient and quick
  changing of the disks, although this is a sufficiently delicate
  manipulation; and in lowering in and taking out the apparatus
  more than one glass thread broke, since the disk with the mirror
  could only slide through the narrow glass tube lengthways, so
  that the thread had to bend sharp round directly on the
  mirror. This inconvenience could have been remedied only
  by inserting the apparatus in a proportionally wide cylindrical
  tube ; but then the space to be exhausted would have been
  too large, or the thread must have been short, and hence the
  sensitiveness too little ; moreover the desired similarity of the
  glass case in the vicinity of the vane to the globe of the
  radiometer would have been lost.
     In most of the experiments the cock of one of the side tubes
  was closed, while the other tube was connected with the air-
  pump by very short india-rubber connexions and a long

  104           M. E. Pringsheim on tlie Radiometer.
 elastic glass tube. The cocks and stopper were all well
 greased, which enabled me, with a little attention, to keep the
 apparatus completely exhausted for days together without any
 perceptible increase of the air-pressure.
                     I. Action of the Glass Case.
    On the direct action of the glass case of the radiometer no
 prior experiments are known to me. It is true that experi
 ments were made by Crookes * for the purpose of ascertaining
 what influence is exerted by a greater or less distance of the
 vanes from the glass sides, but only in order to show that the
 motion depends on a reciprocal action between the vanes and
 the case.
    First, the question presents itself, Is the glass case, in itself,
 an indispensably necessary condition for the generation of the
 motion of the radiometer?—that is, would the motion cease, or
 be different in quality, if the movable part of the apparatus
 were suspended in an unlimited space of rarefied air ? Crookes
 once affirms this t, emphatically stating that in the radiometer,
 in contrariety to the otheoscope, the glass case is necessary
 for the motion, but without mentioning his reasons either in
 the place cited or, to my knowledge, anywhere else. He was
perhaps led to this conclusion by theoretical considerations,
 which he indicates in another place J, where he adopts Stoney's
 theory.
    To decide this question directly by a simple experiment is,
 of course, impossible, since we cannot produce even a rough
approximation to an infinite space of air so highly rarefied.
 Hence the decision of this point is only possible by approach
ing it indirectly, and probably not without theoretical dis
cussions ; therefore we have not yet come to the place for
entering more particularly into it.
    A supposition, however, which certainly at first obtrudes
itself respecting the behaviour of the glass case, is very easily
refuted. For a very simple observation shows that in the
ordinary radiometers, consisting of thin mica vanes blackened
on one side with soot, irradiation of the blackened side
alone with sunlight or an ordinary artificial source of light
produces rotation in the same direction as irradiation of
the bright side only, so that in both cases the black sur
face recedes. Now, on the assumption that the rotation is
produced by the difference of temperature which actually
   • Comptet JRendue, Ixzxiii. p. 1233 (1876) ; Proc. Roy. Soc. xxv.
pp. 308, 309 (1876).
   t Comptes Rendus, lxxxiv. p. 1081 (1877).
   % Proc. Boy. Soc. xxv. p. 308 (1876) ; Nature, xv. p. 224 (1877).

              M. E. Pringsheim on tlie Radiometer.            105
occurs between the glass case and the vanes, it might easily
be believed that the temperature of the former lies between
the temperatures of the bright and the dark surface, and
therefore exerts an opposite influence on both. But the
glass case can be kept at the temperature originally possessed
by the entire apparatus by inserting in the path of the rays
a layer of plane glass plates of such thickness that all the rays
generally absorbable by glass are kept back in them; and in this
way it is easy to ascertain that even then a sufficiently power
ful source of light produces the same effect, although in a
less degree, as without the interposition of the glass plates.
Further, that all the rays absorbable by glass are actually
absorbed by the glass plates before reaching the apparatus,
can with facility oe known from this—that the insertion of
additional glass plates between the source of light and the
instrument has no effect upon the motion. This proves,
therefore, that the above assumption does not correspond to
the real cause of the opposite action upon the bright and the
dark side of the vanes, and consequently furnishes a con
firmation of the view enunciated by Cooke *, that the rays
which have passed through the mica, being absorbed by the
soot, produce sufficient heating to cause the motion.
    Now, although it is not possible, as above remarked, to
decide by experiment whether the glass case is absolutely
necessary for the production of the motion, yet we can get
some elucidation of its actual operation. For as all the rays
incident upon the vanes must first pass through the glass, it
is evident that it must absorb a portion of the radiation and
thereby have its temperature raised. Probably it is now
possible to ascertain what influence this rise of temperature
of the glass sides alone would have if the vanes themselves
retained their initial temperature during the entire experi
ment, or at least showed no difference of temperature on their
two sides.
    To effect this, in the above described torsion-apparatus a
mica plate as thin as possible was emploved as a vane, from
which it was to be presumed that it would be capable of ab
 sorbing very few rays indeed, and that, with its extraordinary
 thinness, both sides would always have the same temperature.
 When now our apparatus, suspended in the open air without
 its tin case, was irradiated, the side of the glass case which
 was turned to the source of light must have absorbed more
 ravs than that which was turned from it, while it could bo
 assumed that the mica plate possessed the same temperature
                • Silliman's Journal, xiv. p. 237 (1877).
    P/dl. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 92. Feb. 1883.            I

 106          M. E. Pringsheiin on the Radiometer.
 on both sides. The light-source was placed so that its centre
 was in the normal to the centre of the mirror ; so that the
 cone of rays issuing from it was tangent to the glass sphere
 in the same vertical plane in which the mica vane hung.
 Therefore, if our assumptions are correct (which shall subse
 quently be still more closely investigated) , and if it be further
 assumed that any possible absorption within the rarefied air
 is without influence (a question which will also be afterwards
 discussed), any effect that may be produced must be ascribed to
the heating of the glass side alone.
    First some experiments were made with sunlight reflected
 from the metallic mirror of a Duboscq heliostat upon the
 apparatus. With these there was not the slightest motion of
the spot of light.
    The thing took another shape, however, when the flame of
 a Bunsen burner was employed as the source of heat. There
 were now energetic deflections which were all positive—that
 is, in which the irradiated side recedes—amounting, on the
 average, to 65 millim.
    We see therefore that repulsion of the vane by the more
 strongly heated side of the glass case takes place, if our above
 suppositions are correct.
     But now it might still be possible that we should have to
 distinguish in the thin mica plates a front and a back side,
 and that the front face absorbs a greater portion of the rays
 than the back, hence becomes warmer, ana, in consequence of
this, recedes.
    In order to test this possibility the glass case was irradiated
 laterally and at the same time naif of it shaded so that the
 mica plate was in the shade, and its plane formed exactly the
 plane of division of light and shade. If now motion again
 occurred, it certainly could not arise from direct absorption
 bv the mica plate, since this itself was outside of the cone of
light.
    On employing sunlight, again no trace of motion appeared;
 and consequently, as directly follows from the action of the
 gas-flames, it was proved that the thin glass absorbed only
 vanishingly little of the sun's rays.
    Lateral irradiation by a gas-flame, on the contrary, effected
 a deflection in the same direction as before—namely, so that
 the mica plate was always repelled from the illuminated side
of the glass.
    The results were :—
    I. With lateral irradiation from the vane side (so that the
part of the glass case nearest to the vane was first struck by
the light) :—

              M. E. Pringsheim on the Radiometer.                          107
   Resting-position of tlie Spot of Light : On the Illumination
               Of the fore half.      Of the entire sphere. 1 0f the mnd
                                                                     half.
Bright gas-flame ... 468                      500                 531
                                               l v
              Deflection           32                     31
Dull gaa-flame             447                500           I      552
              Deflection ... 53                          ~52~
   II. With lateral irradiation from the side situated furthest
from the mica plate :—
   Resting-position of the Spot of Light : On the Illumination
                  Of the fore half. Of the entire sphere, Of the    half.
                                                                         hind
Bright gas-flame ... 496                      500                   504
                                    .          I v
              Deflection
Dull gas-flame            493                 500                 507
              Deflection            7
   These experiments therefore show that in fact the warmed
glass side exerts a repellent force upon the vane ; and at the
same time it follows, from the difference of the effects when
the irradiation proceeded from the side furthest from and from
that nearest to the mica plate, that the parts of the glass,
situated nearest to the vane almost alone exert the action.
This remark will be corroborated by the following experiment.
   The apparatus was illuminated, as in the first^cited experi
 ments, by means of a bright Bunsen burner ; and then the
 greater part of the light-cone was so far cut off that only the
outermost part of the glass, nearest the mica vein, was ir
 radiated, while the vane itself was in shadow. The following
was the resting-position of the spot of light :—
With full illumination.      Without illumination.       With partial illu
                                                              mination.
         465                          500                       471.
         v              v              < ^            v           1
        Deflection 35                          .     29
   Almost the whole of the effect therefore comes from the
part of the glass side immediately opposite to the mica vane.
   After the above experiments with lateral illumination it
cannot any longer be doubtful that the deflection is really
owing to the heating of the glass side ; but from this it does
not yet appear whether this effect is a direct repulsion brought
about by the air particles present between the two surfaces.
                                   12

108             M. E. Pringsheim on the Radiometer.
or a secondary one produced by the heat radiated from the
heated glass side being more strongly absorbed by the front
than by the back surface of the mica. The latter, however,
 is in the highest degree improbable ; for certainly a great
 part of the heat conveyed into the glass by absorption is
 communicated to the colder air in the interior of the apparatus;
 and of that withdrawn from the glass by radiation, only an
 extremely small part can pass over to the mica plate, since it
 is radiated in the space uniformly in all directions. Hence
 the proportionally strong action is scarcely to be attributed to
this minute quantity of heat, but, at any rate for the most
 part, proceeds from the heat communicated to the gas by
conduction.
    The mica, too, would certainly absorb a portion of those
rays which come to it direct from the source of heat, which
must have the same action as those emitted from the glass ;
 so that with the irradiation first employed, from the front,
the two actions would be added together, while with the
lateral irradiation only the action of the glass is present.
Therefore, the mica plate being at equal distance from the
same source of heat, the deflection ought to be greater in the
first case than in the second. But it is not so, as the follow
ing observations show : —
    Distance of the bright gas-flame from the outermost per
pendicular edge of the mica plate, 305 millim.
                Resting-position of the Spot of Light.
    I. With irradiation from the front :
Without illumination.       With illumination.        Deflection.
            500                    465                     35
    II. With lateral irradiation :
        illumination
  Withthe  whole. of        With one
                                 illumination
                                     half.     of      t, a
                                                       Deflection.
           500                    447                      53
    The deflection in the second case is therefore not only not
weaker, but considerably stronger than in the first—which
probably results from the circumstance that with irradiation
from the front the side of the glass facing the back side of the
mica plate is heated by absorption, and thus counteracts the
action of the front half of the glass, while with the irradiation
lateral only the favourably acting half of the sphere is heated.
    Besides these probable reasons, a strict proof by experiment
presents itself that the repellent action of the heated glass
side is a primary and not a secondary action. If, namely, it
proceeded from the absorption by the vane of the rays emana
ting from the glass, its amount would depend on the absorp
tive capacity of the vane, and consequently on its substance.

              M. E. Pringsheira on the Radiometer.                  109
   In order to put this dependence to the proof, the transparent
 mica vane employed in the previous experiments was blackened
on one side with soot and again inserted in the apparatus.
The source of light was placed at the side of the apparatus (as
in the experiments described in pp. 106 and 107), in the plane
of the vane, so that the part of the glass case in front of the
vane was as strongly illuminated as the half situated behind it.
   If the action depends on the substance of the vane, with
this arrangement the irradiation of one half of the glass sphere,
while the other half and the vane are shaded, ought to produce
a quantitatively different deflection from that produced by the
irradiation of the other half. On the other hand, if the action
consists of a direct repulsion, it is evident that it will remain
unaltered whether it strikes a soot or a mica surface, and then
the deflections produced by both halves of the glass case must
be of the same magnitude. The experiment confirmed the
latter supposition. At the same time it should not be for
gotten that all other influences, especially those of neighbouring
objects and the walls of the apartment, must be carefully kept
off from the apparatus, as in this form it is very sensitive, and
the arrangement of the experiment makes it impossible to
surround it with a protecting case.
   As with lateral irradiation of the entire glass case direct
heating of the soot is evidently unavoidable, in the following
 Table the deflections are reckoned from the resting-position
 when the entire apparatus is completely shaded.
   The experiments, conducted with the requisite precautions,
 gave the following result:—
         Resting-position of the Spot of Light on Shading
                   The blackened        The entire       The mica-side
                  side of the glass.    glass case.       of the glass.
 Bright gas-flame ... 545                 500                 455
                                    V                 V
              Deflection ... 45                      45
 Bright gas-flame ... 576            1    500         1       425
                                   "V"                V
              Deflection     ... 76                  75
 Dull gas-flame     ...   555        1     500        1       445
                                    V      i \.
              Deflection     ... 55                  55
 Dull gas-flame     ...   570         1    500         1      430
                                    V
                                   70                70

110             M. E. Pringsheim on the Radiometer.
    That this effect indeed proceeds only from the glass case is
 known from the fact that even a plane glass plate of 8 millim.
thickness, placed between the source of light and the apparatus,
is sufficient to prevent any deflection.
    As the deflection of the translucent mica vane when irradia
tion takes place from the front arises from the excess of the
amount of heat absorbed by the fore half of the glass case
 over that absorbed in the hinder half, it will be possible to
 reverse the motion by so arranging the glass case that its
 hinder half absorbs more heat than the fore half. This can
be done by blackening the hinder half with lampblack. But
when this was done and the apparatus irradiated by a bright
 Bunsen burner, there appeared at first not a reversal, but only
a weakening of the deflection, and only by inserting glass in
the path of the rays could a reversal be obtained. Conse
quently with full irradiation the heating of the clean half of
the glass was stronger than that of the blackened half, and it
was only when the rays most absorbable by glass were removed
before reaching the sphere that the absorption in the lamp
black gained the preponderance. In this experiment the
resting-position of the spot of light was :—
          Without            With full     With light transmitted
        illumination.      illumination.  through 15 millim. thick
                                               ness of glass.
            500                 489                 554
       Deflection ... 11                  54
   It was different when sunlight was employed, which had the
greatest effect without any intervening glass, and produced a
deflection of 50 millim.— a fresh proof that extremely little of
solar radiation is absorbed by glass.
    All the above experiments prove that the heated glass side
exerts upon a movable surface suspended in front of it a repel
lent force which is independent of the substance of the surface
—or, differently expressed, that a pressure emanates from the
heated glass side which increases with the temperature of the
glass.
    In numerous similar experiments it has by previous observers
been ascertained that any warmed surface tends to repel a light
body suspended over against it in a space of rarefied air.
   Therefore, having now proved that this repulsion is a direct
one, and not generated by absorption of the heat radiated by
the warmed body, we can express the above proposition in the
following amplified form :—
   from a warm surface, in a space containing rarefied air.

                M. E. Pringsheim on the Radiometer.               Ill
emanates a pressure which increases with the temperature of the
surface.
    We have (p. 106) made the supposition that in our expe
riments absorption of heat within the rarefied air filling the
radiometer has no influence upon the motion. Since, how
ever, on lateral irradiation this air is illuminated as well as
the glass side, it might still be possible to refer the generated
motion to a rise of temperature of the residual air, produced
by absorption. That this would be erroneous we will demon
strate in the following section.
                    II. Action of the Residual Gas.
    It must first of all be premised that, according to all theories
of the radiometer that rest on the kinetic theory of gases, any
one-sided conveyance of heat to the gas must cause a motion
of the vane; and therefore a local rise of temperature produced
by absorption in the rarefied air must do so also. Yet, at the
high degree of rarefaction at which the air in the radiometer
is, it is in itself very unlikely that that air is capable of absorb
ing any considerable amount of heat, especially as the rays
from the source of heat must, before reaching the apparatus,
pass through so great a thickness of atmospheric air that they
are doubtless completely cleared of all the rays which can be
absorbed by air.
    In relation to this I made some experiments with sunlight
and gas-light, by throwing close before the translucent mica
disk of my apparatus, arranged as in the experiments described
above, a focus in the rarefied air.
    In order to avoid the influence of the heating of the glass
side, I caused the light to fall from above obliquely into the
apparatus, so that the glass was struck by the light at a place
obliquely above the mica plate at a greater distance from it.
There was then not the slightest perceptible deflection of the
vane. This proved that in the above experiments an absorp
tion of heat by the rarefied air had no influence on the result.
    Yet, in order to prove by experiment the theoretically im
portant assumption that absorption of heat by the gas might
produce motion of the vane, I filled my apparatus with illu
 minating-gas instead of atmospheric air, by connecting the
 second side tube with a drying-apparatus which was connected
 with the gas-pipe supplying the house. After filling and ex
 hausting the apparatus five times, so as to be certain that I
 really had in it rarefied illuminating-gas, I repeated the ab
 sorption-experiments which had been made with atmospheric
 air, but with the same negative result. It appears, therefore,

 112             M. E. Pringsheim on tlie Radiometer.
 that in gas so highly rarefied the absorption is vanishingly
 little. In other respects the apparatus showed the same phe
 nomena with illuminating-gas as when atmospheric air was
 employed.
                        III. Action of the Vanes.
     By far the greatest influence on the manner of motion of
 radiometric apparatus is exerted by the quality of the vanes
 themselves. First of all, it is evident that motion can only be
 produced by the vanes when on irradiation their two sides act
 differently ; for one and the same action of both sides would
 neutralize itself. This different action presupposes a difference
 in the quality of the two sides, which difference may lie in
 their consisting of different substances, or having different
 forms, or being of the same substance but having different
 temperatures.
     As to the first point, the great complexity of the cooperating
 properties of the bodies renders it hardly possible to state
 exactly the influence exerted by each property of the sub
 stances used as vanes.
     In the first place, the forces which generally come into play
 are very slight; hence it will be necessary to employ extremely
 light substances—such as pith, mica, or very thin metal plates.
     Further, as the motion is produced by irradiation, it is clear
 that the vis viva of the motion is derived from the rays. But
 this is only possible by absorption, since even the simplest
 experiments show that the cause of the motion cannot be a
 direct transference of the vis viva of the rays to the vanes.
 Hence the greater the amount of rays absorbed in the vane,
 and the more the portion of the radiation absorbed by one
 surface exceeds that absorbed by the other, the stronger
 will the action be. To this inference correspond also the
 observations* which show that the action is strongest when
 thin mica plates, which absorb almost no rays at all, are
 coated on one side with lampblack, the blackest of all known
 substances also for heat. Less favourable are metal plates
 blackened on one side with lampblack, since metal radiometers
 on being radiated upon by dark sources of heat move with the
 lampblacked side in front, therefore inversely as in lightf.
 From this it is to be inferred that the metals are still more
 impenetrable to heat-rays of very great wave-length than soot
 —which also agrees with the experience that soot in thin
   » Crookes, Phil. Trans, clxix. (1878) pp. 250, 260.
   t Crookes, Comptes Itendus, lxxxiii. p. 1280; Pioc. Eoval Soc. xxv
p. 312 ; ' Nature,' xv. p. 226 (1877).

              M. E. Pringsheim on the Radiometer.               113
 layers is redly translucent. According to Tyndall*, a plate of
 rock-salt coated with lampblack, through which not a glimmer
of the light from the most brilliant gas-flame could penetrate,
transmitted 38 per cent, of the rays emanating from a vessel
 of boiling water.
    Besides the absorption, the internal heat^conductivity of the
 substances made use of for radiometer-vanes is of exceeding
 importance, since it tends to remove the difference of tempe
 ratures of the two sides, and consequently to weaken the most
 important cause of the motion. Direct methodical experi
 ments on this subject have not yet, so far as I know, been
made, although differences in the action of metal and mica
radiometers have frequently been referred to the difference of
 conductivity of the two substances. To investigate this more
 closely, the simple way presented itself of making, in my
above-described apparatus, a series of similar experiments
 •with mica and a metal. First the same mica plates which
had served for the experiments on the influence of the glass
 case were smoked on one side over a turpentine-oil flame, and
then introduced in the old way into the apparatus, after which
the latter was completely exhausted. On irradiating the clear
side with sunlight, it was so forcibly propelled against the
 light that the spot of light which served as index fell quite
 outside of the scale, and reading-off was impossible. At all
 events the lampblack, heated by absorption of the rays trans
 mitted through the mica, acted just as if it had undergone
direct heating.
    On irradiation by the flame of a Bunsen burner, however, a
peculiar phenomenon presented itself. Namely, at the first
instant of the irradiation an energetic negative deflection oc
curred, as the irradiated clear side moved towards the source
of light ; then a brief oscillation to and fro followed ; and after
that the mica plate gradually passed over to a fixed position
of rest corresponding to a positive deflection, consequently to
a receding of the irradiated side of the mica. If the irradia
tion was then interrupted suddenly by the interposition of an
opaque screen, the same play repeated itself in the opposite
direction : first the vane was suddenly and energetically de
flected with its blackened side going before ; it then swung
backwards and forwards for a few seconds ; and after that it
quite gently returned to its initial position of rest.
    The following are the corresponding positions of the spot
of light:—
   * Tyndall, 'Heat as a Mode of Motion,' German translation, 3rd ed
p. 407

114                M. E. Pringsheim on the Radiometer.
         With bright Gas-flame.               With dull Gas-flame.
          L.    A.   L. A. L.       A           L.    A.       L.     A
     I. 500         500        500         t   500            500
   II. 585 85 587 87 642 142 II.               549    49      549     49
  in. 462 38 462 38 485 15 m.                  441    59      445     55
  IV. 376 8(5 376 86 344 141             IV.   390    51      397     48
    v. 500 ... 500             500        v.   500    ...     500
   Here the numbers in the columns superscribed with L.
denote, in the horizontal rows:—
   I. The resting-position of the index when the apparatus is
shaded with a screen.
   II. The extreme deflection of the index at the moment of
the removal of the screen.
   III. The resting-position of the index on full irradiation.
   IV. The extreme deflection at the moment of shading.
     V. The resting-position during the^shading.
   The numbers in the columns A. give the deflections from
the next preceding resting-position, which correspond to the
numbers standing on the left side of them.
   As these deflections are not very great, and are pretty much
of the same order as the previous ones produced by the absorp
tion of the glass, it suggested itself that this absorption might
exert a disturbing influence which would be likely to mask
the proper motion produced by the vanes. On this account,
in a second series of experiments the light, before arriving at
the apparatus, was cleared of its most absorbable rays by three
thick glass plates. The following results were then obtained
(the notation having the same meaning as before) :—
                     Bright Gas-flame.                    Dull Gas-flame.
              L.      A.      L.     A.    L.    A.              L.     A.
      I.     600             500          500             i.    500
     II.     587      87     685    85    584    84     ii.     519     19
   III.      477      23    482      18   483    17   m.        479     21
    IV.      386      91    394     88    398    85    IV.      459     20
     V.      500      ...   600      ...  500           V.      500

              M. E. Pringsheim on the Radiometer.                 115
   It therefore appeared, as might have been foreseen, that by
the nitration of the light in passing through the glass plates
the first deflection, opposed to the action of the glass wall of
the apparatus, in comparison with the final deflection was
strengthened.
   Further, in all the observations the almost absolute accord
ance in the magnitude of the first deflection, at the sudden
commencement and sudden cessation of the irradiation, is
remarkable.
   With respect to the explanation of these phenomena, there
cannot be any doubt that here two different and opposite
causes of motion confront each other, of which the first comes
in suddenly, the second gradually.
   The first, suddenly acting cause is the absorption in the
lampblack; the second, slowly appearing, is the heating of the
front (mica) face by conduction. Here, truly, the peculiar
case has happened, that that very substance which, as a bad
conductor of heat, we had selected in order as far as possible
to exclude the influence of conduction, shows this influence
with special distinctness.
   At the same time, however, this arrangement of the expe
riment permits us to separate completely the action of the
absorption from that of the heat-conduction, because, in con
sequence of the comparatively slight conductivity of mica, a
considerable time elapses before the effect of the conduction
commences. The process is doubtless as follows:—The rays
from the source of heat pass for the most part unabsorbed
through the thin plate of mica, and are strongly absorbed in
the coat of lampblack, in which, thin as it is, two sides are to
be distinguished—the front side, nearest to the source, and
the back side, furthest from it. The former absorbs more
strongly, and becomes in consequence more heated, than the
latter. Now, since the heat-conducting power of lampblack,
as Rumford* already showed by experiment and H. Weberf
concluded from his experiments on iron and German silver, is
extraordinarily little (according to Rumford, almost exactly
equal to that of sheep's wool), the heat of the front layer of
the lampblack is conducted away less by the lampblack than
by the mica ; so that after a time the front face of the mica
becomes warmer than the back of the lampblack. While this
back side of tbe lampblack is at first suddenly heated by ab
sorption and therefore produces the sudden first deflection of
the vane, the heat conveyed to the mica by conduction causes
   * Phil. Trans. 1792, p. 42. See also Tyndall, ' Heat' &c, German tr.,
3rd ed. p. 276.
   t Pogg. Ann. cxlvi. p. 282 (1872).

  116           M. E. Pringsheim on the Radiometer.
  a gradual rise of temperature, and, in consequence of it, only
  a gradual deflection of the vane. If now, after the apparatus
  has, under the influence of the irradiation, taken a fixed position
  of rest (in which therefore the rotation-force generated by the
  excess of temperature of the front over the back side is kept
  in equilibrium by the torsion of the glass thread), the irradia
  tion be suddenly interrupted, the back side of the lampblack
  suddenly loses the heat conveyed to it by absorption every
  instant during the irradiation, while the heat communicated
 to the mica face by conduction diminishes just as slowly as it
 increased at the beginning. Hence at the first instant of the
  shading the temperature-difference of the two faces is increased
 by the same quantity, although in the inverse direction, as at
 the first moment of the irradiation ; and the increase produces
 an equally strong and sudden deflection of the vane as in the
 first case, only in the opposite direction. When then from
 the sudden cooling of the front layer of the lampblack a gra
 dual lowering of temperature takes place at the front face of
 the mica, the difference between the two sides gradually comes
 to an end, and the vane slowly returns to its initial resling-
 position.
    That this pregnant effect of heat-conduction is not brought
 to light with the usual mica radiometers is moreover a clear
 proof of their unsuitableness when the object is to fathom the
 causes of their motion. If, namely, such a radiometer is irra
 diated on one side so that the clear faces of the vanes is always
 illuminated and the dark sides are in the shade, the first de
 flection, produced by the absorption of the back side of the
 lampblack, is in every case sufficient to carry the irradiated
 vanes completely out of the range of the radiation and bring
 a fresh vane into it, which in its turn, by its first deflection,
 continues the rotation of the radiometer-cross in the same
 direction, so that a constant rotation, with the mica going in
 front of the lampblack, sets in, and the effect of the heat-
 conduction completely vanishes.
    Therefore, although an effect of the heat^conduction had
unequivocally come out already in the experiments with lamp-
blacked mica vanes, yet corresponding experiments were
undertaken with a very well conducting substance, in order
to see whether the phenomena would be essentially affected by
the good conductivity of the vane. For this purpose a vane
of very thin copper foil (so-called Dutch metal), an excellent
conductor of heat, was prepared and introduced into the bulb.
First some experiments corresponding with the previously
communicated observations with the translucent mica vane,
were instituted with the vane not lampblacked, but bright on
both sides.

             M. E. Pringsheim on the Radiometer.              117
    On irradiation with sunlight, a positive deflection, with the
irradiated side receding, occurred (the reverse of what took
 place with the mica). This phenomenon distinctly shows that,
 m spite of the good conducting-power and the thinness of the
vane, absorption produced a lasting difference of temperatures
between the front and the back side. That any difference
 which may have existed in the shape of the two sides was not
 the cause of the deflection was evident from the fact that
 irradiation of the other side of the vane had for its result a
 deflection in the contrary direction. The magnitude of this
 deflection amounted to about 50 divisions of the scale. A
 one-sided lateral irradiation of the glass case by sunlight pro
 duced, as might have been anticipated, no deflection, just as
 when the thin mica plate was employed.
   When a bright gas-flame was employed as the source of
heat a somewhat weaker deflection appeared than with sun
light, and which also had a quite different character.
    While, namely, the sun produced a sudden deflection, here
the deflection took place quite slowly, and thereby showed
that its cause was a quite different one. In fact it appejirs to
me very probable that in the copper foil only a very slight
difference of temperature arises from the absorption of the
rays emanating from the gas-flame, and that the greater part
of the deflection is produced by the absorption in the glass
case. An argument in favour of this is the fact that, with
equal distance of the source of heat, the deflection was almost
exactly the same on lateral irradiation of one half of the glass
case as on full irradiation of the apparatus from the front.
There resulted, namely, when the gas-flame was at 305 mil-
lim. distance from the vane, a deflection of the index,
         On lateral irradiation, of . . . 23*5 millim.
          „ irradiation from the front, of 23-0 „
   The force produced by direct absorption in copper foil ap
pears therefore to be almost exactly equal to that generated
by the heating of the back part of the glass case.
   Just as with the mica vane, here also by smoking the out
side of the hinder half of the glass case the direction of the
deflection was reversed—with sunlight directly, with the gas-
flame by employing glass plates. Thereupon the Dutch-
metal lamina was smoked on one side over an oil-of-turpentine
flame and again put into the apparatus.
    Irradiation of the bright side with sunlight gave a very
strong positive deflection, in which the bright side receded
until the smoked side began to come within the range of the
radiation, whereupon a violent oscillation resulted.

118            M. E. Pringsheim on the Radiometer.
    If the bright side was irradiated by the flame of a Bunsen
 burner, a positive deflection again occurred, which varied
 between 100 and 200 scale-divisions, according to the dis
 tance and size of the flame.
    On irradiating the smoked side, the Dutch metal behaved
 (as might have been foreseen) quite similarly to the mica ;
 for both underwent a strong positive deflection.
    The motion of the radiometer-vane can be produced not
only by a difference in the substance and temperature of its two
 faces, but also by a difference in the shape, and, lastly, by a dif
 ference in the position with respect to the glass case. Many
experiments have been made with curved vanes, especially
 by Crookes* and Zollnerf, which, however, do not completely
 agree with each other. Yet from all of these experiments it
follows that the convex face corresponds to the blackened side in
ordinary radiometers, the concave face to the bright side. Very
peculiar were the results found by Crookes with aluminium
vanes lampblacked, some on one and others on both sides; for
whenever in those experiments any motion was generated, on
employing a luminous source of heat the coneave side went
before, even when both sides were lampblacked but only the
concave surface was irradiated. The perfect equality of tem
perature of both sides, assumed by Crookes in order to account
tor this phenomenon, appears to me, after the above-commu
nicated experiments on the influence of the heat-conduction,
very unlikely. Crookes, moreover, on Stokes's proposal, has
made an experiment with a radiometer having peculiarly curved
vanes, which shows it to be very probable that the rotation is
not a result of the difference of form of the two sides by
itself, but much rather arises from their different position to
the glass case. The influence of the position of the vane with
respect to the glass appears considerable in radiometers with
transparent vanes placed obliquely; and in these it is found
that the side which is nearest to the glass is repelled the most
strongly. To this cause is certainly to be referred also the
phenomenon remarked by Crookesf, that a radiometer-cross
rotates more rapidly in a small than in a large vessel.
               The Laws of Radiometer-motion.
    The results of the experiments made by the various obser
vers with radiometric apparatus cannot at once be comprised
in general propositions from which it would be possible to
   • Proc. Boy. Soc. xxv. pp. 312-814 ; Comptes Rcndui, lxxxiii. pp. 1289-
1291 : Nature, xix. p. 88 ; Phil. Trans. 1878, pp. 294-302.
   t Popg. Ann. clx. pp. ICO, 164, & 165.
   X Comptes Rcndue, lxxxiii. p. 1233 ; Proc. Roy. Soc. xxv. pp. 308, 309.

             M. E. Pringsheiui on the Radiometer.            119
predict with certainty the course of each phenomenon. For,
in the first place, in most of the experiments such different
influences operated that even with exact knowledge of the
laws that govern each one of them it would be difficult to cal
culate the result of their cooperation; and, besides, we are
still far from being able to state numerically the properties in
question of the different parts of the apparatus (such as ab
sorptive capacity for the precise kind of radiation employed,
emissive power, internal and external conductivity, specific
heat, &c.); and much less still do we know of the laws by
which the action in the apparatus itself of those various pro
perties is regulated.
   Nevertheless, in order to embrace in the simplest possible
propositions the laws of radiometer-motion, we will first re
present to ourselves the experimental conditions on which the
occurrence of the motion is dependent. The first condition,
which makes the apparatus (radiometer, otheoscope, or tor
sion-apparatus) what we call " radiometric," is that the gas
enclosed in the instrument be rarefied beyond the neutral point.
Then we get the following general proposition :—
    Forces act upon the movable parts of a radiometric apparatus
as soon as the equilibrium of temperature within it is disturbed.
    A more particular statement, how and in what direction
 these forces act, upon what their magnitude depends, &c,
 cannot at present be made; but the experiments must be em
 pirically combined into larger classes; and thus the following
 rules can be given:—
    (1) A plane radiometer-vane tends, when irradiated, to
 recede with its warmer side.
    (2) A curved vane tends, when warmed, to recede with its
 convex side.
    (3) A vane suspended over against a wanned surface tends
 to recede from it.
    By these propositions, however, little is gained, unless we
 can bring them under a common point of view that will make
 the process intelligible to us and show us on what it really
 depends.
     We shall arrive at such a point of view if we consider what
 process in radiometric phenomena is precisely that with which
 the force comes in. The motion arises through the irradia
 tion of the apparatus; the force of the motion must therefore
 be derived from the force of the radiation.
     If now we investigate the successive changes produced in
 the apparatus by the irradiation, we very easily come to per
 ceive that the motion of the vanes can only be brought about
 by beat passing from the vane to the gas, or vice versa; and,

1 20            M. E. Pringsheim on the Radiometer.
in fact, all the theories of the radiometer which rest on other
foundations have very soon proved themselves inapplicable.
    If we consider radiometer-motion from this point of view,
the first of the above propositions takes the form:—
    An irradiated plane radiometer-vane tends to recede with
that side which gives out the greatest quantity of heat to the
    Since it is difficult, in such propositions, to take into account
the form of the cooperating bodies, we will rather fall back
upon the surface-elements, and say:—
    A surface-element which transfers heat to rarefied air,
tends to recede with a force increasing with the intensity of
the heat-current.
    We are, indeed, in a position to state the law according to
which the quantity of the heat given out increases. For
Crookes * has shown, with the aid of a very sensitive torsion-
apparatus in which a lampblacked pith bar served as the irra
diated object, that when the apparatus was screened as much
as possible from radiation outwards, the deflections increased
in the inverse ratio of the square of the distance of the source
of light from the pith. Now, as the force necessary for the
torsion of the thread is proportional to the angle of torsion,
the force produced by the radiation increases likewise in that
proportion. The intensity of the radiation incident upon each
surface-element of the pith bar, however, increases in pre
cisely the same ratio, if the dimensions of the latter may be
neglected in comparison with its distance from the source of
light. Hence the quantity of heat absorbed by each element
ot the lampblack surface, and consequently the rise of tempe
rature of each element, increases in the same measure. Now
the quantity of heat given up to the surrounding air in an
element of time by an element of surface is proportional to the
difference of temperatures between the lampblack and the air;
therefore the increase of the heat-current is proportional to
.the increase of temperature of the lampblack—that is, inversely
firoportional to the square of the distance of the source of
  ight. But, as we have shown above, the force acting upon
the entire pith bar, and consequently that upon each element of
 its surface, increases in the same proportion. Now, as this
force vanishes when the quantity of heat transferred is nil, it is
 proportional to the quantity of heat given out by the element
in unit time. We can therefore enunciate the proposition :—
    An element of surface which is transferring heat to the
rarefied air tends to recede with a force that is proportional
to the intensity of the heat-current.
                         * Phil. Trans, clxvi. pt. 2.

              M. E. Pringsheim on the Radiometer.                    121
   Here the question immediately presses, whether a similar
force will not arise at an element of the surface which, instead
of giving heat to the gas, takes heat from it. This question is
answered4by proposition 3 (p. 119), if it be considered from the
point of viewof heat-conduction which we have gained for radio
meter-motion universally. For the heat which is given out to
the gas by the first warmed surface simply escapes from the gas
again at the surface of the vane ; and as it passes to the vane it
imparts to it a receding motion. After the analogy of the
above procedure, we can here also conclude that the repellent
force is proportional to the quantity of heat passing. This
agrees also with the experience that this force increases with
the difference of temperatures between the heated surface and
the gas and with the approach of the two surfaces to one
another. We can therefore extend the above proposition and
say:—
    A surface-element at which heat enters or leaves the rarefied
air undergoes a repulsion, of which the amount is proportional
to the intensity of the heat-current.
   In this proposition are contained not only the three rules
above given, but all the propositions that can be enunciated
on radiometer-motion. Thus, from it is directly inferred, as
a consequence, the influence which a favourable position of
the vane with respect to the glass case' has upon the motion.
For the nearer the vane confronts the glass, the more quickly
do the air-particles give up their heat to the glass, and there
 fore the more quickly the conduction goes on, and hence the
 more heat is withdrawn from the vanes in the unit of time.
 Since Stokes, as already mentioned (p. 117), traced the phe
 nomena occurring in radiometers with curved vanes to the
 favourable position of the convex side with respect to the glass
 case, our proposition contains also rule 2 (p. 120);
                 Theory of Radiometer-motion.
    Till now we have sought to fathom the laws of radiometer-
 motion from the point of view that that motion is generated
 by the passage of heat between a surface and a gas, without
 forming any theoretical notion as to how such a passage of
 heat is capable of producing the motion. Now there are two
 quite different ways of explaining this—namely, the theory of
 air-currents, and those theories of the radiometer which rest
 upon the kinetic theory of gases.
    The view that the motions are due to air-currents* can
 hardly be justified; for as the analogous phenomena under
   • Neesen, Pogg. Arm. clvi. pp. 144-156 (1875), clx. pp. 143-153 (1677).
 0. E. Meyer, Kinetitche Theone der Gate, Breslau, p. 154 (1877).
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 92. Feb. 1883.                  K

122           M. E. Pringsheim on the Radiometer.
atmospheric pressure take place in exactly the contrary way
to the motions of the radiometer, in order to maintain these
theories it would be necessary to assume that in rarefied air
the currents follow quite different laws from those governing
them under the ordinary pressure. At the most one might
infer these laws from the radiometer-motions, and so would
 fall into a vicious circle. Moreover it is indubitable that
air-currents arise in radiometers ; but these, in the high
rarefactions, are very weak, and they are not the cause of the
 motion, but usually counteract it.
    Of the impossibility of finding the cause of the motion in
 air-currents one can easily be convinced by a very simple phe
 nomenon which I have had occasion to observe. A radio
 meter (or, more correctly, an otheoscope) possessed a movable
 cross with four mica vanes inserted radially and inclined about
 45° to the plane of the horizon, which were lampblacked on
 their upper side. Immediately over this cross was a circular
 disk of mica, easily rotated about a vertical axis, suspended
 horizontal. Horizontally incident sunlight produced rotation
 of the cross with the bright side preceding, and an opposite
  rota+ion of the disk.
     This same motion continued when a portion of the cone of
  light was cut off so that only the lampblacked sides of the
  vanes were irradiated, while the bright sides were in the shade.
 When, on the contrary, the lampblacked sides of the vanes
  were shaded and the bright sides irradiated, the motion of the
  cross was reversed, so that now the blackened sides preceded.
  But the mica disk preserved its previous direction of rota
  tion; and consequently now the vanes and the disk rotated in
  the same direction. Now it is certainly inconceivable that,
  in consequence of the change of the illumination, the air-
  current at one place should be reversed while that immediately
  above it has the same direction as before.
     From a much more sure foundation, and one that has already
  by manifold experiments been rendered almost a certainty, do
  those theories start which rest on the kinetic theory of gases.
  The thought which is common to all these theories is that the
  " vacuum " with which we have to do in radiometers is not
  an empty space at all, but still contains an enormous number
  of molecules of air. If, then, these molecules meet a surface of
  higher temperature, a part of the heat contained in the surface
   passes to the gas-molecules; these become warmer; that is,
   according to the kinetic theory, they rebound with greater
   velocity than they approached. According to the law of the
   equality of action and reaction, the warmer surface must suffer
   a greater repulsion from these particles retiring with accele

             M. E. Pringsheim on the Radiometer.             123
rated velocity than if it possessed the same temperature as the
surrounding gas. In consequence of this the warmer side of
the radiometer-vane is exposed to a greater repulsion or pres
sure than the cooler side, and therefore moves backwards.
Just so these warmed gas-molecules repel a surface on which
they impinge, as they give up to it their surplus velocity.
   Moreover, this explanation requires our proposition on
radiometer-motion given above (p. 121) to be somewhat modi
fied, since according to it a surface-element always undergoes
repulsion, even when it has the same temperature as the gas.
But as in reality a surface is never exposed to motion by the
gas without its back side being likewise in the rarefied gas,
the modification is in practice superfluous.
   We have not yet explained how it is that the motion does
not commence until the gas has reached a certain degree of
rarefaction; and this is the point in the explanation of which
the different theories essentially differ. Of all these theories,
that framed by Osborne Reynolds, communicated and adopted
by Schuster*, seems to me to come nearest the truth. It
rests essentially on the assumption that .the predominant
motion in a determined direction communicated to the gas-
molecules by the passage of heat from a warmer body to the
gas cannot be again withdrawn from the gas by the collisions
 of its molecules, but is only withdrawn when the motion
passes again from the gas to a solid body. Now, at the places
where the unilateral motion enters and leaves the gas certain
forces become operative.
   This theory agrees perfectly with the above-given general
law of radiometer-motion ; and the motion which appears in
the solid body is quite simply accounted for by the impact of
the gas-particles and the reaction of the case. That at the
same time the force acting upon an element of the surface is
 proportional to the intensity of the heat-current follows im
mediately from our assumption if it be presupposed that the
rarefaction is so great that, on both sides of the vane, each
surface-element is struck by an equal number of molecules
with the same mean velocity. Let the number be n, and the
component perpendicular to the surface-element, of the mean
velocity of the impinging molecules, v; then, assuming that
one side of the vane has the same temperature as the gas, and
putting the mass of a molecule = 1, the quantity of motion
communicated to the surface-element on this side in unit time
is equal to 2nv. If on the warmer side of the vane the mole
cules rebound with the mean normal velocity-component
                  * Nature, xvii. p 143 (1877).
                               K2

124    Prof. S. P. Thompson on the Graphic Representation
v + A», the quantity of motion here communicated to the sur
face-element in the unit of time is 2n(v + A«); therefore the
force which becomes effective is 2/iAv; that is, proportional
to the heat-motion given up to the gas by the surface-element.
   As to the reversed motion at higher pressure, this is, no
doubt, produced by the air-currents arising on the warmer side,
which become weaker and weaker as the rarefaction increases,
until at last, at the neutral point, they exactly counterbalance
the contrary force of the air-molecules. Since these air-
currents differ in strength and direction according to the form
of the surface at which they arise, the conductivity of the
warm substance, the shape of the vessel, &c, the dependence
of the position of the neutral point on all these is thus
accounted for.
    The complicated phenomena in the so-called electrical radio
meters cannot, so far as they take place in the highest rare
factions, well be regarded as analogous heat-effects upon the
air-molecules, but are much rather conditioned by the laws of
electrical phenomena in highly rarefied-air spaces, so that
their investigation, though of importance for the explanation
of those laws, is not so for that of radiometer-motion.
XVIII. On the Graphic Representation of the Laic of Efficiency
  of an Electric Motor. By Professor Silvanus P. Thompson*.
(1) "\J ARIOUS graphic constructions have been given at
        <U+25BC> different times to represent the work performed by
an electric motor and the electric energy expended upon it. The
main defect of those hitherto given has been that they present
these quantities in such a manner that a comparison of the
two, which would show the efficiency of working of the motor,
is not immediately evident. Moreover it has not been possible
hitherto to show on one construction both the law of maximum
rate of working and the law of efficiency. The following con
struction makes them evident to the eye.
    Let the vertical line A B (fig. 1 ) repre
sent the electromotive force, E, of the
electric supply when the motor is at rest.
On A B construct a square A B C D, of
which the diagonal B D may be drawn.
Now measure out from the point B, along
the line BA, the counter electromotive
 force of the motor e; this quantity will in
crease as the velocity of the motor increases.
Let e attain the value B F. Let us inquire what the actual
              • Communicated by the Physical Society.

         of the Law of Efficiency of an Electric Motor.        125
current will be, and what the energy of it ; also what the work
done by the motor is.
   First complete the construction as follows :—Through F
draw F G H parallel to B C, and through G draw K G L
parallel to A B. Then the actual electromotive force at work
in the machine producing a current is E — e, which may be
represented by any of the lines A F, KG, G H, or L C.
Now the electric energy expended per second is EC ; and
since C=-^,                 E(E_e)
                               2R '
 and the work absorbed by the motor, measured electrically, is
                            e(E-e)
                               2R
2R being a constant, the values of the two may be written
respectively
                             E(E-e)
and
                              e(E-e).
Now the area of the rectangle
                       AFHD=E(E-«),
and that of the rectangle
                       GLCH=«(E-e).
 The ratio of these two areas on the diagram is the efficiency of a
perfect motor, under the condition of a given constant electro
motive force in the electric supply.
   (2) So far we have assumed that the efficiency of a motor
(working with a given constant external electromotive forco)
is to be measured electrically. But no motor actually converts
into useful mechanical effect the whole of the electric energy
which it absorbs, since part of the energy is wasted in friction
and part in wasteful electromagnetic reactions between the
stationary and moving parts of the motor. If, however, we
consider the motor to be a perfect engine (devoid of friction,
not producing wasteful Foucault currents, running without
 sound, giving no sparks at the collecting-brushes, &c), and
 capable of turning into mechanical effect 100 per cent, of the
electric energy which it absorbs, then, and then only, may we
 take the electrical measure of the work of the motor as being
 a true measure of its performance. Such a " perfect " elec
tric engine would, like the ideal "perfect" heat-engine of
 Carnot, be perfectly reversible. In Carnot's heat-engine it is

126     Prof. S. P. Thompson on the Graphic Representation
 supposed that the whole of the heat actually absorbed in the
 cycle of operations is converted into useful work; and in this
 case the efficiency is the ratio of the heat absorbed to the total
 heat expended. As is well known, this efficiency of the per
 fect heat-engine can be expressed as a function of two absolute
 temperatures, namely those respectively of the heater and of
 the refrigerator of the engine. Carnot's engine is also ideally
 reversible ; that is to say, capable of reconverting mechanical
 work into heat.
    The mathematical law of efficiency of a perfect electric
 engine illustrated in the above construction is an equally ideal
 case. And the efficiency can also be expressed, when the
 constants of the case are given, as a function of two electro
 motive forces. We shall return to this comparison a little later.
         The Law of Maximum Rate of Working (Jacobi) .
    (3) Let us next consider the area G L C H of the diagram
 (fig. 2), which represents the work utilized in the motor. The
 value of this area will vary with the posi         Fig. 2.
tion of the point G, and will be a maximum
 when G is midway between B and D ; for
 of all rectangles that can be inscribed in
the triangle BCD, the square will have
maximum area (fig. 2). But if G is
midway between B and D, the rectangle
 GLCH will be exactly half the area of
the rectangle AFHD; or, the useful
work is equal to half the energy ex
pended. When this is the case, the
 counter electromotive force reduces the current to half the
 strength it would have if the motor were at rest; which is
 Jacobi's law of the efficiency of a motor doing work at its
greatest possible rate.
                   Law of Maximum Efficiency.
    (4) Again, consider these two rectangles when the point G
moves indefinitely near to D (fig. 3).              Fig. 3.
We know from common geometry that
the rectangle GLCH is equal to the
rectangle A F G K. The area (square) 31 1R<*' ¦ ¦
K G H D, which is the excess of A F H D                ?
over A F G K, represents therefore the
electric energy which is wasted in heat
ing the resistances of the motor. That
the efficiency should be a maximum the /
heat^waste must be a minimum. The

           of the Law of Efficiency of an Electric Motor.                  127
ratio of the areas AFHD and G L C H, which represents the
efficiency, can therefore only become equal to unity when the
square KGHD becomes indefinitely small—that is, when
the motor runs so fast that its counter electromotive force e
differs from B by an indefinitely small quantity only.
    Further, it is clear that if our diagram is to be drawn to
represent any given efficiency (for example, an efficiency of
90 per cent.), then the point G must be taken so that area
GLCH = ^ area A F H D ; or, G must be ft of the whole
distance along from B towards D. This involves that e shall
be equal to A of E; which expresses geometrically the law of
maximum efficiency.
    It is strange that even in many of the accepted text-books
this law is ignored or misunderstood. It is indeed frequent
to find Jacobi's law of maximum rate of working stated as the
law of efficiency. Yet as a mathematical expression the law
has been known for many years. It is implicitly contained
in more than one of the memoirs of Joule ; it is implied also
in more than one passage of the memoirs of Jacobi*; it exists
   * Jacobi seems very clearly to have understood that his law was a law
of maximum working, but not to have understood that it was not a law
of true economical efficiency. In one passage {Annates de Chimie et de
Phyxique, t. xxxiv. (1862) p. 480) he says :—" Le travail m^canique maxi
mum, ou pluivt Veffet iconomique, n'est nullement complique' avec ce que
M. Muller appelle les circonstances specifiques des moteura electromag-
n^tiques." i et, though here there is apparently a confusion between the
two very different laws, in a preceding part of the very same memoir
Jacobi says (p. 406) :—"En divisant la quantity de travail par la diSpense
(de zinc), on obtient une expression tres-importante dans la meeanique
industrielle : c'est l'efl'et £conomique, ou ce que les Anglais appellent
duty." Here, again, is a singular confusion. The definition is perfect; but
" ettet economique " is not the same thing as the maximum power.
Jacobi's law is not a law of maximum efficiency, but a law of maximum
power ; and that is where the error creeps in. It is significant, in suggesting
the cause of this remarkable conflict of ideas, that throughout this memoir
Jacobi speaks of work as being the product of force and velocity, not of
force and displacement. The same mistake —common enough amongst
continental writers—is to be found in the accounts of Jacobi's law given
in Verdet's Thiorie m&canique de la Cfialeur, in Muller's Lehrbuch der
Physik, and even in Wiedemann's Oalvanistnus. Now the product of
force and velocity is not work, but work divided by time—that is to say,
rate-of-workiug, or "power." This may account for the widely-spread
fallacy. Jacobi makes another curious slip in the memoir above alluded
to (p. 463), by supposing that the strength of the current can only
become =0 when the motor runs at an infinite speed. We all know now
that the current will be reduced to zero when the counter electromotive
force of the motor equals that of the external supply ; and if this is finite,
the velocity of the motor, if there is independent magnetism in its magnets,
need also only be finite. This error—also to be found in Verdet—seems
to have thrown the latter off" the track of the true law of efficiency, and
to have made him fall back on Jacobi's law.

128     Prof. S. P. Thompson on the Graphic Representation
in the Thdorie Micanique de la Chaleur of Verdet*. Yet it
remained a mere mathematical abstraction until its significance
was pointed out three or four years ago by Siemens.
    (5) Further, if the motor be not a "perfect" one, but one
whose intrinsic efficiency, or efficiency per se, is known, the
actual mechanical work performed by the motor can be repre
sented on the diagram by simply retrenching from the rect
angle GLCH the fraction of work lost in friction &c. Simi
larly, in the case where the electric energy expended has
been generated in a dynamo-electric machine whose intrinsic
efficiency is known, the total mechanical work expended can
be represented by adding on to the area A F H D the propor
 tion spent on useless friction &c. To make the diagram still
 more expressive, we may divide the area K Gr H D into slices
 proportional to the several resistances of the circuit ; and the
 areas of these several slices will represent the heat wasted in
 the respective parts of the circuit. These points are exempli
 fied in fig. 4, which represents the transmission of power
 between two dynamos, each supposed to have an intrinsic effi
 ciency of 80 per cent., each naving 500 ohms resistance,
 working through a line of 1000 ohms resistance, the electro
 motive force of the machine used as generator being 2400
 volts, and the counter electromotive force of the machine used
 as motor being 1600 volts.
    The entire upper area repre
 sents the total mechanical work                       Fig. 4.
 expended. Call this 100, and it I
 is expended as follows :—a = 20,               °
 lost by friction &c. in the generator; '—
 6=6§, lost in heating generator;
 c= 13£, lost in heating line-wires;                i    /
 d=6§, lost in heating motor;                          /
 e=10§, lost in friction in the                     V/
 motor; w>=42§ is the percentage
 realized as useful mechanical work.
     (6) The advantage derived in the case of the electric trans
 mission of power from the employment of very high electro
 motive forces in the two machines is also deducible from the
 diagram.
     Let fig. 3, given above, be taken as representing the case
  where E is l00 volts and e 80 volts. Now suppose the resist
  ances of the circuit to remain the same while E is increased to
  200 volts and e to 180 volts. (This can be accomplished by
  increasing the speed of both machines to the requisite degrees.)
 E— « is still 20 volts, and the current will be the same as
  before. Fig. 5 represents this state of things. The square
                     • Verdet, (Euvret, t. ix. p. 174.

          of the Law of Efficiency of an Electric Motor.        129
K G H D which repre-                             5.
sents the heat-waste is A                                    k o
the same size as before;
but the energy spent is
twice as great, and the
useful work done is
more than twice as
great as previously.
High        electromotive
force therefore means
not only a greater
quantity of power
transmitted, but a
higher efficiency of
transmission also. The
efficiency of the system
in the case of fig. 3
was 80 per cent; in the case of fig. 5 it is 90 (the dynamos
used being supposed "perfect"); and whilst double energy is
expended, the useful return has risen in the ratio of 9 to 4.
    (7) So far it has been supposed that the resistance of the
system is a constant quantity. But it is possible to construct
diagrams in which changes of resistance are taken into
account. All that is necessary is to vary the scale of the
diagram, the linear unit of scale being chosen inversely pro
portional to the square root of the total resistance. This will
make the areas of the diagrams inversely proportional to the
 resistances in the different cases, as required by the law that
the energy of the current is proportional to
    An example in which this rule is applied is the following.
 It can be shown that the power transmitted and efficiency of a
 transmitting system are increased by doubling the number of
 coils in the armatures of the machines. This is not at first sight
 self-evident; for though, cceteris paribus, this doubles the elec
 tromotive force of the machines, it also doubles their resistances.
 Let fig. 6 be the diagram for a trans
 mitting system, where «=§E, arid                  ^g- 6-
 in which these values are both going
 to be doubled by doubling the num-        so
 ber of armature-coils. There are
 two cases to consider:—(a) first,
 where the line-resistance is very
 small compared with that of the
 two machines; (b) second, where
 the line-resistance is very large
 compared with that of the two machines.

130    Prof. S. P. Thompson on tlie Graphic Representation
   {a) In the former case, where we neglect the resistance of
the line, we must draw a diagram diminishing the linear unit
of scale to —j= of its value.    But as on this scale we are going
to represent doubled electromotive forces, the actual figure
will have to be        times as large as fig. 6. Draw, then, the
fig. 7, taking as side of the                     pjg 7#
square a line equal to the dia- aoo
gonal of fig. 6, and we obtain
a diagram in which, while the mo
efficiency is the same as before,
the actual quantity of work
effected in unit time is doubled.
For the areas representing re
spectively energy expended, work
done, and heat-waste are in fig. 7
double of those in fig. 6. But
no such case can occur in prac
tice, as the line must have some resistance. Then doubling
the number of coils of the machines will not cut down the scale
so greatly as we have supposed; and the work transmitted will
be more than doubled. Further, if the number of coils on the
machine used as motor be a little more than doubled, a higher
efficiency will be attained; since then the area of the square
K6HD will be further diminished, while the scale on which
the diagram is drawn will only be very slightly diminished.
If diminished, as shown by the dotted lines, so that e— E has
the same value as before, the efficiency will be a little less than
doubled, the power transmitted remaining as at first.
   (b) If the case where
the line-resistance is very 200            Fig. 8.
great as compared with
the resistances of the
machines be taken, we wo
find that doubling the
number of the coils of
the two machines will
double their respective
electromotive       forces,
without altering appre
ciably the total resistance
or the scale of the dia
gram. To represent this
change relatively to fig.
6, we must reconstruct
that figure, doubling its linear dimensions each way, as in fig. 8.

           of t]ie Law of Efficiency of an Electric Motor.     131
It is at once evident that the power transmitted is increased
fourfold, while the efficiency remains the same. If we increase
the number of coils, as before, on the machine at the receiving
end of the line so as to bring up the difference E — e to the
value it had in fig. 6, the scale of the diagram will still be
unaltered; the power transmitted will be now only double
instead of quadruple; but the efficiency will thereby be more
than doubled, the heat-waste being the same, and the energy
utilized more than twice as great. High electromotive force
is therefore advantageous in both cases, especially in the case
of a great resistance in the line.
    (8) It only remains to point out a curious contrast that
presents itself between the efficiency of a perfect heat-engine
and that of a perfect electric engine. We saw (§ 2) that the
one could be expressed as a function of two temperatures,
whilst the other could be expressed as a function of two elec
tromotive forces. But in the heat-engine the efficiency is the
greatest when the difference between the two temperatures is
 a maximum; whilst in the electric engine the efficiency is the
greatest when the difference between the two electromotive
forces is a minimum. The two cases are contrasted in figs. 9 and
 10, fig. 9 showing
the efficiency of a            Fig. 9.                Fig. 10-
 heat-engine work
 ing between tem
 peratures T and t
 (reckoned from ab
 solute zero) ; whilst
 fig. 10 shows the
 efficiency of an
 electric engine re
 ceiving current at
 an electromotive
 force E, its counter
 electromotive force being e. Joule's remark, here illustrated,
 that an electric engine may be readily made to be a far more
 efficient engine than any steam-engine, is amply justified by
 all experience. But in spite of this fact, electric engines are,
 as yet, dearer in practice than heat-engines, simply because
 energy in the form of electric currents supplied at a high
 potential is, as yet, much more costly to produce than energy
 in the form of heat supplied at a high temperature.

                               [   132     ]
XIX. On the Change in the .Double Refraction of Quartz pro
     duced by Electric Forces. By Prof. W. C. BoNTGEN*.
IT is well known that Sir W. Thomson has endeavoured to
      explain pyroelectric phenomena by assuming that the
interior of pyroelectric crystals is constantly in a condition of
electric polarization ; the external action of this polarization
is neutralized by a constant electric charge of the surface,
so long as the polarization remains unaltered. Changes in the
temperature of the crystals alter this condition; and the pyro
electric phenomena observed are the consequence of this
change.
   This view is supported by the phenomena recently observed
by Messrs. J. and P. Curiet, confirmed by Hankel \, and dis
tinguished as piezoelectric, as well as by the experiments
made by J. and P. Curie § on the changes of form produced
by electricity in pyroelectric crystals ; at least these pheno
mena are naturally explained by the hypothesis in question.
    I will not now dwell upon the difficulties which, in my
opinion, militate against the acceptance of this hypothesis, but
will simply explain how this view induced me to make the ex
periments here described, the results of which are certainly in
 themselves worthy of attention. The consideration from which
 I started was the following :—If an electric polarization were
 constantly present in a pyroelectric crystal in definite direc
 tions, and if it is allowable to conclude from the recently dis
 covered effects of statical electricity on the optical properties
 of singly-refracting media that not only the polarization pro
 duced by external electric forces, but also any natural polari
 zation already existing, would exert an influence on the
 vibrations of light transmitted through the crystal, then the
 optical properties of a pyroelectric crystal would be affected
 in different ways, according as the natural polarization was
 weakened or strengthened by the action of external electric
 forces.
    Taking a quartz crystal as example, the result of piezo
 electric experiments with it may be described as follows, at
 least for normal crystals of simple formation:—A section of
 the crystal at right angles to the principal axis may be divided
by three straight lines intersecting each other in any point
   • Translated from a separate impression from the Berichte der Oberh.
 Oes. fur. Natur- und HeUkiinde, communicated by the Author.
   t Compt. Bend. xci. pp. 294, 383 (1880) ; xcii. pp. 186, 350 ; xciii.
p. 204 (1881).
   \ Abhandl. der kiin. sachs. Gesellschaft. vol. xii. p. 469 (1881).
   § Compt. Bend, xciii. p. 1137 (1881).

       On the Change in the Double Refraction of Quartz.       133
at angles of 60°, into six fields, which possess the following
properties :—A pressure exerted upon the crystal in any
direction through the point, or in any parallel direction,
causes the crystal to become electrified at the two points of
pressure, the one becoming positive, the other negative. If
we change from one direction of pressure to another lying
in an adjacent field, the sign of the electricity at the points of
pressure changes whenever the direction of pressure crosses
the boundary between adjacent fields.
    Hence it follows that a pressure exerted in the direction of
one of the three lines mentioned can produce no piezoelec
tricity ; on this account I propose to call these three direc
tions the axes of no piezoelectricity. In the three directions
bisecting the angles between these axes, there must be a
maximum of piezoelectricity produced ; these directions may
therefore be called the axes of maximum piezoelectricity.
They coincide more or less exactly with the so-called secondary-
axes, the lines joining the two opposite edges of the quartz
 crystal. I am not yet able to decide whether or not they
 coincide exactly, since the experiments which I have made
 to test the point are not sufficiently numerous ; with some
 crystals, however, it seems to be really the case. If this
 were so, the axes of no piezoelectricity would have the same
 direction as the intermediate axes of the quartz.
     Let us suppose that the three axes of maximum piezo
 electricity give the three directions of the natural polariza
 tion : if we consider the ends of each axis as positive or
 negative, corresponding to the natural distribution of elec
 tricity in the interior, then these ends, if we follow them
 round in order, must be alternately positive and negative.
 The electricity produced by pressure is correspondingly posi
  tive or negative; and this holds good, as already remarked,
  for the whole field in which any axis lies.
     If now a piece of quartz be so exposed to the inductive
  action of static electricity, that at any place the lines of
  force run at right angles to the principal axis, and at the
  same time do not run in the direction of an axis of no piezo
 electricity, these forces will produce an increase or decrease
  of the natural polarization at this place, and with it, in accor
  dance with the hypothesis stated at the outset, we shall
  have an increase or a decrease of the natural double refraction
  of rays which traverse the crystal at right angles to the prin
  cipal axis and to the lines of force. The occurrence of the
  one case or of the other will depend wholly upon which of the
  three pairs of opposite fields the direction of the lines of
  force lies in, and in what direction they traverse it. There

134     Prof. W. C. Rontgen on the Change in the Double
would be no change of the natural double refraction to be
observed under the conditions assumed, if the lines of force
run in the direction of one of the three axes of no piezo
electricity.
   These conclusions, that the double refraction of the quartz
may be increased or diminished at pleasure by the action of
statical electricity, and that under certain denned conditions
the double refraction is incapable of any such change, have
been found to be confirmed by experiment.
   The preliminary experiments were made with two rect
angular parallelepipeds of pure Brazilian quartz, in which
optical experiment showed no deformation. The pieces of
quartz, which were obtained from Messrs. Steeg ana Renter,
were 2'0 centim. long, and were made exactly of a uniform
width and breadth of 1*2 centim. According to my instruc
tions, the longest axis of the parallelepipeds should have
 coincided with a secondary axis ; but, owing to a misunder
standing on the part of the workman, little weight was
attached to this condition. Subsequent inquiries, as well as
determinations made by means of Leydolt's* etched figures,
showed that in both pieces this direction deviated but little
from that of a secondary axis. It may further be remarked
that it is sufficient for the investigations in hand that the
direction of length should not coincide with an axis of no
piezoelectricity : the piezoelectric experiments have shown
that this was the case. Two of the lateral surfaces are
exactly at right angles to the principal axis ; and the other
two lateral surfaces are therefore strictly parallel to the prin
cipal axis and nearly parallel to a secondary axis.
   Each piece had a perforation in the direction of its
length of about 0"2 centim. width, starting from the centre
of the end faces ; the coaxial perforations do not quite reach
each other in the middle of the crystal, but leave a thickness
of 0*2 centim., which forms the portion of the crystal whose
electro-optical properties are to be investigated.
   Both crystals were examined ; but in each experiment only
one crystal was placed in the electric field ; the other was used
to compensate the natural double refraction of the first : for
this purpose the pieces were cemented together with a little
isinglass, so as to have their principal axes at right angles to
each other. Light polarized in a plane making an angle of
45° with the principal axes traversed the crystal at right
           Berichtt der Wiener Akademie, vol. xv. p. 50 (1865).

          Refraction of Quartz produced by Electric Forces.   135
 angles to the plane containing the principal axis and a
 secondary axis of one of the crystals, and consequently at
 right angles to two lateral surfaces.
    When placed between crossed Nicols, the centre of the
 field of view (that is, the place between the perforations) was
 nearly uniformly dark (employing sodium-light, the intensity
 of which was quite sufficient for these experiments), not re
 garding certain small irregularities, probably resulting from
 pressure during boring. Brass wires of about 0-15 centim.
 thickness, with well-rounded ends, were placed in the two
 perforations of the crystal under examination, which were so
 connected with the electrodes of a Holtz machine as to admit
 of rapid reversal of the connexions. The difference of po
 tential between the two electrodes could be varied at pleasure
 and continuously, whilst the machine was rotated with uni
 form velocity by means of a secondary connexion containing
 a variable air-resistance. This method, which I have em
 ployed for some time, consists in connecting one electrode
 with an insulated sharp point, the other with an insulated
 metal plate. The point and plate are opposed to each other ;
 and their distance apart can be altered at pleasure ; the
 further they are apart the greater is the resistance of air for
 the dark discharge, and the greater therefore is the difference
 of potential.
    In order to avoid the undesirable passage of sparks between
the wires within the crystal, which is liable to occur when
 the difference of potential becomes too great, the crystal
 was placed in a small flask filled with sulphide of carbon, and
 in the later experiments with benzol ; the polarized light
 entered one side at right angles where the flask was perfo
 rated, and the opening closed by a piece of plate-glass, and
 passed out at the opposite side, which was perforated in a
similar manner.
    For the purpose of control I have also examined the pieces
 of quartz in air, and have observed in all essential points the
same behaviour as when they were immersed in sulphide of
carbon or in benzol.
    The direction of the secondary axis, the axis of length of
the crystal examined for electro-optical effect, was placed
 vertical ; the direction of the lines of force in the middle of
 the crystal was therefore vertical ; and the principal plane of
 the Nicol consequently made angles of 45° with these lines
 of force (the arrangement previously designated " Position I."
of the Nicol*).
   • Compare Ber. d. Ob. Get. vol. xix. p. 1 (1880); Wied. Annal.
vol. x. p. T, (1880).

136     Prof. W. C. Rontgen on the Change in the Double
   To distinguish the pieces of quartz from each other they
may be called " Crystal I." and " Crystal II." ; one end face
of each is marked, and in what follows is called " the marked
end."
   The action which the electricity exerts upon the light
passing through the crystal was compared with the action
which was caused by the compression, in a vertical or hori
zontal direction, of a piece of glass inserted between the
analyzer and crystal. If we have noted, for example, as
follows,
   " Below + , above — ; the same action as vertical com
      pression,"
it is to be understood that charging the ends of the secondary
axis below with positive and above with negative electricity
produced the same optical change in the centre of the field
of view as a compression of the plate of glass in a vertical
direction.
   Experiment I. Crystal I., marked end at the bottom.
   Below + , above — ; same action as vertical compression.
   Below — , above + ;         ,,      horizontal      „
   Experiment II. Crystal I., marked end at the top.
   Below + , above — ; same action as horizontal compression .
   Below — , above + ;         „       vertical          „
   Experiment III. Crystal I., marked end above.
    (a) The centre of the field of view was made somewhat
darker by vertical compression of the glass plate, then, while
the glass plate remained compressed, " Below + , above — "
caused an increase of brightness. This action could be com
pensated by stronger compression in a vertical direction.
    (6) By vertical compression of the glass plate the centre
of the field of view was again rendered darker; " Below — ,
 above + " again rendered the field of view brighter; but this
brightening was not now compensated, but rather increased
by stronger compression in the vertical direction.
    Experiment IV. (after the crystals had been cemented
together in the opposite way). Crystal II., marked end at
the top.
    Below + , above — ; same action as horizontal compression.
    Below — , above + ;         „       vertical       „
    Experiment V.—In the above experiments the quartz was
surrounded by sulphide of carbon ; in the following ones it
was surrounded by air.

        Refraction of Quartz produced by Electric Forces.     137
               Crystal I., marked end at the top.
   Below + , above — ; same effect as horizontal compression.
   Below — , above + ;           „       vertical         „
   Experiment VI. Crystal II., marked end at the top.
   Below + , above — ; same effect as horizontal compression.
   Below — , above + ;           „       vertical          „
   The experiments were repeated at very different times and
under varied conditions : thus in the later experiments there
was often only one crystal in the flask filled with benzol, the
other, which served as compensator, being surrounded by air ;
sometimes plates of mica or other pieces of quartz were chosen
as compensator ; but the same results described above were
always obtained, and never any thing different.
   It is well known that a compressed glass plate behaves
optically as a negative crystal the principal axis of which
coincides with the direction of compression. Since quartz is
a positive crystal, the results obtained above may be expressed
by saying that the double refraction of the pieces of quartz
examined increased when the marked end of the secondary
axis was charged with positive electricity and the unmarked
end with negative, and that, on the contrary, the double
refraction diminishes when the marked end of the axis is
negative and the unmarked end positive.
   It was now further examined how these ends behave in
 piezoelectric relationship. The experiment was made by
 covering the end faces of the crystal with tinfoil and com
 pressing it in a screw-press between plates of ebonite in the
 direction of its length : the one strip of tinfoil was connected
 with a delicate Fechner's goldleaf electroscope, capable of
 indicating the charge of the insulated pole of a Daniell's
 element by a marked deflection, the other was connected with
 earth.
    The experiment frequently repeated gave uniformly the
 same result, that the marked end of the secondary axis of
 both pieces of quartz became negatively electrified upon in
 crease of pressure, and positively electrified upon decrease of
 pressure ; the unmarked end became respectively positively
 or negatively electrified.
    We may therefore express the result of the electro-optical
 investigation thus : The double refraction of quartz increases
 if positive electricity is communicated to that end of a secon
 dary axis which, upon increase of pressure acting in the
 direction of this secondary axis, becomes negatively electrified,
 and if at the same time negative electrity is communicated
    FhU. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 92. Feb. 1686.             L

138     Prof. W. C. Rontgen on the Change in the Double
to the other end. The double refraction diminishes, on the
other hand, when the distribution of the communicated elec
tricities is the opposite.
   If we adopt the view that a piezoelectric crystal is in a
condition of electric polarization, whose direction, in the
particular case of quartz, seems to coincide with the direction
of a secondary axis, and that the observed piezoelectricity is
a consequence of the change of polarization produced by
pressure, then simple reasoning shows that the end which
becomes negative upon increase of pressure is that to
wards which the negative side of the electrically polarized
molecules is turned. But we found before that the double
refraction increases when positive electricity is communicated
to this end and negative electricity to the other ; the polari
zation must be strengthened by this electrification ; and we
consequently obtain the result, that the double refraction of
quartz increases or decreases according as the natural polari
zation is increased or weakened by external electric forces.
    Having thus found the first of the consequences mentioned
at the beginning confirmed by experiment, I proceeded fur
ther to put the second to the experimental test. The experi
 ments described had shown me that, as far as intensity was
 concerned, there was at any rate no great difference between
the increase and the decrease of the double refraction pro
 duced by equal electric forces ; thence I concluded that it must
 be possible to find a direction in the quartz possessing the
 property that electric forces acting in this direction would
 produce no perceptible change in the double refraction.
 From what has been said above, this direction was to be
 sought for in an axis of no piezoelectricity—consequently in,
 or at any rate in the neighbourhood of, an intermediate axis
 of the crystal. I obtained therefore from Messrs. Steeg and
 Reuter a square plate of quartz of 1"5 centim. in the side and
 0*25 centim. thickness, which was cut accurately parallel to a
 side face, and consequently at right angles to an intermediate
 axis. The principal axis is parallel to a side of the square; a
 secondary axis is consequently parallel to one of the sides at
 right, angles to the first named. The four narrow side faces
 are polished.
    First of all I examined whether the intermediate axis of
 this crystal was really an axis of no piezoelectricity. The
 result obtained was that even great changes of pressure in the
 direction of the intermediate axis gave rise to no perceptible
 quantities of electricity at the points of pressure, and that
 this direction is consequently an axis of no piezoelectricity.
 It may be remarked that a pressure parallel to the principal

        Refraction of Quartz produced by Electric Forces.                139
 axis gave the same result, that, on the contrary, a pressure
 parallel to the secondary axis produced considerable quantities
 of electricity.
    Next the plate was perforated in the centre of a square
 end face so that a nearly hemispherical depression was formed
 there (depth Ol centim). A further examination for piezo
 electricity gave the same result as before.
    The plate so prepared was placed upon the brass plate
 employed in my former electro-optic experiments between
 two thin strips of glass cemented to it, and introduced into
 the little flask filled with benzol. The end of a well-rounded
 brass wire projected into the depression in the plate, and
 formed the upper electrode, the plate being the lower elec
trode. The rays of light traversed the crystal parallel to the
secondary axis, and consequently at right angles to the prin
cipal axis and to a secondary axis. The Nicols were placed
in position I.
    In order to compensate the natural double refraction, I
 employed the same means as in the experiments with the
 quartz parallelepiped; a second square plate of quartz, which
 was cut at right angles to the principal axis and had nearly
 the same dimensions as the first, was placed between the
analyzer and glass flask, upon a stand movable about three
axes at right angles to each other, and so placed that its
principal axis was at right angles to that of the first plate.
The double refraction could not be exactly compensated; but
it was very easy to decide whether any such change of double
refraction as took place with the first plate occurred here,
by observing one of the vertical dark bands which crossed
the field of view when the compensating plate was turned a
little about a vertical axis. Any change in the double refrac
 tion would have been perceived by a displacement of the band
 to the right or to the left.
    The experiment was made by adjusting a band in the
 middle of the field of view, consequently exactly under the
 bulb-shaped depression, which was to see if any displace
 ment occurred when the difference of potential between the
 electrodes was subjected to rapid change. I have never been
 able to observe any such displacement, however varied the con
 ditions under which the experiment has been made. Hence
it follows that a change in the double refraction is not produced
in any perceptible degree by electric forces acting in the
direction of the axis of no piezoelectricity*.
   * It is obvious that I cannot assert that no trace of electro-optic effect
could have been observed in the direction of an axis of no piezoelectricity
if much greater differences of potential than those in my experiments,
                                    L2

 140     Prof. W. C. Rontgen on the Change in tlie Double
    The bands were next adjusted first to the left and then to
the right of the depression, but remaining close to it ; in these
 positions also no effect of electrification upon the double re
 fraction was observed ; neither the lower nor the upper end
 of the band altered its position.
    The observation that also the upper end of the band was
 not displaced is of importance; for since the lines of force
 which issue from the hemispherical depression run there
 horizontally, and coincide with the direction of the principal
 axis to the left and to the right of the upper electrode, it
 follows that also in the direction of the principal axis of the
 quartz no perceptible change can be produced in the double
 refraction by means of electric forces.
    The remark made already in a footnote of course holds
 here also. The piezoelectric investigation, as remarked, had
 shown that change of pressure in the direction of the prin
 cipal axis did not produce any electricity at the points of
 pressure. This result seemed worthy of direct proof. For this
 purpose the plate cut at right angles to the principal axis
 was provided with a central hemispherical depression just like
 the plate cut parallel to the axis, and introduced into the
 flask in the place of the latter; the plates were simply inter
 changed. Having by this arrangement obtained an inter
 ference-band under the depression (that is, at the point where
 the lines of force run parallel to the principal axis), I was
 unable to produce any displacement of the band by increasing
 or decreasing the difference of potential between the elec
trodes; consequently in this plate also the double refraction
 was not perceptibly altered by the action of electric forces in
 the direction of the principal axis. This plate also, upon
pressure parallel to the principal axis, gave no piezoelectricity
 at the points of pressure. If the band were situated at one
 side of the depression, but very near to it, I observed a pheno
 menon upon electrification wnich furnished a very welcome
confirmation of the results obtained with the quartz parallele
 piped. The lower end of the vertical band remained fixed ;
 but the upper end inclined towards the right or towards the
 left ; and the direction of the motion changed with the sign
of the electricity upon the electrodes. Further, I observed
 that, when the sign of the electricity remained the same, the
 upper end of a band moved in a different direction according
and a more intense source of light had been employed. If such a change
were to be observed, it would certainly be much smaller than that which
takes place in the direction of an axis of maximum piezoelectricity. The
above experiments would therefore not lose their significance.

       Refraction of Quartz produced by Electric Forces.                 141
as the band was situated to the right or to the left of the
centre. Vertical or horizontal compression of the ntercalated
glass plate produced a displacement of the whole band
parallel to itself to the left or to the right.
    The explanation of these phenomena is easy to find if we
consider that as the experiments described show the direc
tion on the right, so on the left; that is, the horizontal direc
tion at right angles to the rays of light in the crystal employed
does not exactly coincide with an axis of no piezoelectricity.
The phenomena are thus easily deduced from the first-described
experiments:—The lines of force in the upper part of the plate
run nearly horizontally in the neighbourhood of the depres
sion; some of them therefore coincide with directions in which
the double refraction is capable of being altered : in the lower
part of the plate, on the other hand, the lines of force are
vertical; they consequently run in the direction of the princi
pal axis, and therefore produce no change of double refraction.
 Consequently it is only the upper end of the band which is
displaced, and not the lower. The observation that the direc
 tion of displacement changes when the electrification or the
 position of the band changes is in complete agreement with
the observed fact that the increase of the double refraction
 of quartz is changed into a decrease if the direction of the
 lines of force is reversed. We have seen above that from the
 distribution of piezoelectricity we can predict with certainty,
 for a given direction of the lines of force, whether an increase
 or a decrease of the double refraction will take place; and the
 question consequently arises whether with the new crystal the
 established rule will be found confirmed or not.
     The plate was examined for piezoelectricity. A pressure
 upon the square surface in the direction of the principal axis
 produced no distinctly perceptible quantity of electricity at
 the points of pressure. The four narrow side faces, however,
 behaved differently; they may be designated a, b, c, d in
 order. An increase of pressure in the direction parallel to b
 and d produced positive electricity at a, and negative electri
 city at c; a decrease of pressure, electricities of opposite sign.
 An increase of pressure in the direction parallel to a and c
 gave negative electricity at b, positive electricity at d; a de
 crease of pressure, the opposite. In both cases I obtained
 vigorous deflection of the electroscope*. The plate was again
    * Between the two directions, parallel to 6 and d and parallel to a and
 c, there must be a field which in piezoelectric relation would behave op
 positely to the two fields to which these directions belong. In fact, an
 increase of pressure in the direction of the diagonal of the square which
joins the corner a d with the corner 6 c, gave negative electricity at ad
 and positive electricity at 6 c ; a decrease of pressure, the opposite,

142     Prof. W. C. Rontgen on the Change in the Double
placed in the flask full of benzol, and the electro-optical
experiments repeated. The optical action of the electricity-
was also compared with the action of a glass plate compressed
in a horizontal or in a vertical direction. In what follows such
a note as
  " Below + , above — ; upper end of band left ; horizontal
      compression "
is to be understood thus:—When the lower electrode was
positive and the upper one negative, the upper end of the
band lying on the left of the centre inclined towards the side
towards which the whole band was displaced by a compres
sion of the glass plate in a horizontal direction.
   Experiment I. The rays of light traversed the plate parallel
to a and c; a on the left, c on the right.
Below + , above— ; upper end of band left; vertical compres-
                                                              [sion.
   »—>»+>                  m       »        n horizontal „
   „+,„—;                  „       „      right; horizontal „
   «—>»+;                  j)      »        » vertical          „
   Experiment II. Bays of light parallel to a and c; a right,
c left.
 Below + , above— ; upper end of band left; horizontal com-
                                                          [pression.
    „      in      "f" »   n       n        » vertical         ,,
   » +i » —I               n       »      right; vertical      „
    „—,„+;                 „       „         „ horizontal „
    Experiment III. Rays of light parallel to b and d ; b right,
dleft.
 Below + , above— ; upper end of band left; vertical compres
                                                              sion.
    » — j » +J              t>      »       » horizontal „
    „+,„—;                  „       „     right; horizontal „
    »       >       +5      »       »        » vertical        .,
    Experiment IV. Rays of light parallel to b and d; b left,
 d right.
 Below +, above — ; upper end of band left; horizontal com-
                                                          [pression.
    „—,„+;                  „       „        „ vertical           „
    „+,„—;                  „       „     right; vertical         „
    ,,—,„+;                 „       „        „ horizontal         „
    It is easy to convince one's self that these data are in all

       Refraction of Quartz produced by Electric Forces.       143
respects in complete accordance with the results obtained from
the experiments previously described.
   It is necessary to mention that the phenomena described
above may be explained by means of two known facts. One
of these facts has been recently demonstrated by MM. J.
and P. Curie*, as follows:—If electricities of opposite sign
be communicated to the ends of a secondary axis of a quartz
crystal, the crystal contracts or expands in the direction
of this axis, according as the signs of the electricities com
municated to the ends of the axis are opposed to, or the same
as the signs of the piezoelectricities produced at these ends
by a pressure exerted in the direction of the axis. It seems
to me very probable that this result, found in the first instance
for the direction of a secondary axis, would be found to hold
good also for every direction at right anglesto the principal axis,
and that consequently the direction of the intermediate axis
 or the axis of no piezoelectricity possesses the property that
electrical forces acting in this direction produce no perceptible
change in the form of the quartz. So far I have had no
opportunity to test the accuracy of Curie's experiment, and to
extend it in the direction indicated; but inasmuch as those
experiments interest me very much because of the close rela
tionship in which they stand to my former experiments on the
so-called electrical expansionf, I shall undertake this inves
 tigation at the earliest possible opportunity.
    The second fact, admitting of easy confirmation, is that a
 mechanical compression of quartz at right angles to the prin
 cipal axis exerts the same qualitative effect upon the rays of
 light which traverse the crystal at right angles to the prin
 cipal axis and to the direction of compression as a compression
 exerted in the same direction upon an interposed plate of
glass.
    We shall find without difficulty that the phenomena de
 scribed are even in detail completely in agreement with the
 properties of quartz just now described.
    I hope shortly to give an account of the remarkable pheno
 mena which I have observed when the rays of light traverse
 the crystal parallel to the principal axis.
   Giessen, November 25, 1882.
                * Compt. Rend. vol. xciii. p. 1137 (1881).
                t Ber. d. Oberh. Gts. vol. xx. p. 1 (1881).

                              [   144    ]
               XX. Notices respecting New Books.
Madeira Spectroscopic, 1881-82. By C. Piazzi Smyth, Astronomer
    Royal for Scotland. W. and A. K. Johnston : Edinburgh.
TRILLS volume, read in connexion with ' Madeira Meteorologic '
      (D. Douglas, Edinburgh) by the same author, forms a valu
able contribution to the moist^climate history of that island ; but
its more immediate object (as we read on the title-page) was " the
revision of 21 places in the red half of the solar visible spectrum
with a Eutherford diffraction-grating at Madeira in the summer of
1881."
   This is effected in 32 closely printed large quarto pages, and 17
photo-lithographed plates. At first sight the latter rather shock
the eye by certain dense black columns of irregular heights and
masses of apparently coarse shading ; but by and by we ascertain
how this arises.
   Part L opens by explaining the local disadvantages presented by
the Royal Observatory at Edinburgh for such work, and the need
of a station where the sun was nearer the zenith. Madeira, though
offering one day only in ten of pure blue sky (but that one of
splendid quality), was selected, and at the Quinto da Corvalho,
near Funchal, a heliostat and spectroscope were erected. The
sun's beam from the heliostat was transmitted through a 6-inch
achromatic lens of long focus to a collimator of 31 inches focal
length, then reflected from a Rutherford grating l-6 inch square
with 17,296 lines to the inch, and finally viewed with a telescope
of 52 inches focal length. The lenses of the collimator and tele
scope were respectively of quartz, 2-25 inches in diameter ; and eye
pieces were used magnifying 30, 45, and 64 times upon the second
or third order of spectrum.
   In front of the slit a white flint-prism separated the colours for
the particular portions of the spectrum examined. This fine piece
of apparatus secured the author his Madeiran spectra, drawn on a
nearly uniform scale of wave-numbers to six places of figures.
   The earlier Solar Maps with which these are compared are thus
enumerated   :— Brewster and Dr. Gladstone's in Phil. Trans.
   (1) Sir David
1860. A careful copperplate, but on too small a scale, except as
to certain magnified groups : a prismatic spectrum.
   (2) Prof. Angstrom's normal (grating) solar spectrum, 1868.
Most exemplary, on stone with " incised ' lines.
   (3) Kirclihoff and Hofmann's prismatic spectrum as presented
in Roscoe's ' Spectrum Analysis ' (1869). Defective, owing to errors
of " registration " in the four tint stones used in the printing.
   (4) From Dr. Schellen's ' Spectrum Analysis :' a print of the last
map from wood-engraving, liable to similar errors.
   (5) Rutherford's single stone lithograph (about 1874), from his
fine photograph of the blue and violet half of a prismatic spectrum ;

                    Notices respecting New Books.                    145
 discriminating and faithful in reproducing lines, bands, sha
 dows, &c.
    (6) Janssen's copperplate prismatic spectrum from C to D
 (about 1874). Very accurate, almost microscopic.
    (7) The Eoyal Society's prismatic second Himalaya spectrum, by
 Hennessey, in Phil. Trans. 1875. On stone, mechanical but cer
 tain, with the merit of showing high- and low-sun spectrum from
 the ultra-red to Great F.
    (8) Captain Abney's drawing from his remarkable photographs
 of the ultra-red region beyond the range of optical vision (grating),
 1878.
    (9) Prof. Langley's lithographic views of Great A and Great B
 (1878).
    (10) M. Fievez's engraving on stone of a grating-spectrum of the
 little "6" group (1880).
    (11) Prof. Vogel's Potsdam prismatic-spectrum map from near
 E to K, on three times the scale of Angstrom's map, part based on
 eye-observation and part on photographs (1880).
    (12) Lastly, Prof. Young's pencil-sketch of the Great E group,
on nine times the scale of Angstrom's normal map. A most refined
and exact drawing from a fine grating (1881).
    Later on (1882) the author received a copy of M. Fievez's grand
" Spectre Solaire " (obtained with a Eutherford grating and two
Christie half-prisms), and substituted its results for some of his
Madeiran duplicates.
   Part II. opens by describing the frontispiece plate (0) as containing
three spectrum-scales, the British inch being used in these and the
other spectrum-plates as the unit. Form 1 is a ¦wave-number shape,
with about equal portions of the red and violet ends. Form 2 a
wave-length shape diffraction (grating) spectrum, with much red
and a contracted violet. Form 3 an average refraction (prism)
spectrum, showing a contracted red and opened-out violet.
    We now proceed to the 21 subjects and their 147 examples,
which we can but notice briefly, though each of them contains some
interesting, and often novel, feature.
    Plate I., subject 1, Great A. We first get an explanation that a
perfect reproduction of the exquisite lines and shadows seen in the
solar spectrum is difficult to impossibility, and a pointing-out that
the shading by vertical lines generally adopted by lithographers
and engravers is mischievous and deceiving.
    Prof. Smyth then lays down as rules :—
    1st. Any vertical line shall represent a true spectrum-line and
nothing else.
    2nd. Greater or less thickness of lines shall be represented truly :
but degrees of intensity by shortening the height of column, or (less
easily) by dotting, stippling, or crossline.
    3rd. Thin hazy lines by vertically clotted or vertical linearly wavy
lines ; or such shorter figurings in ink as would, if smeared verti
cally, produce a correspondingly pale line.

 146                Notices respecting New Books.
    4th. Broad and pale lines and shadings in their proper breadths,
 but produced by close thin lines drawn in any direction except the
vertical.
   These are the rigid principles on which the spectra are con
 structed in the author's plates. An example per contra, by way of
 warning, is adduced from Brewster and Gladstone's map (ex
ample 1.), where every line in the Great-A band has been evidently
 doubled, not by the observers but by the engraver.
   On the whole therefore the author decided to magnify all the
old drawings to his own scale; and to symbolize their shadings,
giving dates and the number of times linear of enlargement.
Hence, and from the small original scale of some of the maps, come
the " cyclopean " columns in some of the examples.
   Great A and its preliminary band take up two plates and 14
examples (subjects 1 and 2). The beautiful spotting up of the'
preliminary band into a rhythmical series of double lines is well
shown in the Madeiran examples. The Royal Society's spectrum
is represented by a blur of shade for the band and an immensely
broad line for Great A, showing no splitting-up whatever, and in
this respect is in no way equal to Brewster and Gladstone's much
earlier drawing.
   As regards Great A itself, Prof. Langley's spectrum alone seems
to compare in number of lines shown with the two Madeiran
examples.
   While discussing Great A , the author points out the need of a
fine slit and accurate focus to bring out the doubling of the lines of
the preliminary band. He considers that the origin of these lines,
if telluric, is not watery vapour, but some dry gas in the upper
regions of our atmosphere, or in the millions of miles of space
beyond, and suggests a mode of research "by looking through
500-feet long metal tubes with glazed ends filled in succession with
every known gas, at a light of constant quality."
   " Little a " and its band ofQlines form subject 3. This line and
group were ascertained by Angstrom to be caused by invisible
watery vapour in the lower part of the earth's atmosphere.
   The earlier spectra fairly represent the object, except that we are
told that, in the Eoyal Society's plate, vertical "engraver's" shading-
lines mislead. The two Madeiran spectra show a great number of
lines ; and we find (example 5) a very interesting Lisbon spectrum
of the author's, with high sun and in a dry air, in which the lines
become very fine. On page 10 we have a suggestion that on the
Peak of Teneriffe they would possibly cease to have an apparent
existence in the solar spectrum.
   Great B with its preliminary and attached bands, as seen in a
high and low sun respectively (subjects 4, 5, 6, and 7), occupies
3 plates Qand 28 examples. Here (preliminary band) the earlier
map of Angstrom's, as respects double lines in rhythmical series,
contrasts favourably with the later maps until we come to the
Madeiran views. The author discusses whether one of Prof. Lang-
ley's lines is, or is not, outside a couplet in the series ; and records

                    Notices respecting New Boohs.                  147
the important observation that a filling-up of close parallel lines is
a failing peculiar to spectroscopic vision, and that such close lines
throw out a haze towards each other, thatching-in the intervening
space. Great B with its attached band shows more distinctly the
excellence and value of the author's observations. The earlier
masses of almost black shadow (in the Royal Society's spectra quite
so) are broken up by the author's apparatus into thin lines.
   Subjects 8 and 9, with 4 plates and 14 examples, introduce us
to Great C, the first in order hydrogen-line. The principal point
noticed here is the hazy and pale character of this important line,
as seen in the Madeiran spectra, when compared with the blacker
and sharper aspect presented in the comparison spectra. The
author explains this by reminding us that the observation of this
line results from the integration of all the hydrogen activities going
on over all the sun's surface, and that consequently the line C could
have no definite outline ; and he gives adequate reasons for the
black and well defined lines of observers with less powerful in
struments.
   Subjects 10 and 11 with Plates IX. and X. illustrate "little a"
(alpha), or C 6 band ; and again we find the author's spectra
showing a series of fine lines but sparingly represented in the
earlier maps, and of which (in a high sun) three only appear in the
Royal Society's spectrum. The high- and low-sun views of this
object differ essentially in strength, but not in general character.
   The indications of telluric gas-bands in nature's cold way, the
question of place of a red aurora-line, and of a gold line falling
on the very centre of intensity of this band, are referred to by the
author.
   Subjects 12 and 13, Plate XI., . are the D or sodium-lines, so
well known to all spectroscopists. Angstrom's map shows one (the
Ni) with a high sun, and five with a low sun, of intermediate lines,
with the D lines black and sharp in both cases. The improvement
in modem observation and instrumental power is evidenced in the
Madeiran examples by five intermediate lines with a high sun, and
ten with a low. Notably also the Madeiran examples show the
D lines comparatively pale and fuzzy (though not to the same ex
tent as Great C), demonstrating that solar sodium (Na) enters in
part into the composition of the prominences. The intermediate
and adjacent fine lines to D1 and I)2 are proved to be due to telluric
watery vapour ; and it is shown that with a really good spectroscope
there need be no undefined haze about them.
   From D we pass to Helium, 47,778 W. N. PL, subject 14,
Plate XII. The history of this line is given, and its observation
in the eclipses of 1870, 1871, and 1872 is referred to, together
with its presumed (but nowcdisproved) detection in the aurora and
zodiacal-light spectra. In Angstrom's map it appears as a single
line marked only Fe. Roscoe makes it single. The Royal Society's
map ignores it altogether. Vogel doubles it, but doubtfully, " as
it may be a tint-stone line sticking out on one side." The Madeiran
spectrum beautifully and sharply doubles it : and, lastly, M. Fievez's

148                Notices respecting New Books.
" spectre solaire " shows it as a wide hazy filled-up double. We
note here the widening and filling-up of M. Fievez's doubles ; and
on page 17 are curious instances of the fact that spectroscopic
?ower does not necessarily imply fine definition. Where Prof,
   oung with a single Rutherford grating saw 27 thin lines,
Fievez, with a similar grating and two Christie half-prisms added,
saw only 13. Prof. Young has also one more strong line split into
two than M. Fievez; and in matter of doubles shown to be triples,
the former has one which the latter has not.
    Subjects 16 and 17, Plates XIII. and XIV., relate respectively
to the bandelet of lines following E, and to a " basic " line prece
ding " little b." In the latter subject we again find a single line of
 o
Angstrom's, of Kirchhoff and Hofmann s, and even of Vogel's map,
beautifully split by our author and by M. Fievez, the line itself
being left to imagination in the Royal Society's map.
    The " little b " (magnesium) group comes next, in subject 18,
Plate XV., with a repetition in bl, b2, and b4 of the pale and hazy
effects shown in Great C and D (indicative of the volatility of mag
nesium to solar heat) in Vogel's, the author's, and M. Fievez's
                                o               ,
maps, b4, a single line by Angstrom attributed to Mg and Fe,
remains single in the earlier maps, including Vogel's, but is well
divided by the author and M. Fievez ; while the latter seems also
                                              o
to have divided b3, marked Xi and Fe by Angstrom, and retained
as single even in the Madeiran spectrum. In Plate XVI., sub
ject 19, a group following " little b," we get three basic lines of
Angstrom's, all marked Fe and Ni, neatly divided by the author
and M. Fievez, they making a triple of one of Vogel's doubles.
    Plate XVI., subject 20, is Great F, with the paleness and haze
characteristic of a solar storm-line (duly recorded, by the way, by
 O
Angstrom). The comparative effect of eye and photographic
brightness as between the r/hwous and violet hydrogen-lines is here
discussed.
    "Near G " line or violet hydrogen, Plate XVII., subject 21, ends
the typical series with further illustrations of the hydrogen haze
and paleness.
    Example 4 on Plate XVII. gives us the interesting part of the
spectrum adjoining " near G as shown in Rutherford's photo
graph ; and it is noteworthy how closely this absolute reproduction
corresponds with the Madeiran hand-drawn spectra.
    If we were aesthetically startled by the black and white of Plates
I. to XVII., Plate XVIII. effectually consoles us ; for, without
exception, we have seen no specimen of chromo-lithography to
compare with it for brilliancy and blending of tints. It doos the
greatest credit alike to the author's artistic conception and to the
lithographer's skill. It represents three diagrams of colours on
spectrum principles :—(1) Pure or single spectrum colours in
their natural order : (2) mixed or double spectrum colours ; and
(3) very mixed or treble spectrum colours. The diagrams most

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.           149
effectively show gradations of light and shade and differences of
colour-distances, while in the fine cross-hatching, which delicately
indicates shading, the vertical line is carefully avoided. The only
sections where we thought gradation was not quite perfect are deep
 blue (58,000) and grey (67,000) ; otherwise the plate seems to be
real perfection in a very difficult subject.
    A special note requests that if these colour-diagrams are used for
 star-colour comparison in observatories (for which they seem very
appropriate), they may be viewed by a white light, a small Swan
 lamp being preferred.
    Pages 25 to 28 comprise the author's summary of his Madeiran
 results ; and with a genuine lament at the ignorance we are all in
 of the chemical character of Great A, Great B, and the Alpha
 Band (as evinced at the discussions of the British Association at
 Southampton, 1882), he gives us his own views of it, to which we
 must refer the reader. An Appendix prints Prof. Josiah P. Cooke's
 valuable paper on the aqueous lines of the solar spectrum (Proc.
 Amer. Acad, of Boston, vol. vii. p. 57); and a pretty vignette from
 a sketch by the author adds the ornamental to the useful.
   That so elaborate and precise 'a work should have been carried
out by one hand, and under certain drawbacks to which Prof.
Smyth feelingly alludes, is not one of the least of the merits. To
be able to trace the recorded history of typical solar lines and
groups, with a final examination of them as shown in an almost ne
phis ultra instrument, and under splendid air-conditions hardly
attainable in this country, is no slight gain to spectroscopists. To
these in particular, as to scientists in general, ' Madeira Spectro
scopic,' cannot fail to prove a standard work of the highest value.
           XXI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
OS AN ELECTRODYNAMIC METHOD FOR THE DETERMINATION
    OF THE OHM. THE EXPERIMENTAL MEASUREMENT OF THE
    CONSTANT OF A LONG INDUCTION-COIL. BY G. LIPPMANN.
rPHE electromotive force employed in this method is produced
       by the relative displacement of two circuits, as in the well-
 known experiment of M. Kirchhoff. The entire arrangement is
nearly the same as in the method of M. Lorenz.
    1. A movable frame rotates about one of its' diameters with a
uniform velocity of n turns per second. It is placed inside a fixed
coil traversed by a current of intensity i, which at the same time
traverses the wire of which the resistance is sought. The induced
circuit is closed only for an instant, at the moment when the elec
tromotive force passes through its maximum value e. At that
moment it is opposed to the difference of potentials which arises
between two points A and B on the wire, chosen so that there is

 150           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
equilibrium : the equilibrium is ascertained by means of a sensitive
 galvanoscope. If r be the resistance of the portion of the wire
 comprised between the straight sections passing through A and B,
S the surface covered by the induced wire, C a constant peculiar to
the coils employed, we have the following condition of equilibrium,
which at the same time gives the value of r :—
                              t/ = 27T)lCS.
   The employment of a frame carrying p turns of wire gives elec
tromotive forces p times as great as those which would be obtained
if Lorenz's disk were used ; consequently the effect of thermoelec
tric perturbations becomes negligible.
   It is known that the determination of C is too complicated for
its approximation to be easily indicated. I believe that calculation
may be altogether dispensed with by operating iu the following
manuer :—If a fixed coil were employed of infinite length in propor
tion to its diameter, C would be known : we should have, exactly,
 C= -j, d being the mean distance between two turns of the wire.
Now we cannot construct an infinitely long coil ; but an equivalent
result can be obtained. The movable frame is first placed in the
centre of a fixed coil of which the length is, for instance, 2 metres,
and the points A and B are obtained as was said above. Then, the
movable frame remainiug in its place, the fixed coil is brought into
a second position, which is the extension of the first : a new interval
B B' is thus obtained on the wire, immediately following A B ; the
small additive segment B B' is the lengthening undergone by A B
when the inducing coil is lengthened 2 metres. We can thus
lengthen indefinitely the inducing coil by simply displacing one and
the same segment ; and we very quickly arrive at segments which
can be neglected in comparison with A B. The determination is
then finished.
   It will be remarked that this method is one of the most direct ;
it requires uo calculation for reduction or correction. If the deri
vation-points, such as A and B, are needle-points, the final dis
tance between them is the final result sought, without any correction.
It follows that the control of the method is equally direct.
   2. The above-explained way to determine C experimentally can
be applied to other problems besides the construction of the ohm ;
it can be employed especially for constructing a tangent-compass or
an absolute dynamometer. For this purpose, either a movable
magnet or a movable coil is placed in the centre of a fixed coil.
The constant of the instrument is equal to -j— S, 2 being the sum
of the moments of the deflections obtained on successively removing
the fixed coil further and further until it reaches infinite distance.—
—Gomptes Rendus de VAcademie des Sciences, Dec. 26, 1882, t. xcv.
pp. 1348-1350.

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.             151
        AMOUNT OF CAKBOK DIOXIDE IN THE ATMOSPHERE.
       To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
Gentlemen,
   My thanks are due and tendered to Prof. John LeConte for
pointing out a numerical error relating to the above which has
crept into my paper on " Carbon Dioxide as a Constituent of the
Atmosphere," published in the number of your Journal for No
vember last. It is pleasing to be able to add, however, that the
main conclusions and arguments of that paper are not thereby
affected. The mistake arose apparently by making use in some
unaccountable manner of the formula for a prolate spheroid instead
of that for an oblate one. Making the correction and recalculating
on the basis of 3 vols, of C03 per 10,000 (which all recent inves
tigations show to be nearer the truth than 4), we obtain
   Weight of C02 in atmosphere = 2420 billions of kilogrammes
            nearly.
The great difference between this number and that given by the
older chemists and stated in text-books will, I think, justify the
conclusion drawn in my paper, that the generally received idea of
the amount of COa in the atmosphere is much too great.
                               I am, Gentlemen,
                                         Your obedient servant,
                                                      Ebnest H. Cook.
      EXPERIMENTS ON THE DIRECT PHOTOGRAPHY OF SOUND-
                  VIBRATIONS. BY PROF. BOLTZMANN.
    A small thin platinum plate was attached perpendicularly to the
 centre of a thin iron plate, which, as in the telephone or phonograph,
 wan fixed on a wall-piece. It was first ascertained that the small
 platinum plate really repeated approximately unchanged the vibra
 tions of the sound that arrived in the capsule. For this purpose a
 second small platinum plate was fixed immovably in the vicinity of
 the first. The resulting fine slit between the two was brought into
 the focus of a collecting-lens, upon which sunlight fell. After
  passing through the slit, the rays reached a Breguet selenium cell,
  which, together with two telephones, was inserted in the closing
 circuit of twelve Leclanche cells. Single sounds and words spoken
 into the mouthpiece could be heard most distinctly in the telephones.
  When the rays, after issuing from the slit, were rendered as nearly
  as possible parallel, and intercepted at a greater distance by a large
  collecting-lens to be concentrated upon the selenium cell, the appa
  ratus could also be employed as a photophone.
     After these preliminary experiments, intense sunlight was again
  concentrated upon the vibrating platinum plate; and then, by

152          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
means of a solar microscope, an. image of the shadow of the plati
num plate was thrown upon a screen. The bounding line of the
shadow, as nearly as possible straight, was condensed by a cylin
drical lens. In the place of the screen a glass plate, prepared with
Vogel's emulsion, was now moved rapidly across by a strong
spring, so that the direction of its motion was perpendicular
to the line of light produced by the cylindrical lens, while the
vibrations. To the vowels pretty simple curves correspond, often
approximately curves of sines, often interference-curves of two or
three curves of sines. With the vowel a a period contains the
greatest, with the vowel u the least number of indentations. To
the consonants I, m, n, r, and also especially p and Je, uncommonly
multifarious curves correspond, having a resemblance to those found
by Konig for r by means of his tone-llame, but showing in addition
much finer details.
   The author intends to repeat the experiments by photography
upon rotating disks in order to be able to take up a greater number
of successive vibrations.—-ITatSfi/'Z. Akad. der Wissensch. in Wien,
math.-naturw. Classe, Nov. 30, 1882.
   ON CENTRAL FORCES AND THE CONSERVATION OF ENERGY.
     To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
Gentlemen,
   Permit me to point out an error in Mr. Browne's paper with
the above title in the January number of the Philosophical Maga
zine. On page 37 he says, " Then it is easy to show that F must
not vary with 0. For if it does, let us suppose that when B has
come to rest, and before it is allowed to return, it is made to rotato
about A through an angle dO, and again brought to rest. Then
the circumstances of A and B are unchanged." This last state
ment is only true if F, the component of the force in the direction
AB, constitutes the whole force ; for otherwise work will be done
during the rotation, and therefore the potential energy of the
system will be changed. Thus Mr. Browne's conclusion that " the
force with which A acts upon B always tends towards A," is tacitly
assumed in the proof. It therefore appears to me that the only
conclusion which Mr. Browne is entitled to draw is that if the
force with which A acts upon B always tends towards A, then its
magnitude must be a function of the distance only.
                I have the honour to remain, Gentlemen,
                              Tour obedient servant,
                                          G. W. voir Tunzelmahn,
                                       B.M S. ' Britannia,' Dartmouth.

THE ANNALS AND                                  MAGAZINE
                                      OF
        NATURAL                          HISTORY,
                                 INCLUDING
             ZOOLOGY, BOTANY, AND GEOLOGY.
                       MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. Gd.
   Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at tbe following
prices:—
     The First Series, in 20 volumes, from 1838 to 1847.    Price £10.
     The Second Series, in 20 volumes, from 1848 to 1857.     „ .£10.
     The Third Series, in 20 volumes, from 1858 to 1867.      „ £12.
     The Fourth Series, in 20 volumes, from 1868 to 1877.     „ £12.
         Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.
         THE LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL                               MAGAZINE
                                    AMD
             JOURNAL                 OF      SCIENCE.
A JOURNAL DEYOTED TO PHYSICS, ASTKONOMY, MECHANICS,
   CHEMISTRY, MINERALOGY, AND THE ALLIED SCIENCES.
                        MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. 6d.
  Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at tbe following
prices :—
  The First Series, in 68 volumes, from 1798 to 1826.     Price £15.
  The Second Series, in 11 volumes, from 1827 to 1832.      „ £2 As.
  The Third Series, in 37 volumes, from 1832 to 1850.       „ £6.
  The Fourth Series, in 50 volumes, from 1851 to 1876.      „ £25.
        Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.

             CONTENTS op N° 92.—Fifth Series.
   XII. Elementary Investigations relating to Forced Vibrations ;
with Applications to the Tides and to Controlled Pendulums. By
Prof. J. D. Evxbett, F.B.S., Queen's College, Belfast                  page Ti
   XIII. On the Connexion between the Units of Magnetism and
Electricity. By Prof. B. Clausi™                                               79
   XIV. A Method for Determining the Bate of Tuning-forks.              By
Albert A. Michelson                                                            84
   XV. On a New Form of Ergometer.                 By Frederick John
Smith, B.A                                            • •••>«•                 87
   XVI. The Nature of Solution. By W. W. J. Nicol, M.A..
B.Sc, F.B.S.E., Lecturer on Chemistry, Mason College, Birmingham i»l
   XVII. On the Badiometer.         By Ernst Prixosheim                      101
   XVLU. On the Graphic Bepresentation of the Law of Efficiency
of an Electric Motor. By Professor Silvanus P. Thompson .... 124
   XIX. On the Change in the Double Bofraction of Quartz pro
duced by Electric Forces. By Prof. W. C. Bontuen                             132
   XX. Notices respecting New Books :—C. Piazzi Smith's Madeira
Spectroscopic, 1881-82                                                       14$
   XXI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
      On an Electrodynamic Method for the Determination of the
        Ohm. The Experimental Measurement of the Constant of
        a Long Induction-coil, by G. Lippmann                                 148
      Amount of Carbon Dioxide in the Atmosphere, by E. H. Cook               lol
      Experiments on the Direct Photography of Sound -vibrations,
        by Prof. Boltzmann                                                    151
      On Central Forces and the Conservation of Energy, by G-. "W.
        von Tunzelmann                                                        165
*«* It is requested that all Communications for this Work may be addressed
       post-paid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office, Ke
       Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

Vol. 15.                      MARCH 1883.                                    No. 93.
          Published the First Day of every Month.—Ptice 2s. 6d.
                                                                 COLLEGE
                                        THE                              sj)
              LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
   PHILOSOPHICAL                                     MAGAZINE,
                                        AND
              JOURNAL                   OF       SCIENCE.
      Being a Continuation of Tilloch's 'Philosophical Magazine]
       Nicholson 8 'Journal,' and T/ioinson's 'Annals of Philosophy.''
                                    CONDUCTED BY
         SIR ROBERT KANE, LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.A. F.C.S.
         SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, Knt. LL.D. F.R.S. &c.
                                        AND
         WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
                            FIFTH          SERIES.
                         N° 93.—MARCH 1883.
                            WITH FOUB PLATES.
  Illustrative of Mr. W. Baily's Paper on the Spectra formed by Curved
     Diffraction-gratings, Mr. S. P. Lanqley's on the Selective Absorption
    of Solar Energy, Mr. J. T. Eiley's on Capillary Phenomena, and Mr.
    A. M. Wobtuington's on the Horizontal Motion of Floating Bodies
    under the Action of Capillary Forces.
                                  LONDON;
       PBINTED BY TAYLOB AND FBANCIS, BED LION COUBT, FLKKT 8TBEET,
 Sold by Longmans, Green, Header and Dyer ; Kent and Co. ; Simpkin, Marshall and
   Co. j and Whittaker and Co. ;— and by A. and C. Black, and Thomas Clark, Edin
   burgh ; Smith and Son, Glasgow : —Hodges, Foster and Co., Dublin :—Putnam,
   Kew York : —and Ashor and Co., Berlin.

                    Crown 8vo, cloth, price 2s. 6d., post free.
                       TRANSIT TABLES FOE 1883,
Giving the Greenwich Mean Time of Transit of the Sun, and of about Twenty
     Stars for every Day in the Year, with other Astronomical Information for
     Popular Use.
                  By LATIMER CLARK, Memb. Inst. C.E.
   Bv the aid of these Tables accurate Time may be obtained in any part of the
World.
                         Demy 8vo, cloth, 5s., post free.
              TREATISE ON THE TRANSIT INSTRUMENT,
  As applied to the Determination of Time, for the use of Country Gentlemen.
                   By LATIMER CLARK, Memb. Inst. C.E.
               AN IMPROVED TRANSIT INSTRUMENT
                       Of the Highest Quality. Price £8.
        ALFRED J. FROST, 0 Westminster Chambers, London. S.W.
                       Royal 4to, cloth boards, price £1.
              FACTOR TABLE FOR THE FIFTH MILLION,
                                CONTAINING TUB
LEAST FACTOR OF EVERY NUMBER NOT DIVISIBLE BY 2, 3, or 5,
                                   BETWEEN
                            4,000,000 and 5,000,000.
                        By JAMES GLAISHER, F.R.S.
                             Uniform with the above,
             FACTOR TABLE FOR THE FOURTH MILLION,
                                    Price £1.
           Taylob and Fkancis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                              New Edition, price Is.
             TABLE OF CORRECTIONS FOR TEMPERATURE
 to Reduce Observations to 32° Fahrenheit for Barometers, witli Brass Scales
         extending from the Cistern to the top of the Mercurial Column.
                        By JAMES GLAISHER, F.R.S.
            Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                        [ADVERTISEMENTS continued on 3rd page uf Coctrr.

                .'1ARl3i»83
                                   THE
          LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL                             MAGAZINE
                                   AND
       JOURNAL                     OF      SCIENCE.
                          [FIFTH SERLES.]
                            MARCH 1883.
        XXII. The Selective Absorption of Solar Energy.
                           By S. P. Langley*.
                                [Plate HI]
                              Introduction.
IN 1800 Sir William Herschel published his remarkable
       investigations, in the Philosophical Transactions, on
obscure heat, in which he reached the conclusion that heat is
an entity distinct from light.
    This view was modified by subsequent writers into the
statement that each ray has three qualities—heat, light, and
chemical action; while at the present time many physicists
have reached the further conception that heat, light, and che
mical action are not so much qualities inherent in any ray, aa
modes of the manifestation of one common energy—or, to
state this view in the broadest manner, that the same aethereal
wave will give us either heat, light, or chemical action, accord
ing to the absorbent nature of the substance which receives it.
    These last opinions, however, cannot be said even yet to be
universally accepted by physicists.
    Dr. J. W. Draper long since pointed out that the maximum
of heat did not necessarily lie in every case below the red
(though it does so in the prismatic spectrum) , and that in a
normal spectrum it would be in the orange. These conclu-
   • Communicated by the Author, to whom we are also indebted forth*
cliches of the illustrations.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 93. March 1883.            M

154    S. P. Langley on the Selective Absorption ofSolar Energy.
sions as to the normal spectrum were unverifiable by direct
experiment by any means he possessed. He found it impos
sible, with the most delicate thermopiles at his command, to
get sensible heat from the grating-spectrum without gathering
all that lay in the two halves of it together, and could conse
quently only infer the result of complete measures. But it
followed that, if it ever became possible to measure amounts of
heat so minute, these conclusions could be verified on separate
rays of the diffraction spectrum.
   No one, so far as I know, has hitherto succeeded in mea
suring the heat from a diffraction-grating except in the gross—
by thus concentrating, for instance, the whole upper half and
the whole lower half of its spectrum upon the pile, and so
reaching some results not without value, even as thus obtained,
but of quite other interest than those which may be expected
when we become able to measure with close approximation
the separate energy of each wave-length. Having devoted
many years to the study of the solar radiant heat by means
of the thermopile, I was led to hope that, by my long appren
ticeship to the precautions needed with this instrument and
the possession of the most delicate apparatus attainable, I
might succeed better than my predecessors. I found, how
ever, that though I got results, they were too obscure to be
of any great value, and that science possessed no instrument
which could deal successfully with quantities of radiant beat
so minute ; for the average heat in the diffraction spectrum
does not, under the most favourable circumstances, reach one
tenth that in the prismatic one, and is usually much less even
than this.
   Impelled by the pressure of this actual necessity, I therefore
tried to invent something more sensitive than the thermopile,
which should be at the same time equally accurate—which
should, I mean, be essentially a "meter" and not a mero
indicator of the presence of feeble radiation, and was led by
nearly a year's continual experimenting to the construction
of the Bolometer (/3oXt} fierpov), an instrument the details of
whose construction are described in the Proceedings of the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences, vol. xvi. (1881).
With this apparatus the experiments on the diffraction spec
trum were resumed—the first entirely unquestionable evidence
of measurable heat, in a width so small as to be properly
described as linear, having been obtained on October 7, 1880.
Nearly the whole year 1880 passed in modifications of the
instrument, or in the making of those measures which gave
promise from the first of bringing results of value.
   It will be seen that they afford almost all the experimental

S. P. Langley on the Selective Absorption of Solar Energy.            155
evidence the subject admits of; that every ray, whether lying
in the " chemical," " visible," or " heat region, is capable of
making itself known as heat, and that the maximum of heat
in the normal spectrum is near the yellow.
    Further, by taking all the observations twice daily, at times
when the atmospheric absorption is very different, we are able
to calculate (for the first time) the amount of this absorption
for each separate spectral ray. These researches are neces
sarily long and difficult ; but they have led to some very
unexpected results. The reader who wishes to pass at once to
these results will find them in the summary at the close of
this memoir.
                     Preliminary Observations.
    The measurements with the grating possess the inestimable
 advantage of enabling us to fix the wave-length of every ray-
 measured; but while the heat in the grating-spectrum is, as
 has just been said, at best less than one tenth that in the pris
 matic, the latter is itself, when taken in portions so narrow as
 to be approximately homogeneous, almost insensible. The
 difficulties of measuring heat with the grating are greatly
 complicated by the overlapping of the spectra. In these
 first measures, which were carried to a wave-length of one
 thousandth of a millimetre*, I have employed two of the
 admirable gratings of Mr. Ruthcrfurd —one containing 17,296
 lines to the inch, or 681 to the millimetre, and one half that
 number, both ruled upon speculum-metal.
     I have used a slit at a distance of 5 metres, -without any
  collimator, and have kept the grating normal to the optical
  axis. It will be seen, then, that the rays have passed through
  no absorbing medium whatsoever, except the sun's atmosphere
  and our own.
     The rays from the grating fall upon a concave speculum
  (whose principal focal distance is about 1 metre), and from
  this are concentrated upon the mouth of the bolometer, form
  ing a narrow spectrum, which passes down the case of the
  instrument and falls upon the bolometer-thread. As this
  thread moves along the spectrum parallel to the Fraunhofer
  lines, its coincidence with one of them is notified by a lowering
  of its temperature and a deflection of the galvanometer. The
  instrument is of course equally sensitive to the invisible radia
  tion as to the visible. It is important to observe that no
     * Throughout these measures the unit of wave-length will be the micron
  W = TiiVu millimetre, or 10,000 times the unit of Angstrom. Thus the
  wave-length of Fraunhofer's "A" is here written 0w-70.
                                    M2

156     S. P. Langley on the Selective Absorption of Solar Energy.
screen is interposed between the bolometer and the grating ;
for the temperature of the screen itself, as it is replaced or
withdrawn, will certainly affect such measurements as these.
Through the whole course of the experiment the bolometer is
uninterruptedly exposed to radiations from the grating,
whether reflected by it or emanating from its own substance.
The interruption of the solar radiation is effected at the other
end of the train, 5 metres beyond the grating itself. In the
gratings employed one of the second spectra is very feeble, or
almost lacking. The rays of the second spectrum are neces
sarily superposed on those of double the wave-length in the
first ; and as all evidence of solar radiation in the most sensi
tive apparatus at the sea-level dies out near X=0''-3 in the
ultra-violet, it follows that we can measure down in the first
spectrum as far as \=0M,6, or in fact further, without any fear
whatever of our results being affected by the underlying
second spectrum, even if that were a strong one. Underlying
(^•7, which is near the limit of the red in the first spectrum,
is 0^'35 in the second, where heat is practically still negligible.
We have therefore (knowing the amount of heat in the second
spectrum at (f'5, and knowing that our ultimate point of
measurement at l^O in the first spectrum overlies CT-5 in the
second) the means of asserting with confidence that no con
siderable error can be introduced from this cause, after an
allowance has been made here for the minute effect of this
second spectrum. An allowance is also made to reduce the
effect to that which would have been observed with a grating
so coarsely ruled as to cause no considerable deviation from
the slit of any portion of the spectrum measured. The bolo
meter (in a constant position relative to the concave mirror
such that the optical axis of the latter bisected the angle be
tween its central thread and the centre of the grating) was
moved, together with the mirror, by a tangent-screw in arc,
so that the spectrum appeared to traverse it* face.
   The actual angular deviation of any ray under examination
was obtained from a divided circle on which the arm carrying
both mirror and bolometer moved. A particular description
is not given, as the whole apparatus was replaced by a more
perfect one later. That actually used will be intelligible by
the sketch, fig. 1, where S is the slit, G the grating, M the
 concave mirror, B the bolometer, and C the divided circle.
   The light came from the silvered mirror of a heliostat,
passing through the slit at a distance of about 5 metres from
 the grating, which was bolted immovably above the centre of
 the circle of a massive dividing-engine, with the grating's

 S. P. Langley on the Selective Absorption of Solar Energy.         157
 plane always perpendicular to the line joining its centre and
 the slit. The mirror and the bolometer, with their attach
 ments, were fastened to this movable circle.
    An allowance has been made for the                Rg. 1.
 absorption ofspeculum-metal and silver;
 but the absorption of the iron strips of
 the bolometer has only been indirectly
 allowed for. This has been done by
 comparison with the action of a bolo
 meter with lampblacked surface. It
 will be seen hereafter that the whole
 experiment has been repeated with a
 lampblacked bolometer without in any
 way affecting the results. The wave
lengths are derived from the measured
 angles by the use of the formula
ng\ = sin i + sin r, where n is the
order of the spectrum, s the space
between the lines of the grating, \ =
the wave-length of the radiation, t the
angle of incidence (in the present                     !
                                                       | II
instance 0°), and r the angle of dif
fraction.
    In the early observations it ap
peared from the examination of the dif
fraction-spectrum up to Xasl^O that
the energy in the invisible part as far
as this was much less than in the visible.
Nothing definite is even at this time
known to physicists as to the extent
of the normal solar spectrum; but the
prismatic spectrum is still very com*
monly supposed to be limited by theo
retical considerations to an extent little greater than this; and
one of those most conversant with the subject has treated this
wave-length (i. e. F-0) as marking the limit of everything
known to exist*.
   * Draper, " On the Phosphorograph of a Solar Spectrum, and on the
Lines in the Infra-red Region," Philosophical Magazine, vol. xi. p. 167,
March 1881. He asks, "Do we not encounter the objection that this
wave-length, 10-750-10 metre (the limit of Captain Ahney's map), is
altogether beyond the theoretical limit of the prismatic spectrum ? "
Previous measurements of heat had, it will be remembered, been made by
comparing its total amounts in the visible and invisible prismatic spec
trum, which gives us no knowledge as to wave-lengths in any case ; and

158     S. P. Langley on tlie Selective Absorption of Solar Energy.
   It seemed at first, tben, improbable that the heat below the
red should materially exceed or even equal that above it ; for
this would demand (since the heat shown by the last ordinate
at \ = l't,0 is very small) an extension of the curve of heat, as
obtained from the grating, to a distance enormously beyond
the furthest limit then assigned to the normal spectrum by
experiment. The writer's further investigations, however,
led him to believe that this immense and unverified extension
has really existed, and to thus confirm by independent means
the statements of Tyndall and others as to the great heat in
this region. He was unable to determine its exact limit with
the grating as then used, on account of the overlapping spectra,
 but was, some two years since, led, from experiments not here
detailed, to suspect the existence of solar heat at a distance of
nearly four times the wave-length of the lowest visible line,
A(X=0*-76) orat\=8"-0.
    We receive all the solar radiations through an absorbing
atmosphere; and it is of the first consequence to determine the
rate of this selective absorption for each separate ray. This
has (owing to the difficulties before alluded to) never been, so
 far as I know, yet attempted. It forms a prominent part of
the present design.
    The great difficulty in this investigation, after the provision
 of a sufficiently delicate heat^measurer, lies in the varying
 amount of radiant energy which our atmosphere transmits,
 even for equal air-masses. The solar radiation is itself sen
 sibly constant ; but the variations in the radiant heat actually
 transmitted are notable, even from one minute to another
under an apparently clear sky. The bolometer, in fact, con
stantly sees (if I may use the expression) clouds which the eye
does not. That these incessant variations are in fact due to
extraneous causes and not to the instrument itself, has been
abundantly demonstrated by measurements on a constant
source of heat.
    Those taken, for instance, on a petroleum-lamp, so placed
 as to give nearjy the same galvanometer-deflection as the sun
 wave-lengths in the dark-heat region had been estimated bv hazardous
 extrapolations from contradictory formula!—formula; whict profess a
 theoretical basis, but contradict each other. Thus Miiller finds by lied-
 tenbacher's formula a wave-length of nearly S^'O for the extreme solar
 heat-rays, Draper (as we have just seen) a wave-length of but l^'O for the
 same rays, &c. All these formulae (Briot's, Cauchy's, &c.) agree w ell
 with the observations in the visible spectrum, which they have in fact
 been originally deduced from. They contradict each other thus grossly
 when used for extrapolating the place of the extreme infra-red rays,
 whose real place we give later from actual measures.

S. P. Langley on the Selective Absorption ofSolar Energy.      159
did, were found to indicate a probble error, for a single obser
vation, of less than 1 per cent.
   The variations from minute to minute (under a visually clear
sky) amount frequently to ten times the probable instrumental
error; and they can only be eliminated by repeating the obser
vations a great number of times on many different days.
Actually twenty-nine such days' observations have been made
(as appears below) in the preliminary series ; but it would be
an error to suppose that this number was obtained without the
sacrifice of a still larger number on which the apparatus was
prepared and the day spent without results, owing to the still
more considerable atmospheric changes between morning and
afternoon. Even of the twenty-nine days cited, and which
may be considered exceptionally fair, it will be seen that in
only ten cases did the sky continue sufficiently constant in the
morning and afternoon to allow complete series to be taken.
   It will be understood that we aim to make at least two sets
of measures throughout the spectrum daily—one when the rays
have been little absorbed (at noon), the other when they have
been greatly absorbed (in the morning or afternoon). The
mass of air through which the rays pass is taken proportional
to secant f for zenith-distances less than 65°, and for those
             •0174 tabular refraction      , . ,
greater to                 ;—rr-.,—,— , and in both cases to the
°              cos apparent altitude
actual barometric pressure. It is expressed in units, each of
which is represented by the pressure of one decimetre of mer
 cury at the sea-level. As the barometric pressure there is
 7-6 decim., t7'6 gives the transmission for an entire atmosphere.
 The coefficient of transmission, then, for one atmosphere (<<¦*)
 is the proportion of the radiation transmitted by a sun in the
 zenith to an observer at the sea-level; and this is here shown
 to vary greatly for each ray. Thus, by reference to Table III.,
 we find of three solar rays whose wave-lengths are "375, "600,
 l'OOO, that of the ray whose wave-length is CT,375 (in the
 ultra-violet), 61 per cent, of the original energy would be ab
 sorbed and 39 transmitted; of wave-length 0"'600 (in the
 orange), 36 per cent, would be absorbed and 64 transmitted ;
 of wave-length l^OOO (in the infra-red), 20 per cent, is ab
  sorbed and 80 transmitted, &c.
    Allegheny Bolometer Observations on the Solar Diffraction-
          Spectrum previous to Mt. Whitney Expedition.
    The following list shows the dates at which bolometer ob
  servations were made at Allegheny up to June 1881, for the
  measurement of heat in the spectrum and the determination of

1 60    S. P. Langley on tlve Selective Absorption of Solar Energy.
atmospheric transmission, by the comparison of the noon and
afternoon measures. Those days on which noon measure
ments were taken which were rendered useless for this purpose,
by subsequent changes in the condition of the sky or by other
causes, are indicated by an asterisk. It will be seen that of
twenty-nine days of observation only ten observations could
be fully utilized.
   Dates:—1880, Nov. 12,* Dec. 11,* Dec. 18.* 1881,
Jan. 12,* Jan. 18,* Jan. 28, Feb. 2, Feb. 3,* Feb. 5 *
Feb. 17, Feb. 19,* Feb. 22,* Feb. 26,* March 2,* March 10,*
March 11,* March 25,* March 28,* April 7,* April 16,*
April 22, April 23, April 28*, April 29, April 30, May 4,*
May 26,* May 27,* May 28.
   The following table gives the observed galvanometer-deflec
tions reduced to a scale on which the readings are proportional
to the current passing through the galvanometer.
            d, = galvanometer-deflection with high sun,
            d/y=             „         »„     „      low sun.
                                   Table I.
                       f-375   •400 •450 •500 000 •700 •800 •900 1-000
Jan. 28, 1881... f $ ... ...   101 ... 374    383 320 221 144 102
                                48 ... 167    208 216 221 116      78
 Feb-2             {£ 84S       80 216 •280   307 293 176          03
                                20 61 104     141 196 91 ...       47
 Feb-17            {J, 238      62 120 232
                                25 68 no
                                              260 227 188
                                              133 151 80 ...
                                                                   71
                                                                   3!)
 April 22               19      43-5 154 230  262 239-5 177-5 1235 08
                          65    17 03 1195    1715 180-5 122-5 895 84
 April 23, a.«....              69 152 200    203 227 101 121      04
                         ...    41 124 180    268 267 187 122      00
 April 23, p.m....              59 152 200    263 277 191 121      04
                                32 103 124    188 108 140 80       00
April 29,               13      29 113 161    236 235 139 100      80
                        10      22 66 120     166 197 135 93       80
 April 29, ml...        13      29 113 161    235 235 139 100      89
                          6      8 49 62      107 116 72 68        66
 April 30          |    21      55 121 186    246 250 176 119      90
                        18      33 97 148     220 232 100 97       80
                          8     34 00 109     144 134 80 64        52
                   {J( ...       2     9 27    62 66 (il 33        30
   The next table gives the sun's position, and the correspond
ing air-mass for each series in the previous table.
   In this table, yS denotes the reading of the barometer, and

S. P. Langley on the Selective Absorption ofSouir Energy.            161
M is determined from the formula
                          '0174 x tabular refraction
                       —       cosapp. altitude
                                Table II.
                         High Sun.                  Low Sun.
                                            1
 Date of obser                             1
                        Sun'B Baro Air- Sun's Sun's Baro Air-
      vation.    Sun's zenith
                 hour- dis meter. mass. hour- zenith
                                                   dis meter.    mass.
                 angle. tance. (A). (M,A). angle. tance.  03,)- (MJ9,).
                 h  m           dm            h m         d m
  Jan. 28, 1881  0  00  58  26  745 14-25 2 57 719 28j    7-45   23-24
  Feb. 2         0  09  57  09  739 1363 3 00 70 45       7-39   22-24
  Feb. 17        0  38  52  57  7-43 12-33 2 56 66 09     742     18-25
  April 22       0  12  28  13  736 8-35 4 36 66 22       736    18-32
  April 23, a.m. 0  11  27  49  740 8-37 2 45 45 30       7-40   10-56
  April 23, p.m. 0  11  27  49  740 8-37 4 26 63 57       740    16-85
  April 29, a.m. 0  06  25  50  7-35 817 3 11 48 46       7-35   1115
  April 29, p.m. 0  06  25  50  735 817 5 23 73 36        7-35   35-73
  April 30       0  04  25  31  741 8-21 3 54 56 31       7-41   13-43
  May 28 ...     0  11  19  03  7-32 7-75 5 33 71 14      732    22-33
     By combining the high- and low-sun observations of each
day separately, coefficients of atmospheric transmission are
obtained by using the formula
where t is the coefficient of vertical transmission by air at a
barometric pressure of one decimetre. A tabular statement of
 these coefficients has been prepared; but the average or adopted
value only is here given.
                                Table III.
         X=      -375 -400 -450 -500 -600 -700 -800 -900 1 000
  Adopted t ... -884 -892 -909 -923 -942 -955 -965 -970 -971
   t7'6          -392 -420 -485 -544 -636 -705 "763 -794 -799
     It is important to notice that (contrary to a generally
 received opinion) the transmissibility of the atmosphere is here
found to be greatest for the infra-red rays.
     All good noon observations have been reduced to a uniform
 battery-current of 0*25 weber, and the results arranged in two
  sets—the first for winter and the second for spring measures.
     These tables are not hene given ; but the average results are
 as follows :—

162      S. P. Langley on the Selective Absorption ofSolar Energy.
                                  Table IV.
              X=             -376 "400 -450 -500 600 700 -800 -900 1000
Winter d, (mean of 7 series) 31 88 190 294 328 259 172 111 91
Spring d, (mean of 9 scries) 18 57 139 218 281 274 188 121 94
    The average noon deflections for winter and spring, given
in the previous table, require further correction :—tirst, for the
overlapping portion of the (weak) second spectrum, which is
considered from provisional experiments to have here an in
tensity one thirtieth that of the first ; secondly, for the selec
tive absorption by silver surfaces ; thirdly, for the selective
absorption by one surface of speculum-metal ; fourthly, for the
diminution of heat in the diffraction-spectrum with increase of
the angle of diffraction, which is here provisionally taken as
proportional to secant r. The selective absorption by the
material of the bolometer is here treated as negligible.
    These corrections are expressed as factors by which the
uncorrected deflections are to be successively multiplied,
except in the case of the first correction, which is to be sub
tracted. (The second and third corrections have been deter
mined here by special researches on metallic absorption, which
will form the subject of a separate memoir.)
    The researches hereon the selective absorption of lampblack,
it should be added, are incomplete, and the value given may
be yet subject to a further correction due to this error.
                                   Table V.
      \=        -375  -400 -450 -500 -600 700       -800   -900   1-000
Correel ion
   I.(*ubtr.) 0        0     0      0    0     0 jVXd io         ,'0Xrf so
  II. (factor) 3 005 2 067 1-606 1448 1-301 1-227 1-192 1 166 1 145
III. „ 2 000         1-923 1-802 1 695 1-550 1 460 1 408 1 389 1-370
  IV. „ 1034         1 039 1 051 1064 1-096 1 138 1 193 1266 1-366
    We have been measuring thus far " heat," by which we
mean the solar energy as" interpreted by certain agents (that
is, silver, lampblack, &c.) in our apparatus. In the degree in
 which we have above eliminated the selective absorption
peculiar to each of these agents are we entitled to speak of
the resultant values as proportional to the solar energy itself.
 We do not suppose ourselves to have accomplished so untried
and difficult a task with exactness, but regard these curves as
useful as a first approximation to the absolute-energy curve.
     These corrections being applied, the final values of noon
deflections at Allegheny become:—

S. P. Langley on t/ie Selective Absorption ofSolar Energy.               16.3
                                   Table VI.*
           X=            -375 -400 -450 -600 -600 -700 -800 -900 1-000
d, (cor.) winter, 1881. 192 6 363 4 579 3 767-9 724-9 527 9 338 3 215-4 173 6
d„ „ spring, 1881. 111-9 235-4 423-7 569 6 621-0 552-5 372-3 238-0 234-6
                 The mean air-mass for winter = 13-88
                        „        „      „      spring = 9-33
     We now proceed to the calculation of the energy outside
the atmosphere for homogeneous rays with the data which
have been given. For this purpose we have used the formula
                         log E = log                log*,
 where E is the energy in any ray outside the atmosphere
 (t. «. before telluric absorption), dt the average galvanometer-
 deflection at noon for the same ray, f3, the barometer-pressure
 in units of one decimetre, or the mass of air in the vertical
 column,             the corresponding air-mass for the sun's zenith-
  distance at noon, and t the adopted coefficient of transmission.
     The following table has been prepared with the values
 observed in the spring of 1881, using mean coefficients of
 transmission, to show the relation between energy outside the
 atmosphere and that for high and low sun at Allegheny, the
 various actual absorbing air-masses at the low-sun observations
 being reduced to a uniform value, double that at high sun.
                                    Table VII.
              X=                 -375 -400 -450 -500 -600 -700 -800 -900 1 000
 E =energy before absorption 353 683 1031 1203       1083 849 519 316 309
 <* = energy after absorption          235 424 570    621 &53        238 235
    (corrected high sun)      J
       energy after absorption] ^ gg 14Q 225          3U 324 24Q m 1&J
    (corrected low sun)        I
     E can be computed from d, and dtl by the formulae already
 given ; and with these values the curves in fig. 2 have been
 plotted.
    * It will be seen that, although the winter absorbing air-mass was
 nearly half as large again as in the spring, the heat received from the
 shorter wave-lengths was actually greater in the winter. It appears
  probable, then, that the transniissibility of the atmosphere for the light-
 producing radiations is relatively greater in winter than in spring. As
 this effect may be connected in some way with the unequal prevalence of
 atmospheric moisture at the two seasons, it may be well to state that the
 tension of aqueous vapour during the winter observations was in the
 neighbourhood of 2 millimetres, in the spring of 8 millimetres.

164    S. P. Langley on the Selective Absorption of Solar Energy.
   The middle curve (I) is that at high sun. Except for the
heat below wave-length (l^'O), the area of the curve may be
considered to represent the heat actually observed by the acti
nometers, at noon, as presently given.
   The lower curve (II) is that at low sun. Its area is pro
portional to the heat received when the sun shone through
double the absorbing air-mass that it did at noon.
   The upper dotted curve is " the curve outside the atmo
sphere." Its area will give the heat which would be observed
if our apparatus were taken wholly above the absorbing air,
and the distribution of this heat (energy) before absorption.
Knowing the values in calories corresponding to the middle
curve, we readily obtain the absolute heat before absorption
(the solar constant).
   It should be noticed that if we had attempted to deduce this
latter value by applying our logarithmic formula} directly to
ordinary actinometric observations (i. e. to observations where
only the indiscriminate effect of all heat- rays is noted by the
thermometer) made at high and low sun, we should have
obtained a quite different result. This has been the usual
process, but it can never be a correct one; for these expo
nential formula? are in theory only applicable to homogeneous
rays, and the departure from theory here involves an error
which is demonstrably large.
   The above values in Table VII. are relative only. To
obtain absolute ones we have now to combine this result with
the actual measurements of solar radiation in calories, or other
units furnished by actinometers under approximately the same
conditions. We shall at the same time thus obtain a prelimi
nary value for the solar constant. Taking the mean of our
observations with the Violle and Crova actinometers on clearest
days, we have 1*81 calory observed at Allegheny in March
1881. This is the absolute amount of heat represented by the
area of a completed " high-sun " curve.
   To this result the energy distributed through the whole
spectrum has contributed, while our bolometer-measurements
in the diffraction-spectrum end at wave-length l^OO. Never
theless, since we do in fact know from subsequent measures
(to be given later) where the effective spectrum ends, we can
by the aid of these measures prolong the curves and obtain
their relative areas with close approximation. In this way
we determine, by measuring the charted areas, and making
allowance for the (here) uncharted area below X=1M,0:—


166 S. P. Langley on the Selective Absorption of Solar Energy.
       Area outside curve above = l/^OOO      .  .   47*26
       Area outside curve below = l"-000      .  .   26*40
                 Total                               73-66
       Area high-sun curve above = l^-OOO .      .   26-96
       Area high-sun curve below = l^-OOO .      .   2O00
                 Total                               46-96
™       ..               . area outside curve     73-66 , .„„
Ine ratio ot these areas is      r-^-r— —— = ——= 1-569.
                            area mgn-sun curve 4b-9b
   "We have, then, adopting 1-81 cal. as the solar radiation at
Allegheny with clear sky, 1-81 cal. x 1-57 = 2-84 calories as
an approximate value of the solar constant.
    In all these observations the object has been to avoid the
registering of small variations analogous to the Fraunhof'er
lines, and to give only the general distribution of the energy.
The mapping of the interruptions of the energy caused by
visible or invisible lines or bands forms a distinct research;
and the results are given later in the present article.
    We find from these preliminary observations that the maxi
mum energy in the normal spectrum of a high sun at the
earth's surface is near the yellow, and that the position of the
maximum of heat does not in fact differ widely from that of
the maximum of light. It has been long known that certain
ultra-violet and violet rays were much absorbed ; but it has
been supposed that the absorption increased also in the infra
red, so that the luminous part of the spectrum was on the
whole the most transmissible.
    But we see here, not only how enormous the absorption at
the violet end really is, but that the light-rays have suffered
a larger absorption before they reach us than the " heat "-rays
(t. e. than the extreme red and infra-red rays)—a conclusion
opposed to the present ordinary opinion, and, if true, of far-
reaching importance. For if this "dark" heat escapes by
radiation through our atmosphere more easily than the lumi
nous heat enters, our view of the heat-storing action of this
atmosphere and of the conditions of life on our planet must be
changed. Within the limits of the present charts the "dark"
 heat apparentl}' does so escape.
    We can, from the data now gathered as to the rate of ab
 sorption for each ray, compute the value of the heat or energy
 before absorption (the solar constant) by a new process which
 is in strict accordance with theory. This preliminary value

S. P. Langley on the Selective Absorption of Solar Energy.   1G7
indicates that the true solar constant is larger than that com
monly given. The ratio of the dark to luminous heat has
been so wholly changed by selective absorption that we must
greatly modify our usual estimates, not only of the sun's heat-
radiation, but of his effective temperature.
   The sun to an eye without our atmosphere would appear of
a bluish tint.
   In spite of the care with which the experiments on which
the above conclusions rest have been conducted, owing to the
importance of the subject, and to their departure in some
respects from received opinion, it seemed desirable to repeat
them under conditions differing as much as possible from those
in which they were made. If the preceding conclusions are
sound, we ought to find like results by actually ascending to
a great height and directly measuring there, as well as below,
the absorptions which each ray has actually undergone.
                  Expedition to Mount Whitney.
   In July 1881 an expedition, fitted out and instrumentally
equipped at the Allegheny Observatory, proceeded in the
writer's charge, but with the aid of transportation furnished
by the War Department and under the official direction of
General W. B. Hazen, U. S. A., Chief Signal Officer of the
Army, to Mount Whitney in Southern California, where these
observations and others were repeated at two contiguous
stations at very different absolute altitudes. The results will
shortly appear in an official publication (some of the drawings
prepared for which have been used for the present memoir by
the kind permission of General Hazen). At present it is suf
ficient to say of them, that the conclusions just rehearsed were
confirmed aud extended.
   While on the mountain, at an elevation of 13,000 feet, a
hitherto unrecognized extension was observed by the bolo
meter of the infra-red prismatic spectrum in the vicinity of
the great absorption-band marked on our prismatic chart as
SI, and beyond it; and on the return to Allegheny it was found
that this last observation could still be continued in our lower
atmosphere. The generosity of a citizen of Pittsburg had
enabled the observatory to provide for the expedition several
pieces of special apparatus. Among these was a Foucault
siderostat, of the dimensions of that at the Paris Observatory,
but of a much improved design, and a special apparatus (the
spectro-bolometer) to enable the deviations of the invisible
rays to be measured with an error of less than a minute of arc
&c. ; and this apparatus has been used in the new research we
now describe. (The siderostat was made by A. Hilger, of

 168 S. P. Langley on the Selective Absorption ofSolar Energy.
 London, the spectre-bolometer by W. Grunow, of New York ;
 and both have been very satisfactory.)
      Sir William Herschel, in 1800*, showed that heat extended
below the visible spectrum. He found that about one half the
 spectrum consisted of obscure, and one half of luminous beat.
 Seebeck and Melloni in various memoirs showed that the dis
position of the heat depended on the substance of the prism,
and that this was due in part to its absorption.
     In 1840 Sir John Herschelf gave a thermograph of the
 invisible spectrum, indicating unequal absorption below the red.
     Dr. J. W. Draper, in 1842J, observed three wide bands
in this region, which he called «,                 7. In 1846 MM.
Foucault and Fizeau appear to have observed the same lines.
Dr. Draper § states that prior researches lead him to believe
that the hottest part of the normal spectrum will be found in
the yellow.
     Dr. J. Miiller || gives a construction showing how we may,
from the distorted prismatic spectrum, obtain the true or
normal dispersion. Dr. Miiller conjectures that the wave
length of the extremest infra-red ray is about lM-8 ; and from
his diagram it appears that nearly two thirds of the heat is
below the visible portion.
     Tyndall If gives the position of the maximum of heat in the
prismatic spectrum, and estimates the invisible radiation of the
sun to be twice the visible.
     In 1871 Lamansky** gave a drawing showing three gaps
in the continuity of the infra-red curve as observed by the
thermopile. Lamansky repeats the usual statement that these
infra-red rays are strongly absorbed by the atmosphere.
     In 1879 M. Moutonft) in a valuable memoir, speaks of
there being four known bands in the infra-red whose wave
lengths are 0*-85, 0*-99, l"-23, l"-48, and gives P-77 and 2*-14
as wave-lengths he supposes himself to have identified.
     If our charts be correct, there is no considerable band at
1M,48; and 2>l,14, which he marks as the termination of the
spectrum, is in fact the hottest point in its neighbourhood.
    It seems probable, however, that he had perceived by his
ingenious method the existence of the band whose wave-length
   * Phil. Trans. 1800.                       t Ibid. 1840.
   X Phil. Mag. May 1843.                      § Ibid. 1847.
   || Poggendorffs Annalen, vol. cv.          11 Phil. Trans. 1866.
   •* Monatsbericht Konigl. Akad. Wissensckaft. Berlin, 1871 ; Phil. Mag-.
1872, vol. xliii.                                                      ^
  ft Comptes Bendiis, vol. Lxxxix. p. 291, and vol. lxxziii. p. 1190.

S. P. Langley on the Selective Absorption of Solar Energy.   169
on our charts is marked 1"*37, and in doing so had reached
the furthest band then certainly observed.
   Captain Abney*, in 1880, mapped by photography the
infra-red prismatic spectrum as far as wave-length 1^075
with a precision and completeness till then wholly unknown,
besides giving the wave-lengths of lines for which he derives
by an extrapolation curve a position at \=1'1,240, and indi
cating a band still beyond.
   Captain Abney had previously published a map of the
diffraction-spectrum extending to X=0>1,9682. Dr. J. W.
Draper t, by the aid of Captain Abney's map, believes he has
identified the lines «, /8, y he saw in 1842 with groups repre
sented by Abney at X=0**8150 to 0*-8350, 0*-8930 to 0*'9300,
and 0*-9350 to (T-9800.
   On our chart we have given Draper's «,          y according to
his own locations of them. He believes these to be the same
lines seen by himself, Foucault and Fizeau, and Lamansky.
According to Draper, then, the lowest limit of his own or any
other researches known to him in 1881 did not extend much
 beyond wave-length lM-0000. It appears to us probable, how
 ever, that Lamansky's lowest point was below this; and we
give a copy of Lamansky's curve (fig. 3), which the reader
can compare with the positions on our present charts.
                                Tig. 3.
   These brief references concern only what belongs to our
immediate purpose, and are not offered as a history of the
subject.
    Recent Observations on the Invisible Prismatic Spectrum.
   After the return from Mount Whitney, observations were
taken at Allegheny with the train of apparatus used on the
           • Phil. Trans. 1880.
           t Proceedings of the American Academy, 1881.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 93. March 1883.          N

170 S. P. Langley on tlie Selective Absorption ofSolar Energy.
mountain just referred to, and on nearly every good day
during the first six months of 1882. There were of such:—
4 days in January, 8 in February, 9 in March, 9 in April,
9 in May, 12 in June; in all, 51 days.
    Very early the observations with this efficient apparatus
(the result of improvements due to the previous two years'
practice) showed, by an accuracy not hitherto attained in such
measures, the possibility of mapping the regions of the infra
red spectrum believed to have been first observed on Mount
Whitney, and which have remained hitherto unknown. The
extreme narrowness of the bolometer-thread (one fifth of a mil
limetre) and the size of the prismatic spectrum employed made
it also possible, in spite of the condensation of the latter, to dis
criminate lines and gaps in its continuity which had escaped
previous observation*. The spectrum, as the reader now sees
it in the charts, was mapped with the intention of noting
these interruptions of energy, which had been in the previous
research designedly neglected. The bolometer shows the cold
in the principal visible Fraunhofer lines readily; but as their
effect individually is slight, it has not been indicated in the
part of the visible spectrum above C.
    The map reached approximate completeness early in April
 1882, after which date observations have been still continued
daily, whenever possible ; so that every portion of the curves
here given, to the smallest inflection, has been observed from
three to twenty times, and the accidental variations due to
momentary interruptions of solar heat by invisible clouds have
been, it is hoped, nearly eliminated.
    The bolometric work, represented by the preceding 51 days'
observations, may be here regarded as being divided into two
classes having distinct though related objects.
    1st. To determine the general selective absorption of the
earth's atmosphere throughout the entire spectrum in con
nexion with the observations already made here and on Mount
Whitney. For this purpose measurements have been made at
the following deviations :—44° 3W, 45° 30', 45° 53', 46° 12'
46° 30', 46° 45', 47° 30', 48° 00', 49° 00', 50° 00', 51° 00'.
    All these points have been measured on, twice each, the
whole forming a " series ;" and these " series " are observed at
least twice daily—namely at meridian, and when the air-mass
   • Nevertheless, as the thread, however narrow, is not absolutely linear,
it feels the cold before its centre coincides with the centre of the line.
The interruptions of the energy-curve are thus in fact all in a slight
degree too wide, especially at the commencement of each depression ; and
it is probable that the bands we have marked are really due to an aggre
gation of finer lines.

 S. P. Langley on the Selective Absorption ofSolar Energy.          171
 is approximately double that at meridian ; or else three times
 daily—at meridian, when the mass of air traversed is approxi
 mately 1£ time that at meridian, and again when it is ap
proximately 1£ x 1^ = 2^ times that at meridian.
    It will be observed by a reference to the map, that the
points chosen for measurement coincide, as a rule, with the
summits of the energv-curve; but separate investigations are
still in progress on the nature of the absorption in the inter
vals, to determine whether the newly observed bands are of
solar or terrestrial origin. The part of the spectrum included
extends from \=0"-383 (above H in the violet) to X=2"-28
(in the newly observed infra-red region, about two octaves
below Fraunhofer's B).
    (As we can, in fact, obtain evidence of heat in ultra-violet
waves whose length is little more than              the length of the
solar spectrum as now observable by the bolometer is between
b and 4 octaves.)
   The distant slit is separately exposed at each observation,
and the extremity of the full swing of the galvanometer-needle
is read. In all these measures the galvanometer is used in the
same condition of sensitiveness. The slit is opened to a con
stant width of 2 millim.* (except in measuring the very feeble
energy at the mosWefrangible end of the spectrum, where the
width has been increased without prejudice to accuracy, owing
to the corresponding prismatic expansion of the spectrum
itself). The same bolometer is used, as a rule having for this
purpose 1 millim. effective aperture (except in measurements
at the most-refrangible end of the spectrum, where the full
aperture of the bolometer is used).
    These observations on the absorption of different air-masses
for each spectral ray evidently furnish means for determining
the curve outside the atmosphere, by the method already indi
cated. They also, of course, give us the means of making a
map of the whole spectrum ; but their use for this latter pur
pose is incidental.
   2nd. The other class of observations is for the special
purpose of making a spectral map, extending from the line C
to the lower limit of the infra-red.
    This is carried on by means of the linear bolometer, con
sisting of a single strip ^ millim. wide. In this second class
of observations, a rough map of the whole infra-red spectrum
having been prepared, a very limited part of the spectrum
   * It will be remembered that, the actual distance of the slit being
5 metres, this aperture subtends an angle little greater than one minute
of arc
                                  N2

172     S. P. Langley on the Selective Absorption of Solar Energy.
(such as that included between 15' of deviation) is gone over
several times in the course of one day, the measurement being
repeated on every single minute of arc, with a separate open
ing and closing of the slit, and a record made of the full swing
of the galvanometer-needle for each observation.
   These observations are entered numerically, and corre
sponding charts made on large sheets of section-paper. The
same narrow region will thus be gone over also on different
days, and the different charts subjected to a very rigid exami
nation ; so that every feature which is not common to them
all is rejected or reexamined ; and in this manner the whole
spectrum is studied. These original charts are on a scale four
times as large linearly as that the reader now sees (Plate III.).
   In addition to this, on some clear days, tracings have been
made upon the chart directly corresponding to the movements
of the galvanometer-needle : that is to say, the observer at the
spectro-bolometer has moved the bolometer through the whole
spectrum by means of the tangent-screw; the slit has been left
permanently open, so that the bolometer has been constantly
exposed ; and the observer at the galvanometer, seeing the
needle moving, as a hot or cold part of the spectrum passes
over, calls the deflection of the galvanometer corresponding to
each minute of arc, while a third person plots the same on
section-paper. In this way as many as eight curves, like
those here given of the prismatic spectrum, have been obtained
 between noon and sunset on one day, giving a picture of the
action of the selective absorption of the atmosphere in every
 part of the spectrum, as the rays of the sinking sun pass
 through greater depths of air. This third method (very useful
 when, as in this case, many observations have to be token in
 a short time) is nevertheless less accurate than those before
described.
    A careful bolometric and also optical setting is made on
 some well-known line, usually C, at least once daily, to make
 sure that the adjustment of the instrument is equally accurate
 for the visible and invisible rays.
                   Description of the Apparatus.
    The rays of the sun are reflected horizontally from the
 mirror of the large Foucault siderostat through an aperture in
 the north wall of the observatory, and received upon a plate with
 a slit, whose jaws, moving each way from the centre by a mi
 crometer-screw, can be regulated so as to allow a beam of any-
 desired size to pass. 4£ metres from this slit, at the distance
 of its principal focus, is a collimating lens, L (fig. 4, p. 174), of a

  S. P. Langley on the Selective Absorption ofSolar Energy.               173
  special kind of flint glass which has been found nearly trans
 parent to all the invisible rays measured. This lens and the
 slit are fitted into opposite ends of a tube, T, 4£ metres long,
 held by suitable y's. The beam of rays from the slit, now
 rendered parallel by the collimator, next falls upon a prism*,
 P, of the same kind of glass as the lens, supported on a cir
 cular adjustable table over the vertical axis of the massive
 instrument we have called provisionally the spectro-bolometer.
    Whatever the sensibility of the apparatus to heat, it is evi
 dent that we cannot accurately map the narrow spectral limits
 between contiguous heat and cold, unless we can fix their
 position with exactness. Especially when we consider that
 these rays are invisible, and that the whole process may be
 compared to a patient groping in the dark, does the need of
 an instrument which will record the precise point where a hot
 or cold line was felt become obvious. This is the object of
 the spectro-bolometer, which, as well as other apparatus men
 tioned here, will be described more particularly in the account
 of the observations made on Mount Whitney. (It was made
 by W. Grunow, of New York, from the writer's design.)
    Two long arms, A, A', turn independently about the above-
mentioned axis, the angle between them being measured by a
graduated circle with two verniers reading to 10". One of
these arms is directed toward the slit, and the other toward
the spectrum formed by the light on leaving the prism. This
latter arm carries at its extremity a concave mirror, M, of
 98 centim. focus, and on either side of the prism an accurately
 planed track directed toward the centre of the mirror, on either
 of which slides a carriage with y's. Into these y's, at B,
 drops either of two " ebonite " cylinders, one containing the
 bolometer and the other the ordinary reticule and eyepiece.
The bolometer used in the measurements for these maps ex
poses to the spectrum a single vertical strip of platinum,
 \ millim. wide, covered with lampblack, and placed accurately
in the axis of the ebonite cylinder by reversal under a com
pound microscope. The eyepiece also has its cross wires
centred in the second cylinder, and serves to examine opti
cally the place which will be occupied by the bolometer-strips
 when the bolometer-cylinder is in the y's. The optical axis
   • This prism, whose optical properties are in every way excellent, was
made by Mr. A. Ililger, of London. Its principal constants are as fol
lows :—size of polished faces, 53 by 49 millim. ; specific gravity, 2-895 ;
refracting angle, 02° 34' 43" ; index of refraction for D line, 1-5798 ;
index of refraction for H line, 1-6070. (A rock-salt prism of nearly equal
size and great purity, as well as prisms of quartz and spar, have been used
to determine the absorption of the glass for each ray, visible and invisible.)

174 S. P. Langley on tlie Selective Absorption of Solar Energy.
of the mirror M exactly bisects the angle between the direc
tion of the arm A' and the central line of the track; so that
                              Fig. 4.
                      T
a ray falling on the centre of the mirror from the centre of the
instrument at P, after reflection falls upon the bolometer-strips.
 C, C are counterpoises to offset the weight of the arms A, A'.
    To adjust the apparatus for observation, the screws at D are
 loosened, the prism removed, and the arm A' brought around
 in line with the long tube. The eyepiece being placed in the
 y's at B, the image of the distant slit is brought upon the
 central wire, when the reading of the divided circle should be
0° OO7 00", indicating a deviation of zero. The arm is then
 moved to one side as in the figure, until the mirror intercepts

S. P. Langley on the Selective Absorption ofSolar Energy.    175
the rays from the prism, which has first been replaced upon
its table and adjusted by the screws below. The prism is now
carefully set to minimum deviation (usually for the D, line),
and is then automatically kept in minimum deviation for all
other rays by the tailpiece and attachment at D. When the
cross wires of the eyepiece are set upon the D line, the circle
should indicate a deviation of 47° 41' 15". A bright and
pure image of the spectrum, about 6 millim. wide and 640 mil
lion long, between the A and H lines is now formed in the
principal focus of M near the prism ; and the bolometer-case
being substituted for the eyepiece, the carriage is slid along
the track until the central strip, placed vertically and parallel
to the Fraunhofer lines, comes exactly into focus. The heat
of the solar rays in any part of the spectrum may now be
measured by the bolometer (the galvanometer giving a marked
deflection as it passes over the leading Fraunhofer lines) ; and
the deviation for that part is exactly indicated by the divided
circle.
   The galvanometer used in connexion with the bolometer is
a Thomson reflecting astatic galvanometer of about 20 ohms
resistance, constructed especially for the purpose by Elliot
Brothers, of London. It is placed upon a pier entirely dis
connected from the building. The scale is cylindrical, with
divisions 1 millim. apart on a transparent surface, and is
placed 1 metre from the galvanometer mirror. Since the
whole deflection ordinarily employed does not exceed 5°, as a
rule the reading of the galvanometer requires no reduction for
our present purpose. A resistance-box forming the Wheat-
stone's bridge and other electrical adjuncts of the bolometer
are on the right of the galvanometer-pier. The rheostat is in
a convenient position near the scale; and the battery-galvano
meter, for measuring and regulating the strength of the cur
rent used, is on a pier in another part of the room.
   In conducting the measurements for mapping the spectrum,
one observer is usually at the spectro-bolometer to set the
circle to the deviation required, to see that the light from the
siderostat falls properly upon the prism, and to admit the sun
light at a given signal by means of cords attached to a sliding
cover in front of the slit where the sun's rays first enter the
room. Another observer, placed at the galvanometer, reads
the corresponding indications of the instrument; and a third
enters them in form in a book prepared for the purpose, and
gives the signal for exposure. As all these observations are
carried on in a partially darkened room, a fourth person is
usually stationed without to wind the siderostat clock, and to
give notice of any passing clouds to those within the building.

176    S. P. Langley on the Selective Absorption ofSolar Energy.
              Example of the Mode of Observation.
   As an example of the first class of measures, let us consider
the observations made with the Hilger prism on June 22,
1882. The high-sun observation was made at 0h 15m. The
sun's zenith-distance at this time was 17° 10'; the air-mass*
was 1-047 time the mass overhead ; the height of the baro
meter corresponding to the air-mass overhead was 7*39 de
cimetres ; consequently the air-mass for a zenith-distance of
17° \V was 7-39 x 1-047 = 7-74 decimetres.
   The sun's zenith-distance at 6" 25™ (the time of the second
observation) was 79° 8' f; the height of the barometer was
the same as at noon; and the air-mass by the same formula
was 5*18 times that overhead, or 7*39 x 5'18 = 38-27 decime
tres; so that the mass of air traversed in the second observation
exceeded that in the first by an amount capable of supporting
30*53 decimetres of mercury.
   The galvanometer-deflection obtained in the part of the
spectrum whose deviation is 44° 30' (a part which is near the
extreme lower limit of the present observations, far below the
visible red) was at noon 17, and in the afternoon 11. In the
violet, where the deviation is 50° 00', the corresponding de
flections were 4-5 and 0-39. Let us take these two feeble
extreme rays as types with which to illustrate our process.
Considering first the infra-red ray, we have deflection at noon
 =dl = 17, deflection in afternoon =<ft=ll, difference in mass
of air traversed =Mj/3s — M1;81 = 30-53 decimetres, which by
its absorption has produced the difference in the deflections.
t representing the amount of energy transmitted by a layer
of air equivalent to 1 decimetre of mercury, we find from the
formula
trs-986 ; that is, a mass of air capable of supporting 1 deci
metre of mercury in the barometer transmits 98'6 per cent, of
the energy of this particular kind of ray. This quantity f we
call the coefficient of transmission of the ray.
    Knowing now the amount of energy transmitted by one
such layer of air, we can find the amount transmitted by the
7*74 layers which intervened between the observer and the
sun at noon, namely •986774 = '895. Only 89-5 per cent.,
   • Computed from the formula M= tebular ration
                                      cosapp. altitude.
   t In general it is not advisable to make observations at so great a
zenith-distance as this.

 S. P. Langley on the Selective Absorption ofSolar Energy. 177
 therefore, of the original unknown heat of the ray, which we
 will represent by E, reached the observer at noon, producing
 a deflection of 17, or -895 E = 17, giving
                               E= .Sr19-°;
 that is, had our instrument been placed outside the atmosphere
 at that time, it would have indicated a deflection of 19 instead
 of 17.
    By a similar process we find that the coefficient of trans
 mission for the violet ray is *923; from which we see that the
 ultra-red ray is transmitted with greater facility than the
 violet. The amount of this violet radiation transmitted by the
 whole depth of atmosphere at noon was "538, from which its
                                          4-5
 energy outside the atmosphere was t^ts =8*4.
    The table below gives the coefficients of transmission &c.
 for these and other points in the spectrum where measure
 ments were taken on this day. The first column gives the
 deviation of the observed ray in the spectrum of the prism
 used; the second and third columns the deflections obtained
 with the galvanometer at noon and in the afternoon respec
 tively; the fourth column the coefficient of transmission (for
 an atmosphere supporting one decimetre of mercury); the fifth
 the transmission of the whole depth of atmosphere at noon,
 obtained by raising the coefficient of transmission to the 7-74
 power ; and the last the computed energy outside the atmo
sphere expressed in galvanometer-deflections.
                              Table VIII.
     Deviation.
                                        t.              B.
       53  00     .      6-02     000
       62  00 ....       0-21     000
       61  00 ....       0-96     009  •925   •549      1-8
       50  00     .      4-5      0-39 •923   •538      8-4
       49  30 ....       7-3
                        13        30   •953   ¦689     18-9
       48 00 ....       43       12-5  •960   •731     58-8
       47 30 .... ., 72          38    •979   •850     847
       46 45           158      109    •988   •910    173-7
       46 12 .... 209           134    •986   •894    233-8
       45 53 .... .. 175        107    •984   •883    198-3
       45 28 .... 122            79    •986   •895    136-2
                    .. 17        11    •986   •895     190
    Similar reductions have been made for each day's observa
tion, the result from each being confirmatory of the statement
here (see column <M ft) that the atmospheric absorption dimi

178    S. P. Langley on the Selective Absorption ofSolar Energy.
nishes continuously as the wave-length increases (save for the
interruptions already cited) to the extremity of our charts.
   The graphic representation of this and other extratelluric
curves of energy will be given in a later memoir, in such a
form as to show from the mean of a year's observations the
percentage of absorption suffered by each ray in the entire
spectrum, visible and invisible.
   The reader who may desire still fuller details as to the appa
ratus, the original observations, and their treatment, is referred
to the forthcoming official publication already mentioned. In
the later memoir will be found a description of the method
used for determining the wave-lengths corresponding to mea
sured deviations, and the formula? for deducing from the
prismatic spectrum the distribution of the energy and tho
extent of the spectrum on the normal scale.
                            Summary.
   As one result of this present research, the chart of the pris
matic spectrum as observed at Allegheny with the bolometer
is now presented (Plate III.). The abscissae are proportional
to deviations, and the ordinates to measured energies. The
second chart now given (Plate III.) represents the normal
spectrum as deduced from the prismatic; as it has been thought
advisable to present it here for the reader's convenience, in
advance of a description of the means used for making it.
The abscissa? on this are proportional to actually measured
wave-lengths, and the ordinates to measured energies. In
both charts the area between ordinates corresponding to like
wave-lengths is the same; and hence the total areas are the
 same. Their very dissimilar contour is due to the prismatic
 distortion.
    Faint indications of solar energy below the lowest point
here shown have been found; and these, with some considera
tions as to the nature of the new absorption-bands, may be
 given hereafter, together with tables (already prepared) of the
 absorptive action of the solar atmosphere for each spectral ray.
 These will, it is hoped, give with a satisfactory approximation
 the distribution of the energy before any absorption whatever
at the source—that is, of the energy in the photosphere itself.
    The extent of the newly observed region may be most
 clearly seen by reference to the map of the normal or diffrac
 tion-spectrum (Plate III.). Previous maps end at or near
 wave-length V"2. Beyond this point (with the exception of
 the single band near wave-length r*-4) every line, and
 every ordinate representing heat, is believed to be new. The
 extent of the region here newly mapped is then considerably

S. P. Langley on the Selective Absorption of Solar Energy.    179
larger, on the normal scale, than the whole of that (both visible
and invisible) previously known.
   We observe that the prismatic spectrum is enormously ex
panded at the violet end. To carry this on the prismatic scale
to wave-length        would extend it far beyond the limits of
our chart. All the actual energy in the entire ultra-violet part,
however, is insignificant—how insignificant can best be seen
by reference to the normal chart, where the minute area beyond
wave-length 0"-4 represents the whole ultra-violet energy.
    We are accustomed to speak of the ultra-violet and infra-red
regions without reflecting on the enormous difference between
their actual importance. The reader will be able to see by a
simple inspection of the normal chart and a comparison of the
little area above wave-length 0""3, and the great area below
wave-length ty'l, that the Tatter is nearly a hundred times as
 great as the former. Yet the former, owing to the prismatic
 expansion, and to the selective absorption of the feeble rays
 of this region by certain salts of silver, with which it can be
 photographed (while the far greater energy below makes little
 impression on these salts), has occupied more attention than
 the latter. When we observe here how the infra-red region
 is compressed by the prism, we can understand how its extent
 has been underestimated. Its real extent is so vast that we
 should accustom ourselves to consider " in the infra-red
 region " a wholly vague term, needing to be supplemented
 with a description of the particular part of the infra-red
 referred to.
    It may be well to epitomize the principal results of all these
 researches as far as they have been here given. In general
 they emphasize and extend our first conclusions.
    1st. In measures now made for the first time on approxi
 mately homogeneous rays in the diffraction-spectrum, we find
 that the maximum energy is above the red, and is placed in
 fact near the yellow. The place of this maximum point varies
 with the sun's altitude, ranging from a wave-length of nearly
 0**-55 on a clear day and with a high sun, to a wave-length of
 (y'65, or even more, before sunset. On the normal scale, then,
 the position of the maximum of heat in the spectrum does not
 vary widely from that of the maximum of light. It is shown
 later how similar results are deducible from the prismatic
 spectrum.
    2nd. By comparing the ordinates for high and low sun
 in different parts of the spectrum we see that they grow
 unequally, indicating an enormous systematic absorption, in
 creasing toward the ultra-violet and diminishing toward the

1 80   S. P. Langley on the Selective Absorption ofSolar Energy.
infra-red; and these ordinates not only indicate its character,
but give its amount. In contradiction to the statement of
many investigators and of present opinion on the point, we
find that (according to these measures) the absorption grows
on the whole less and less as we go down below the red to a
point near wave-length 2*t,8. By this it is not meant to deny
the existence of regions of very great local absorption in the
lower spectrum. These same observations do in fact point out
new regions of such local absorption. But, excepting these,
they warrant us in saying that, broadly speaking, the absorp
tion through the whole spectrum, visible and invisible, appears
to follow one simple law, and to decrease where the wave
length increases; so that not only is the ultra-violet more
absorbed than blue, blue than yellow, and yellow than red,
but that red is more absorbed than the infra-red, and each
degree of infra-red is more so than the next one below it.
   3rd. By the use of the ordinary logarithmic formula, here
employed in its legitimate application to homogeneous waves,
we can pass from the curve inside to that outride the atmo
sphere ; in other words, we can virtually transport our obser-
ving-station to a point wholly above the air, and determine
the distribution of the sun's heat before this unequal absorbent
action of our atmosphere has affected it. We need only
embody the results for selective absorption given by our
tables in a simple graphic construction (like that here shown
in connexion with the preliminary investigation) to see that
the point of maximum neat outside our atmosphere lies near
wave-lengths 0*50 to 0*55—or, as we are entitled to say, that
the hottest portion of the spectrum outside the atmosphere
will be found rather in the green than, as here, near the
yellow.
   It is probable, from our measurements, that the sun would
appear of a decidedly bluish tint to the naked eye placed without
our air.
   This atmosphere, which we are so accustomed to regard as
colourless, has then, in fact, played a part analogous to that
of a yellowish or reddish glass, whose impure colour is not a
monochromatic yellow or red, but a compound of all spectral
tints in unaccustomed proportions. Had we in all our lives
had no light but from an electric light, seen through such a
reddish glass shade, we should probably have believed this
reddishness to be the " natural " or proper colour of the naked
carbons, and moreover that it represented " the sum of all
radiations." It would apparently answer, in an individual
brought up in ignorance of any other light, to our common
notion of whiteness ; so that even though it really possessed

S. P. Langley on the Selective Absorption of Solar Energy.    181
colour, the medium would (previous to investigation) be
deemed colourless. In the same way common opinion regards
our air as colourless; yet it cannot be so, but must necessarily
(according to these observations) be considerably coloured.
   As we have been accustomed to regard it as colourless,
however, it is clear that were it removed we should, in seeing
the sun's true appearance for the first time, regard the sun
itself as coloured.
   Our white light, then, is not the sum of all radiations, but
only of a part, even of the visible ones.
   4th. We can, by measuring the area of the curve outside
our atmosphere and comparing it with the area of the curve
within, obtain by a method never before pursued, which is in
close accord with theory, a value for the solar constant.
   Previous observations have found from 1*7 cal., in the
time of Pouillet, to 2'5 cal. in that of Violle, with a ten
dency to increase. The value here given from our preliminary
investigation is 2-84 cal. The last figure is of little weight ;
and the exactness of that in the first decimal place is probably
open to doubt. The conclusion which we are entitled to draw
from these investigations in the stage here presented is that
the solar constant is in reality greater than has been heretofore
supposed, and that it is probable that it is not very greatly
inferior to 3 calories. This important point will be discussed
fully in connexion with the Mount-Whitney observations,
with which the complete graphical constructions elucidatory
of our present tables will be given.
    5th. These observations show heat in extreme ultra-violet
rays, and the change of temperature (hitherto unobserved) in
the Fraunhofer lines. They lend increased probability to the
belief that all the energy in any ray can be exhibited as heat,
if there be. a proper medium to receive this energy. Their
evidence, so far as it goes, then, favours the conception of one
solar energy, which is interpreted in terms of heat, or of light,
 or of chemical action, according to the medium by means of
 which we choose to observe it.
    6th. The ratio of luminous to dark heat has evidently been
 wholly changed by the selective absorption. The ratio at the
 sea-level may be found with close approximation by measuring
 the two areas—(1) above the point where we assume the lumi
 nous spectrum to end, and (2) below it. This point each one
 may define differently; for the extent of the luminous spectrum
 depends much upon our precautions for observing it. If we
 assume it to end near B, then three quarters of the energy
 must be termed invisible ; if at the actual visual extremity
 (far below A), then less than half. To fix our ideas, let us

182    S. P. Langley on the Selective Absorption of Solar Energy,
suppose it to terminate at Fraunhofer's A. We then find :—
         Luminous and ultra-violet energy (within") n.aca
           the smooth curve)                          J
         Infra-red energy .                             0'632
                                                        1-000
   The ratio of the invisible (infra-red) to the whole, then, is
0"(532; and there is reason to believe this value rather too small
than too large. If, however, we deduct the space occupied by
the gaps in the lower spectrum, the ratio becomes 0*562. The
infra-red energy at sea-level may be roughly taken, as thus
defined, at three fifths of the whole. At the same time the ratio
of luminous to obscure energy without our atmosphere is, we
repeat, far greater than within it.
  We conclude (among other consequences of our observations)
that since the heat in the shorter wave-lengths (corresponding
in a general sense to high solar temperature) was thus
relatively greater before absorption, that we are obliged to
increase our usual estimates, not only of the amount of heat
the sun sends us, but (and very greatly) of the effective tem
perature of the solar surface.
   The relatively small amount of energy corresponding to
great wave-lengths in the infra-red is due not so much to
absorption as to the fact that there is no considerable solar
energy existing there at all. The relatively great amount of
energy in the luminous part of the spectrum exists there, not
on account of a feeble absorption, but in spite of a strong
absorption ; and the original solar energy here was even much
more considerable than what we see.
   It is probable, however, that the solar spectrum before
absorption, though originally weak below the red, yet extended
very much further into the infra-red than our charts indicate.
We may even regard it as probable that some agent of the
atmosphere acts as an almost complete barrier to the entrance
or departure of rays below the point charted.
   It should be understood that these researches have here a
practical bearing of great consequence. The temperature of
this planet and with it the existence, not only of the human
race but of all organized life on the globe, appears, in the light
of the conclusions reached by the Mount Whitney expedition,
to depend far less on the direct solar heat than on the hitherto
too little regarded quality of selective absoption in our atmo
sphere which we are now studying.
   The discussion of these and other points is reserved for a
subsequent memoir. Among these will be the fuller con
sideration of the place of the principal absorption of water

   On the Spectra formed by Curved Diffraction-gratings.         183
vapour, a consideration which it will be advantageous to present
in another connexion. It is to be remembered that all the
values here given are presented as approximate, and not as
final ones.
   In presenting these researches, on the part of the Allegheny
Observatory, I should state that the considerable especial
expenditures they have involved have been met by the gene
rosity of a friend of that institution, whose aid, which alone
made them possible, I would gratefully acknowledge.
   In conclusion I desire to say that I have been aided through
out them by Messrs. F. W. Very and J. W. Keeler of this
Observatory, with an efficiency and interest in their prosecution
without which they could hardly have taken their present form.
  Allegheny Observatory, Allegheny,
   Pennsylvania, December 30, 1882.
XXIII. On the Spectraformed by Curved Diffraction-gratings.
                       By Waltkb Baily*.
                             [Plate n.]
IN the curved diffraction-gratings invented by Professor
      Rowland, he has pointed out that if a source of light be
placed at the centre of curvature, all the rays diffracted back
from the grating will have their foci on the circle which lies
in a plane perpendicular to the lines of the grating, and is
described on the radius of curvature as diameter. In this
paper I investigate the locus of these foci, and of those of rays
transmitted through a transparent grating for any position of
the source of light in the same plane.
   Let a plane grating be placed at D (fig. 1) with its lines
perpendicular to the paper and one of them passing through
D, and its plane perpendicular to C D, and let a D be an inci
dent ray, of which a portion with wave-length XY is diffracted
along Daj, and a portion with wave-length Xj is diffracted
along Daj, a-^Da, being a straight line. Let GDa=6/, and
CUa^O; and let a be the distance between the lines of the
grating. Let D' be the next line of the grating to D ; and
draw D'a' and a'1D'a'2 parallel to Da and ajDoj respectively;
and draw aa', a1a\, a^a's perpendicular to Da and a,Da3.
Then we must have
                  a D + Dax = a'D' + D'a/ + nfa
and
                  aD + Das = a'D' + D'a'2 + n2\2,
where nt and n3 are integers.
    • Read before the Physical Society of London, January 27, 1883.

 184              Mr. W. Baily on the Spectra formed
    These equations give us
                       a (sin ff + sin 6) = n{Ku
                       a (sin ff— sin 0) = n2X,.
    Now (fig. 2) let D be the centre of a cylindrical grating
whose lines are perpendicular to the plane of the paper, C the
 centre of curvature, and CD = c. Let P be the source of
 light, Q the focus of a diffracted ray, E a point on the grating
 near to D. Join PD, PE, QD, QE, CE. Let CP=a,
 CQ=6, ZPCD=a, QCD=£; DP=r, DQ=/, Z.CDP=0,
ZCDQ=^, ZDCE=y. Then we have for light diffracted
 back from the grating, which we may call " reflected light,"
                      sinCEP+sinCEQ=n-,
                                                      a
            a sin (a—7)                           b sin (/9— 7)      _ nX
    {a, + c:,-2accos(«-7)}* + {b2 + <?-2bccos(P-t)}i~ *'
Expanding in terms of 7, we get
                 a sin a                        isin/8           nX
         {o' + ^-^accosa}*              {62 + c2-2&ccos/8}* ~~ a
     -(a2 + <? — 2ac cos a)a cos a— a* sin2 a
               (a2 + c% — 2ac cos «)*
                            (Z>2 + c2 - 2fe cos £)cos /3 - 62 sin2 ffl
                         +            (6J + c2-26ccos/3)i            J7
       + terms involving higher powers of y=0.
Putting
          a cos «=c— r cos 6,             6cos/9=c— r'cosd1,
          asina=csin#,                    b sin # = c sin ^,
we get
  • /1    • /«      X rcosfl         cos2 0 , cosf         cos2^! , ,
sin 0+ sin &—n +\                           -+                    C7+&C=0.
                    a L c                r           c       r J
This equation must be satisfied for all very small values of 7.
Hence                       .          .        „x
                           Bin 0 + sin t)' = — ;
and                        cos2 6 cosd 1
                                   =-          h ,J
                              r           c      a
                          cos2y_cosy 1
                              /           c      ci'
where e£ is any quantity.

                   by Curved Diffractian-gratings.              185
   In the last equation put 180 + 0' for &, and —r1 for r1.
The equation then becomes identical with the corresponding
equation. Hence curves whose equation is
                        cos" 0 _ cos 5 1
                          r        c     d
have the property that, if the source of light is at any point
on one of these curves, the whole of the reflected spectra pro
duced by the grating lie on the same curve.
   If we start with the equation for transmitted light,
                         sin 6'— sin0=«-,
                                          a
we shall arrive at the same result. Hence we see that each
of the curves whose equation has just been found is the locus
of the foci of all the diffracted rays, when the source of light
is at any point on the curve.
   These curves I will call " diffraction-curves." It is obvious
from the equation that they are independent of the distance
between the lines of the grating.
   A table is given at the end of the paper showing the values
of r for every five degrees in the value of 6, d having the
         C            •
values g, c, Be, c being taken as 1000 j and the forms of the
curves are shown in fig. 3.
   When d is infinite, the diffraction-curve is a circle having
the radius of curvature of the grating as diameter, and a
straight line through D tangential to the grating. In every
other case the curve is formed of two loops, one lying inside
the circle and the other outside, touching one another at D.
The inner loop is always an oval, which is infinitely small
when d is zero, and increases as d increases, until d becomes
infinite, when the inner loop coincides with the diffraction-
circle. The outer loop is finite when d is less than c ; and
increases as d increases, until d equals c, when the outer loop
becomes infinite, and resembles a parabola. When d is greater
than c the outer loop takes somewhat the form of an hyperbola,
with the asymptotes inclined to the axis at an angle whose
cosine is -t, and intersecting one another at a distance from the
           a
 grating =s   —-jj .   One of the two branches into which the
outer loop is now divided passes through D, always retaining
the resemblance to a branch of an hyperbola, and ultimately,
 when d is infinite, becomes a straight line tangential to the gra-
   PhU. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 93. March 1883.             0

1-8S      On tlie Spectra formed by Curved Diffraction-gratings.
ting! The other branch has points of inflection, if d is greater
 •¦mm 3                      .             .
than ^c, in the positions for which 3c cos 0=d— vlSc2 + <P ;
and when d is greater than 2c, this branch has points which
are at a minimum distance from D. At these points the dis
tance, from D is                and cos 6= —       Consequently the locus
 of these points is the circle of curvature of the grating. When
 d becomes infinite, this branch coincides with the tangent to
 thegratfng at D, and with the diffraction-circle.
     The difi'raction-curve has been shown to consist of two loops,
 one of which passes through the source of light. This loop is
  ~ie,locus, of the spectra of transmitted light; and the wave-
  ^pg'^h^t apy point is given by the equation
   il^il lu ¦»;>¦!»            n\=a (sin &— sin 6).
 The other loop is the locus of the spectra of reflected light ;
 ahrl thy waye-length at any point is given by the equation
                               n\=o- (sin a + sin 0).
 A& both loops coincide in the diffraction-circle, this circle is
 tha Jpomiboih of the spectra of transmitted and of reflected
 light when the source of light is on the circle.
 :" "As"a'n"e(i-airiple of the determination of the wave-length,
 suppose the grating to have 25,000 lines to the inch ; then
 ea#h,.idivisijOn j.of the grating is 40 millionths of an inch.
 J)ihifje .tip /diameter of the diffraction-circle into 40 parts,
 and, w^h the, .centre of curvature as centre describe circles
 tjirpugkithese.diyisions, and number the points in which they
 out jthq^ifl^aGtionrcircle, beginning with the centre of curva-
 tjojfe..a&izerp»iftnd,couriting the readings as positive on one side
 pfiAhe¦ ipso andi negative on the other (see fig. 4, in which only
 e,Yfiry,jtflri|1ih .rfladjflg. is given). If the source of light be at
        centjrfl1ipf(Cftrvature, the readings of the diffraction-circle
 (Yiijjl giy«).ttQi>vftVfl-/lengths, or multiples of them, in millionths
 Oj'iaprinfllv, u-JSW' With the centre of the grating as centre of
 Mpj^ojH,,^r^o^,^ie readings of the diffraction-circle on
 ^tjy/lisa^he^jpjjpi^j/.diffraction-curve, and place the source
 of light at the point in which one of the loops cuts the perpen-
 ^^toe"ffl4l&deittr&of the grating. The readings give the
  wave-lengths, or multiples of them, as before.
 oiliLflWlw ^Wfc^^Wight be now placed at any point of a gra
  duated diffraction-curve. Take the reading of the point, and
 ^WrcritffrmKtlfe1 readings of all other points on the same
  l6bpM;lltfiy ne"W rttaitagSOill give the wave-lengths, or mul-
 t^tes^heW^'tramrhitted light. Add the reading of the

                 Mr. H. Lamb on the Basis of Statics.              187
 position of the source of light to the readings of all points on
 the other loop, and the new readings will give the wave-lengths,
 or multiples of them, for reflected light. The diffraction-
 circle must be treated as two distinct loops, and the reading
 of the source be subtracted from the readings on the circle for
 transmitted, and added for reflected light. One of the zero-
 readings occurs at the source of light, and the other at the
 focus of ordinary reflected light.
    In the case of a plane grating, since c is infinite, the equa
 tion to the diffraction-curves becomes
                               r=dcoa20.
  Table showing the values of r for every five degrees of 0 in
                               the equation
                          cos2fl _ cos 0 1
                             r          c     d
           *4        d=c.     d=3e.      H       d=c.   d—lic.  ±e.
    90        0         0         0         0        0       0   90
    85        2         7        18         3        8      31   95
    80        9        20        77        11       37     190  100
    75       21        53      113         25       90     899  105
             ...                                         13691  109
    TO       35        87      173         44      178 -13451   110
    65       52       126      231         73      309 - 2000   115
    60       71       167      300        100      500 - 1500   120
    55       92      209       363        140      772 - 1372   125
    50      113      252       423        175    1156   - 1335  130
    45      135      293       481        224    1707  - 1338   135
    40      156      332       535        263    2508  - 1356   140
    35      176      369       582        314    3710  - 1382   145
    30      194      402       625        351    5603  - 1408   150
    25      210      431       663        392    8768  - 1434   155
    20      224      455       694        429   14640  - 1450   160
    15      235      475       718        459   27394  - 1475   165
    10      243      489       73(5       481   63890  - 1489   170
     5      248      497       746        495  261165  - 1497   175
     0   1 250       500       750        500    oo    - 1500   180
                                  c=1000.
   XXIV. The Basis of Statics. By Horace Lamb, M.A.,
    Professor of Mathematics in the University of Adelaide*.
THE object of this paper is to suggest a new basis for the
       science of Statics. The suggestion is put forward with
all diffidence ; but it will, I think, be readily granted that the
present form of the subject is hardly satisfactory.
  * Read at the Annual Meeting of the Association for the Improvement
of Geometrical Teaching, January 17th, 1883. Communicated by the
Association at the request of the Author.
                                    02

188           Mr. H. Lamb on the Basis of Statics.
    The manner in which the fundamental propositions are
presented by all but the most recent writers is too familiar to
need any long recital. Certain principles are assumed as the
 result of experience ; and the parallelogram of forces and the
other leading propositions of Statics are then deduced from
these by purely mathematical reasoning. Conspicuous among
these principles is that of the " transmissibility of force,'
which asserts that a force acting at any point A of a body
may be supposed applied indifferently at any other point B in
its line of action. This principle is usually stated with a
certain amount of hesitation and qualification. We are told
that it is not generally true, unless B be " rigidly " connected
with A ; and when, as sometimes happens, we wish for
mathematical purposes to transfer the force to points not so
connected, we are (in effect) told to conjure up before our
minds the vision of an imaginary " rigid " framework attached
to the body with which we are dealing. When the desired
conclusion has been reached, this framework is conveniently
dismissed to the void whence it came. Of a piece with this
artifice is that which, in the application to Elasticity, Hydro
statics, &c, consists in imagining certain portions of matter
to become " solidified." Now all this seems very unnatural.
In the firet place there are no " rigid " bodies, in the sense in
which the word is defined by the writers here criticised. The
fundamental propositions of Statics ought surely to admit of
being stated in such a way that they shall be true, accurately
and without any manner of qualification, of matter such as we
find it. Again, it ought to be possible to establish the laws of
equilibrium &c. of one body A without introducing, even in
imagination, another body (framework) B, even if the proper
ties attributed to B were real and not fictitious.
    Since the publication of Thomson and Tait's 'Natural
Philosophy ' the methods here recalled have fallen into some
discredit. These writers first pointed out that a sufficient
appeal to experience having been made once for all in the
Laws of Motion, it was unnecessary and unphilosophical to
introduce a fresh set of experimental data as a basis for Statics,
which is after all but a branch of Kinetics. Although the
propriety of this view has been universally acknowledged, no
subsequent writer has, so far as I know, ventured to follow
resolutely the path thus indicated, and to develop a thoroughly
consistent doctrine of Statics based solely on the Laws of
Motion and their consequences. Thus in a text-book otherwise
admirable we find that although the truth of the parallelogram
of forces is asserted* to be an immediate consequence of
  • Attention seems hardly to have been sufficiently directed to the fact

                Mr. H. Lamb on the Basis of Statics.                   189
 Newton's Second Law, yet the principle of the transmissibility
of force is retained, and employed in deducing the rules for
the composition of parallel forces, &c. In the method followed
by Thomson and Tait the particular dynamical principle
adopted as a basis is that of Work, in the form of Lagrange's
principle of virtual velocities. This is of course the method
most consistent with the plan of their book, which is to exhibit
the connexion between the various branches of mathematical
physics in the light of the doctrine of the Conservation of
Energy. But an alternative presentment of the subject seems
desirable, and, at all events for the purposes of elementary
teaching, even necessary. It should be remarked, too, that
Thomson and Tait follow the ancient practice of regarding
Statics as a subject which deals primarily with ideal " rigid
bodies, and that accordingly, in their treatment of Hydrostatics
&c., they retain (as I cannot but think most unfortunately)
the artifice of au imaginary " solidification " of the portions
of matter to which the fundamental propositions are to be
applied.
   It is with all due deference that I venture to suggest a new
point of departure in a subject which has been handled by so
many distinguished writers. I am of opinion that the true
and proper basis of Statics is to be sought for in the principles
of linear and angular momentum. Regarding Statics as the
doctrine of the equivalence of forces, I would define the word
"equivalent," and say that two sets of forces are "equivalent"
when, and only when, they produce the same effect on the
linear and on the angular momentum of any material system
to which they may be applied—i. e. when they produce the
same rate of change of momentum in any assigned direction,
and the same rate of change of moment of momentum about
any assigned iixis. In the same way two sets of forces would
bo said to be " in equilibrium " when they produce no effect
on either the linear or the angular momentum of any system.
On this basis the fundamental theorems of Statics can be
developed with great ease ; and there is of course no qualifica
tion as to the physical nature of the system on which the
forces are supposed to act. The particular status of rigid
that this assertion is only correct so long as we are dealing with forces
acting on a particle. When we have to do with a hody of finite size, all
that the most liberal interpretation of the second law can tell us is that
two forces represented by two lines AB, AC are equivalent to a force
represented by some line equal and parallel to the diagonal AD of the
parallelogram constructed on those lines. To prove that the resultant
must act in the line AD we require the third law as well. A good deal
of confusion seems to have arisen here (and elsewhere in our subject)
from the vague way in which the word " equivalent " has been used.

190           Mr. H. Lamb on the Basis of Statics.
bodies in this method is as follows. As a matter of fact we
find that in many cases the bodies with which we deal
undergo deformations so slight that they may for many
purposes be ignored. When this is the case the fundamental
principles of Statics, obtained in the above way, are sufficient,
and enable us, in virtue of known kinematical theorems, to
obtain all the information we care about. In other cases
(fluids and flexible solids) these principles are equally valid,
but they are no longer sufficient, and additional experimental
knowledge has then to be sought for.
    A possible objection to the above method may be here
anticipated. It may be urged that, even granting its soundness,
it is altogether too difficult and abstruse for the purposes of
elementary teaching. I believe that, on examination, much
 of this supposed difficulty will disappear, and that, on the whole,
the method will be found to be really much simpler than that
at present in vogue. The main difficulty is at the outset.
When the foundation of the method has once been laid, a
whole series of propositions, now usually obtained each by a
separate and often a complicated proof, follow as immediate
corollaries. It is, I think, now coming to be generally
admitted that some knowledge of Kinetics ought to precede
the study of Statics. Now the principles of linear and
angular momentum can be deduced (as in ' Thomson and
Tait,' § 267) with great ease from the second and third laws
of motion, and constitute of themselves a valuable intellectual
acquisition. The first of these principles leads directly to the
parallelogram of forces as far as the magnitude and direction
of the resultant is concerned ; and the second principle, with
the help of Varignon's geometrical theorem of moments, fixes
its line of action. The rules for the composition of parallel
 forces, the equivalence of couples of the same moment in
parallel planes, the reduction of a system of forces in one
plane, the various forms of the conditions of equilibrium, <Stc.
need no longer to be deduced by laborious processes from the
 parallelogram of forces, but are simple and almost self-evident
 corollaries from the fundamental principles of momentum.
 It may be noticed, too, that the " transmissibility of force "
 now receives an exact and perfectly general meaning, although
as a separate principle it has no proper place in our method.
   It seems unlikely that the views here advocated should be
altogether novel ; but the only approximation to them (a
remarkable one, however) which I have been able to discover
is in Professor Minchin's ' Statics,' § 94 (second edition).
If Professor Minchin had followed out to its legitimate con
clusion the line of thought there indicated, and made it the

                   Mr. J. T. Riley on Capillary Phenomena.                              191
 foundation of his exposition of the subject, he would have
 removed what I take to be the only serious blemish in his
excellent book.
     In conclusion, I would point out that the wider scope here
sought to be given to the fundamental theorems of Statics
can be justified on other grounds. It is now generally held
that the ultimate particles of bodies apparently at rest are
really in a state of more or less violent agitation. If we
regard Statics as the theory of equilibrium, and if by equili
brium we mean relative rest, there is a manifest awkwardness
 in applying the principles established on this basis to bodies
 so constituted. On the other hand, in the form advocated in
 this paper, the fundamental theorems are directly applicable
 to such cases, without any modification whatever.
     Adelaide, November 25, 1882.
 XXV. On Capillary Phenomena. By John T. Riley, B.Se.
      (Londpn), A.li.C.Sc.L, Demonstrator in tlie Physical
      Laboratories of the Mason College*.
                                             [Plate IV.]
  ALTHOUGH the mathematical theories of capillary action
               which have been advanced by Laplace, Gauss, Poisson,
  and others agree in one point, which mav be tested by
  experiment, they differ in the fundamental hypotheses. In
  all the theories the equation of the capillary surface is of the
  same form, involving a certain constant which can be deter
  mined by experiment only. They, however, differ in .the
  manner in which this constant is made, to diepiend- ori ;the
  molecular forces and the law of density M tUe fluill. neair the
  surface.               ,      m to iioi lu»p<> rn: xnii;;:I<> ! .• ¦n'.: ,,; . . ,t
      Laplace t' supposes th» density of ibe fluid to I be. uniform :
   he commences by considering an infinitely; slander .canal of
ithB'frqidi <ip^pendicukc.extefnaUy totfoe surface Af; a sphere,
 land tfidlcdlates' -the > total action1 i of>i the sphere-Hon; thei canal,
 i The law> of attraction is ; such a. function of the distance
¦itfcnintbiinfunction. becori»B insensible when the distance: be
  comes sensibtej >Hei finds that 4he/resultant attraction may
. j^' zep^res^^^'^' .' '^'nfo^m ^—~^ iwbere'.1. ! and?" 'H are
           1 1 iridependJeht' ofJ 1 the ; radius of the sphere. '"""He
 lioi.1 .':¦/¦)!'! ofl.l t,;i(l ')i.iii')n . > o! ii ¦vi'll) 'nJJ..,-/ >>fn: (l>iin>ji i; 'in
.^rvesi that K, fa much larger,, .than^, and $at , $.,r,epre

192         Mr. J. T. Riley on Capillary Phenomena.
sente the attraction of a plane surface, since -r vanishes
when b becomes infinite.        The expression K —       also repre
sents the attraction exerted on the canal by a segment cut
from the sphere by a plane to which the canal is perpen
dicular, since all the sphere behind the plane is at too great a
distance to have any effect.       In a similar way, K + y repre
sents the action of a sphere upon an infinitely slender canal
internally perpendicular to its surface.
   He then applies this result to determine the action of any
curved surface upon an internal column of fluid enclosed in
an infinitely slender canal perpendicular to any point of this
surface. If R and R' be the principal radii of curvature at
this point, he obtains for the attraction the expression
                         k+*h(r-+R'>
   Gauss * uses the principle of virtual velocities. He forms
an expression for the sum of the potentials arising from the
mutual action between pairs of particles. This expression
consists of three parts, corresponding to the action of gravity,
the mutual action between the particles of the fluid, and the
action between the particles of the fluid and the particles of
the solid or fluid in contact with it. The condition that the
system may be in equilibrium is that this expression shall
have a minimum value.
   Poisson f maintains that the density of the fluid is not
uniform, but that there is a rapid variation of density near
the surface. He obtains an equation of the capillary surface
similar to that of Laplace, but asserts that K is very small
instead of very great.
   Many physicists, unwilling to grant the possibility of a
negative pressure in a liquid, and confronted with the fact
that capillary elevations and depressions occur in vacuo just
as in the atmosphere, adopt the result of Laplace, and consider
that a plane surface exerts a considerable pressure on the
interior liquid.      Thus in Everett's edition of Ueschanel
(6th ed. p. 133) we find the following statement:—" We
cannot conceive of negative pressure existing in the interior
of a liquid, and we are driven to conclude that the elevation
is owing to the excess of pressnre caused by the plane
  * Principia Generalia TheorUt Figures Flmdorum in Statu A^quilibrii.
  t Nouvelle Thiorie de tAction capiUaire : Paris, 1831.

            Mr. J. T. Riley on Capillary Phenomena.         193
 surface in the containing vessel above the pressure caused by
 the concave surface in the capillary tube."
    This molecular pressure, due to the plane surface, is a
 result only of the mathematical methods that have been
 employed to give an explanation of capillary phenomena.
 We cannot demonstrate experimentally the existence of this
 pressure, since, if introduced into the calculations at the
 beginning, it is afterwards eliminated and does not appear in
  the results.
    In order to determine whether this molecular pressure, due
 to a plane surface, has any physical existence, I have made
 the following experiment, which I think conclusively proves
 that it has not, or, if it has, that it must be very small. I
 took a small funnel and drew out the stem so as to form a
fine capillary tube which I bent twice at right angles, so as
 to bring the capillary limb parallel with the stem (fig. 6).
The funnel was clamped to a stand, and water poured in to
the level A; in the capillary limb it rose to B, the height of
which I read with a cathetometer. Adopting Laplace's formula,
and neglecting the atmospheric pressure, as its effect cancels
out, the pressure in the liquid immediately under the plane
surface at the level A is K, and that immediately under the
curved surface at B is K —s(:r" + ,r')> since R and B/ are
 both negative.                 /VW wy
    In this case K cancels out; but if, without altering the
level at A, we modify the surface tension, then K, which is,
according to Laplace, a function of H, is altered, and takes a
value K'. The excess of the pressure immediately below A
over that immediately below B is now K' — K + ~           +57),
             H/ 1     1\                           ^ \K It /
instead of jOjj ~*~g7) 38 ^0Te' an^ ^e capillary surface at
B ought to move up or down according as K'— K has a
positive or negative value.
    To test this, I held a glass rod, with a drop of ether
adhering, close to the surface of water in the funnel: the
surface tension was immediately diminished; but an obser
vation with the cathetometer showed that no fall had occurred
at B. Even when I dropped the ethiT on the surface I
could detect no movement; but immediately I held the drop
over the capillar}- tube, the surface at B began to sink, and
finally fell several millimetres.
    It is evident that, although H is very much diminished by
the solution of the ether vapour in the capillary surface, the
difference between K and K' is not appreciable, so that both
must be exceedingly small or zero.

  194          Mr. J. T. Riley on Capillary Phenomena.
      We may suppose that, while the drop of ether is held over
  the plane surface, the constitution of the liquid near the
  surface is continually changing, from the passage of the ether
  molecules into the upper layers.
      The term K' is meant to include the whole of whatever
  plane-surface actions may exist, tending to produce an internal
  pressure. It is evident that K' ought to be considerably less
  than K, since H' is very much less than H under the same
  conditions of surface.
      The equation of the capillary surface is then practically
  reduced to
                              H/ 1       1\
  where p is the hydrostatic pressure immediately below the
  capillary surface.
      All that we know experimentally concerning the forces
  which produce capillary phenomena may be expressed in two
  fundamental propositions, from which all explanations of
  particular phenomena may be deduced. It has been abun
  dantly shown, by the experiments of Plateau, Duprc, Van
  dor Mensbrugghe, Terquem, and many others, that every
  liquid behaves as if its external layer were in a state of
  tension. This tension is uniform in all directions in the free
  surface; but its magnitude is modified by contact with the
  surface of a solid or another liquid. The existence of this
. surface-tension is the basis of the physical explanation of
  capillary phenomena. The only assumption it seems necessary
  to make—namely, that the variations of pressure in the parte
  of the liquid elevated above the level of the free surface obey
  the ordinary laws of hydrostatics—seems so evidently natural
  that it cannot be doubted.
       Commencing with these data, it is easily proved, as if for
  a stretched membrane, that the intensity of the pressure
  supported by a meniscus is given at any point in the meniscus
  by the expression p = ±h(|j ~*~R/)' w^ere ^ an<^ Sf^o tihe
  principal radii of curvature at that 'pofct, atid"H "is Hie
  uniform tension across a linea? cemMmetrti in the Wrfa'ce';';,i;/
       The constancy of the angle of ' contact! '<of"a liquid. \VWra
  given solid also . fdlowS easily from "the assumption ''of a
   surface-tension ; and thus armed w& are able to! explain'1 any
  capillary phenomena.             •'" :: ''''' '¦' '!•>'•<- '>¦ nlr.iin
   '. ¦In the"ffUhdary',hujWberlof this Magazine, Prof: Johri'Le
   Gonte attempts11 to refer lb tivo fundamental ' principles the
  explanation of 'several cases of the apparent attractibtis and
  repulsions of small floating bodies. He defers life'se 'pfoe1

           Mr. J. T. Riley on Capillary Phenomena.           195
nomena exclusively to the elastic reactions of the tense
surface-film, whose form is modified by the proximity of the
partly immersed solid bodies, and purposely leaves out of
consideration the modifications of hydrostatic pressure. Of
course it is evident that these phenomena are primarily
produced by the elastic reactions of the capillary surfaces in
the neighbourhood of the solid bodies; but to consider the
motions as produced by a " superior tension " in one or more of
the films, owing to a smaller radius of curvature of the film,
is evidently an error of expression.
   The tension is constant in every direction throughout
the capillary surfaces; and it is clear that, since for each
plate the angle of contact is the same on both sides, the
horizontal components of the tensions will balance each other.
The movements of the bodies are secondary results of the
surface-tension, being produced by the modified hydrostatic
pressures on their surfaces.
    In the case of tho compound plate of steel and glass,
 Prof. Le Conte's treatment has evidently led him into an
error ; for he says " It is obvious that the tensile reaction can
only tend to press the plates together: it cannot produce a
motion of translation." On the contrary, as I shall show, the
effect of the tensile forces is to tend to pull the plates
 asunder ; but these opposite forces being equal in amount, no
 movement of the plate ensues. In order to gain a clear
physical conception of the reasons for these apparent attrac
tions and repulsions, it is necessary to consider all the forces
at work ; and that I propose to do in the following expla
nations:—
    Case I. (fig. 1). Let A and B be two flat plates partially
immersed in a liquid which wets both. If the plates be
brought sufficiently near each other, the capillary surface QQ'
will rise above the ordinary level of the liquid outside the
plates. Let MN be drawn in the horizontal surface: if we
neglect the atmospheric pressure, the hydrostatic pressure at
this level will be zero. Passing upwards the pressure becomes
negative, decreasing according to the ordinary law. There
is thus a reaction of the naturo of a tension between the
liquid above MN and the solid surfaces in contact with it.
From P to S the hydrostatic tension between the surfaces on
the left of A will be balanced by the tension between the
surfaces on the right; but from S to Q the tension to
wards the right is unbalanced by any tension towards the
left. Since the angle of contact of the liquid with the
solid is the same on both sides of A, tho horizontal com
ponents of the surface-tensionsriare equal >«ipd ini: opposite

 196         Mr. J. T. Riley on Capillary Phenomena.
 directions, so that they can produce no horizontal motion.
 The resultant force on A is thus the tension between the
 liquid surface SQ and the solid ; and this force tends to move
 A towards B. Similarly, the resultant force on B is the
 tension between the liquid surface S' Q' and the solid ; and
 this force moves B towards A. The two bodies are thus drawn
 together.
    Case II. (fig. 2). In this case the liquid surface is de
pressed in the neighbourhood of both bodies, and, as before, the
horizontal components of the surface-tension where the me-
niscuses touch the solids cancel out. It is at once evident
that the hydrostatic pressures from S to Q and from S' to Q'
on the external faces of A and B are unbalanced ; and they
therefore press the bodies together.
    Case III. (fig. 3). Here we find a depression of the
surface near one plate, and an elevation near the other. The
horizontal components of the tensions on both sides of A and
B will respectively destroy each other: the resultant hydro
static pressure from P to S forces A towards the left, and the
resultant tension from M' to N' pulls B to the right, and the
plates tend to separate.
   Case IV. (fig. 4). We have now to consider the equi
librium of a single floating plate, with its surfaces so prepared
that they produce different degrees of capillary elevation. It
is very easy to see that, in an indefinite surface of the liquid,
no movement can take place. For the potential energy of
the surface cannot be diminished by any movement of the
plate; and therefore we conclude that the plate must be in
equilibrium, for otherwise its kinetic energy when moving
would have been produced without any diminution of potential
energy. But it is important to show that we arrive at the
same conclusion from an examination of the effects of the
capillary forces brought into play. The case does not offer
any ground for objection to Laplace's theory, as Dr. Thomas
Young insisted it did, nor to any mathematical theory from
which the fundamental equation given previously can be
deduced.
   Let the surfaces of the compound plate (fig. 6) be such
that we have on one side a capillary depression and on the
other a capillary elevation. For the equilibrium of the plate
we must have the horizontal component of tension Hat Q +
hydrostatic tension from S to Q = horizontal component of
tension H at P + hydrostatic pressure from S to P. In
order to determine the hydrostatic tension and pressure, we
first find the pressure at any point in the curved surface. As
R' is infinitely great, the general equation reduces to p=gpz

           Mr. J. T. Riley on Capillary Phenomena.            197
    u
=     , where z is the height of the point considered (m!, fig. 5)
from the axis of x taken in the level surface. From the
differential equation of the curvature at the point ml we get
                         dx2         _ i _gpz
              .Ml)? "n=lt
and, integrating,
                          H       = 9P* +, const.
              dz
When 2=0, 3- =0, and const. = — H, so that the equation
becomes
                  H (i         , 1        \-9Pl.
                     1     v^m^*
Introducing the angle /3 made by the tangent to the surface
with the ordinate z, we get finally
                       -=±\/^(l-siny3).              .  .  .   (1)
Now let the surface at P make an angle a with the surface of
the plate, at Q an angle a'. The horizontal components of
the tensions will be H sin a and H sin a' respectively. The
hydrostatic tension on the plate from S to Q will be
               V*=**§32=H(i-w)
            J.
from formula (1).
    Similarly the hydrostatic pressure from S to P is
H(l— sin a); supplying these values in the equation for equi
librium we have the identity
                              H=H.
We thus see that the resultant forces acting on the plate are
two equal and opposite tensions which will tend to pull the
plates asunder. In every case the identity shows that the
magnitude of these tensions is just the same as if the surfaces
came up perpendicular to the plates without elevation or
depression.
   In conclusion I would point out that the mathematical
theories of Laplace, Gauss, and Poisson do no more than

 198    Mr. A. M. Worthington on the Horizontal Motion of
 account for a surface-tension.          The investigations which
 Laplace gave of the rise of liquids in capillary tubes and
 between plates, and of the apparent attractions and repulsions
 of small floating bodies, cannot be considered as giving
 definite support to his theory, since the existence of the
 phenomena may be deduced from any mathematical theory
 which explains surface-tension.
    All that Laplace did was to show that, with certain
 assumptions respecting the density of the liquid near the
 surface and the law of molecular attractions, he could prove
 that capillary phenomena would occur.
    With other assumptions, Poisson also showed they would
 occur; but whether his assumptions or those of Laplace have
 a physical reality is an altogether different matter.
   The Mason College, February 5th.
XXVI. On the Horizontal Motion of Floating Bodies under tlie
     Action of Capillary Forces. By A. M. Worthington.
                              [Plate V.]
   To tlie Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
       Gentlemen,
 WITH respect to the phenomena of capillary attraction
          and repulsion of floating bodies, which are the subject
of Mr. J. LeConte's paper in the Phil. Mag. of January last,
I would remark that in most writings on capillarity in which
the elevation or depression of liquids' in contact with solid
plates is discussed, attention is confined to the vertical com
ponent of the surface-tension at its contact with the solid, and
to its relation with the weight of liquid elevated or depressed.
The horizontal component is generally neglected as not af
fecting the results; and the very interesting relation which
exists between its variation and the resulting hydrostatic
pressure or tension is overlooked. The consequence of this is
that the explanations which are afterwards given of the
horizontal motions of floating bodies are expressed in terms
which apply only to each special case as it is dealt with, and
do not reveal the important underlying relationship to which
I refer.
   This relationship is indeed made use of by Quincko in
treating of flat drops and bubbles; and he deduces it from the
differential equation to the surface by a rather long process.
It does not seem to have occurred to any one that the same
relationship underlies the attraction and repulsion of plates,
or that it can be very easily deduced from the well-established

   Floating Bodies under the Action of Capillary Forces.     199
principles of (1) a definite surface-tension, (2) a definite
contact-angle, (3) a hydrostatic pressure within the liquid
increasing continuously with the depth and having the value
zero at the level of the free horizontal surface, so that any
liquid raised above this level is in a state of tension.
   We will consider the forces acting on one surface of a
vertical floating plate so broad that it is not necessary to take
into account the action at the edges. We will take first the
case in which the liquid is depressed at its contact.
   Fig. 1 represents this case. The level surface F 6 is
depressed to E.
   Produce the horizontal surface F G to meet the plate
inK.
   It is easy to show that the sum of the horizontal forces
acting on the plate is precisely the same as if the angle of
contact were a right angle and the surface were not de
pressed, but left the solid at K.
   We need only consider points above the level of E; and our
remarks will have regard to a strip of the surfaces whose
width in the direction perpendicular to the plane of the paper
is one unit. Let T be the surface-tension per unit of length.
   If the liquid were not depressed, the plate would be pulled
to the left by a tension T, applied at K, and would be pushed
to the right by the hydrostatic pressure due to the depth of
liquid KE.
   The surface-layer between G and E may be regarded as
a smooth, weightless, perfectly flexible coherent sheet. The
hydrostatic pressures due to the depth of liquid between K and
E are applied everywhere at right angles to this surface, and
 may be resolved into vertical and horizontal components.
 The vertical components may be regarded as applied to the
 solid at E where the surface-sheet on which they act is
 attached to the solid.
    The sum of these vertical forces is obviously equal to the
 weight of the liquid which would fill the space GKE; and
 the solid is accordingly buoyed up precisely as if it were so
 shaped as to displace this liquid, and the hydrostatic pressure
 were exerted on the solid itself.
    In the same way the sum of the horizontal components
 may be regarded as applied to the coherent plane surface F G
 at G, whereby the effective pull of the free horizontal surface
 on the solid is diminished by the precise amount of the hydro
 static pressure in question; so that the result of the depression
 of the surface is to diminish the hydrostatic pressure on the
plate to the right by precisely the same amount as thk surface-
 pull to the left is diminished.

 200     Mr. A. M. Worthington on the Horizontal Motion of
    Consider next the case of a plate of such a nature that the
 liquid is elevated. This case is represented by figure 2; and
 we can deal with it in exactly the same way.
    The surface-layer between G and E may again be regarded
 as a smooth flexible coherent sheet; and it sustains a hydro
 static tension due to the liquid elevated above the surface and
 equal in amount to the weight of the liquid that fills the
 space G K E. The surface-sheet is attached to the solid at E,
 which is therefore weighed down by a force equal to this
 weight, and which is the vertical component of the surface-
 tension at E. The effect of the horizontal components of the
 hydrostatic tension exerted on the surface-sheet E G is ob
 viously equal to that exerted on the solid in the opposite
 direction ; so that while the effective pull of the free hori
 zontal surface beyond G is diminished by this amount, an
 equivalent hydrostatic tension is substituted. Hence, in either
 case, wliatever the value ofthe contact-angle, tlie total horizontal
force is the same as if tliere were no capillary elevation or de
pression of the surface.
    It is to be observed also that the reasoning we have just
 made use of is applicable to any portion of the liquid surface
 of unit width enclosed between horizontal lines parallel to the
 plate, and that the difference of the horizontal components of
 the surface-tensions at the two lines is equal to the horizontal
 hydrostatic pressure or tension on the surface between them.
    If the distance from the free horizontal surface of the nearer
 bounding line be H, and of the further H +y (perpendicular
 distances being reckoned positive when measured away from
 the free horizontal surface), and if D be the weight of unit
 volume of the liquid, then the horizontal hydrostatic force in
question, being equal to that on a vertical rectangle of unit
width and height y and whose centre of gravity is at a dis
tance H + ~ from the free surface, is
                             (H+|),D;
 and if we designate by 0O the acute angle between the surface
and the horizontal at the level H, and by 0 the corresponding
angle at the level H+y, we may write the equation to the
surface
                t cos 0O -rcos 0= (H + 0 yD*,
the origin being taken in the surface at the level H, where
   • It is a special case of this result that Prof. Quincke makes use of in
his treatment of large flat drops and bubbles. It may be deduced from

     of Floating Bodies under the Action of Capillary Forces.           201
    6=60. With the origin at the level of the free horizontal
    surface the equation becomes
                         t cos 60—r cos 8=
      We will now apply the principle to all possible cases. Of
   the case of a single floating plate, whose sides are of different
   materials so that the liquid is raised at one side and depressed
   or less raised at the other, the explanation is obvious. There
   can be no horizontal displacement, since the total horizontal
   force on either side is the same as if there were no capillary
  elevation or depression at all.
      Consideration, however, of the position of the points of ap
  plication of the surface-tension, and of the centres of hydro
  static pressures or tensions, shows that the plate will tend to
  topple towards the side on which the liquid is elevated or
  more elevated.
     When two parallel plates are concerned, we see then that the
  nature of their exterior surfaces is immaterial, since we may
  always imagine the exterior meniscus replaced by a plane
  horizontal surface.
     If the interior surfaces are such that the liquid would be
  (a) raised or (b) depressed by either alone, then, whatever the
 value of the interior contact-angles, the lowest portion of the
 meniscus (as in fig. 3), or the mghest portion (as in fig. 4),
 the usual form of the differential equation to the surface very shortly as
 follows.
    This equation referred to an origin at an elevation H above the free
surface is
tnd becomes
                                    i—D(H+y)
when one curvature vanishes, as in the case under consideration. Writing
for p its value
                                  ds _ dy
                                  d6~5n6d8'
we get                  r sin 6 dd= - D(Hrfy+y dy),
0r                      7-cos* =0-(H+|)yD;
&nd when y=0,
                        TC08 <?=TC08 dQ — C ;
                    .-. t cos 0O -r cos 6 = (H+  yD.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 93. March 1883.                  P

202       On the Horizontal Motion of Floating Bodies.
will be horizontal, and we may replace the horizontal effects
of the interior meniscus by that of the horizontal tangent
plane. There then remains to be considered only the hydro
static tension (fig. 3) or pressure (fig. 4) due to the liquid
between the free horizontal surface and the tangent plane, by
which, in either case, the plates will be urged together. The
amount of the action is known when the elevation of the
tangent plane is known.
   In the remaining case, in which the nature of one plate (A)
on the interior side is such that if it alone were present the
liquid would be depressed, while at the other plate (B) it is
raised, the difficulty lies, not in applying the principle we
have obtained, but in previously ascertaining the configura
tion of the liquid between the plates to which we have to apply
it. It will be observed that in the cases just dealt with a
knowledge of this configuration has been taken for granted.
   It is easy, however, by following in the steps or Laplace,
and more particularly of Poisson, to obtain this preliminary
information.
   If the acute angle of contact a> at the plate A is etfual to
the corresponding angle of at the plate B, then there must
always be a line F of contrary flexure in the surface midway
between the two plates whatever their distance apart ; and
this line must be at the level of the exterior free surface,
since at this level there is no hydrostatic pressure, and there
fore no curvature of the surface. When the plates are far
apart the surface at F is horizontal, and there will be neither
attraction nor repulsion of the plates. When the plates are
near together the surface will be inclined at F (as in fig. 5):
and from what has been said we know that the hydrostatic
effect of the depression and elevation on either side of F is
exactly such as to counterbalance the diminution of the hori
zontal component of the surface-tension at F, so that the
plates may be regarded as drawn together by that component,
whereas they are drawn apart by the full amount of the sur
face-tension. Consequently they recede from each other.
There is no residual hydrostatic force involved.
   (The apparent repulsion of a wetted floating object from
the edge of a glass of water filled above the brim is a com
mon instance in which the obliquity of the surface at one side
of the object is very obvious and the effect very striking.)
   If one of the acute angles of contact, say a>, at the plate A
(fig. 6) be greater than the other, &>', at the plate B, then, if
we begin with the plates far apart, we see that, as in the last
case, there will a\, first be neither attraction nor repulsion,
but that the line of contrary flexure F must bo nearer to the

                 High-pressure Electric Accumulator.          203
 plate A than to the plate B (for the surface must be sym
 metrical on opposite sides of this line). It is also evident, on
 account of this symmetry, that if, keeping B fixed, we could
 transfer the plate A to the position A' at an equal distance at
 the other side of the point F, the surface of equilibrium GE'
 would be the same, and that there would again be no ten
dency to horizontal motion ; for, K'E' being equal to K E,
the hydrostatic tension on the plate A' would counterbalance
the diminution of the horizontal component of the surface-
tension. If the plate A' were now pushed nearer to B, the
horizontal component of the surface-tension between them
would remain the same, owing to the constancy of the contact-
angles, while the hydrostatic tension would increase as the
liquid rose between the plates and the curvature of its surface
increased. Consequently, at all distances less than that re
ferred to there will be attraction. (The case is indeed the
same as that of fig. 3, with the difference that the lowest
element of the meniscus is inclined to the horizontal.)
    If, on the other hand, the plate A be withdrawn from the po
sition A', the liquid between the plates will fall and the hydro
static tension diminish, while the horizontal component of the
surface-tension will remain the same till the line of contact
with the plate A reaches the level of the free exterior surface,
when it must become the line of contrary flexure, to which
in all its positions we give the name F. Up to this position
the repulsion will accordingly increase ; after this it will
diminish, since the inclination to the horizontal at F will
diminish as A recedes further.
                         I am, Gentlemen,
                                  Your obedient servant,
   Clifton College. Bristol,               A. M. WoRTHINGTON.
        Feb. 10, 1883.
XXVII. A High-Pressure Electric Accumulator or Secondary
              Battery. By Frederick John Smith *.
THE modification of the gas-battery of Sir W. Grove
         which the author has devised is as follows:—The gas-
battery of Sir W. Grove, as usually made, when used as an
accumulator, owing to the small quantity of gases that it
holds, soon runs down when in use. In order to make its life
longer, the author puts the gases under a high pressure; by
this means a large quantity of gas can be stored in a suitably
 constructed instrument. The earliest form of battery, and
                      • Communicated by the Author.
                                   P2

204             High-Pressure Electric Accumulator.
this has been at work (t. e. has been charged and discharged
as an accumulator) for eighteen months,
is shown in the cut. A is a strong lead
vessel, well lined with rubber varnish,
to prevent any solution of the lead being
formed. 0, H, are platinized platinum
cylinders, in inverted tubes held in
their proper position by pieces of rub
ber. M is a manometer. The terminals
B, C are brought through insulating
stoppers. A 10-per-cent. mixture of sul
phuric acid and water is used as the
liquid. With this arrangment a pressure
of seven atmospheres can be easily used; and thus the tubes,
one of which has twice the capacity of the other, can contain
64 times the gas that they would do at the usual pressure. A
second form has been made by Messrs. Becker Co., for the
author. In this a U-shaped glass tube is used, the manometer
being attached to the bend, and the sheets of platinum being
fused into each leg. This form, although well suited for lecture-
purposes, will bear but a small pressure. A curious point
observed, and one that is now being carefully worked out, is
that the E.M.F. appears to vary much with the pressure.
    The author has, in addition to the experiment described,
charged small Faure or lead secondary batteries under pres
sure, the result being that the life of the battery is length
ened by being charged under pressure.           Sufficient data
have not as yet been collected concerning the variation
of the E.M.F. under pressure, and the behaviour of the lead
battery under pressure, to put into print. Should others
experimentalize in the direction of high-pressure accumu
lators, a caution must be added with regard to the air-space
left in the lead chamber: that quantity of air must be left
which may be compressed, say, to seven atmospheres of pres
sure before the gas in 0 rises outside.
    Oxygon produced by electrolytic action almost instantly
acts on the best India-rubber tubing or varnish, causing splits
and cracks to be formed in it. The chambers are now made
of lead to which a harder metal has been added.
   Taunton, Feb. 15, 1883.

                              [   205     ]
                 XXVIII. On Magnetomotive Force.
     By R. H. M. Bosanquet, St. John's College, Oxford.
    To the. Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
      Gentlemen,
 THE following paper is an attempt to develop the analogy
        between magnetism and the voltaic circuit, which was
enunciated by Faraday. The assumptions of this theory are
generally admitted to be true; but they have not, so far as I
know, been consistently pushed to their consequences.
   It appears to me, further, that this point of view is the only
one for which there exists any experimental evidence. The
fundamental assumptions of Poisson's theory are admittedly
false; and it is only by the introduction of fictitious quantities
that the existing mathematical theory has been rendered in any
degree capable of representing the facts.
   Faraday compared a magnet to a voltaic battery immersed
in water*; and he established by experiment the principal
analogies on which this comparison is founded.
   The first principle of the voltaic circuit is, that the current
produced by a given electromotive force in a circuit depends
on the resistance of the circuit as a whole.
   I shall use the expression "magnetomotive force" to indi
cate the analogue of electromotive force. It is a difference
of magnetic potential, just as electromotive force is a differ
ence of electric potential.
   Now the fundamental hypothesis at the base of the ordinary
mathematical theory of magnetism is, that there are magneti
zing forces Jq which are of the dimensions of the magnetic
induction 33 which they produce, and that the magnetizing
force permeates every medium, and produces in magnetic
media magnetic induction proportional to the force and to a
coefficient of permeability fi, quite independently of the exist
ence of any magnetic circuit.
   This is the simplest way of putting it. I will state the case
presently in terms of the quantity known as " magnetization,"
which is the quotient of moment by volume.
   There are two objections to this. First, in relation to com
plete circuits.
   Consider a sphere of iron, or a disk magnetized normally to
its plane. Then (Maxwell, ii. p. 66) the magnetic induction
through it is small. Now let it form part of a bar, and let the
bar be bent round into a ring, so as to establish a magnetic
circuit. We know that the magnetic induction through the
same piece under the same force will become enormous. Can
            * Experimental Reaearches, iii. p. 424, par. 3276.

206                  Mr. E. H. M. Bosanquet on
it be said that it is a natural expression of such facts to assume
that the magnetism depends on the force and on the conduc
tivity of the material of disk or sphere, leaving the existence
of the circuit out of the question ? It would be equally sen
sible to take a piece of copper out of a voltaic circuit, and
found our theory of current electricity on the hypothesis that
an electromotive force acting on the copper produced a current
through it proportional' to its conductivity and to the force,
irrespective of the completion of any circuit.
   There is in magnetism this circumstance, which givas some
what more colour to the hypothesis than there would be in the
above case—namely, that space conducts magnetism much
better than it does electricity; and in consequence some mag
netic induction can always be set up in iron by a magneto
motive force—just as, if we lived in the sea, and had voltaic
batteries and dynamo machines there, the action of an electro
motive force would always produce some current, the circuit
being completed by the conducting-power of the sea-water.
    The secord objection is to the substitution of the so-called
" magnetizing force " for a magnetomotive force. This is just
as if, living in the sea, we associated electromotive forces with
the currents in the sea-water which would inseparably accom
pany them, took these currents for the measures of the forces,
and called them the electrizing forces.
    In carrying out the ordinary theory on this basis, we have
to suppose that the magnetizing force «£) within a magnetic
body has the power of remaining separate and distinct from
the magnetic induction as a whole, though the two are quan
tities of the same nature. This has always seemed to me to
present insuperable difficulties as a physical conception.
    So soon as we replace the " magnetizing force " by a differ
ence of potential or magnetomotive force, we can assimilate
the whole conception to that of the origin of an electric cur
 rent under an electromotive force. The quantity ^ becomes
 merely the magnotic induction in vacant space, and 23 that
 in magnetic matter. 23 replaces 1q, and is not supposed to
include it as before. According to the ordinary theory,
                    23=^ + 47r3 or /u=l + 47ne;
where
                    23          3     cv_ moment
                                <&'         volume'
 The change of conception and the real meaning of the formula
 can be shown as follows:—
    Let fj, = 1 + \. Suppose an infinite* bar acted on by a mag-
   * The bar must be infinite, not meivly long. Kowland found the influ
ence of the ends still sensible in the longest bars he tried.

                        Magnetomotive Force.                  207
 netizing force .£>. The old theory says there are all together
/*A.£) lines of force (A = section of bar), and
                        M£=A£(l+\),            . . . . . (1)
where A.£> are the lines of force of the magnetizing force
 itself, A<£>\ those added by the induction.
    These last form the poles. And, since there are 4w lines of
force round a unit pole, strength of pole =
   Again,
                 Moment = pole x distance of foci,
              (ultimately) = pole x length of bar,
                           =      x volume;
                             moment _ X>jp
                         3= volume      Air
Substituting for \$ in (1),
whence come the equations of the ordinary theory first above
written.
   From our point of view /jl=X in the above, the action of
the magnetic matter replacing that of space instead of being
added to it ; and our fundamental equation becomes
                      fi=iiTK, or S3 = 47r3.
I believe that there is no evidence whatever for the view that
represents 1$ as subsisting independently throughout the mag
netic body.
    If we are really to carry out Faraday's theory of magnetism,
we must take into account the entire resistances of the circuits
formed by iron and air, and then determine the magnetic
induction through the circuit as the quotient of the " magne
tomotive force " by the total resistance.
    We may define the unit of " magnetomotive force " as that
which, acting through a unit of magnetic resistance, produces
a unit of field-intensity or magnetic induction.
    Consider a solenoid having its ends joined. Then, if the
resistance unit be that of 1 centim. of the length in air, x is
the resistance of length x of the solenoid. Similarly, if the
solenoid be filled with an iron ring of permeability fi, je/ft is
the resistance of length x of the ring. And if x0 be the whole
length of the ring, M the whole magnetomotive force,
                             M     m

208               Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on
 where M is the whole difference of magnetic potential which
acts on the induction as it traverses the circuit once.
   If C be the current in the coils, n the number of coils,
                          M=47rCn,
since the point considered has gone once round each spire of
the coil.
    Put M = 1 = 4irCn. Then, if we put n = 1,
and the C.G.S. unit of current is 10 amperes;
             .". C=     amperes, ="8 ampere nearly.
Hence the unit of magnetomotive force is that which acts on
a circuit singly linked with one spire of a current of 10/(47r)
amperes. Thus a soft-iron horseshoe with ends nearly meeting,
round which a wire carrying such a current is wound once,
would exhibit nearly the unit of magnetomotive force between
its poles. (See post, on broken circuits.)
   Example of a ring solenoid.—Let the length of the solenoid
round the axis be 100 centim.,
   Current = 10/(47r) amperes, number of coils = 1000;
                           /. M = 1000;
and         ^ = 10=^= intensity within the ring in air.
   The area of the section of the resistance comes in as a factor
on both sides. Strictly the unit resistance would be that of
1 centim. length of an air-cylinder whose cross section has an
area of 1 square centim. If we suppose the area of the sec
tion of the air-space enclosed in the solenoid to have this value,
its radius would be 1/v/ir centim.
   In general all the lines of force pass through some one sec
tion, generally the equatorial section of a bar, so that the total
magnetic induction is the product of the magnetic induction
through unit area and the area of this section. It is usually
convenient to express the resistance in terms of the length of
a cylinder having the same sectional area. This area appears
ou both sides, and may be struck out.
    Suppose the above ring-shaped solenoid to be wound about

                      Magnetomotive Force.                     209
an iron ring whose permeability =/*. Then
                         M
                        m-"- 10=58
gives the magnetic induction in the iron. It was by mea
suring this quantity in rings that Rowland determined the
values of fi under different magnetic inductions (Phil. Mag.
xlvi. p. 140).
   Now it is possible from the above equation, supposing one
of Rowland's tables to be correct, to tell what the magnetic
induction and permeability for soft iron would be in the above
case. The induction is ten times the permeability ; we have
therefore only to find the corresponding point in Rowland's
table for soft iron, reduced to C.G.S. measure. I take the
liberty of transcribing the two columns required from Phil.
 Mag. xlvi. p. 151. S3 is Rowland's Q reduced to C.G.S.
 by dividing by 10.
          SB.              p.              8.              >«.
          71-5           390-7            7473           2367
        600-5            868-7            8943           2208
        966-7           1129             10080           1899
       2460             1936             12270           1448
       2923             2078             12970           1269
       3082             2124             13630           1137
       4959             2433             14540            824-1
       5482             2470             15770            461-8
       5782             2472             16270            353-8
       6651             2448             16600            258-0
                                         17500               0
    The pair of values most nearly corresponding to 33 = 10/* is
 33=12970, /a=1269.
     The observation that fi as a property of the iron must be a
  function of its condition, and probably of 33, was made by
  Rowland. We see that it cannot possibly depend on ^ as is
  usually supposed, as this is simply the field-intensity produced
  in air by the given magnetomotive force, and has nothing to
  do with the iron.
     In the present case (iron ring) $ is the numerical ratio of
  33 and fi, and so a function of the iron ; but, in broken cir
  cuits into which air-resistances enter, fi, the permeability of
  the circuit, depends in general chiefly on the air-resistances.
  So that, for given values of .£), the functions of the iron may
  have widely differing values, according to the value of the
  external resistance of the circuit.
     As another example we may suppose the current in the last

210                Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on
case reduced to A of its amount—i. e. to '08 ampere say.
 Then M=100, and /t=93. This points to a value between
the third and fourth steps of the table, where each of these
functions would be about 1250.
   Let us now suppose the ends of the solenoid separated, and
apply the analogue of the law which regulates the E.M.F.
between the terminals of a battery.
   If R be the internal resistance of the battery,
      r the external resistance,
      E total E.M.F.,
      e E.M.F. between terminals ;
then
                           e= ' E.
                               K+r
   Similarly let X be the internal resistance of a magnetic
        solenoid,
     x the external resistance,
     M the total magnetomotive force of the circuit,
     m the magnetomotive force between the ends of the solenoid ;
then                              x „,
                           m=      — M.
                               2L + x
   Here we assume that the whole magnetomotive force acts
within the soleroid. This is not strictly true; for every part
of the circuit is subject to some portion of it ; but it is nearly
enough true for approximate purposes.
   This is generally in accordance with fact (see Faraday,
Exp. Res. iii. p. 428, par. 3283). The case of the soft-iron
horseshoe surrounded b)' one or more coils of wire may now
be considered. X will be small, and x, the air-resistance,
great;     m nearly = M, as was observed in speaking of the
unit magnetomotive force. If, on the other hand, an arma
ture be applied having a resistance x much less than X, the
free magnetomotive force at the terminals is reduced, or m
becomes a small fraction of M. Other cases can be discussed
in the light of the analogy of the voltaic circuit. The solenoid
without iron corresponds to a battery of high internal resist
ance ; it may be regarded as joined up through the compara
tively small resistances at the end, and presents but little free
magnetomotive force.
   Let us now consider the case of a body of great conductivity
exposed to a uniform magnetic field, such as that of the earth's
horizontal magnetism. It is clear that, in consequence of the
conductivity, the potential at the ends of the conductor tends
to be equalized; and if the conductivity were infinite it would
be equalized throughout the body. The whole of the body
must therefore be regarded as being at the potential which in

                     Magnetomotive Force.                     211
its absence its centre of symmetry would have had. The fall
of potential on approaching the body is greater than in the
undisturbed state. This gives rise to stream-line problems,
which are the same as those ordinarily dealt with.
   We see that, in such a field, no new lines of force can be
developed in any circuit ; for the action of the uniform mag
netomotive force on the opposite portions of the circuit is the
same in amount and opposite in direction.
   We may use the known solutions to obtain the permeability
of a sphere, by which we mean the ratio of the number of
lines of force through its equatorial section to the number
through the same section in air. This is 3 for a sphere of
infinite conductivity. This is deduced by Stefan in a recent
number of Wiedemann's Annalen, xvii. p. 956. It can also
be obtained from fig. 4, p. 489, of the Reprint of Sir William
Thomson's Papers, by comparing the square of the ordinate of
the outside line inflected so as just to meet the sphere with
the square of the radius of the sphere. This gives
                     (1-375 xl/2)2 = 3-001.
In both these cases the solution only refers to the case of a
uniform field of infinite extent, which excludes circuits (as
remarked above). I shall presently examine this excluded case.
   In the meantime an important point may here be noticed. If
we calculate the magnetization of a sphere of infinite conducti
vity by the usual formula (Maxwell, vol. ii. p. 65), we obtain the
number 3/(4^). Now if we seek to deduce the permeability
from this by the usual formula ^.=(1 + 4tt&), we find the num
ber 4 instead of 3 as given by the above investigations. This
obviously arises from the formula being based on the hypo
thesis that the " magnetizing force " penetrates unchanged
through the body, and is to be added to the distribution of
stream-lines which has been determined. It is very difficult
to admit this. Our point of view, according to which the
magnetizing agent is a magnetomotive force and not a field
 intensity, removes this difficulty; and the formula for /j. re
duces to/i = iirk, which gives 3, as before, in the present case.
    We can obtain a more general approximate solution for the
case of a sphere subjected to a magnetomotive force such that
the sphere forms part of circuits through which the force acts,
in a form suitable for experimental verification.
    Let a coil be wound on a reel having a cylindrical opening
 within. Length of reel = diameter of sphere = diameter of
 cylindrical opening. Then magnetic circuits will be formed
 passing through the sphere and linked once with each turn of
 the coil. It will be near enough for the present purpose to
 assume that the lines of force radiate at right angles from the

  212                Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on
  surface of the sphere in all directions. This is the case close
  to the surface; and by far the greater portion of the resistance
  of the divergence arises close to the surface. It is, then, easy
  to show that the resistance of the divergence from each hemi
  sphere is equal to that of a cylindrical air-space having the
  equatorial section of the sphere for base, and height = half the
  radius. In fact, if s=2uts,
                                                             dr
          resistance of hemispherical shell                =— >
          total resistance   =     5—5 = tt- |~— -1 = 7^—1
                                a 2mr 27r[_ rJ,              lira
                                                              a
                                                             2
                                                            itv?'
     If the sphere be of infinite conductivity, the total resis
 tance is twice this, i. e. a cylinder of altitude a.
     Remove the sphere. Then the resistance is that of the
 cylinder, with divergence from the flat ends. If we take
 these divergences each to have resistance -6 a of the cylinder,
 as we know to be the case approximately in the analogous
 case of the divergence of sound from the end of a pipe*, we
 have for the whole resistance in this case that due to cylinder
 + 2 ends, measured by a(2 + 2x ,6) = 3-2a. Comparing
 this with the resistance of the sphere, which was measured
 by a, we have 3"2 for the permeability of the sphere, which
 agrees very fairly with what went before.
    There remains the important case of a disk. According to
our view the disk will nave finite air-resistances around it,
and when its thickness becomes small the air-resistances will
not be sensibly altered by its removal. The conductivity of
the circuit through a thin disk is therefore unity. Accord
ing to the ordinary theory (Maxwell, vol. ii. p. 65), the mag
netization of a disk for which /c=co is l/(47r). Here we meet
again the same difficulty as in the case of the sphere : if we
use the ordinary formula               +-iwk, and assume that the
magnetizing force, flows through the disk as well as the lines
of force that result from the magnetization, then fi — 2. But
from our point of view the force is a magnetomotive force;
the induction in the substance takes the place of that in
space, and is not additional to it, and fi = l, or the state of
things is unaffected by the disk.
                        Permanent Magnets.
    The following quotations appear to embody the facts as
they are supposed to be :—
                * See Lord Rayleiffh on Sound, ii. p. 109.

                      Magnetomotive Force.                      213
   (1) Maxwell, vol. ii. p. 45 :—" If a magnet could be con
structed so that the distribution of its magnetization is not
altered by any magnetic force brought to act on it, it might
be called a rigidly magnetized body."
   (2) Gordon, ' Electricity and Magnetism/ i. p. 148 :—
" Into however many pieces we cut a magnet, each will
have two opposite poles, whose strength is equal to that of the
poles of the original magnet." P. 151 —" The moment of
a magnet is not altered by cutting it in pieces." P. 155—" If
from any magnetized substance we cut any piece whatever,
its magnetic moment is simply proportional to its volume."
   Now these two hypotheses may apply to a theoretical mag
netism which can be imagined; but they are both far from
representing the actual behaviour of permanent magnets.
   With respect to (1), I shall develop a hypothesis which
leads to an account of the properties of permanent magnets
at all events nearer the truth than (1). (2) is very far from
being true.
   (1) After this passage Maxwell proceeds:—" The only
known body which fulfils this condition " (rigid magnetiza
tion) " is a conducting circuit round which a constant cur
rent is made to flow. Such a circuit exhibits magnetic pro
perties, and may therefore be called an electro-magnet; but
these magnetic properties are not affected by the other mag
netic forces in the field."
   Now from the point of view of the preceding investigation, we
should not call the current-circuit a rigid electromagnet. We
should speak of it as possessing a definite magnetomotive force,
and say that it magnetizes the space or other objects in its neigh
bourhood. And this magnetism is by no means rigid, but
depends on the resistance (or on the permeability) of the
magnetic circuits through which it flows; t. e. it is modified
by the introduction of iron into the field, which rigid mag
netism would not be.
   If, then, the hypothesis of frictionless Amperian currents
in magnets be at all correct, even as an analogy, the first
supposition as to the nature of permanent magnets will be
that they possess a constant magnetomotive force in their
substance in virtue of the Amperian currents; or this may be
simply assumed without further hypothesis. And this mag
netomotive force maintains a magnetic induction in the
magnet which depends on the total resistance of the magnetic
circuit.
   Now, if this be true, suppose a long steel .bar-magnet to be
cut up into short pieces. The resistance of the whole con
sists of two parts—that of the steel, and the air-resistances at

 214                 Mr. R. H. M. Bosanqnet on
 the two ends ; there are also parallel air-circuits which start
 off all along the sides of the rod. These latter are under
 smaller differences of potential than the divergences at the
 end, and may, in the first instance, with rods not very long,
 be neglected in comparison with the resistances at the ends.
     Now suppose the rod cut up into n pieces : we have the
 same total magnetomotive forces, the same total steel resist
 ance, and the resistance of 2n ends.       The magnetic induc
 tion in each piece is therefore altered in a ratio which depends
 on the ratio of the steel-resistanco of one of the little pieces
 to the air-resistance of its two ends.
     It is not possible to cut up a hard steel bar without dis
 turbing the magnetism ; in fact it is hardly possible to cut
 it up at all. I have therefore preferred to cut a soft steel
 bar into short lengths, finish these as accurately as possible
so that they may be put together to form one long bar ; then
 harden, glass-hard ; then grind the ends with emery and oil
 till the pieces will pick each other up when firmly pressed
together with a trace of oil on the faces; then magnetize.
     The compound bar is then suspended in a cradle by means
of a bifilar suspension arranged with its equilibrium-plane at
 right angles to the magnetic meridian. If it were true that
the moments of the separate portions were the same whether
joined up or not, the deflection should be the same in both
cases. But it is not so. The deflection when the bar is
joined up and pressed together is many times as great as that
obtained when the pieces are so dispersed about the tray
which carries them as to be fairly removed from each other s
influence.
    A rough preliminary arrangement showed the existence
of a difference, but did not lead to the detection of the small-
ness of the effect produced by the separated pieces.
    A bifilar suspension was then constructed. It has a pulley
for the wire to pass over ; adjustable slides with metre-
and inch-scales carrying the holes for the wire to piiss
through ; and a circular seat, with a circle divided to de
grees; this is fixed on a firm crossbeam at a good height.
The wires enter, through a hole in the cover, a cylin
drical case, whose sides are made of narrow pieces of' flat
glass. Within this case swings the cradle which carries the
magnet. It has three V-shaped troughs. The pieces can
either be wedged together in the middle trough, or be placed
at considerable distances in all three. The cradle is lb" inches
long. It is suspended over a circle divided to degrees and having
nearly 16 inches diameter. Pointers are attached to the ends
of the cradle, which play in front of the circle. There is not
more than        of an inch to spare between points and circle on

                           Magnetomotive Force.                         215
 each side, so that the centering has to be very true for the
 cradle to swing free. The circle is read through the glass
 sides of the case.
    The magnet employed is made from a cylindrical bar of
 cast tool-steel. It consists of eighteen pieces, fitted and
 hardened as above described. They were then fastened
together in two lengths of 9 pieces each with wooden splints,
 and placed between the terminals of an electro-magnetic
magnetizer constructed for the purpose. When screwed up
firmly between the poles of the magnetizer a current was
 transmitted through the coils. In this condition it was tapped
with a hammer for some time. When removed, each com
pound bar retained a considerable permanent magnetism.
    The chief difficulty was to observe with sufficient accuracy
the small deflection produced by the separated pieces. Small
differences in this small quantity produce large differences in
the calculated resistance (or permeability) of the steel. The
measures now given probably reach to an accuracy of about
a tenth of a degree. Up to this point 1 have endeavoured
to take count of all the errors of the apparatus. The final
measures are :—
            Deflection due to 18 pieces joined up=13o-0
                    „             „            separated = lo,05*.
    Dimensions of magnet:—                  centim.
                Whole length               =28-50
                Length of each piece = 1*58
                Diameter                   = 1-97 = 2R
    Let r be the resistance of one of the steel pieces expressed
in centimetres of a similar air-cyiinder,
    «R the resistance of one end ;
then                  18r+2«R           1-05 AO            .
                  _____=_ = .08 nearly
 (assuming the forces proportional to the deflections).
    Then                r= "053 x « centim.
 and length of piece = 1 '58 centim.
           ratio of         length of air         _ *053 x a.
                      steel of same resistance          1*58
                                                  = -034x«.
   * After the pieces had remained separated for some days in the bifilar,
I noticed that the reading had changed in the direction of increased
moment. A set of readings gave 13o,0 and l0-!). After standing for
some days joined up again, 13°-2 and l°-8. These latter values corre
spond to fi = h> nearly if a = 'C, to ^=29 nearly if a=S. There appears
to have been a sort of spontaneous rearrangement of the magnetism of
the little pieces hi the direction of less resistance, probably with diminu
tion of a. The spontaneous change was an increase of moment, not a
diminution. The point requires further examination.

216                  On Magnetomotive Force.
   If we assume « = -6 from analogy to sound and electricity,
                          ratio = -020.
a is not likely to be greater than this ; it may be less, as the
case is like that of a tube with side resistances removed to a
certain extent.
   The conclusion is: The magnetic induction of a permanent
magnet may be supposed to be produced by a magnetomotive
force derived from permanent Amperian currents, acting
through the resistance of the steel.
   In the case of the steel examined, this resistance was A of
that of space, if «="6. If a be less the resistance will be
less in proportion.
   Meyer (Wiedemann, Ann. xviii. p. 233) has determined
the magnetization-function k of hard steel (p. 245). He finds
generally values varying from 2 to 3 for small magnetizing
forces, but in some cases as much as 9 or even 12. These
correspond, according to our formula /*=47rA, to the follow
ing values of /x. :—
         A...2            3             8           12
         H . . 25-1      37 7        100-6        150-8.
   According to our result /* would be 50 for the abovo steel.
The number is quite uncertain, as the application of the co
efficient a is as yet hypothetical. But it shows that the
hypothesis is not in contradiction with known values. De
terminations of all the quantities involved require instruments
of a more accurate kind than those I have hitherto employed.
These are being constructed for other purposes ; and I hope to
examine the matter further.
   The assumption of the existence of magnetomotive force
and resistance in permanent magnets appears to be the neces
sary consequence of Faraday's comparison of the permanent
magnet with the voltaic battery immersed in water. It is
the simplest assumption by means of which the facts can be
represented.
   On the old theory the assumption of rigid magnetism might
be modified to suit the facts by assuming the magnetism to
be elastic instead of rigid. Suppose, then, that when the
magnet is cut up into spheres, or disks say, the demagnetizing
forces of Maxwell (ii. 57) act on the elastic magnetization.
There will be a temporary diminution.
   It will be understood that I regard these demagnetizing
forces as arising out of the fictitious quantities created by
analysis for the purpose of compensating the errors of the
original hypotheses of Poisson's theory. I therefore prefer
the method here indicated. This has the advantage of re
taining permanent elements in the permanent magnet ; and it

 On an Arrangementfor dividing Inch- and Metre-Scales.      217
appears that, so far as the numerical value of the resistance
can be obtained, it is at all events not glaringly incompatible
with the values of the resistance to external magnetomotive
force which have been obtained in an entirely different
manner.
XXIX. On an Arrangement for dividing Inch-and Metre-Scales.
     By R. H. M. Bosanquet, St. John's College, Oxford.
    To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
       Gentlemen,
THE screw of the slide-rest of the Royal Society's lathe in
        my laboratory has a pitch of ^ inch. It was therefore
an obvious arrangement for dividing decimal-inch scales, to
fit this screw with a micrometer-wheel of 25 holes.
             20 holes then correspond to -fa inch.
              4         „         „         3>0 inch.
              2        „          „        rkinch-
The holes are worked with pins, and a V falling over the pins
in the same way as in the micrometer of the same lathe de
scribed in Phil. Mag. x. p. 220.
    Before this was completed it occurred to me that a metre-
 scale could be divided by the same arrangement, if there was
any moderate number which would serve as a factor.
    The common equivalent is 1 inch = 2"5400 centim. Ac
 cording to Everett's book of units the error of this is about
2 units in the fifth place of decimals; and therefore it is
 negligible for practical purposes.
                                    g
            Hence 1 centim. = jrTT eighths of an inch.
                                 2-54 °
                               _
                               - 127      »       »
 It was only necessary therefore to set a division of 127 holes
 round the micrometer-wheel, and 40 of these holes give a
millimetre. If it were desired to divide to tenths of millim.,
 of course 4 of the holes would be used. This division of 127
 holes and the one of 25 for the inch-scale are executed on the
 same wheel, by means of which therefore both metre- and
 inch-scales can be divided without any shifting whatever.
    In dividing millimetres a little piece of brass is used,
 which reaches from the pin in use to the hole at distance 40,
 so as to avoid having to count every time.
    The division of 127 was executed with the micrometer by
 means of the following approximation depending on the 67
 wheel.
     Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 93. March 1883.        Q

218                Notice* respecting New Book*.
                  Tangent wheel = 180 turns,
                  Each turn        = 67,
                        180x67 _          ,     5 .
                        —m            US less 12?
Therefore 95 holes of the 67 wheel are set on at each step,
and four times during the process one hole is set back. The
resulting error in the division of 127 is quite trifling ; and
even a considerable error in this respect has but a small influ
ence on the scale.
   There is a similar approximation depending on a micro
meter-wheel of 60, which any one can make for himself from
the ordinary divisions of the lathe-head.
   The immediate object was the division of two scales of mil
limetres and flftieths of an inch for a bifilar suspension in
course of construction.
               XXX. Notices respecting New Boohs.
The Elementary Part of a Treatise on the Dynamics of a System of
   Rigid Bodies, being Part I. of a Treatise on the whole subject ; with
   numerous examples. By Edwabd John Bouth, F.R.S. Fourth
   Edition, revised and enlarged. (London : Hacmillan, 1882.
   Pp. xii + 386.)
'T'HE task imposed upon the reviewer of such a work as the one be-
     fore us is easy. It has reached a fourth edition, and is written by
a mathematician than whom no one more competent for this special
branch could be found. The success of the work and the careful
examination which each successive edition has un argo-e relieve
the reader from the search for errors in statement of principles or
in solution of exercises. The outward aspect and the inward
arrangement are little different from those of the third edition of
1877. " In order to render the book less bulky for the student,
it has been divided into two parts. In the first volume there will
be found all the elements of the subject together with some methods
which are intended for the more advanced student. In the second
part the higher applications will be given." We need say little
under the head of arrangement of subjects, which has been carried
out on the lines of the last edition ; but we notice the use of heavy
type at the head of very many of the articles, thus bringing the sub
ject to be treated of more prominently before the student : we notice
also in some cases an improved form of arrangement of the matter
of the articles. A very cursory comparison of this edition with
the last will show that " many additions have been made to every
part of the subject."
   Chapters I. to VII. treat of the same subjects in the two editions
(third and fourth) now before us. In Chapter III. there are four
additional articles devoted to the Anemometer called a " Robinson,"'
which consists of four hemispherical cups attached to four horizontal
arms which turn round a vertical axis ; the articles are founded

                            Geological Society.
  upon papers by Dr. Bobinson in the ' Irish Transactions ' (1850)
  and by Prof. Stokes in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society '
  (1881). In Chapter IV. " Eigidity of Cords " is considered in
  connexion with Friction. In Chapter V. some articles are intro
  duced upon " Screws " in connexion with the articles upon
  " Composition of Rotations ; " and articles on " Finite Potations "
  replace the former articles on " Moving Axes and Relative Motion "
 and " Motion relative to the Earth : " these new sections contain
 Bodrigues' Theorem, Sylvesters Theorem, Conjugate Rotations, and
  Composition of Screws. In Chapter VI. there are some additional
 articles, and a few of the old ones have been removed, but the
 chief divisions remain unaltered. Chapter VII. has undergone
 more change than has fallen to the lot of the previous chapters :
 the articles on " Principles of Least Action and Varying Action "are
 relegated to the second part, as are those on the " Theory of moving
 axes and of Motion relative to the Earth " (of old Chapter V.),
 and Chapters IX. to XII. of the third edition. The Theory of
 small oscillations with several degrees offreedom both about a position
 of equilibrium and a state of steady motion, and the Theory offorced
 oscillations are also to form part of the advanced course.
    Lagrange's Equations, the Theory of reciprocation and Sir W.
 Hamilton's Equations, the modified Lagrangianfunction, non-conserva-
 tivtforces, and indeterminate multipliers form the contents of Chapter
 Till. Chapter IX. contains elementary portions of old chapterVIII.
 on "Small Oscillations ;" and Chapter X. is devoted to some special
 problems on Oscillations of a rocking bodyin three dimensions, of Cones
 in three dimensions, Large Tautochronous motions, and Oscillations of
 Cylinders and Cones to the Second Order.
    The whole book bears evidence that the author has worked upon
this new edition con amore, and has done his utmost to bring the
treatment as near to perfection as possible. Such a work reflects
the highest credit upon the University that has assisted at its birth ;
and the principle of " thorough " which prevades every part ex
 plains how it is that the writer is so successful a teacher.
             XXXI. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                         GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                          [Continued from p. 66.]
            January 10, 1883.—J. W. Hulke, Esq., F.R.S.,
                         President, in the Chair.
THE following communications were read :—
        1. "On the Lower-Eocene Section between Reculvers and
Heme Bay, and some Modifications in the Classification of the
Lower London Tertiaries." By J. S. Gardner, Esq., F.G.S.
    The author noticed Prof. Prestwich's classification of the Lower
London Tertiaries, and the introduction by the Survey of the term
" Oldhaven Beds " for some of his basement beds of the London
Clay. He next discussed the conditions under which the Lower
Tertiaries were produced, and showed that throughout the Eocenes

220                       Geological Society:—
there are indications of the close proximity of land and of the
access of fresh water. Two types of faunas are to be recognized,
namely those of the Calcaire Grossier and the London Clay, the
latter indicating more temperate climatal conditions. The former
 is represented in England by the Bracklesham series. The areas of
.these two faunas were separated by land forming an isthmus, as
 each formation is bounded by a shore-line and separated from its
 neighbours by freshwater formations ; but this isthmus probably
 shifted its position to the north and south without ever being broken
 through. A vast Eocene river existed, draining a great continent
 stretching westward ; the indications of this river in Hampshire and
 Dorsetshire would show it to have been there 17 or 18 miles wide.
    The Lower Tertiaries have been divided by Prof. Prestwich and
 the Survey into the marine Thanet Beds, the fluviatile, estuarine,
 and marine Woolwich and Beading Beds, and the marine Oldhaven
 Beds. The mode of occurrence of these was described by the
 author, with especial reference to the section between Heme Bay
 and the Beculvers, from his investigation of which he was led to
 the following conclusions :—The Thanet Sands were probably depo
 sited by a rough sea outside the estuary of the great Eocene river,
 but within its influence. This area became silted up, rose above
 the surface, and became covered with shingle and sand. The Thanet
  Beds closed with a period of elevation, during which the Beading
 Beds were formed ; and this was followed by a subsidence during
 the Woolwich period, which finally ushered in the Oldhaven and
 London-Clay deposits. The formation of the Oldhaven Beds may
 be compared with that of the modern beach at Shellness ; and during
  the period of depression the beaches would advance steadily over
 the flat area of Sheppey, and the earlier formed ones would sink
 and become covered up by the silt of the great Eocene river. These
 beaches, forming vast aggregations of sand and shingle between
  the Thanet Beds and the London Clay, form integral portions of one
  or other formation, and cannot be recognized as forming a separate
  formation at all equivalent to the other divisions of the Eocene.
     2. " On Mr. Dunn's Notes on the Diamond-fields of South Africa,
  1880." By Francis Oats, Esq., F.Q.S.
     The author referred to the hypothesis put forward in 1880 by
  Mr. Dunn (Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. vol. xxxvii. p. 609), that the carbon
  for the production of the South-African diamonds was furnished by
  the black carbonaceous shales found throughout the district, and the
  conclusion drawn by him therefrom that therefore diamonds would
  not be found below the level of these shales. The author stated
  that the shales, so far as he knows, do not occur below 270 feet,
  whilst the ground is successfully worked for diamonds at a depth of
  350 feet. He maintained that the carbonaceous shales have nothing
  to do with the origin of the diamonds, and stated that the " craters *
  containing the diainantiferous rock, at an earlier date erupted quite
  different material ; and he instanced the occurrence in the Kimberley
  mine of a mass of " dolerite " between the diamantiferous ground
  and the surrounding shales.

              On Metamorphic and Overlying Rocks.                  221
    January 24.—Dr. J. Gwyn Jeffreys, F.R.S., Vice-President,
                            in the Chair.
  The following communications were read :—
  1. "On Streptelasma Rcemeri, sp. nov., from the Wenlock Shale."
By Prof. P. Martin Duncan, F.R.S., V.P.G.S.
  2. " On CyatJwphyllum FletcJteri, Edw. ife H., sp." By Prof. P.
Martin Duncan, F.R.S., V.P.G.S.
  3. " On the Fossil Madreporaria of the Great Oolite of the
Counties of Gloucester and Oxford." By Robert F. Tomes, Esq.,
F.G.S.
         February 7.—J. W. Hulke, Esq., F.R.S., President,
                             in the Chair.
   The following communications were read :—
   1. " On the Metamorphic and Overlying Rocks in parts of Ross
and Inverness shires." By Henry Hicks, M.D., F.G.S. With Petro-
logical Notes by Prof. T. G. Bonney, M.A., F.R.S., Sec. G.S.
   In this paper the author described numerous sections which have
been examined by him in three separate visits made to the north-west
Highlands. In some previous papers, sections in the neighbourhood
of Loch Maree had been chiefly referred to. Those now described
are to the south and south-east of that area, and occur in the neigh
bourhoods of Achmashellaeh, Strathcarron, Loch Carron,Loch Trishm,
Attadale, Stronoe Ferry, Loch Alsh, and in the more central areas
about Loch Shiel and Loch Eil to the Caledonian Canal.
   In these examinations the author paid special attention to the
stratigraphical evidence, to see whether there were any indications
which could in any way be relied upon to prove the theory pro
pounded by Sir R. Murchison that in these areas fossilifcrous Lower
Silurian rocks dip under thousands of feet of the highly crystalline
schists which form the mountains in the more central areas. On
careful examination he found that, in consequence of frequent dis
locations in the strata, the newer rocks were frequently made to
appear to dip under the highly crystalline series to the east, though
hi reality the appearance in each case was easily seen to be due to
accidental causes. Evidences of dislocation along this line were
most marked ; and the same rocks, in consequence, were seldom
found brought together. He recognized in these eastern areas
at least two great groups of crystalline schists metamorphosed
throughout in all the districts examined, even when regularly
bedded and not disturbed or contorted ; and they have represen
tatives in the western areas among the Hebridean series, which
cannot in any way be differentiated from them. These he called
locally by the names, in descending order, of Ben-Fyn and Loch-
Shiel series. The former consist, in their upper part, of silvery mica-
schists and gneisses, with white felspar and quartz ; in their lower
part, of hornblendic rocks, with bands of pink felspar and quartz,
and of chloritic and epidotic rocks and schists. The Loch-Shiel
series consists chiefly of massive granitoid gneisses and hornblendic
and black mica-schists. Thirty-three microscopical sections of the

  222                       Geological Society.
  crystalline schists and the overlying rocks arc described by Prof.
  Bonney ; and he recognizes amongst them three well-marked types.
  In No. 1 he includes the Torridon sandstone, the quartzites and
  the supposed overlying flaggy beds on the east side of Glen Laggan.
  These are partially metamorphosed ; only distinct fragments are
  always easily recognizable in them in abundance. In No. 2, the
  Ben-Fyn type, the rocks are crystalline throughout, being typical
  gneisses and mica-schists. In No. 3, the Loch-Shiel series, he re
  cognizes highly typical granitic gneisses of the Lower Hebridean
  type. Dr. Hicks failed to find in these areas at any point the
 actual passage from group 1 to group 2 ; neither did the same rocks
  belonging to group 1 meet usually the same rocks belonging to
 group 2. The evidence everywhere showed clearly that the con
 tacts between these two groups were either produced by faults or
 by overlapping. Group 3, placed by Murchison as the highest beds
 in a synclinal trough, supported by the fossiliferous rocks, the
 author regarded as composed of the oldest rocks in a broken anti
 clinal. They are the most highly crystalline rocks in these areas ;
 and the beds of group 2 are thrown off on either side in broken
 folds. These, again, support the rocks belonging to group 1. The
 author therefore feels perfectly satisfied that the crystalline schists
 belonging to groups 2 and 3, which compose the mountains in the
 central areas, do not repose conformably upon the Lower Silurian
 rocks of the north-west areas with fossils, and that these highly
 crystalline rocks cannot, therefore, be the metamorphosed equivalents
 of the comparatively unaltered, yet highly disturbed and crumpled,
 richly fossiliferous Silurian strata of the southern Highlands, but
 are, like other truly crystalline schists examined by him in the
British Isles, evidently of pre-Cambrian age.
    In an Appendix by Prof. T. G. Bonney, F.B.S., Sec.G.S., on the
Lithological Characters of a Series of Scotch Bocks collected by Dr.
Hicks, the author stated that he observed in the above series, as he
had done in other Scotch rocks lately examined by him, three rather
well-marked types : —one where, though there is a certain amount of
metamorphism among the finer constituents forming the matrix, aU
the larger grains, quartz, felspar, and perhaps mica, are of clastic
origin ; a second, while preserving a bedded structure and never likely
to be mistaken for an igneous rock, being indubitably of clastic origin,
retains no certain trace of original fragments ; while the third, the
typical " old gneiss " of the Hebridean region, seldom exhibits well-
marked foliation. It is sometimes difficult to distinguish between
the first and second of these ; but this the author believed to be
generally due to the extraordinary amount of pressure which some
of these Scotch rocks have undergone, which makes it very hard to
determine precisely what structures are original. Even the coarse
gneiss is sometimes locally crushed into a schistose rock of compa
ratively modern aspect. The least altered of the above series the
author considered to be the true " newer-gneiss " series of the High
lands, but both of the others to be much older than the Torridon
Sandstone.

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.             223
   2. " On the Lower Carboniferous Rocks in the Forest of Dean, as
represented in typical sections at Drybrook." By E. Wethered,
Esq., F.G.S., F.C.S. With an Appendix by Dr. Thomas "Wright,
F.E.S., F.G.S.
    The author described a series of beds overlying the normal Old
Red Sandstone and underlying the normal Lower Limestone Shales
in the above district. They differ from the ordinary Old Red Sand
stone in two particulars :—(1) No fossils characteristic of this series
have as yet been discovered in them. (2) The materials of which
the Old Red of the neighbourhood is formed are well waterworn,
while those composing the beds referred to are not so ; they also
contain calcareous material ; and the author considered them to corre
spond, in time, with the Calciferous series of Scotland, for the follow
ing reasons in addition to their stratigraphical position :—(1) with
those of Berwickshire in the rapid succession and variation in the
colour of the beds ; (2) the presence of certain Polyzoa and of
Rhynchonella plturodon in a limestone which succeeds them. The
author also described a section in the Millstone Grit at the Morse
railway-cutting. Here the Millstone Grit dips at about 40° ; rest
ing on it is a rose-coloured sandstone passing up into a pebble-bed
dipping at 19°. The pebbles are vein-quartz and a quartzite like
that of the Lickey. The Old Red Sandstone, Calciferous Sandstone,
and Millstone Grit appeared to him to have derived their materials
 from a common source, viz. ancient granitic rocks.
    An Appendix hy Dr. T. Wright described the organisms in speci
mens of the above-named limestone of Drybrook. Polyzoa are
 abundant, individuals being numerous, but species few. Rhabdo-
 meisongraciU and Fenestella tuberculata are abundant in one specimen,
the other containing in addition Ceriopora similis. Fragments of
 a Crinoid, referred to Poteriocrinus erassus also abound. There are
 a few crushed shells of Rhynchonella pleurodon, and spines, possibly
 of a Produclus. The organisms of a slab from the Bristol district
 were also described. This contains R. gracile with one or two other
 Polyzoa, and numerous Crinoidal fragments.
         XXXII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
PHOSPHOROGBAPHY OF THE INFRA-RED REGION OF THE SOLAR
    SPECTRUM: WAVE-LENGTH OF THE PRINCIPAL LINES. BY
    HENRI BECQUEREL.
 TI7HEN, in a dark room, the solar spectrum is projected during
   " a few seconds upon a screen coated with a phosphorescent
 subtance which has previously been exposed to the light, and then
 the luminous rays are suddenly intercepted, the phosphorescence
 is observed to have been rendered brighter in the region struck by
 the violet and ultra-violet radiations, while in the red and infra
 red region it has been destroyed ; the image of this portion of the
 spectrum then appears dark on the bright ground of the screen.
 These phenomena were discovered long ago by my father, and
 permitted him to determine in the infra-red spectrum the position
 of several lines and bands ana'ogous to the dark lines of the visible

224            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
spectrum *. In repeating and varying these experiments several
years since, I was led to various interesting observations, and, in
particular, to indicate the position and wave-length of fine lines of
which some appear to me to have hitherto escaped the various
processes of investigation which have been applied to the study of
this region of the spectrum.
   It is known that thermoscopic methods reveal the existence in
the infra-red spectrum of sundry maxima and minima. In par
ticular MM. Fizeau and Desains in 1847 discovered the existence
of a cold band of which the wave-length is (W)01445 millim. ; and
M. Desains has quite recently f given a description of the calorific
spectrum of the sun which extends far beyond the limit observable
by means of the phenomena of phosphorescence, and shows, among
others, ten bands which appear to answer to those which will be
pointed out further on. Mr. Langley %, with the aid of his
bolometer, has likewise given an extensive drawing of the heat-
spectrum, which, however, comprises only seven or eight bands in
the region that forms the subject of the present memoir.
   •The red and infra-red rays act upon phosphorescent substances
after the maimer of heat, by at first accelerating the luminous
emissions and causing the substance to give out in a shorter time
the same sum of light which it would emit in a longer time and
with less intensity if it were sheltered from the radiation or the
calorific influence. The experiment above indicated presents two
phases : if the spectral influence has been of very short duration,
the impressed region appears at first brighter than the ground, and
gives a positive image of the spectrum with lines relatively dark ;
if the impression is prolonged, it exhausts the phosphorescence of
the corresponding region, which is extinguished, and the image
of the spectrum appears dark with bright lines.
    Generally only the second phase of the phenomenon is visible,
especially with hexagonal blende, which can give continuously a
negative image of the spectrum. Substances of which the phos
 phorescence lasts a long time, on the contrary, present very
 clearly the first phase ; and the positive image thus obtained
 exhibits a remarkable fineness of details. I shall not here indicate
 the simple experimental arrangements which permit these phe
 nomena to be studied with precision ; they will be explained in a
 memoir to be published shortly.
    It was very important to vary the nature of the phosphorescent
 screens. Besides hexagonal blende I used sulphides of strontium
 and calcium, giving various shades by phosphorescence ; and 1 was
 led to observe that the phosphorographic images were the super
 position of the image of the solar spectrum and maxima and
 minima of extinction peculiar to each substance, occupying regions
 in the spectrum variable with each substance. It is moreover easy
 to distinguish the fine lines of the spectrum from those maxima
 which represent wide bands where the extinction is more rapid
 than in the adjacent regions and which are reproduced with
 various sources of light.
    • Compte* Rendu*, t. lxxvii. p. 302 (1873), & t. lxxxiii. p. 249 (1876).
    t Cumj>tes Rcndut, t. xcv. p. 404 (1832).       t Ibid. p. 482 (18f2).

                  Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.              225
  I proposed to determine the wave-lengths of the lines revealed
by the phenomena of phosphorescence by projecting, on the sub
stances above referred to, the spectra furnished by a reticulation.
I am indebted to the kindness of M. Mascart for the use of a tine
reticulation on metal by Mr. Eutherfurd, as well as for another
traced ou glass. The first inconvenience met with is that the
infra-red region of the first spectrum is entirely superposed to the
ultra-violet and luminous region of the second spectrum. These
rays are eliminated by the interposition of red glass, which does
not arrest the infra-red radiations studied.
  When it was possible to bring to the point the lines of both
spectra at the same time, 1 took advantage of their coincidence to
deduce the infra-red wave-lengths by doubling the known wave
lengths of the Fraunhofer lines. Thus were determined, with the
small reticulation, by transmission, the wave-lengths of two lines :—¦
one 0-00097(5 millim., near 2F ; the other 0-001098, between 2b
and 2D.
   With the reflecting reticulation the simultaneous bringing to
the point the two spectra was not possible ; and the position of
the infra-red lines was simply taken from the phosphorescent
screen by intercepting the more refrangible part of the second
spectrum. The corresponding deviations, and consequently the
wave-lengths, were determined by a trigonometrical calculation,
the elements of which could be directly measured, and were more
over deduced very exactly from the data coresponding to three
lines of known wave-length—for example, A, B, and C. By
reason of the weakening of the luminous intensity, the measure
ments with the reflecting reticulation could not be extended be
yond the wave-length 0-000918. In short the following numbers
were obtained :—
            Lines.          Wave-lengths.                Remarks.
                            millim.
                'A            0-0007604     (Fraunhofer.)
    Group Aj«                 0-0007819
       A. * A2                0-0007957
                              000081101      Strong extinction- 1
                 v
                              0 0008360 j      band.
                *
                 A>
                              0-00086301
                              0-0008850 [    Luminous   region. Sulphide uf
                                                                  calcium.
    Group A>     A',          0-00089801     Strong extinction-
       AA ' . A',             0-0009180/       band.            ;
                              0-O009490      (Interpolation.)
                 A>           0-0009760
                ,A',          00010060       (Interpolation.)
    Group A"„                 0-0010500      (Interpolation.)
      A". A".....              0 0010980
    Group i-V:::               0-0011760     (Interpolation.)
      Ai »' . it;:-- ¦¦¦       0-001 2200t
                               0-0013120 "1  (Extrapolation.)
                               0-0014440 J
   ft A strong extinction-band for blende ; edge very distinct on the less-
refrangible side.—Ed. Bkcquerel.]
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 93. March 1883.                   R

226             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
    The lines marked with an asterisk were observed in 1876 by my
father, who determined the wave-length 0-001220 by observation
of the interference-bands which are produced in the spectrum by
previous reflection of the luminous rays upon a thin film of air.
    The last two numbers of the preceding Table are obtained by
carefully tracing a curve giving the wave-lengths for the various
positions in the spectrum and prolonging it beyond the line A,'",
which answers to the last number found by experiment ; and of
t hose two numbers the last presents the curious coincidence that it
is very nearly the wave-length of the cold band determined by M.
Fizeau.
     The new points resulting from the present researches are, besides
 the determination of new lines of the solar spectrum and their
 wave-lengths, the observation in the infra-red portion of maxima
 and minima of extinction proper to various phosphorescent sub
 stances, manifested by various luminous sources and analogous to
 the phosphorogenic maxima and minima of the other end of the
 spectrum.— Comptes Rendus dt VAcademic des Sciences, Jan. 8, 1883,
 t. xcvi. pp. 121-124.
 ON THE MEASUREMENT OF THE PHOTOMETRIC INTENSITY OF THE
           SPECTRAL LINES OF HYDROGEN. BY H. LAGARDE.
      The spectrum of a gas, under determined conditions of tempera
  ture and pressure, is not completely defined by the wave-lengths
  of the various lines which compose it. "When the pressure and
  the calorific energy of the discharge are varied, the intensity of
  those lines is modified according to an unknown law ; it may even
  Income nil for one or more particular lines, under certain condi
  tions : while other lines may become visible for particular values of
  the temperature and pressure. These variations of intensity there
  fore, in each circumstance of the experiment, change the phy
  siognomy of the spectrum, which will not be defined unless the
  intensities of the lines composing it be given. It is to the study
  of the measurement of these intensities that I have applied myself.
      In absolute value, the radiant energy of a vibration of a deter
  mined wave-length ought to be expressed in thermal or mechanical
  units ; but the feebleness of gas-spectra forbids any direct attempt
  in that way, and necessitates the use of a photometric comparison.
       The employment of a spectrophotometer disposed so as to give
  precise and comparable valuations is of course imposed, as M. Crova
   has shown*, in determinations of this sort. The capillary portion
   of the spectrum-tube being placed opposite half the slit of the
   instrument and at a constant distance, the light from a lamp,
   having traversed a system of two nicols, one movable upon a gra
   duated circle, is received laterally upon a prism with double total
  reflection, which covers the other half of the slit. If the slit be
   opened a little, the lines of the spectrum take sufficient breadth to
   till the ocular slit and are in immediate contact with the portion of
   the spectrum of the lamp possessing the same wave-length ; the
   rotation of the nicol is measured which gives equality of intensity.
       * Comptes Rendtis,1881, t. xciii. p. 512; Ann. de Chim. et dt Pkys. [61
   xxii. p. 613.

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.             227
With a little practice this measurement is susceptible of great
precision if a good spectrophotometer is employed. The new in
strument which 1 use, constructed by M. Duboscq according to
the directions of M. Crova, leaves nothing to be desired in this
respect.
   The lamp employed is the Carcel standard, placed on the auto
matic balance of M. Deleuil, the course and regulation of which
have been previously investigated*. The intensities obtained are
reduced to a normal consumption of 42 grammes of oil per hour.
   My researches have been directed to the spectrum of hydrogen,
which has the advantage of giving very pure lines situated in dif
ferent regions of the spectrum. The spectrum-tube, with alumi
nium electrodes, was illuminated at the commencement of the
researches by the spark of an ordinary Ruhmkorff coil actuated by
three Bunsen elements, and later by a Holtz machine. To effect
the variation of the calorific energy of the spark, I confined myself
at first to interposing in the inducing circuit variable lengths
(R=14, 10, 6, 2 centim.) of fine German-silver wire. This first
disposition permits the direction of the phenomenon to be distinctly
seen ; it has been replaced (for some definitive measurements in
course of execution) by another, more precise.
   The gas-tube can be put into communication, by a three-way
cock, either with a system of tubes containing phosphoric anhydride
communicating with a pure-hydrogen generator or with the appa
ratus for producing the vacuum. The initial step is the production
of the vacuum by means of Alvergniat's mercury pump ; it is com
pleted by means of a mercury trompe with six falls, constructed by
MM. Alvergniat freres. With the aid of this fine apparatus all the
pressures comprised between 7 millim. (at which the spark begins
to pass) and O000001 of an atmosphere are obtained. MacLeod's
gauge, attached to the instrument, accurately measures those
pressures.
   Here are some of the series obtained for the lines Ha, H/3, Hy,
on varying the pressure and the energy of the discbarge (the inten
sity of the corresponding regions of the lamp-spectrum, with the
nicols parallel, being arbitrarily put =1000):—
                                               Lines.
                        Pressure    r             A              (
                      6 o millim. Red.         Blue.      Violet"
         R                 14         3-6        5-5        17-2
         »                 10         6-2        7-5       18-1
         B                  6         7-5       12-4       19-6
                            2         9-5       22-6       36-7
                                                Lines.
                       Pressure                    *
                    0 542 millim. Red.         Blue.       Violet
         B                 14          8-8      25-8         65-8'
         R                 10        12-9       34-2         86-8
         K                  6        28-3       72-5        140-2
         B                  2        49-4     1521          240-9
    * "Determination du pouvoir eclairant des radiations simples," par
 MM. Crova et Lagarde, Journal de Physique, [2] i. 1882.

228             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                                                 Lines.
                        Pressure     .                           ,
                      0-010 millim. Red.         Blue.     Violet.
          R                14        12-6         39-3     1109
          R                10        17-8         55-0     133-8
          R                 6        38-5         94-9     176-4
          R                 2        76-1       183-2      289-6
    The curves traced by means of these values show the inequality
of intensity of the three lines, an inequality variable with the
induced discharge. In proportion as the pressure diminishes, the
 ordiuates are augmented considerably, and the curve rises through
 out. For the pressure of 6-5 millim. the curve of the red line
becomes a straight line.
    In the various conditions in which I have operated, I have been
 able to make a pretty large number of observations on the influence
 of impurities, the nature of the stratifications, and the production
 of the sensitive state* in rarefied tubes. I am continuing these
 experiments, measuring the difference of potentials a! the two ex
 tremities of the tube and illuminating the tube by the discharge of
 the Holtz machine.
     It would be premature to draw any definitive conclusions from
 the present results ; I wished, in this first note, to confine myself
  to indicating the first results of the investigation and showing the
  general course of the phenomenon.—Comptes Rendus de I'Academie
  des Sciences, Dee. 26, 1882, t. xcv. pp. 1350-1352.
        CENTRAL FORCES AND THE CONSERVATION OF ENERGY.
        To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
  Gentlemen,
     If your correspondent, Mr. von Tunzelniann, will refer again to
  my paper, he will see that his criticism in your February number
  is not justified. I had at the outset (p. 35) assumed F to be the
  component of the moving force in the line joining the two particles
  considered ; and it was subsequently shown (p. 38) that if there
  were any component at right angles to that line, the conservation
  of energy would not hold. The argument on p. 37 is therefore
  perfectly legitimate.                            Walter R. Bbowne.
                                 Erratum.
      In the footnote to Prof. Silvanus Thompson's paper in our last
   Number, p. 124, it was stated by inadvertence that it was commu
   nicated by the Physical Society. It should have read communicated
   by the Autlior ; the paper, however, was subsequently communi
  cated to the Physical Society.
      * W. Spottiawoode and Moulton, Philosophical Transactions, 1879,
  p. 165.

Mmtern Bioihth
I
Phil. Mag., S. 5. Vol. 13. PI. III.

                 PM Mag S. 5. Vol 15 PI IV
                   a   a
Mmtern Bios lith


Mmtem Bros Uth

 iHT ANNALS AND                                 MAGAZINE
                                      OP
        NATURAL                          HISTORY,
                                 INCLUDING
             ZOOLOGY, BOTANY, AND GEOLOGY.
                       MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. Gd.
   Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following
prices :—
     The First Series, in 20 volumes, from 1838 to 1847.    Price £10.
     The Second Series, in 20 volumes, from 1848 to 1857.     „ £10.
     The Third Scries, in 20 volumes, from 1858 to 1867.      „ £12.
     The Fourth Series, in 20 volumes, from 1868 to 1877.     „ £12.
         Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.
          THE     LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
 PHILOSOPHICAL                                MAGAZINE
                                    ASD
             JOURNAL                 OF     SCIENCE.
i JOURNAL DEYOTED TO PHYSICS, ASTKONOMY, MECHANICS,
   CHEMISTEY, MINERALOGY, AND THE ALLIED SCIENCES.
                        MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. Gd.
  Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following
)rices :—
  The First Series, in 68 volumes, from 1798 to 1826.     Price £15.
 The Second Series, in 11 volumes, from 1827 to 1832.       „ £2 4s.
 The Third Series, in 37 volumes, from 1832 to 1850.        „ £6.
 The Fourth Series, in 50 volumes, from 1851 to 1876.       „ £25.
        Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.

               CONTENTS op N° 93.—Fifth Series.
     XXII. The Selective Absorption of Solar Energy.              By S. P.
 Langlet. (Plate III.)                                       ."       . .page 153
    XXIII. On the Spectra formed by Curved Diffraction-grating.
 By Walter Bailt. (Plate II.)                                                   183 \
    XXIV. The Basis of Statics. By Horace Lamb, M.A., Professor
of Mathematics in the University of Adelaide                                    In
    XXV. On Capillary Phenomena. By John T. Rilet, B.Sc.
(London), A.R.C.Se.L, Demonstrator in the Physical Laboratories
of the Mason College. (Plate IV.)                                               191
    XXVI. On the Horizontal Motion of Floating Bodies under the
Action of Capillary Forces. By A. M. Worthington. (Plate V.) 198 i
    XXVII. A High-Pressure Electric Accumulator or Secondary
Battery. By Frederick John Smith                                               203
    XXVHI. On Magnetomotive Force.              By R. H. M. Bosajtqltkt,
St. John's College, Oxford                                                     205
    XXTX. On an Arrangement for Dividing Lich- and Metre-Scales.
By U. H. M. Bosanqttet, St. John's College, Oxford                             217
    XXX. Notices respecting New Books :—Mr. E. J. Routh's Ele
mentary Part of a Treatise on the Dynamics of a System of Rigid
Bodies                                                                         21fi
    XXXI. Proceedings of Learned Societies :—
      Geological Societt :—Mr. J. S. Gardner on the Lower-Eo
         cene Section between Reculvers and Herne Bay ; Mr. F.
         Oats on Mr. Dunn's Notes on the Diamond-fields of South
         Africa ; Dr. H. Hicks on the Metamorphic and Overlying
         Rocks in parts of Ross and Inverness shires ; Mr. E.
         Wethered on the Lower Carboniferous Rocks in the Forest
         of Dean                                                         219-5
   XXXII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
      Phosphorography of the Infra-red Region of the Solar Spectrum :
         Wave-length of the Principal Lines, by Henri Bocquerel . .
      On the Measurement of the Photometric Intensity of the
         Spectral Lines of Hydrogen, by H. Lagarde
      Central Forces and the Conservation of Energy, by W. R. Browne
  ,* It is requested that all Communications for this Work may be addrei
        post-paid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office,
        Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

   5.                     APRIL 1883.                                  No. !
      Published the First Day of every Month.—Price 2s. 6d.
                                   THE
         LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
PHILOSOPHICAL                                 MAGAZINE,
                                   AND
         JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
  eing a Continuation of Tilloclis 'Philosophical Magazine]
 Nicholson s 'Journal] and Thomson s 'Annals of Philosophy.'
                               CONDUCTED BY
   SIR ROBERT KANE, LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.A. F.C.S.
   SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, Knt. LL.D. F.R.S. &c.
                                   AND
   WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
                       FIFTH         SERIES.
                     N° 94.—APRIL 1883.
                           'LONDON:
PRINTED BI TAYLOR AND FRANCIS, RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET,
by Longmans, Green, Header and Dyer ; Kent and Co. ; Simpkin, Marshall and
 ; and Whittaker and Co. ;—and by A. and C. Black, and Thomas Clark, Edin-
  h ; Smith and Son, Glasgow : —Hodges, Foster and Co., Dublin :—Putnam,
  York : —and Ashcr and Co., Berlin.

     ROYAL INSTITUTION OF GREAT BRITAIN,
                 ALBEMARLE STREET, PICCADILLY, W.
          LECTURE ARRANGEMENTS AFTER EASTER, 1883.
                       Lecture Hour, Three o'clock p.m.
   Professor John G. McKendrick, M.A., F.R.S.E., Prof, of Inst, of Med. Univ.
of Glasgow, Fullerian Prof, of Physiology, R.I.—Ten Lectures on Physiological
Discovery : a Retrospect, Historical, Biographical, and Critical ; on Tuesdays,
April 3, "10, 17, 24; Monday, April 30 ; Tuesdays, May 8, 15,22, 29, and June 6,
One Guinea.
   Dr. Waldstein, Hon. M.A. Cantab.—Four Lectures on the Art of Pheidias;
on Thursdays, April 5, 12, 19, and 20. Half-a-Guinea.
   Professor Tyndall, D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S., MJLI.—Three Lectures on Count
Rumford, Originator of the Royal Institution ; on Thursdays, May 3, 10, and 17.
Half-a-Guinea.
   Reginald Stuart Poole, Esq., of the British Museum, Cor. Inst. France.
—Three Lectures on Recent Discoveries in (1) Egypt, (2) Chaldsea and Assyria,
(3) Cyprus and Asia Minor; on Thursdays, May 24, 31, and June 7. Half-a-
Guinea.
   Archibald Geikie, Esq., LL.D., F.R.S., Director-General of the Geological
Survey of the United Kingdom.— Six Lectures on Geographical Evolution; on
Saturdays, April 7, 14, 21, 28, and May 5, 12. One Guinea.
   Professor C. E. Turner, of the University of St. Petersburg.—Four Lectures.
Historical Sketches of Russian Social Life ; on Saturdays, May 19, 20, and June
8,9. Half-a-Guinea.
    Subscription (to Non-Members) to all the Courses during the Season, Two
Guineas. Tickets issued daily at the Institution, or sent by Post on receipt of
Cheque or Post-Office Order.
   Members may purchase not less than Three Single Lecture Tickets, available
for any Lecture, for Half-a-Guinea.
   The Friday Evening Meetings will begin on April 6th, at 8 p.m., when
Mr. Archibald Geikie will give a Discourse on the Canons of the Far West,
at 9 p.m. Succeeding Discourses will probably be given by Dr. Waldstein, Pro
fessor Bayley Balfour, Mr. C. William Siemens, Mr. Robert H. Scott, Professor
Huxley, Prc.fesfor C. E. Turner, Professor Flower, Professor Pollock, and Professor
Dewar. To these Meetings Members and their Friends only are admitted."
   Persons desirous of becomiug Members are requasted to apply to the Secretary.
 When proposed, they are immediately admitted to all the Lectures, to the Friday
 Evening Meetings, and to the Library and Reading Rooms; and their Families
 are admitted to the Lectures at a reduced charge. Payment:—First Year, Ten
 Guineas; afterwards, Five Guineas a Year ; or a composition of Sixty Guineas.
       8vo, cloth, 383 pages, with 88 Illustrations (drawn to scale), £1 lg.
         A TREATISE ON THE DISTILLATION OF COAL-TAR
                         AND AMM0NIACAL LIQUOR,
       AND THE SEPARATION FROM THEM OF VALUABLE PRODUCTS.
                      By GEORGE LUNGE, Ph.D., F.C.S.,
   Professor of Technical Chemistry in the Federal Polytechnic School, Zurich
          (formerly Manager of the Tyne Alkali Works, South Shields).
                               By the same Author.
              A THEORETICAL AND PRACTICAL TREATISE
                                       OK Till'.
        MANUFACTURE OF SULPHURIC ACID AND AT.TCAT.T
                                  3 vols., £4 His.
                      John Van Voorst, 1 Paternoster Row.

f                            /iPR 161883
                                THE
          LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL                          MAGAZINE
                                AND
       JOURNAL                 OF      SCIENCE.
                       [FIFTH SERLES.]
                         APRIL 1883.
 XXXIII. On Maintained Vibrations. By Lord Ratleigh,
   F.R.S., Professor of Experimental Physics in tlie University
    of Cambridge"'.
 WHEN a vibrating system is subject to dissipative forces,
          the vibrations cannot be permanent, since they are
 dependent upon an initial store of energy which suffers gra
 dual exhaustion. In the usual equation
                      d?+Kdt+nd=0                            w
 k is positive, and the solution indicates the progressive decay
 of the vibrations in accordance with the exponential law. In
 order that the vibrations may be maintained, the vibrating
 body must be in connexion with a source of energy. This
 condition being satisfied, two principal classes of maintained
 vibrations may be distinguished. In the first class the mag
 nitude of the force acting upon the body in virtue of its
 connexion with the source of energy is proportional to the
 amplitude, and its phase depends in an approximately con
 stant manner upon the phase of the vibration itself ; in the
 second class the body is subject to influences whose phase is
 independently determined.
   The first class is by far the more extensive, and includes
                    • Communicated by the Author.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 94. April 1883.          S

230          Lord Bayleigh on Maintained Vibrations.
vibrations maintained by wind (organ-pipes, harmonium-reeds,
aeolian harps, &c), by heat (singing flames, Rijke's tubes,
&c.), by friction (violin-strings, finger-glasses, &c.), as well as
the slower vibrations of clock-pendulums and of electromag
netic tuning-forks. When the amplitude is small, the force
acting upon the body may be divided into two parts, one pro
portional to the displacement 6 (or to the acceleration), the
second proportional to the velocity dd / dt. The inclusion of
these forces does not alter the form of (1). By the first part
(proportional to 0) the pitch is modified, and by the second
the coefficient of decay . If the altered k be still positive,
vibrations gradually die down; but if the effect of the included
forces be to render the complete value of k negative, vibra
tions tend on the contrary to increase. The only case in
 which according to (1) a steady vibration is possible, is when
the complete value of * is zero. If this condition be satisfied,
a vibration of any amplitude is permanently maintained.
    When * is negative, so that small vibrations tend to increase,
a point is of course soon reached after which the approximate
equations cease to be applicable. We may form an idea of
the state of things which then arises by adding to equation (I)
a term proportional to a higher power of the velocity. Let
us take
                 <P0 , d0^,/d0\*              M                          .
in which k and id are supposed to be small. The approximate
solution of (2) is
                                     idnA*
                    0=Asiunt + -g^— cos3n/, .... (3)
in which A is given by
                     « + Kn2A2=0                                      (4)
From (4) we see that no steady vibration is possible unless k
and id have different signs. If k and id be both positive, the
vibration in all cases dies down ; while if * and id be both
negative, the vibration (according to (2)) increases without
limit. If * be negative and id positive, the vibration becomes
steady and assumes the amplitude determined by (4). A
smaller vibration increases up to this point, and a larger vibra
tion falls down to it. If, on the other hand, k be positive, while
id is negative, the steady vibration abstractedly possible is
   • For more detailed application of this principle to certain cases of
maintained vibrations, see Proceedings of the Royal Institution, March 15,
1878.

            Lord Rayleigh on Maintained Vibrations.                    231
 unstable, a departure in either direction from the amplitude
 given by (4) tending always to increase.
    Of the second class the vibrations Commonly known as
 forced have the first claim upon our attention. The theory of
 these vibrations has long been well understood, and depends
 upon the solution of the differential equation formed by
 writing as the right-hand member of (1) Fcospt in place of
 zero. The period of steady vibration is coincident with that of
 the force, and independent of the natural period of vibration ;
 but the amplitude of vibration is greatly increased by a near
 agreement between the two periods. In all cases the ampli
 tude is definite and is proportional to the magnitude of the
 impressed force. When the force, though strictly periodic, is
 not of the simple harmonic type, vibrations may be maintained
 by its operation whose period is a submultiple of the principal
 period.
    There is also another kind of maintained vibration which
 from one point of view may be considered to be forced, inas
 much as the period is imposed from without, but which differs
 from the kind just referred to in that the imposed periodic
 variations do not tend directly to displace the body from its
 configuration of equilibrium. Probably the best-known ex
 ample of this kind of action is that form of Melde's experiment
 in which a fine string is maintained in trans\erse vibration by
 connecting one of its extremities with the vibrating prong of
 a massive tuning-fork, the direction of motion of the point of
 attachment being parallel to the length of the string*. The
 effect of the motion is to render the tension of the string
 periodically variable ; and at first sight there is nothing to
cause the string to depart from its equilibrium condition of
straightness. It is known, however, that under these circum
 stances the equilibrium position may become unstable, and
that the string may settle down into a state of permanent and
 vigorous vibration, whose period is the double of that of the
point of attachment^.
    The theory of vibrations of this kind presents some points
of difficulty, and does not appear to have been treated hitherto.
In the present investigation we shall start from the assumption
that a steady vibration is in progress, and inquire under what
circumstances the assumed state of things is possible.
    If the force of restitution, or "spring," of a body suscep
tible of vibration be subject to an imposed periodic variation,
   * When the direction of motion is transverse, the case falls under the
head of ordinary forced vibrations.
   t See Tyndail's ' Sound,' 3rd ed. ch. iii. § 7, where will also be found
a general explanation of the mode of action.
                                    S2

232         Lord Rayleigh on Maintained Vibrations.
the differential equation becomes
                            +(«2-2» sin 2^)0=0, ...            (5)
in which * and a are supposed to be small. A similar equa
tion would apply approximately in the case of a periodic
variation in the effective mass of the body. The motion ex
 pressed by the solution of (5) can only be regular when it
 Keeps perfect time with the imposed variations. It will
 appear that the necessary conditions cannot be satisfied rigo
 rously by any simple harmonic vibration; but we may assume
      6 = Aj sin pt + Bx cos pt + A3 sin 3pt + B3 cos Spt
                                 + A6sin5p< + ..., ... (6)
in which it is not necessary to provide for sines and cosines of
 even multiples of pt. If the assumption is justifiable, the
 series in (6) must be convergent. Substituting in the diffe
 rential equation, and equating to zero the coefficients of siapt,
cospt, &c, we find
              Ai(n* -p1) -/tpBx - aBi - *B3 = 0,
              BiO2 -P2) + «pAx -«A, - aA3 = 0,
              A3(ns - V) - 3a3»B8 -aBi+aB5= 0,
              B3(n2 - 9p2) + 3*pA3 + aAx - A6 = 0,
              A6(n2 - 2,y) - 5kPBs - «B3 + *B, = 0.
              B6(ni - 25/) + 5kPAs + «A3 - «A7 = 0,
 These equations show that relatively to Ax, B1} A3, B3 are of
 the order a; that relatively to A3, B3, A8, B5 are of the order a,
 and so on. If we omit A3, B3 in the first pair of equations,
 we find as a first approximation,
                  Ai(n2-/)-(*p + «)B1 = 0,
                  A1(/tp-«) + («:i-p2)B1=0;
 whence
            Bj _ n^—p3 _ a—Kp _ >/ (a—xp)
            A, ~~^f*~rii-P*- j(*+,cpy                  •••(')
 and
                       (n»-j»,), = «s-«V                        (8)
  Thus, if a be given, the value of p necessary for a regular
  motion is definite ; and p having this value, the regular mo
  tion is
                          0=-.Psin(/>« + e),

             Lord Rayleigh on Maintained Vibrations.              233
 in which e, being equal to tan-1 (B^Ax), is also definite. On
 the other hand, as is evident at once from the linearity of the
 original equation, there is nothing to limit the amplitude of
 vibration.
    These characteristics are preserved however far it may be
 necessary to pursue the approximation. If A^+i, B2m+„
 may be neglected, the first m pairs of equations determine the
 ratios of all the coefficients, leaving the absolute magnitude
 open ; and they provide further an equation connecting p
 and a, by which the pitch is determined.
   For the second approximation the second pair of equations
 gives
whence                                p
              0=PsinO>< + e) + (^t£--2cos(3p< + 6);           .  (9)
                                   yp — m
and from the first pair
             tan «= { n*-p> +            }-(« + Kp),. .         (10)
while/) is determined by
             (n>-py- (ni *lpy=a*-*>p\               .   .   .   (11)
   Returning to the first approximation, we see from (8) that
the solution is only possible under the condition that a > icp.
If a = Kp, then p = n; i.e. the imposed variation in the " spring "
must be exactly twice as quick as the natural vibration of the
body would be in the absence of friction. From (7) it appears
that in this case e=0, which indicates that the spring is a
minimum one eighth of a period after the body has passed its
position of equilibrium, and a maximum one eighth of a period
before such passage. Under these circumstances the greatest
possible amount of energy is communicated to the system ;
and in the case contemplated it is just sufficient to balance the
loss by dissipation, the adjustment being evidently indepen
dent of the amplitude.
   If a < Kp, sufficient energy cannot pass to maintain the
motion, whatever may be the phase-relation; but if a. > Kp,
the equality between energy supplied and energy dissipated
may be attained by such an alteration of phase as shall dimi
nish the former quantity to the required amount. The altera
tion of phase may for this purpose be indifferently in either
direction; but if e be positive, we must have
                   p1 = nl— \a? — K?p'2\ ;

234         Lord Rayleigh on Maintained Vibrations.
while if e be negative,
If « be very much greater than icp, e= +iir, which indicates
that when the system passes through its position of equili
brium the spring is at its maximum or at its minimum.
    The inference from the equations that the adjustment of
pitch must be absolutely rigorous for steady vibration will be
subject to some modification in practice ; otherwise the expe
riment could not succeed. In most cases n2 is to a certain
extent a function of amplitude; so that if n2 have very nearly
 the required value, complete coincidence is attainable, without
 other alteration in the conditions of the system, by the assump
 tion of an amplitude of large and determinate amount.
    When a particular solution of (5) has been found, it may be
 generalized by a known method. Thus, if d = A6u we have as
 the complete solution
                                 Jo
 which may be put into the form
                     e=pel-B61^e;ie~"dt.            .  .   . (12)
 When t is great, the second term diminishes rapidly, and the
 solution tends to assume the original form d = V6x.
    The number of cases falling under the present head which
 have been discovered and examined hitherto is not great.
 The mysterious son rauque of Savart, which sometimes accom
 panies the longitudinal vibrations of bars, and is attributed by
 Terquem to an associated transverse vibration, is doubtless of
 this character. Just as in Melde's experiment already spoken
 of, the periodic variations of tension accompanying the longi
 tudinal vibrations will throw the bar into lateral vibration, if
 there happen to be a mode of such vibration whose pitch is
 nearly enough coincident with the suboctave of the principal
 note.
    For a lecture illustration we may take a pendulum formed
 of a bar of soft iron and vibrating on knife-edges. Under
 neath the pendulum is placed symmetrically a vertical bar
 electromagnet, through which is caused to pass an electric
 current rendered intermittent by an interrupter whose fre
 quency is twice that of the pendulum. The magnetic force
 does not tend to displace the pendulum from its equilibrium
 position, but produces the same sort of effect as if gravity
 were subject to a periodic variation.

      On the Ultra-red Region of the Spectrum of the Sun.            235
   A similar result is obtained by causing the point of support
of the pendulum to vibrate in a vertical path. If we denote
this motion by i; = /3sin 2pt, the effect is as if gravity were
                                           Of the same nature are
the crispations observed by Faraday and others on the surface
of water which oscillates vertically. Faraday arrived experi
mentally at the conclusion that there were two complete vibra
tions of the support for each complete vibration of the liquid.
This view has been contested by Matthiessen*, who main
tains that the vibrations are isoperiodic. By observations,
which I hope to find another opportunity of detailing, I have
 convinced myself that in this matter Faraday was perfectly
correct. The vibrations of water standing upon a horizontal
glass plate, which was attached to the centre of a vibrating
 iron bar, were at the rate of 15 per second when the vibra
 tions of the bar were at the rate of 30 per second. The only
difference of importance between this case and that of the
pendulum is that, whatever may be the rate of vibration of
the plate, there is always possible a free water-vibration of
nearly the same frequency, and that consequently no special
 tuning is called for.
XXXIV. On a Measurement of Wave-lengths in the Ultra-red
  Region of the Spectrum of the Sun, By Ernst PRiNGSHElMf.
IN order to investigate the solar spectrum it .is of special
        importance to know the wave-length of the extreme rays
emitted by the sun, and thus to .determine the extent of the
entire spectrum. In order to determine the wave-length of
the least-refrangible rays, Miillert, and subsequently La-
mansky§, observed with the aid of a thermopile the index of
refraction of the extreme rays of a spectrum projected by a
crown-glass or rock-salt prism, and from that index calculated
the wave-length by means of an empirical formula, the cor
rectness of which was controllable only within the limits of
the visible rays. The untrustworthiness of this method is
obvious; thus, from the same observation Miiller calculated,
by two different formulae, for the extreme wave-length the
values 0-00177 and 0-0048 millim.
    A trustworthy determination of the wave-length is possible
only with the aid of the interference of the rays ; and this
course was taken by Abney||, who succeeded in photographing
   *   Pogg. Ann. cxli. 1870.
   t   Translated from Wiedemann's Annalen, ] 883, No. 1, pp. 32-46.
   I   Pogg. Ann. cv. p. 352 (1868).        § Ibid, cxlvi. 1872.
   ||  PhiL Trans. 1880, pp. 663-067.

236    M. E. Pringsheim on a Measurement of Wave-length
the ultra-red portion of a diffraction-spectrum. As therein
the extreme rays of the spectrum of the first order coincided
with the light-rays of the spectrum of the second order, he
could easily infer from the known wave-length of these light-
rays that of the extreme heat-rays. He found for it the
number 0-001075 millim.
   Yet we have no right to regard the rays thus defined as
really the extreme heat-rays coming from the sun to the earth ;
the number thus found has only an individual significance
relative to the particular experiment made, and teaches us
nothing further about the sun's radiation than that rays having
a wave-length of 0-001075 millim. are found therein. Hence
the investigation is by no means concluded, and it is desirable
to identify rays of still greater wave-length in the solar spec
trum by fresh observations. Such an investigation I carried
out in the course of the summer of 1882, in the Physical
 Institute of the Berlin University.
                           I. Apparatus.
    As the thing required is to verify the presence of rays
whose intensity appears to be very slight, the success of the
investigation depends essentially on two main conditions.
 Namely, first, care must be taken that the intensity of the
 spectrum observed is as considerable as possible; and, secondly,
an instrument must be employed for the demonstration of the
 extreme rays sought which possesses the greatest possible sen
 sitiveness for the class of rays in question.
   To produce a spectrum of the utmost intensity, I employed an
 excellent plane metallic reflecting diffraction-grating, prepared
 by Chapman with Rutherfurd's machine, possessing a square
aperture of 43-3 millim. side, and having, according to the
maker's statement, 17,296 lines to the inch. This gives for the
 distance d between each two lines of the grating 0-00146852
 millim.
    In order to control this datum, observations of the lines D
 and F were undertaken with the grating; and from the known
 wave-lengths of these lines the mean value of d was found
 = 0'0014849 millim.; so that we can pretty safely put
                       rf=0-001485 millim.
 In order to utilize the greatest possible number of rays for
 the production of the spectrum, all the sun's rays reflected
 from the metallic mirror of a Duboscq heliostat were concen
 trated, by means of a circular silver mirror of 90 millim. dia
 meter and about 200 millim. focal distance, upon the square
 aperture of a slit, of 1'3 millim. side, placed in the focus of

      in the Ultra^red Region of the Spectrum of the Sun.    237
the mirror. This slit served as the luminous object ; and an
image of it was projected by a second silver mirror of the
same dimensions, at the distance of about 1700 millim. In
the path of the rays proceeding from this second mirror the
diffraction-grating was inserted so that the cone of light
exactly covered its entire aperture. Hence the concave mir
ror did not project a mere image of the slit, but the grating
produced on both sides of the image a series of diffraction-
spectra. One of these spectra, of the first order, was used for
the measurement of the wave-lengths.
   The silver mirrors above mentioned were made by silvering
and polishing the concave side of plano-concave glasses ; the
slit was formed by two strips of sheet metal 2 millim. broad
connected by cross strips.
   In order to render the extreme ultra-red rays perceptible I
did not, like Abney, employ their chemical effect, but their
thermal action was made visible by a radiometric torsion-
apparatus constructed by me. The arrangement of this appa
ratus I have described in a previous paper*; here let the
statement suffice, that the rays falling on the lampblacked
side of a thin mica plate suspended in a vacuum produced a
motion of this disk. A small mirror joined to the disk rotated
simultaneously with it, by which a reflection of light was
thrown upon a scale. The motion of this reflection served as
an indication and a measure of the deflection of the vane.
The apparatus was connected with a mercury air-pump ; yet
it would have sufficed for the present experiment if it had
been made in a somewhat simplified form so that it could
have been hermetically closed after one exhaustion.
    The course of the rays in the experiment is clearly shown
by the diagram, fig. 1.
    The rays emanating from the heliostat H, set up outside
the window, pass first through an aperture A in the closed
shutter into the almost completely darkened room, then
through a pasteboard tube Pj about 500 millim. long, directly
attached to the shutter, and fall upon the first silver mirror S]
at a distance of 2510 millim. from the heliostat. By this
mirror they are concentrated upon the slit s, then arrive at
the second mirror S2, pass from this to the grating G, and are
here in part directly reflected so as to give rise to an image in
B of the slit s, in part dispersed. The extreme ultra-red rays
of the spectrum of the first order can be collected in T, where
they are incident upon the mica plate.
    For the sake of clearness, the angles of incidence of the
rays upon the mirrors Si and S2 are drawn much too large in
                   • Phil. Mag. February 1883, p. 101.

238     M. E. Pringsheim on a Measurement of Wave-lengdts
 the figure ; in reality the rays were caused to pass as near
                                Fig. 1.
one another as the breadth of the strips forming the slit t
permitted.
   The torsion-apparatus, in order to protect it from all lateral
radiations and from air-currents, was covered with a tin case
filled with wadding, in which was an aperture opposite the
mica plate to admit the rays. In front of this aperture a
pasteboard tube P2, passing through a vertical pasteboard
disk, was fixed. Opposite to the mirror of the torsion-
apparatus, at a distance of about 1040 millim., was the milli
metre-scale M, upon which the lamp L, with the aid of the
lens I and a second aperture in the case K, produced the
light-reflection L'.
   As the action of the rays upon our apparatus extended far
beyond the dark interval between the spectra of the first and
second orders, and consequently the action of the luminous
rays of the second spectrum combined with that of the heat
rays of the first, these two locally coincident spectra had to be
separated. For this purpose, at first a solution of iodine in
sulphide of carbon was used, which was inserted at J in the
path of the rays, and absorbed all the visible ones, while it
transmitted the greatest part of the heat-rays. The solution
was contained in a glass tube having its two extremities

      in the Ultra-red Region of the Spectrum of the Sun.           239
ground smooth and closed with plates of rock-salt of 2 millim.
thickness. It being very inconvenient and difficult to keep
the faces of the rock-salt clean and clear for any length of
time, this way of filtering the rays is troublesome and expen
sive. Subsequently, therefore, instead of the iodine solution,
I used a perfectly black plate of ebonite of 03 millim. thick
ness, this substance being, according to Abney and Festing*,
very diathermanous for rays of great wave-length. This plate
showed itself in fact very transmissive also for the extreme
ultra-red rays; and its employment is very convenient.
   In our arrangement all the reflections took place at metallic
surfaces; and any passing of the rays through glass was com
pletely avoided till they reached the very thin glass bulb of
the torsion-apparatus, through which the rays had to pass
before meeting the radiometer-vane. As, however, any ab
sorption of rays by this glass acts upon the vane by producing
motion in the same direction as the absorption by the lamp-
blackf, even the rays which may have been absorbed by the
glass bulb were also effective.
   Although the superposition of the luminous rays of the
second and the obscure rays of the first spectrum affords a
convenient means for approximately estimating the wave
length of the obscure rays occurring in each place, I arranged
the setting-up of the apparatus so that an exact measurement
of the wave-length was possible. For this purpose I placed
the diffraction-grating G on a spectrometer-stand, movable
round a vertical axis, from which the telescopes were removed.
The position of the stand could be read on the orientation-
circle, which was divided into intervals of five minutes of arc,
by means of a microscope fixed by an arm to the stand, and
the thread cross of which could be displaced laterally with the
aid of a micrometer-screw, so as to permit whole minutes to
be read off directly. The spectrometer had three adjusting-
screws in its base ; further, the stand stood separately upon
three screws ; and, lastly, the mirror G was placed in a box
which, again, rested on three adjusting-screws ; so that the
stand could be shifted at discretion with respect to the micro
meter, and the level of the mirror with respect to that of the
stand.
                              II. Method.
   As in our arrangement the grating only can be rotated,
while all the other parts of the apparatus are fixed, it was
necessary to employ a somewhat different way of measuring
    • Abney and Festing, Chemical News, xliii. pp. 176, 177 (1881).
    t C'onf.'Pringsheim, Phil. Mag. February 1883, pp. 105-110.

 240    M. E. Pringsheim on a Measurement of Wave-lengths
 from that employed in determining wave-lengths in the visible
 spectrum, in which the grating is generally fixed, and the
 observing telescope can be rotated.
    Let E and E' (fig. 2) be two rays,           Fig. 2.
 supposed parallel, incident at 0 and
 O'upon two neighbouring lines of the
 grating, and A and A' the two rays,
 likewise supposed parallel, which re
 main at the common interference in
 T (fig. 1), and whose wave-length is
 to be measured. Let N and W be
 the normals erected at 0 and O' upon
 the plane of the grating ; then we
 had, with our arrangement, the case (likewise taken into
 account in the drawing) that the incident and the observed
 ray are on the same side of the normal to the grating. If we
 draw O'P perpendicular to E, O'Q perpendicular to A, and
 put 00'=rf, the angles NOE = N'0/E' = 8, and the angles
 AOE = A'0'E' = 81, then the difference of path of the rays A
and A' when they arrive at the interference, and consequetly
the wave-length X of the rays there remaining of the spectrum
 of the first order, is
                 \=PO+OQ
                   =d [sin (PO'O) + sin (QO'O)]
                   = d [sin 8 + sin (8 + 8 )].
    The complete theory of interference teaches that this for
 mula still holds good when, instead of the two rays E and E',
a great number of rays are present which are incident upon
 several apertures of the width d. Since the magnitude of d
is known, the measuring of the angles 8 and 8X suffices for the
determination of \.
   In order to find the incidence-angle 8, first the stand with
the grating was placed so that the normal to the grating
coincided with the incident ray; and then the number on the
scale at which the thread cross of the microscope stood, in
this position, was noted. This number we will call a. The
grating was then placed so that the direct image of the slit
just reached our torsion-apparatus ; let the corresponding
position of the thread cross of the microscope be called b.
Lastly, by further turning the stand, that orientation was
given to the mirror in which the torsion-apparatus was just
hit by the extreme rays operative upon it. With this position
the thread cross is at the number c ; and since it forms a con
stant angle with the normal to the grating, we can also refer

      in the Ultra-red Region of the Spectrum of the Sun.    241
the numbers a, b, and c directly to the position of that normal
in the three different orientations. The delineation (fig. 2)
refers to the third position, in which the normal to the grating
is defined by the number c, while to the incident ray E, which
in the first position coincided with the normal, the number a
still belongs. Hence the angle of incidence is
                              S=a— c,
if, as was the case with our arrangement, the mirror has to
be rotated from the first position to the third in the direction
of diminishing numbers.
    Since in the second position the direct reflection has the
6ame orientation as the ray A in the figure, the angle o\ be
tween A and E is equal to the angle between the direct reflec
tion in the second position and the incident ray E. Now the
angle between the mirror-normal in the second position and
the ray E is equal to b— a, since the mirror must be turned
from the first to the second orientation in the direction in
which the numbers increase ; therefore the angle o\ between
the direct reflection and E is
                          81 = 2(6-a).
    From the observation of the quantities a, b, and c we can
therefore calculate S and S„ and consequently \ also.
                          III. Measuring.
    In order that the numbers a, b, c, read off from the orien
 tation-circle may actually be connected with the angles 8 and
 Si in the way above supposed, it is necessary that the plane of
 incidence of the rays remain the same at all positions of the
 grating, and parallel to the plane of the orientation-circle.
 To effect this, first the spectrometer was set up, with the aid
 of the adjusting-screws attached to its feet, so that the plane
 of the orientation-circle was horizontal, which was rendered
 visible by a spirit-level placed on it. Then the stand was
 placed, by means of its special screws, so that its orientation
 was horizontal, and kept that position while being rotated
 360°. Thereupon the grating was mounted on the stand, and
 at first in the position in which the incident rays were per
 pendicular to the plane of the grating.
    In order to be able to effect this arrangement with greater
 exactness, instead of the pasteboard tube Px (fig. 1) a paste
 board disk with a rectangular aperture of 16 millim. height
 and 3 millim. breadth was put before the aperture A in the
 window-shutter. By this the incident pencil was made much
 narrower, and hence a more accurate adjustment was rendered
 possible. Moreover, in the slit s a cross of fine wire was

 242   M. E. Pringsheim on a Measurement of Wave-lengths
fixed, and the grating placed so that the image of the cross
reflected from the mirror G to the mirror S2, passing through
the slit s fell upon the mirror S,, and, reflected by this,
appeared on the screen in A somewhat enlarged. The ap
paratus was then so arranged that the deviation in the hori
zontal plane was. corrected by rotating the stand on which
the grating stood, while half of the deviation in the vertical
was obviated by one of the adjusting-screws attached to
the base of the grating, the other half by varying the
altitude of the mirror S2. In this manner the setting-up was
 regulated so that the centre of the wire cross came to lie
 exactly in the centre of the rectangular aperture. In order
to maintain the plane of incidence invariable with any other
position of the grating, the position of the horizontal line
proceeding from the horizontal wire of the cross, which ran
through all the spectra, was fixed by a lead-pencil line on the
 pasteboard disk in front of the torsion-apparatus; and then
the two other screws in the stand of the grating-mirror were
 adjusted so that the horizontal line always kept the same
 position with any rotation of the micrometer-stand. After
 this the mirror was turned back again into its previous
 orientation ; and the same manipulation continued till the
 grating had the correct adjustment in all orientations.
    In the second position also, in which the directly reflected
ray fell on the torsion-apparatus, the entire aperture A was
not employed, but only the small cut-out aperture, in order
to make a more accurate adjustment possible. In doing this
it was of course requisite to take care that the image of the
aperture fell exactly on the centre of each of the mirrors.
   In order that in this position also the directly reflected
rays should actually take the same position as the extreme
operative rays with the third position of the grating, it was
necessary to determine the place in the radiometer-vane
which with the third position is hit by the extreme ultra-red
rays. As the intensity of the dark heat-rays diminishes as
their distance from the red end of the spectrum decreases,
and as the effectiveness of the rays falling upon the ra
diometer-vane increases with the distance from the torsion-
axis of the vane, the torsion-apparatus was placed so that the
extreme most sensitive edge of the vane was turned towards the
red end of the investigated spectrum. If then the rays falling
upon the vane called forth any motion at all, it was certain that
effective rays fell also upon the extreme edge of the vane. On
this account, with the second position of the grating the directly
reflected image of the slit was adjusted so that the vertical
thread of the cross coincided with the edge of the vane. The

      in the Ultra-red Region of the Spectrum of the Sun.               243
 irradiation of the part of the glass bulb of the torsion-
 apparatus nearer to the visible spectrum, which might pos
 sibly have produced a motion, was cut off by the sheet-metal
 case surrounding the apparatus.
    To give the grating its third position, it was first placed so
 that the motion of the torsion-apparatus was very slight;
 then the finer adjustment was made by means of the micro
 meter-screw attached to the turning-arm of the stand. Very
 slight deflections of the radiometer-vane could be easily and
 rapidly multiplied by measured interruption and restoration
 of the irradiation. In the first position of the grating, in
 which no action was shown, it could with certainty be as
 serted that the extreme effective rays fell upon the boundary
 edge of the vane. In this position the reading c was made.
                                 IV. Results.
    Unfortunately, on account of unfavourable weather, but
 very few measurements could be effected. These gave the
 following results on starting from the red end of the first
 spectrum and advancing steadily to the place where the action
 of the apparatus ceased:—
                                    a.           b.         c.          X.
                                                                     millim.
 July 25, with iodine solution. 139 40 0 0 159 6 0 0 130 21 55 5 01)013281
 Aug. 7,     „     „     „      167 30 0-0 183 57 47-0 154 57 19 4 00013658
                                165 46 39-9 184 27 45-8 154 38 56-6 0-0013834
    The situation of the extreme ultra-red rays fell here through
 out in the red of the second spectrum, as one could easily be
 convinced by inserting a red glass plate, since this absorbed
 the blue end of the third spectrum, which coincided with the
 red end of the second.
    When the grating was rotated still further, there came first
 a narrow strip of insensitivity; very soon, however, action of
the dark rays upon the torsion-apparatus made its appearance.
 It commenced within the luminous spectrum of the second
order, and extended to the extreme end of this spectrum,
where the transition to the dark part of the spectrum of the
second order rendered separation of the two spectra no longer
possible.
    It is therefore proved that rays occur in the sun's spectrum
of which the wave-length is double that of the extreme visible

244    M. E. Pringsheim on a Measurement of Wave-length
red rays; consequently its approximate value is
                            \=0-00152 millim.
   In order to determine the breadth of the ineffective strip,
the wave-length of the first rays again effective was measured,
with the following result:—
                                    a.          b.         c.           X.
                                                                    millim.
 Aug. 7, with iodine solution. 165 8 32 0 183 31 21-4 153 34 21-6 0O01390S
                               166 25 14-3                         0-0013864
                                           182 41 9-3j 153 13 51-5
   The insensitive band extended therefore, on the employ
ment of the iodine solution, from\= 0-001 3658 toX= 0-0013908
millim., and, with the ebonite plate, from \=0-0013834 to
X=0-0013864 millim. On the reason of this insensitiveness
nothing exact can at present be stated. There are, how
ever, three possibilities : either a group of Fraunhofer's lines
exist at this place ; or both the plate of ebonite and the
iodine solution are adiathermanous for rays of this particular
refrangibility; or the lampblack does not absorb them. The
reason that the band is much broader when iodine solution
is employed than with ebonite would, with all three ex
planations, be found in the circumstance that the iodine
solution is, on the whole, less transparent at this part of
the spectrum than the ebonite.
                V. Practical and Theoretical Limits.
   In our investigation we met with the practical difficulty
that the dark rays of the spectrum of the first order coincided
with those of the second. Although we have not at present
the means of separating these two kinds of rays, it is very
probable that, by careful investigation of the diathermancy of
various materials, a substance will be discovered impervious
to the first ultra-red rays and transmitting only the rays from
a certain great wave-length onwards.
   Now our arrangement above described is very convenient
for the investigation of the diathermancy of any substance, since
one has only to place the substance in question before the
torsion-apparatus to ascertain with facility, on rotating the
grating, all the parts of the spectrum at which the substance
transmits the rays. Nay, even a quantitative determination of
the diathermancy could be deduced, at least approximately,
from the strength of the deflection produced.

         in the Ultra-red Region of the Spectrum of the Sun.  245
      If in this way we should find a substance possessing the
  desired property, and were to insert it in the path of the rays
  in our arrangement, it would separate for us the thermal
  spectra of the first and second orders just as the ebonite plate
  divided the luminous from the dark spectrum.
      A second circumstance that might set a limit to the further
  investigation of the extreme ultra-red rays after the method
  we have chosen would be that of the lampblack on the
  radiometer-vane not possessing the requisite absorptive power
  for rays of so great a wave-length. If this should turn out
  to be the case, another substance will have to be selected,
  instead of lampblack, for the radiometric substance, possessing
 greater sensitiveness for the rays in question. Thus it is,
 f>erhaps, not impossible to advance beyond theso practical
   imits of the investigation.
     The case stands otherwise, however, with a limitation re
 sulting from the theory, which follows directly from the
 formula (p. 240). Since, namely,
                      \=d [sin S + sin (8 + o\],
 and sin S + sin (8 + o^) can only become equal to 2 at the
 most (a limit, moreover, never to be reached in practice), \
 can never become greater than 2d. If still greater wave
 lengths occurred in the sun's radiation, these rays would not
 appear in the interference spectrum, and to verify their exist
 ence by our method would be impossible. Now, as the
 greater d is made the smaller does the breadth of the
 spectrum become, this limitation of the method is a very
 serious one, because the accuracy of the determination essen
 tially depends on the breadth of the spectrum. With the
 grating-mirror employed by us, this maximum value of X
would amount to
                           Xm = 0-002970,
and therefore would be a quantity of absolutely the same
order as the value of X found from observation.
     If, then, rays of so great a wave-length really do occur in
the sun, this method, like every other that rests on the ex
amination of a diffraction-spectrum, would not be capable of
demonstrating them.          Provisionally, however, it will be
possible, by perfecting the means in the way above indicated,
to demonstrate by our method the existence in the spectrum
of the sun of rays of still greater wave-length than those found
by us.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 94. April 1883.           T

                                [   24G     ]
   XXXV. On Effects of Retentiveness in the Magnetization of
                             Iron and Steel.
   To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
        Gentlemen,
 1BEG leave to forward to you for insertion in your valu
        able Journal the following note.
    In the Proceedings of the Royal Society, vol. xxxiv. no. 220,
 p. 39, there may be found a preliminarj' notice by Mr. J. A.
 Ewing, communicated by Sir W. Thomson, received May (5,
  1882 entitled, " On Effects of Retentiveness in the Magnetiza
 tion of Iron and Steel," the first part of which is very closely
 related to a paper published by myself, Dec. 6, 1880, in the
 Freiburger Berichte, vol. viii., and reprinted in Wiedemann's
 Annalen, vol. xiii. pp. 141-164 (1881). In this paper the
 fundamental fact redescribed by Mr. Ewing was described by
 me a year before as follows :—
    "A permanent moment m0 may have been produced in an
 iron wire by the action of a longitudinal magnetizing force K,.
 Next let the wire be subjected to magnetizing forces which
 first increase continuously from 0 to K, and then decrease con
 tinuously from Kj to 0 ; then, for the same magnetizing force
 K, the magnetic moment of the wire will be found greater
 when K is increasing than when it is decreasing. After some
 repetitions of the operation the wire will be found in a sta
tionary state, in which for K = 0 it always has the same
moment m0 and for K = K, the same moment m0 + mx. If,
therefore, the wire being in
 this condition, its moment is
represented graphically as a
function of the magnetizing
force K, a closed curve C will
be got as represented in the
figure, in which the ascending p.
and the descending branch are
marked by arrows; except
the minimum (0) and maxi
mum (Kx) value of K, two
values of m corespond to every
value of K"*.                             i                     J, „ «
   • Observations included in the above statement are to be louml in a
paper by Fromme (Wied.-drw. iv. pp. 102-105, 1878) ; but the statement
is not derived from the observations, and their bearing on other pheno
mena is not recognized.
   In a footnote of my paper the folio-wing remark may be found :—" With
this fact certain phenomena concerning the effect of torsion on the mag-

              On the Magnetization of Iron and Steel.                247
   In § 1 of my paper it is shown that the integral — jmtfK
extended over the curve C represents in absolute measure the
work done on the magnet during a cycle. In §§ 2, 6, 7 it is
explained how the above phenomenon and this theorem are
connected with the heat produced in a mass of iron by changes
of magnetization, with the damping action exerted by a plate
of iron on a magnet swinging over the plate *, and with the
experiments of Christie f and Barlow J. §§3 and 4 contain
measurements concerning the described phenomenon for wires
of different dimensions, and discussions of the results obtained.
Lastly, in § 8 the analogy of the described phenomenon with
the friction of solids is pointed out.
   Poisson|| has given another theory of the damping action
exerted by an iron plate on a magnet swinging over it. In
Poisson's theory this action is made to depend upon a function
of time; while in my theory the damping action depends on a
merely statical phenomenon. In the experiments which F.
Himstedtlf has made to test my theory, the greatest part of
the damping effect is shown to depend certainly on the action
explained in my theory. Indeed, in these experiments, (1) the
logarithmic decrement of the swinging magnet was found to
be independent of the vibration-time, if this was altered by
altering the moment of inertia of the swinging system;
(2) about 0'84 of the observed damping action was calculated
from merely static experiments ; and reasons are given in F.
Himstedt's paper that the remainder did not depend upon the
Poisson effect.
    In the physical laboratory of the Freiburg University an
 experimental inquiry has been executed by L. Honig, con
 cerning the connexion of the described phenomenon with the
 heat actually evolved in iron wires by changes of magnetiza
 tion. The results of this investigation will soon be published
in Wiedemann's Annalen.
                                    I remain, Gentlemen,
                                              Yours respectfully,
   Freiburg i B., February 24, 1883.                      E. Wa'rbukg.
netic moment of an iron wire observed by SirW. Thomson (Phil. Trans,
clxx. pp. 68-72, 1879) and independently by myself are connected; pro
bably also observations of E. Cohn (Wied. Ann. vi. pp. 388-392) on the
thermoelectric properties of stretched iron wires."
   Hesults similar to those obtained by me for iron wires have since been
found (but not yet published) in cobalt and nickel by A. Ehret.
   * Seebeek, Pogg. Ann. vii. p. 203, and xii. p. 352.
   + Phil. Trans. 1825, part 1, pp. 347-417.
   5 Ibid. pp. 347-417. The last two points have not been considered by
Mr. Ewing.
   II Memoires de VAcadimie, 1823, p. 407.
   % Wied. Ann. vol. xiv. p. 483.
                                    T2

                            [   248    ]
             XXXVI. On the. Meaning of " Force."
            By the Rev. Maxwell H. Close, M.A.
    To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
                                              University Olub, Dublin,
      Gentlemen,                                   March 9, 1883.
PROFESSOR Lamb's communication, on the Basis of
        Statics, in the current number of the Philosophical
Magazine, is intended to promote the interests of the learner
in dynamics. Will you permit me to point out, with the same
object in view, that the word " Force " has not yet acquired a
definite invariable meaning in the science of dynamics ? Until
lately the learner was very seriously incommoded by the fact
that the name " Force " was applied, not only to force proper,
or F, but also to energy, or \Fds, these two being, as is uni
versally recognized, totally disparate. This practice has been
happily discontinued, or almost entirely so ; but it is not, as
far as I know, acknowledged, though it must have been per
ceived by some, that a similar one still very generally obtains.
In accordance with Newton's rather free usage of " via" the
name " Force" is still applied not only to force proper, or F,
but also to what we shall call on the present occasion Impul
sion, or j*F<ft, these two being as completely disparate as
 force proper and energy.
    Clerk Maxwell designates j" Fdt by Impulse ; which name,
 however, usually implies suddenness, intensity, and shortness
 of action, like that of impact. To avoid this association we
 shall now vary this name to Impulsion. It will conduce to
 brevity and convenience, and will answer the present purpose
 perfectly well, to suppose F constant and write Ft for J"F dt.
     Of course in the first place " force " is applied to force
 proper. This is simple pressure or tension, which can be
 measured in pounds weight. It is represented by F in
  Ft = mv i kinetically, therefore, it is the time-rate of change of
 momentum (energetically it is F in Fs=^mv', and the space-
  rate of change of energy). But it will be seen from the fol
  lowing that " force " is often used for impulsion, or Ft, the
  correlate and numerical equivalent of momentum.
     (a) "Whoever translates Newton's Second Law of Motion
  into English, rendering " vis motrix " by *' force," and adopt
  ing the statement as from Newton for himself, is using " force "
  for impulsion. From the exposition appended to Law II. it
  will be seen that " vis motrix ' means, not F, but F< ; for it is
  something which may be " live simul et semel, sive gradatim et
  successive impressa" These words would be without meaning

             Rev. M. H. Close on the Meaning of "Force."         249
   if applied to force proper, but are quite appropriate to impul
    sion. And, agreeably to this, " mutatio motus " means amount,
   not rate, of change of momentum ; for in the exposition it
   appears as " motus," which may be added to (&c.) that which
   may have been originally possessed by the body. It is im
   plied by some writers and expressly stated by others, who
   have not considered the exposition, that the change of mo
   mentum of Law II. is rate of change ; they have been led to
   say this through the still existing ambiguity of " force." It
   is actually the case that, in consequence of this ambiguity,
   competent dynamicists unconsciously differ as to what is the
   subject matter of one of the fundamental Laws of Motion 1
      (6) When force is denned as that which produces momen
   tum, or change of momentum, either " force " means impulsion,
   or else a very incongruous statement is made respecting force
   proper. Force proper, being the rate of change of momentum,
   cannot be the cause of momentum—just as the death-rate in
   some city for a certain week was not the cause of the aggre
   gate of deaths in that week, and as velocity, the rate of dis
   placement, is not that which produces the displacement, and
  as density, the volume-rate of mass, is not the cause of mass.
   Some other considerations show that force proper must not be
   called the cause of momentum: e.g. if we call it so we must, for
  a similar reason, also say that it is the cause of kinetic energy;
   so that the same cause may have two totally disparate effects,
  which is absurd. In accordance with Newton's language in
  the exposition of Law II., we may style impulsion the gene
  rator or cause of momentum ; though it might be perhaps
  more correct to say that it is the power of producing momen
  tum, just as energy is the power of performing work.
      (c) When, as frequently occurs, force is said to be expended,
  either " force " means impulsion, or else a very incongruous
  statement is made respecting force proper. Under statical
  circumstances there is clearly no expenditure of force ; and
  this is equally so in a kinetical operation. A force of one
 pound is applied to an immovable obstacle ; an equal force is
 simultaneously applied to a free mass; at the end of some
 period of time both forces are all there, as at the beginning ;
 there has been no expenditure of either in any ordinary non-
 transcendental sense of the word. That the point of appli
 cation of the latter is not where it was at first is quite irrele
vant to the present question. Force proper, or the rate of
production of momentum, is not expended in producing the
momentum, any more than the death-rate in some city is
expended in producing the mortality therein. It is the im
pulsion, or Ft, which is expended pari passu with the produc

250       Rev. M. H. Close on the Meaning of "Force."
tion of momentum, just as potential energy, or F*, is ex
pended in the performance of work.
    (d) It is sometimes said that Newton has proved the com
position of the effects of conjoint forces in Corollary 1 to the
Laws of Motion. " Forces " here means impulsions; for it is
only with these that tbat corollary deals. This appears not
only a priori, because force proper does not produce motion,
but also from the reference in that corollary to Law II., which
must be read in the light of Newton's own exposition of it
quoted above. If the times of the two impulsions be equal,
then (but not otherwise) are the sides of the parallelogram
proportional to the forces proper concerned; and the com
position of these follows from Cor. 1. Though this additional
step was so easy to Newton that he has unconsciously taken it
 for granted in Cor. 2, which, in the discussion, though not
 in the enunciation, deals with forces proper, yet it is an
additional step, and should not be ignored; for it has, not un
reasonably though perhaps unnecessarily, presented difficulty
 to distinguished dynamicists. The composition of forces
proper does not follow immediately from that of velocities.
 Newton's argument, as clearly drawn out, consists of three
stages, viz.:— 1, the composition of velocities (kinematical) ;
 2, the composition of impulsions (kinetical) ; 3, the composi
tion of forces proper (statical). The second is involved in the
 first; but the third has to be deduced from the second.
    (c) Sometimes F, as in Ft = mv, is spoken of as though it
were impulsion of unit of time, and not merely numerically
equivalent thereto and measurable thereby. Similarly v, or
velocity, is sometimes spoken of as the space described in unit
of time. In this and other cases there is no danger of any
misapprehension on the part of the learner; but it is otherwise
in the case of force. From frequent repetition the above form
 of speech has sometimes solidified, as it were, into a qnasi-
ontological principle, by which force and impulsion of unit of
time are identified—these two being totally disparate, as much
 so as force proper and energy of unit of space. It is not easy
 to criticise satisfactorily the phrase " time-integral of force,"
 which may have originated only as a brief and convenient,
 though acknowledgedly loose, expression. But, considering
 the insufficient recognition of the complete disparateness of
 force and impulsion, we may be allowed to suspect that in this
 expression it is not that dt is understood, but that "force"
 originally meant, and still means, „the differential of impulse,
 or Y dt ; which would quite fall in with what we have just
 been complaining of. At any rate this expression tends to
 keep up the obscurity of distinction between force and impul
 sion or its element or its differential.

      Number ofFractions contained in any "Farey Series."        251
      We may here observe (though this is a different point) that
  the expressions " time-integral of force," for impulsion, and
  "space-integral of force," for potential energy, have in some
  cases, from frequent use, reacted upon the users of them ; so
  that we find impulsion called the " total force in a finite time,"
  and potential energy the " sum of the tensions," " force " and
  " tensions " being force and forces proper. The competent
  writers now alluded to have inadvertently allowed themselves
  to use expressions precisely analogous to the statement that
  the area of a plane curve is the sum of the ordinates. It can
  be only in some transcendental sense that a force or pressure,
  supposed constant for simplicity, which has existed statically
  for a given time, may be said to be the sum of the applications
  of force in each second of that time ; and this is equally true
  if the force have been existing kinetically.
     What we may call the mathematical analogy between
  energy, or Fs, and impulsion, or Ft, is complete, notwith
  standing the metaphysical considerations involved in the dif
  ference between their factors s and t. Each is of two dimen
  sions ; while force, or F, is of one. F being measurable in
  pounds, Fs is measurable in foot-pounds, and Ft in second-
 pounds. Each is equally disparate from F ; though very
 dissimilarly so, since they are disparate from each other.
 As Fa is the power of performing work, so Ft is the power of
 producing momentum. Neither had a name until the present
 century. It was this that gave room to the remarkable contro
 versy concerning the true measure of the " moving force " of
 a body in motion which went on for over forty years in the last
 century, " to the great scandal of science" as Montucla says.
 Each needs a distinctive appropriated name, as much as the
 other. One, viz. Ft, has not yet acquired a universally recog
 nized proper name ; but the sooner it does so the better for
 the learner, and also for the science of dynamics, which then
 need not be guilty of the rather unscientific proceeding of
occasionally giving more than one meaning to " Force."
                                  Your obedient servant,
                                                    M. H. Close.
XXXVII. On the Number of Fractions contained in any "Farey
    Series " of which the Limiting Number is given. By J. J.
    Sylvester*.
A FAREY series ("suite de Farey") is a system of all
         the unequal vulgar fractions arranged in order of mag
nitude, the numerator and denominator of which do not exceed
a given number.
    The first scientific notice of these series appeared in the
                  * Communicated by the Author.

252 Prof. Sylvester on the NumJter of Fractions contained in.
Philosophical Magazine, vol. xlvii. (1816) pp. 385, 386. In
1879 Mr. Glaisher published in the Philosophical Magazine
(pp. 321-336) a paper on the same subject containing a proof
of their known properties, an important extension of the sub
ject to series in which the numerators and denominators are
subject to distinct limits, and a bibliography of Mr. Goodwyn's
tables of such series. Finally, in 1881 Sir George Airy con
tributed a paper also to the Philosophical Magazine of that
year, in which he refers to a table calculated by him " some
years ago," and printed in the Selected Papers of the Transac
tions of the Institution of Civil Engineers, which is in fact a
Farey table with the logarithms of the fractions appended to
each of them. Previous tables had only given the decimal
values of such fractions. The drift of this paper is to point
out a caution which is necessary to observe in the use of such
tables, and which limits their practical utility : this arises
from the fact of the differences receiving a very large aug
mentation in the immediate neighbourhood of the fractions
which are a small aliquot part of unity—a fact which may be
 inferred d priori from the well-known law discovered by Farey
 applicable to those differences, but to which the author of the
 paper makes no allusion.
    In addition to the tables of Farey series by Goodwyn,
 Wucherer, an anonymous author mentioned in the Babbage
 Catalogue, and Gauss, referred to by Mr. Glaisher in his
 Report to the Bradford Meeting of the British Association
 (1873), may be mentioned one contained in Herzer's Tabellen
 (Basle, 1864) with the limit 57, and another in Hrabak's
  Tabellen- Werk (Leipsic, 1876), in which the limit is taken at 50.
    The writers on the theory are:—Cauchy (as mentioned by
 Mr. Glaisher), who inserted a communication relating to it in
 the Bulletin des Sciences par la Socie'te' Philomathique de Paris,
 republished in his Exercices de Mathe'matiques ; Mr. Glaisher
 himself (/oc. cit.); M. Halphen, in a recent volume of the Pro
 ceedings of the Mathematical Society of France; and M. Lucas,
 in the next following volume of the same collection. I am
 indebted to my friend and associate Dr. Story for these later
  references.
     For theoretical purposes it is desirable to count | as one
  of the fractions in a Farey series. The number of such frac
  tions for the limit j then becomes identical with the sum of
  the totients of all the natural numbers up to j inclusive—a
  totient to x (which I always denote by tx) meaning the num
  ber of numbers less than x and prime to it. Such sum, t. e.
   2 rx, I denote by Tj. My attention was called to the sub-
 '=j
 ject by this number T; expressing the number of terms in a

any "Farey Series1'' of which the Limiting Number is given.      253
function whose residue (in Cauchy's sense) is the generating
function to any given simple denumerant (see footnote to
American Journal of Mathematics, vol. v. p. 123) ; and I
became curious to know something about the value of Tj. I
had no difficulty in tinding a functional equation which serves
 to determine its limits (see Johns Hopkins University Circular,
Jan. and Feb. 1883). The most simple form of that equation
 (omitted to be given in the Circular) is
 (where, when x is a fraction, Tx is to be understood to mean
 Tj, j being the integer next below x); and from this it is not
 difficult to deduce by strict demonstration that Tj/f, when_/'
 increases indefinitely, approximates indefinitely near to 3/w'1.
     I have subsequently found that if ux be used to denote the
                                                                1=0
 sum of all the numbers inferior and prime to x, and U/= 2 ux,
        Uf + 2 Ui + 3U { + 4U { + . ¦ . = & + W + 2>
          J       I      3       4                  3
  (where ILr, when x is a fraction, means the U of the integer next
  inferior to x). From this equation it is also possible to prove that
  TJj/j3, when j becomes indefinitely great, approximates to 1/7T2.
  U/', it may be well to notice, is the sum of all the numerators
  of the fractions in a Farey series whose limit is^, just as Tj is
  the number of these fractions.
     In the annexed Table the value of tx (the totient), of Tx
  (the sum-totient), and of 3 / u3 . x2 is calculated for all the
  values of x from 1 to 500; and the remarkable fact is brought
  to light that Tx is always greater than 3/7T1 .x1 (the number
  opposite to it), and less than 3/it3. (x+ l)2, the number which
  comes after the former one in the same table.
     I have calculated in my head the first few values of JJx,
  and find (if I have made no mistake) that it obeys an analo
   gous law, viz. is always intermediate between 1 / n* . x3 and
   1/TT1.(X+ l)3.
      It may also be noticed that when n is a prime number,
   Tn is always nearer, and usually very much nearer, to the
   superior than to the inferior limit—as might have been anti
   cipated from the circumstance that, when this is the case, in
   passing from n — 1 to n the T receives an augmentation of
   n— 1, whereas its average augmentation is only ^{2n— 1).
      In like manner and for a similar reason, when n contains
   several small factors Tn is nearer to the inferior than to the
   superior limit. For instance, when /t = 210, Tn = 13414 and
   3/7r2.n2= 1340479.

254       Prof. Sylvester on the Number of Fractions contained in
Table of Totients, of Sum-totients, and of 3/tt2 into the Squares
             of all the Numbers from 1 to 500 inclusive.
                                [J- = -3031)6355].
n r(H) T(»)          An' i • r(») T(»)          3»»
                                                       • K«) T(»)
  1    1       1        ¦30     49 42    754   729-82  97  90  2902  2860-00
  2    1       2      1-22      50  20   774   759-91  98  42  2944  2919-27
  3    2       4      274   i   51 32    806   790-61  99  00  3004  2979-15
  4    2       6      4-86      52 24    830   821-92 100  40  3044  3039-64
  5    4      10      7-1)0 ,   53 52    882   853-83 101 100  3144  31U0-73
  6    2      12     10-94      54  18   900   880 30 102  32  3170  3162 44
  7    6      18     14-90      55 40    940   919-49 103 102  3278  3224-75
  8    4      22     19-40      50 24    904   953 23 104  48  3320  3287-67
  9    6      28     24 62      57 36   1000   987 58 105  48  3374  3351-20 1
10     4      32     30-40      58  28  1028  1022 54 100  52  3420  3415-34!
11   10       42     30-78      59 58   1086  1058 10 107 106  3532  34*0i#!
12     4      46     43-77      00  16  1102  1094-27 108  30  3568  354544
13   12       58     51-37      01 60   1162  1131-05 109 108  3676  .'5*51 1-401
14     6      64     59-58      02 30   1192  1108-44 110  40  3710  3677-96
15     8      72     68-39      63 36   1228  120643  111  72  37S8  374514
16     8      80     77-81      64 32   1200  1245 03 112  48  3830  3*12-92
17   16       96     87-84      65 48   1308  1284-25 113 112  3918  3881 31
18     6     102     98-48      66  20  1328  1324-07 114  36  3984  3950-31
19   18      120    109-73      67 66   1394  1304-49 115  88  4072  4019-92
20     8     128    121-58      68  32  1420  1405-53 110  56  4128  409014
21   12      140    134 05  i1  09 44   1470  1447-17 117  72  4200  4160*5
22   10      l.W    14712       70  24  1494  1489-42 118  58  4258  4232-39
23   22      172    160-79      71  70  1564  1532-28 119  90  4354  4304-43
24     8     180    175-08      72  24  1588  157575  120  32  4380  4377-08
25   20     200     189-98      73  72  1000  1019-82 121 110  4490  4450-33
26   12     212    205-48       74  36  1090  1664-51 122  00  4556  4524-19
27   18      230   221-59       75 40   1730  1709-80 123  80  4036  4598-66
28   12      242   23831        76  36  1772  1755 69 124  60  4696  4673-74
29   28      270   255-63       77  60  1832  1802-20 125 100  4796  4749-43
30     8    278    273-50       78  24  1856  1849-31 120  30  4832  4825-72
31   30     308    29211        79  78  1934  1897 04 127 120  4958  4902-63
32   16     324    311-20       80 32   1906  1945 37 128  64  5022  498014
33   20     344    333 01       81  54  2020  1994-31 129  84  5106  5058-26
34   16     3li0   351-38       82  40  2000  2043-85 130  48  5154  5130-98
35   24      384   372 35       83  82  2142  2094-01 131 130  5284  521632
36   12      396   393-93       84  24  2100  2144-77 132  40  5324  5296-26
37   36      432   41012        85  64  2230  219014  133 108  5432  5370 81
3*   18     450    438-92       80 42   2272  2248-12 134  00  5498  545797
3!)  24     474    462-32       87  56  2328  2500 70 135  72  5570  5539-74
40   16     400    486-34     i 88  40  2:508 2353-90 130  04  5634  562211
41   40      530   51090        89  ss  2456  240770  137 13l) 5770  5705-09
42   12      542   530- 19    1 90  24  2480  240210  138  44  5814  5788-68
4:!  42      584   50202        91  72  2552  2517-12 139 138  5952  5872-88
44   '_'0    604   588-47       92 44   2590  2572-75 140  48  6000  5957-69
4.". 24      628   015-52     1 93  60  2650  2028-98 141  92  6092  6O43-10
46   22     050    643 19       94 46   2702  2685-82 142  70  6102  012912
47   40     696    071-45       95  72  2774  274327  143 120  0282  6215-75
48   16     712    700-33       96  32  2806  2801-33 144  48  (5330 63021W

    any uForty Series " ofwhich the Limiting Number is given. 255
                              Table (continued).
  n   r(») TOO     —3 n-.,                                             3 a
                   **        n r(n) T(»)     I-       n r(») T(n)
 145   112 6442 6390 83 198 60      11954  1191659   251  250 19274  1915001
 146    72 6514 647929 199 198      12152  1203726   252   72 193-16 19302-90
 147    84 6598 6568-35 200 80      12232  12158-54! 253  220 19566  19456-40
US          6070 6658-02 i201 132   12364  12280-43  254  126 19692  19010-51
 14'J 148 6S18 6748-29 202 100      12464  12402-93  255  128 19820  19765-23
 150    40 6858 6839- 18 203 168    12632  12526-03  25(5 128 19948  19920-56
 151  150 7008 6930-67 204 64       12696  12649-75  257  256 20204  20076-49
 152    72 70.80 702277 205 ! 160   12856  12774 07  258   84 20288  20233 03
 153    96 7176 7115-48 206 102     12958  1289900   259  216 20504  2039018
 154    00 72:36 7208 80 207 132    13090  13024-54  260   96 20600  20547-94
 155  120 7356 7302-72 208 96       13186  13150-68  261  168 20768  20706-30
 156    48 7404 7397-26 209 180     13366  13277-43  262  130 20898  20865-28
 157   156 7560 7492 40 210 48      13414  13404-79  263  262 21160  21024-86
 158    78 7638 758815 211 210      13624  13532-76  264   80 31240  21185 05
 150  104 7742 7684-51 212 104      13728  13661-34  265  208 21448  21345-84
 160    64 7806 778147 213 140      13868  13790-52  266  108 21556  21507-25
 161  132 7938 787904 214 106       13974  13920-32  267  176 21732  21669-26
 162    54 7902 797722 215 168      14142  14050 72  268  132 21864  21831-88
 163  162 8154 8076-01 216 72       14214  14181-73  269  268 22132  2199511
 104    80 8234 8175-41 217 180     14394  1431334   270   72 22204  22158-95
 165    So 8314 8275-41 218 108     14502  14445-57  271  270 22474  22323-39
 It*I   82 8396 837602 219 144      14646  14578-40  272  128 22602  22488-44
 167  160 85IS2 8477-24 220 80      14726  14711-84  273  144 22746  22654 10
 168    48 8610 8579 07 221 192     14918  14845-89  274  136 22882  22820-37
 169  156 8766 8081 -50 222 72      14990  14980-54  275  200 23082  22987-25
 170    64 8830 8784-55 223 222     15212  15115-81  276   88 23170  23154-73
 171  108 8938 8888-20 224 96       15308  15251-68  277  276 23446  23322-82
 172    84 9022 8992-46 225 120     15428  15388 16  278  138 23584  23491-62
 173  172 9194 9097-33 226 112      15.540 15525-25  279  180 23764  23660-83
 174    56 9250 9202-80 227 226     15766  15662-94  280   96 23860  23830-75
 175   120 9370 9308-88 228 72      15838  15801-24  281  280 24140  24001-27
 nt;    80 9450 9415-57 229 228     16066  15940-15  282   92 24232  24172-40
 177   116 9566 952287 230 88       16154  16079-67  283  282 24514  24344 14
 178    88 9654 9030-78 231 120     16274  16219-80  284  140 24654  24516-49
 179  178 9832 9739-29 232 112      16386  16360-53  285  144 24798  24689-44
 180    48 9880 984842 233 232      16618  16501-87  286  120 24918  2486300
 181   180 10060 9058 15 234 72     16090  16643 82  287  240 25158  25037-18
182     72 10132 10008-49 235 i 184 16874  16786-38  288   96 25254  25211-96
183    120 10252 10179-44 236 116   16990  16929-55  289  272 25526  25387-34
184     88 10340 10290-99 237 156   17146  17073-32  290  112 25638  25563-34
185   144 10484 1040315 238 96      17242  17217-70  291  192 25830  25739-94
186     60 10544 10515-92 239 238   17480  17362-70  292  144 25974  25917 15
187    160!lO7O4 10029-30 ;240 64   17544  17508-30  293  292 26266  26094-97
im      92 10796 10743-29 241 240   17784  17654-51  294   84 26350  26273 40
189    108 10904 10857-88 1 242 110 17894  17801-32  295  232 26582  2645243
100     72 10976 10973-09 243 162   18056  17948-74  296  144 26726  26632-07
191   190 11166 11088-90 244 120    18176  1800677   297  180 26906  26812-32
192     64 11230 11205-31 245 168   18344  18245-41  298  148 27054  2699318
103   192 11422 11322-34 246 80     18424  18394-06  299  264 27318  27174 65
194     96 11518 11439-97 247 216   18640  18544-51  300   80 27398  27356-72
195     96 11614 11558-21 248 120   18760  18694-97  301  252 27650  27539-40
190     84 11698 11677 06 249 164   18924  18846 04  302  150 27800  27722 69
197   196 11894 11796-52 250 100    19024  18907-72| 303  200 28000  28906-59
          0

  256    Number of Fractions contained in any "Farey Series."
                              Table (continued).
 n r(») T(»)       J."       ii r(«) T(«)     1-           r(») T(»)     n
304  144 28144   2809110 357     192  38S22 38739-85 1410 160 '51210 51096-2T
305  240 28384   28276 21 358    178  39000 38957-18:!411 1272 51482 51345-83
30li  96 28480   284(11-93 359   358 39358 3917513 1412 204 1 51080 1 51595-09
307  300 28780   28048-20 360     96 39454 3939308 413 348 52034 51846-76
308  120 28900   28835-20 361    342 39790 39012-83 414 1 132 52100 52098 14
309  204 211111) 29022 75 302    180 39970 39832 00 415 328 52494 5235012'
310  120 29230   29210-90 303    220 40190 4005297 416 192 52086 5260272
311  310 29540   29399-00 304    144 40340 4027395 417 270 52902 52855-921
312   90 2963(1  29589 03 365    288 40028 40495-54 418 180 53142 5310973
313  312 29948   2977901 306     120 40748 40717 74 419 418 53500 5336415
314  150 30104   29909-59 367    306 41114 40940-55 420 96 53056 6361917
315  144 30248   30100-79 368    170 41290 41103-96 421 420 54070 63874-60
310  156 30404   30352-59 309    240 41530 41387 98 422 210 54286 54131-04
317  310 30720   30545-00 370    144 41(174 41612-61 423 276 54502 54387-69
318  104 30824   30738-01 371   312  41986 4183785 424 208 54770 54645-351
3111 280 31104   30931-64 372    120 42100 42003 09 425 320 55090 54903-42
320  128 31232   31125 87 373   372  42478 42290 15 420 140 55230 55162D9
321  212 31444   31320-71 374    160 42638 4251721 427 360 55590 55421-39
322  ?32 31570   3161616 375    200  42838 42744-87 428 212 55802 55681 -261
323  288 318(14  31712-22 370    184 43022 429731 5 429 240 66042 5594176
324  108 31972   31908-88 377   336  43358 43202-04 430 168 56210 56202-86
325  240 32212   32 100- 15 378  108 43466 43431-53 431 430 50040 56464-57
326  162 32374   3230403 379    378  43844 43601-63 432 144 5G764 5672689
327  216 32590   32502-52 380    144 43988 4389234 433 432 57216 50989-82
328  100 32750   32701-62 381   252  44240 14123-65 434 180 57396 57253-86
329  270 33020   32901-32 382    190 44430 44355-58 485 224 57620 57517-60
330   80 33100   33101-63 383   382  44812 44588- 11 430 216 57836 57782-26
331  330 33430   33302-55 384    128 44940 44821 25 437 390 6S232 68047-62
332  104 33(100  33504-08 385   240  45180 45055 00 438 144 58376 58313-58
333  216 33816   33706-22 ' 386  192 45372 45289-36 439 438 58814 58580-16
334  100 33982   33908 9(5 387  252  45624 46524-32 440 160 58974 68847-34
335  264 31240   34112-31 388    192 45810 45759 89 441 252 59226 5911514
33fi  96 34342   3431027 389    388  46204 45996-07 442 192 59418 59383-54
337  330 34078   34520-84 390     90 46300 40232-80 443 442 59860 59652-54
338  150 34834   34720-01 391   852  40652 46470 25 444 144 60004 59922 16
339  224 35058   34931-80 392    108 40820 4070825 446 362 60356 60192-38
340  128 35180   35138 19 393   260  47080 40946-87 446 222 00578 00463 22
341  300 35486   35345-19 394    196 47276 47186 09; 447 296 60874 00734-66
342  108 35594   35552-80 395   312  47588 47425-91. 448 192 01000 61006-70
843  294 ai888   35701 01 1396   120 47708 476G6&5 449 448 61514 61279-36
344  168 30050   35909 83 397   390  48104 47907-39 460 120 01634 01552-62
345  170 30232   36179 26,398   198  48302 48149-04' 451 400 62034 6182649
346  172 36404   30389-30 '399  216  48518 48391-30 452 224 62258 62100-97
347  346 30750   3(1599-95 400  160  48678 48034 17 453 300 02558 6237600
348  112 30802   30811-211 401  400  49078 48879 64 454 220 62784 62651 75
349  348 37210   3702307 402    132  49210 4912173 455 1 288 (53072 02928-05
350  120 37330   37235-54 403   360  49570 49360 42 460 ' 144 63210 63204-97
351  216 37540   37448-61 404   200  49770 49011-72 457 456 63672 63482-48
362  100 37700   37602-30 405   216  49980 49857 02 458 228 03900 63760-61
353  352 38058   37876-59 400   168  50154 50104-14 469 288 641,88 64039-35
3M   no  38174   38091-50 407   360  50514,60351-20 400 170 64364 64318(19
355  2MI M8454   38307-01 408    128 60642 50598-99 401 400 64824 0459864
35(i 170 38(130  38523 12 409   408  51050 50847-33 462 120 64944 04879-20

      Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on Permanent Magnetism.             257
                           Table (continued).
                                          3 ,
                                          Pn
 n r(n) T(«)              n r{n) T(n)             n r(n) T(n)
463  462  65406 65160-36 476  192 68964 68870-85 489 324 72872 7208407
464  224  65630 65442 14 477 312  69276 69160-52 490 108 73040 72981-05
465  240  05870 65724-52 478  238 69514 69450-81 491 490 73530 7327984
466  232  66102 66007-51 479 478  09992 69741-70 492 160 73090 7357803
467  466  66568 66291 11 480  128 70120 70033-20 493 448 74138 7387804
468  144  66712 66575-31 481 432  70552 70325-31 494 210 74354 7417805
469  396  67108 66860-13 482 240  70792 70018-03 495 240 74594 74478 67
470  184  67292 67145-55 483  264 71056 70911-35 496 240 74834 74779-90
471  312  67604 67431-58 484 220  71276 71205-29 497 420 75254 75H81-73
472  232  67836 67718-22 485 384  71660 71499-&5 498 104 75418 753841 8
473  420  68256 68005-46 486  162 71822 71794-98 499 498 75916 75087 23
474  156  68412 68293-32 487 486  72308 72090-73 500 200 76116 7599089
475  360  68772,6858178  488 240  72548 72387-10
               XXXVIII. On Permanent Magnetism.
      By R. H. M. Bosanquet, St. John's College, Oxford.
    To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
         Gentlemen,
  I HAVE succeeded in completely determining, to a mode
         rate approximation, all the quantities involved in the
  experiment mentioned in my paper in the March number of
  the Philosophical Magazine. I propose to give a short sum
  mary of the results, reserving a more complete account for a
  future occasion.
     The external or air resistances were determined by magne
  tizing, in the bifilar, arrangements of soft iron similar to the
  steel. The resistance of the soft iron is small, and is allowed
  for by Rowland's table. The total resistance is the quotient
  of the magnetomotive force, (47rCn), by the magnetic induc
  tion 33.
     A set of 18 pieces of soft iron similar to the pieces of the
  compound magnet gave for the total resistance of each piece
  •454 centim.
     23 = 116 gives from Rowland's table /*=about 400, whence
       - = -004 is to be subtracted, and we have for the air resist-
   400
  ance -450 centimetre, or "47 R. (R is not quite the same in
  the iron and steel.)
     A long piece of soft iron, similar to the whole magnet joined
  up, gave
                   Total resistance ="339 centim.

258      Mr. R. H. M. Bo«anqnet on Permanent Magnetism.
33 = 553 gives from Rowland's table /* = 800 nearly, whence
28*5
gyjj is to be subtracted, ='036 ;
                    Air resistance ='303 centim.
                                   = *32 R say.
In the steel R is very nearly 1 centim.
   With the above values for the air resistances we can deter
mine the resistance of the steel from the ratio of deflections
when joined and separate. Let r be the resistance of each
piece. Then
                    18r+-32 _ tan 13° _
                   18(r + -47)~tanl°-8             '
whence
                              r=*0555 ;
and resistance of unit length
                           _ r _ 1
                              1-58 ~ 28-5'
whence
                             /*=28-5.
  Direct Determination of Permealnlity (fi) of Steel Compound
                                Magnet.
   The magnet was enclosed in a paper case, joined up, and
wound with 1 80 coils. The currents employed did not dis
turb the permanent magnetism.
                Current.               Mean displacement.
             •48 ampere.            2°"0, from 12° to 14°.
(The deflection was really observed from zero 13° in opposite
directions ; and it amounted to 4O-0.)
              Change of moment             = 497.
(The moment of the bar joined up is 3120.)
              Total resistance             = 1*4 centim.
              Subtracting air resistance = *3 centim.
              Resistance of steel          = l'l centim.
              Resistance of unit length =            =
                                /x=26*.
   * Since the above was written I have subjected the mmilers to a
careful scrutiny, and made another determination of /i directly, having
discovered a possible source cf error in the above. The resulting nuni"
bers all lie between 30 and 32.

                  On the Error* of our Sensations.                  259
   The discrepancy between 26 and 28 is not greater than may
be expected from the sinallness of some of the observed quan
tities. These numbers agree very well with those given by
Meyer for his first two sorts of hard steel, which, I gather,
were in better condition than the others (Wiedemann's An-
nalen, xviii. p. 245). The values that agree best with each
other are about
                  k = 2-l,             ^ = 4^ = 26-4
to
                  k=2-5,              fi=         31-4.
   I propose to give some details in a future paper.
   The result is, that if the magnetic induction in a permanent
magnet be supposed to arise from a permanent magnetomotive
 force acting on a magnetic resistance, the resistance can be
determined by the behaviour of the magnet on separation ;
and this resistance is numerically identical with that offered
to external magnetomotive force.
 XXXIX. On the Errors of our Sensations : a Contribution to
    the Study of Illusion and Hallucination*. By Emile Yung,
    D.ScA
 WHILE investigating, during the last few years, the
          question of animal magnetism, I have been led to pay
 some attention to the phenomena of illusion and hallucination.
 We know in a general way to how many errors our sense-
 organs are exposed ; it is useful to ascertain these in one's
 self, to produce them in other people, and to try to correct
 them in every body; and it is necessary to determine them for
 each sense and for each individual. The same phenomenon is
 often appreciated in very different manners by different ob
 servers, or by the same observer at different periods. We
 should always adopt it as an absolute rule to observe the same
 fact several times under different subjective conditions before
 asserting its objective existence. And if it is desirable that
 this rule should be applied by well qualified observers, it ought,
   * The present memoir (fives only the commencement of a series of ex
periments undertaken upon the normal human subject with the purpose of
checking and measuring the value of the testimony of our organs of sense.
Dr. Yung begs that physicists and naturalists will have the goodness to
communicate to him any isolated but positive observations that they may
possess upon this subject.
   t Translated from the Bibliotheque UniverseUe, Archives des Sciences
 Physiques et NatureUes, ser. 3, tome ix. p. 156.

  260                Dr. E. Yung on the Errors
  a fortiori, always to be so by persons who have not learned to
  see and feel—that is to say, who do not know how to check
  by one another the data furnished by their sense-organs.
      In fact we cannot scrutinize scientifically the mysteries of
  the external world except by the intermediation of the organs
  of the senses, and we' only know of them what the latter con
 vey to us. It is consequently of the first importance to us
 that these organs should not deceive us. Nevertheless two
 kinds of error are frequent, namely illusion and hallucination.
     To make clear what is to follow, we may briefly recapitulate
 in what that complex phenomenon that we call a sensation
 actually consists. In every sensation we may distinguish
 three phases:—
     1. The impression, which consists in the direct or indirect
 contact of the object with the receptive apparatus, or the peri
 pheric extremity of our sensitive nerves. In order to fix our
 ideas let us assume (and this is in accordance with the recent
 data of physiology) that from the contact in question there
 results a movement, a shock, a vibration, which modifies the
 receptive apparatus.
     2. The transmission of the impression (that is to say, of this
 movement, or vibration) through special organic conductors,
 the nervous tubes.
    3. Perception, which is produced for the observer by a
movement of reaction effected in the cellular nervous mass.
Perception is conscious or unconscious, according as the move
 ment has been transmitted to the cerebral cells, or only to
 those of the spinal marrow.
    The nerves of special sense are unfitted to convey other
impressions than those for which they have been specialized.
Any mechanical, physical, or chemical disturbance of the
optic nerve, for example, will show itself not by a perception
of pain, but by a luminous perception. Under similar circum
stances the auditory nerve will transmit a sonorous sensation
&c. A special nerve may therefore transmit a sensation inde
pendently of the agent which normally excites it. In the
most complete darkness we may experience luminous sensa
tions; for this, as every one knows, it is sufficient to compress
rather strongly the globe of the eye, and thus to agitate the
retina.
    We do not know the localities in the brain in which the move
ments communicated by luminous or sonorous vibrations be
come transformed into conscious sensations of light or sound;
but it is probable that all the cells of the brain are not in
differently fitted for this purpose. It is very probable that
there is in this case a division of physiological labour, in

                         of our Sensations.                    261
 accordance with which certain cell-groups are specially set
 apart for luminous transformations, other groups for sonorous
 transformations, &c.
    If we assume for a moment that some disturbance or other
 (for example, a more considerable afflux of blood into the cor
 responding region of the brain) excites one of these cell-groups,
 there will result from it a conscious sensation, or the revival
 of an anterior sensation. And it is thus, under certain cir
 cumstances, by defect of judgment, or by defect of control,
 that we may be led to interpret as real luminous or sonorous
 sensations internal agitations, independent of any light or
 sound, of the optic or auditory perceptive centres.
    In an analogous manner, in certain conditions of alteration
 of the nervous conductors, real objective impressions may be
 modified during their transmission to the brain. Hence come
 false perceptions of images, or of sounds, arising from a patho
 logical condition of the optic or auditory nerves.
    To sum up:—A sensation excited by an external object may
 be altered during its transmission to the brain ; and a sensa
 tion not corresponding to any external object may originate
 in consequence of an internal disturbance of the sensitive
 nerves or of the perceptive centres themselves. In the former
 case the result has received the name of illusion; in the second
 we have to do with hallucination. Hallucination, says Prof.
 Ball, is a perception without an object.
    The individual who thinks he sees a brigand armed to the
 teeth when he has before him only the trunk of a tree, or who
 sees a body in motion when the body which meets his eyes is
 really in repose, is under the influence of an illusion. Those
 who see phantoms pass in the dark, who hear celestial voices
 in the most absolute silence, or who believe that they touch
 angels or demons when no object strikes their tactile extre
mities, are under hallucination.
    These, of course, are extreme examples; but within more
restricted limits we are all exposed to similar errors which
become the source of false interpretations in the observation
of natural phenomena. We all know trustworthy persons
who assert that they have experienced some sensation or other,
upon which they furnish all the details one can ask of them,
and who in reality have been the subjects of a hallucination.
Facts of this kind are exceedingly frequent among the " good
subjects " of the mesmerists—that is to say, among persons
suffering from a hysterical, hypnotic, somnambulic, or other
neurosis, and who, by the mere fact of their peculiar nervous
condition, are much more exposed to the production of illusions
or hallucinations.
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 94. April 1883.           U

2(32                  Dr. E. Yung on the Errors
   I discard here the cases of neurosis, and shall only speak of
the hallucinations which one may succeed in exciting in every
individual. I must hope to be pardoned for the somewhat
charlatanic proceedings adopted in the following experiments,
in consideration of the interest of the results obtained.
                              First Series.
     Experiments made with the so-called Magnetized Card*.
   Arrangement.—I take any eight cards from a pack and
arrange them on a table in a certain figure to which I attri
bute very great importance. This figure, as shown in the
following diagram, corresponds to the human face (1 card for
the forehead, 2 for the eyes, 1 for the nose, 2 for the ears,
 1 for the mouth, and 1 for the chin). Then, after having
affected scepticism upon the question of the existence of " a
                                   Fore
                                   head
                          ¦ \
                       Right                   Left
                        eye                     eye
                                   Nose
              Right                                      Left
               ear                                        ear
                                   Mouth
                                    Chin
  magnetic fluid," I admit that the experiment which I am
  about to show to the persons present seems to me to prove
  that there are certain phenomena difficult to explain without
  a "fluid." I then touch all the cards in order to impregnate
  them with " my fluid," and declare myself ready to try the
     * This card trick is verv old and very well known. I do not know,
  however, that it has ever been made use of for methodical experiments.
  Tlip triok itself was shown to me by my learned friend Dr. Le'on Fre-
  dericq. Professor of Physiology in the University of Liege. He witnessed
  some of the results described further on.

                         of our Sensations.                    263
experiment with the first person who may desire to do so. It
is indeed very rare, as will be seen immediately, for the expe
riment not to succeed, and this equally with incredulous
persons and with those who believe in the fluid and in the
fantastic tales of some mesmerists. I then pretend to place
myself in magnetic relation with some person in the company,
I apply my hand to his forehead, press his hand strongly,
or perform some other absurdity of the same kind, and then
request him to touch one of the cards of the figure without
my knowledge. In order still more to convince the party
that I do not see, I quit the room while he " magnetizes " the
card.
   At my return, an accomplice (for one is necessary) imme
diately indicates the card touched, without attracting any
body's attention, by scratching the corresponding part (nose,
chin, eye, &c.) of his own face. Being thus instructed I
perform an innocent comedy, which consists in pretending
that I am going to recognize the card touched by means of a
sensation (attraction, draught of air, quivering, odour, &c.) due
no doubt to the fluid deposited by the person. In fact I make
believe to experience this sensation from the card which has
been indicated to me by my accomplice, as I have described.
As I am never mistaken, every one is much astonished at the
 success obtained. How is it possible that the fact of the
fingers having been placed for a moment upon this card has
 sufficed to communicate to it snch a property ?
    Up to this point the experiment has nothing very remark
able about it. But if I beg the astonished person, who is still
perhaps rather incredulous, to leave the room in his turn, and
himself to seek for the card that I will magnetize in his absence,
on his return he imitates the examination that he saw me
make, he watches for the sensation that I have announced to
him, and always, or nearly always, picks out a card. He
thus becomes the subject of a true hallucination, seeing that,
during his absence, I do not touch any card, and yet he sup
poses that he has undergone the shock, the vibration, the
un comfortableness, &c. which 1 have suggested to him.
    If all the people present agree to testify that the card at
which he fancies he has experienced a sensation is really that
which I am supposed to have magnetized, he becomes con
firmed in his notion, and I can make him repeat the same
experiment several times over with a constantly increasing
success.
    Results.—To this experiment as just described I have sub
jected more than 100 people of different sexes and ages, most
of them in good health, well educated, and attached to scien
                                U2

 264                Dr. E. Yung on the Errors
 tific work, consequently not much inclined to excessive cre
 dulity. Of this number only 11 have refused to indicate a
 card, saying that, notwithstanding all the attention they could
 give to it, they felt absolutely nothing at any of the cards of
 the figure, neither the sensation indicated nor any other sen
 sation. These 11 persons were men. All the rest experi
 enced a sensation. They may be divided into three groups.
    First Group.—32 persons forewarned that the card sup
 posed to be magnetized would be recognized by the fact that,
 in passing the hand over it, it would produce a shock of vari
 able intensity (sensible sometimes only in the tips of the
 fingers, sometimes in the whole hand, the arm, &c), actually
 felt the shock. To the question, " Are you quite certain that
 you have not been the subject of a hallucination?" they
 answered that they were quite sure that they had felt some
 thing. Usually, however, the sensation is not very intense
 the first time; but if, as already described, the person is re
 quested to repeat the experiment when a first trial has con
 vinced him of the possibility of recognizing the magnetized
 card, it is invariably the case that on the second occasion the
 shock appears to him to be stronger, and its intensity only
 increases at each repetition of the experiment.
    I have succeeded in exciting the belief in a shock gene
 ralized in the whole body in a young woman of twenty. I
 had myself, in performing the experiment, indicated the card
 that she had touched in my absence, by pretending to receive
a general shock in the arms and legs and simulating the ges
tures which one makes in such a case. When her turn came
 she started in passing her hand over a certain card which I
had not touched any more than the others, and asserted that
she had received the shock announced not only in the limbs,
but also in the chest. When I told her that the shock could
never affect the chest, she replied " that she was quite sure
she was not deceiving herself, for that her chest still pained
her a little."
    Nine other persons in this group, two of them men, declared
that besides the shock they had experienced " a slight oppres
sion," or various sensations, such, for example, as a certain
difficulty in moving the fingers. One of them (a lady) whom
 I had induced to make the experiment at an evening party,
told me the next day that, after my departure, she had tried in
vain to play the piano, " because her right hand," the one that
had felt the imaginary shock, " was as if paralyzed, and was
not even yet completely unstifiened." It is to be remarked
that these nine persons, although they had never been mag
netized, had all been present at representations given bv
mesmerizers.

                         of our Sensations.                  265
    Except in the extreme cases just noticed, the shock was
 experienced only in the fingers or the wrist.
    Some men of science who witnessed these experiments
 thought that there was no reason to regard the sensations
 experienced as true hallucinations, but only as due to com
 plaisant simulation. In connexion with this I may remark
 that I mention here only the results obtained in the case of
 persons upon whose good faith 1 have the best reason to de
 pend. My notes relate to a much larger number of subjects ;
 but I eliminate all those upon whom I have only made a single
 experiment and those whom I do not know sufficiently well.
 Moreover the results which will be mentioned under the
 fourth group dispose of the hypothesis of simulation by their
 spontaneity.
    Second Group.—I have succeeded in exciting hallucinations
 of sight by announcing that the magnetized card was revealed
 to me by a slight vacillation, or displacement, and inducing
 the person upon whom I was operating to look attentively at
 each of the cards until he saw one of them move. 12 per
 sons out of 27 indicated a card from having seen it move.
 It is certain, as all the other witnesses of the experiment
 will testify, that none of the cards had changed its place.
 One person declared that "the card had raised itself ;" another
 said that " the card had inclined itself with a wavering mo
tion;" while a third, who had frequented the Mesmerists and
 been put to sleep by them, asserted that at the moment when
 she looked at the card " she had felt that her eyes were invin
 cibly attracted to it." This phenomenon of the attraction of
 the looks inducing the movement of the whole body of the
 individual is very well known to mesmerists.
    I would compare with these cases the numerous data that
 we possess with regard to observers who see certain move
 ments of the stars, or other celestial phenomena, which have
 no real existence. Last year, when the famous comet, which
 every one remembers, was no longer visible, I happened to
 assert before six people that I still saw it, and at the same
time I indicated to them the point in the heavens where I
pretended to see it. Three of these persons saw it as I de
scribed it to them, but indistinctly ; one of them even drew it,
not such as he had actually seen it a few weeks before, but as
his imagination, excited and guided by my assertions, showed
it to him.
    Here is another observation, which I made a few months
ago. Near IioscofF, in Finistere, there is a large granite
 rock, firmly planted upon a small grass-plot on the shore,
and known by the Celtic name of Roch-roum. Finding

266                Dr. E. Yung on the Errors
myself at nightfall in the company of three people, and the
conversation having turned upon the rocking-stones, some
examples of which are known really to occur upon the coasts
of Brittany, I asserted that Eoch-roum itself rocked when it
was gently pushed with the ringer. Two of these persons
immediately made the experiment and admitted with astonish
ment that they saw and felt it rock ; and it gave the third some
trouble to persuade them to the contrary. I have since several
times repeated the experiment with rocks just as immovable
as Eoch-roum, and succeeded so well with certain people that
they, repeating the experiment from time to time, have given
the reputation of rocking-stones to blocks of stone which are
in reality absolutely fixed. But we must return to our cards.
   Third Group.—I repeated the experiment with the cards
upon 20 persons, pretending that the touched card diffused a
certain odour, which I sometimes specified exactly and some
times indicated only in a vague manner. Thirteen persons
(8 women and 5 men) responded by indicating a card, de
claring in the first case that they had perceived the specified
odour, and in the second case giving very various qualifica
tions to the odour which they believed they had experienced —
a sharp odour, a penetrating odour, a sweet smell like a per
fume, &c. One person asserted that " the odour had stuck to
her for some hours." (See further on, the second series of ex
periments.)
    Fourth Group.—Lastly, 18 persons out of 21 to whom
I had mentioned a sensation of some kind without specially
defining it indicated a card, and proved very fertile in dif
ferent appreciations of the sensation which they believed they
had experienced. It wns indeed in this group that I obtained
the most singular results.
    A young girl (Louisa C, 11* years of age) indicated a
 card, and said that in passing her hand over it she had expe
rienced " a great cold creeping in the back." Another young
girl (Ellen W., 18 years old) suddenly fell down backwards,
as if yielding to a violent repulsion, on passing her hand over
a card, also believing that this card had been magnetized.
    Here each case is interesting; but it would take too long to
 report them in detail. I will only say that the imagination,
 while showing in some subjects an unheard of fecundity, often
 gives place to imitation ; and although warned that they might
 expect all sorts of sensations, the subjects sometimes notify
 the sensation that I pretended myself to have experienced,
 but amplified and generalized. But what proves that imita
 tion is not the general rule is that, of the 18 cases which
 I mention in this group, 11 relate to persons who experienced

                         of our Sensations.                   267
 sensations quite different from those which I had simulated.
 Thus I usually pretend that I find out the card by feeling a
 trembling in my fingers, but I request each person to look
 out for any sensation that may come. Now there have been
 subjects who asserted that they felt nothing at all in the
 fingers, but had experienced a dazzling sensation. It is of
 course essential at starting to surround the performance of the
 experiment with a certain stage effect, a certain mystery,
 which ensures its success.
    A young man, who was evidently ill, and who got up in the
 night in a state of somnambulism, spontaneously declared this
 trick to be " dangerous," saying that when he had been made
 to repeat it several times he felt himself strongly affected and
 was made unwell by it.
                         Second Series.
             Experiments made with pieces of Metal.
    The experiment with the cards may be varied in the follow
 ing manner. Under this new form it particularly enables us
 to excite olfactive hallucinations. At least I have hitherto
 employed it only for this purpose.
    Take a certain number of small metal plates of various
 forms, or pieces of money with different effigies, so as to be
able to recognize them afterwards. Then, performing a little
comedy which may be infinitely varied according to the inge
nuity of the performer, but the foundation of which is always
to appear to magnetize these pieces or the person to be expe
rimented upon, one undertakes to recognize the piece touched
in one's absence by this person " by virtue of the exquisite
delicacy of smell produced by the fluid." On reentering the
room, while talking of something else in order to distract
the attention of the spectators, one hastens to take up all the
pieces one after the other so as to judge which piece has been
touched by the difference of temperature, which alone renders
it recognizable. This has the advantage over the preceding
experiment that an accomplice can be dispensed with. As
soon as one has thus naturally fixed upon the touched piece,
thev are all applied to the nose with a pretence of smelling
them to recognize the accusing odour.
   The person touching the piece must hold it for a moment
between the fingers; by doing this he warms it sufficiently to
ensure the success of the experiment. Odour there is none; but
if one asserts its existence, and indicates it by any descriptive
qualification, one is nearly certain to make the " deceived "
persons perceive it when the experiment is repeated upon them.

?68                 Dr. E. Yung on the Errars
On the other hand, if it is not specified, they always do it
themselves with a remarkable abundance of details, as we have
already seen. T have tested this upon 28 persons of both
sexes, nineteen of whom, women especially, declared that they
perceived a certain odour upon the piece of money which they
pointed out, and which had not been specially touched, just
as in the experiment of the card.
   One young man said that " it seemed " to him that the
piece which he had just picked out diffused a " sharp, dry "
odour ; the second time he recognized this odour more deci
dedly and became very positive. A lady refused to repeat
the experiment because the odour affected her heart, &c.
   On one single occasion I excited at the same time the hal
lucination of a shock and of an odour, by having the piece
simultaneously touched and smelt.
   Here then we have a certain number of facts which demon
strate how easy it is to induce hallucinations, of vision, of
touch, and of smell in persons who are not subject to any
thing of the kind, who are in good health, perfectly awake,
and appear to be very far from those neurotic conditions to
which we shall recur, and which predispose to all the falsifica
tions of sensibility.
   As regards hallucinations of hearing I have obtained only a
very small number of results, because the arrangements which
have just been described "are not favourable to their excite
ment. Nevertheless four persons, prepared in an analogous
manner to that described, distinctly heard one of the cards of
the figure close to which they placed an ear " diffuse a sort of
buzzing sound." Hallucinations of hearing, indeed, are not
difficult to excite in a silent medium. In the evening I have
often caused people to hear the horn announcing a fire by
asserting that I heard it myself; and in a party, if one affirms
that one hears the bells ring, one always meets with some
persons who assert that they hear them ring also.
   It is to be remarked that in all the cases which have just
been under consideration, the persuasion of the reality of the
sensation is such that it is very difficult to demonstrate to the
person that this reality does not exist. It is of no use to tell
him that you have deceived him ; he is too certain of having ex
perienced the sensation to be willing to agree to it. A lady
told me " that she would put her hand in the fire " rather than
believe that there was any mistake. The history of the sciences
takes cognizance of examples of philosophers who, after having
thought that they observed such or such a phenomenon of nature
to support ii favourite theory, have never been willing to recog
nize that they have deceived themselves. This is an imperfec

                             of our Senmtions.                      269
tion against which we ought to act from the commencement of
our studies, and which the professors called upon to direct the
first steps of a beginner in the sciences of observation should
use every endeavour to correct. Among the persons whom I
have succeeded in causing to see and feel what I wished and
not the external reality, there were naturalists, physicists, &c,
some of them having a name in science. It is certain that we
mnst always severely criticise our own observations, because
however able we may be, we do not perfectly know how to
make use of our organs, and we are too much inclined to give
them our confidence.
    The education received in laboratories diminishes the im
perfections in question. If beginners in microscopic investi
gations, for example, have to draw an object previously
described and which they have actually before their eyes,
they often represent it in accordance with the more or less
detailed description of it which has been given to them, and
not as it really exists. It is not at all uncommon, in the
case of a microscopic preparation, that the beginner declares
that he sees such or such a detail of structure of which he has
been told, and which the preparation does not show at all. 1
have ascertained this very frequently. And in this case there
is not always deception or falsehood on the part of the pupil,
who really sees what the master indicates to him; but he sees
it by a sort of hallucination of the psychical centres, and not
by a real impression striking his retina. Afterwards in the
course of study it is more rare to meet with any such pheno
 menon in those who devote themselves to observation ; but
 nevertheless it is always necessary to be upon one's guard.
     It is also well known that our sensations are not always in
 relation to the degree of intensity of the external excitation
 (Werndt, Fechner, &c). The expectation of a phenomenon
 reduces to a minimum the degree of intensity of excitation
 necessary to produce the phenomenon in order that it may be
 followed by a sensation. "When the expectation is extra
 ordinarily vivid," says Mr. James Sully, " it may suffice to
 produce as it were the simulacrum of a real sensation. This
 is what occurs when the existing circumstances suggest to us
 the idea of some immediate event. The effect is particularly
 powerful in case the object or event expected is of a nature to
 interest or excite, because then the mental image gains in
 intensity by virtue of the emotional excitement which accom
 panies it"*. These conditions are met with in the facts which
 we have just related.
    * James Sully, Les illusions des sens et de Fesprit. A volume of the
 International Scientific Library, Paris, 1882, p. 78.

 270           Prof. W. F. Barrett on the Alleged
    Two words more.
    In the state of somnambulism, of hysteric or hypnotic
 neurosis, &c. the human subject may, in consequence of
 certain practices, be plunged into a peculiar sleep most fre
 quently accompanied by catalepsy. Now during one phase
 of this sleep (the so-called lethargic phase) the special
 senses continue in part to act, and by speaking to them
 the most various hallucinations may be set up in the
 subjects. If we tell them that music is being played,
 they hear it immediately; they see the various objects of
 which we speak to them, they feel them and taste them.
 These are well-known phenomena of suggestion which have
 been much studied of late years. In certain invalids the field
 of suggestion has, so to speak, no limits. It is interesting to
find that here the pathological state is only an exaggeration
of the normal state, since (as we have just seen) we may by
suitable discourses, by persuasion, &c. appeal to the attention
of the normal man, not put to sleep, in such a manner as to
make him have consciousness of sensations which do not cor
respond to any objective reality. In both cases the repetition
of the hallucination leads to an augmentation of its intensity.
All neuropaths know that it is much easier to produce sug
gestion in old subjects who have been long under the hands
of the mesmerists than in those who are put to sleep for the
first time. In our experiments we have always found that,
after two or throe repetitions, the subjective sensation increased
in intensity, and that the persons whom one has sustained in
the belief in the " fluid " of the so-called magnetized card or
piece of money are much better fitted to serve for a demon
stration than a person upon whom one has tried the experi
ment for the first time, and who is not always very positive at
the commencement.
   To sum up, we demonstrate, under what may be termed an
embryonic form, in the healthy human subject, phenomena of
suggestion which may acquire great intensity in the diseased
subject.
XL. Note on the Alleged Luminosity of the Magnetic Field.
   By W. F. Barrett, Professor of Experimental Physics in
   the Royal College of Science, JJublin*.
IT is well known that the late Baron von Reichenbach
      claimed to have discovered a peculiar luminous emana
tion arising from the poles of a magnet, resembling a faint
                   * Communicated by the Author.

                  Luminosity of the Magnetic Field.                271
electric discharge in rarefied air. This peculiar luminosity was
only to be seen in a perfectly darkened room, and even then
was only visible to certain persons. Since the publication of
Reichenbach's elaborate investigations on this subject nume
rous attempts have been made by competent observers to see this
luminous smoke; but these attempts have generally resulted in
failure*; and amid the few cases of success that are recorded
(such as by the late Professor Gregory and by Dr. Ashburner)
I can find no evidence that proper precautions were taken to
avoid the effects of imagination, of deception, or of chance.
It is not surprising therefore that the discovery claimed by
Reichenbach has been very generally discredited among scien
tific men in all countries. It has, however, always seemed to
me very difficult to explain away the abundant, and in some
cases weighty, testimony which Reichenbach adduces—such as
the evidence of Professor Endlicher, and others in high social
position, who in their normal healthy condition describe these
appearances in minute detail, the luminosity they assert
springing into existence whenever the magnet was excited, as
if a phosphorescent cloud had suddenly been created over the
magnetic poles.
   Affirmative statements of this kind, however foreign to our
present knowledge, are surely worthy of respectful inquiry ;
and though my own attempts to see the glare have been en
tirely unsuccessful, I prefer to think some of the necessary
conditions of the experiment—such as extreme sensitiveness
of the retina—have been absent in my case, rather than con
clude from my want of success that the phenomenon has no
existence.
   Considerations such as these led the recently formed Society
for Psychical Research to appoint a Committee to repeat
Reichenbach's experiments with the object of testing their
accuracy, when a wide range of individuals were examined.
As a member of that Committee I have lately been present at
a course of experiments, where a remarkable verification was
afforded of the fact that, to certain eyes, a faint luminosity
accompanies the creation of a powerful magnetic field. The
evidence, so far as it goes, seems to me so absolutely unex
ceptionable that 1 venture to ask you to place on record a
brief statement of the facts so far obtained. The positive
evidence afforded by the experiments now to be described
cannot be annulled bv the fact that on subsequent occasions
the trials were, as 1 am informed, less successful. It is, I
   * See, for example, Dr. W. H. Stone's very careful and excellent ex
periments described in the St. Thomas's Hospital Reports (1880), vol. x.
p. 100.

272             Prof. W. F. Barrett on the Alleged
think, not unreasonable to conclude that conditions, not yet
understood, were sometimes favourable, sometimes the reverse.
   The experiments were made in the rooms of the Society,
No. 14 Deans Yard, Westminster ; one of these rooms was so
arranged that it could at pleasure be made into a perfectly
dark chamber, no glimmer of light being perceived even after
an hour's immersion in the darkness. A powerful electro
magnet was mounted on a heavy wooden stand, and stood by
itself in the centre of the room ; wires led from the magnet
to a commutator in another room, and thence to a large Smee's
battery outside. Three observers (Mr. Walter H. Coffin, the
Honorary Secretary of this Committee, Mr. Edmund Grurney,
and Mr. E. R. Pease) were in charge of the commutator,
making and breaking the current at their own pleasure and
noting down the exclamations made by the observers in the
adjoining darkened room, the voice being easily heard through
the intervening curtains. In the dark chamber, were Mr. F.
W. H. Myers, Dr. A. T. Myers, Mr. H. N. Ridley, and myself,
and in addition, on a subsequent occasion, Mr. W. R. Browne,
together with two persons who, on a preliminary trial a day
or two before, had declared they saw a luminous glare over
the poles of a permanent steel magnet. These were Mr. G.
A. Smith and a boy, Fred. Wells, who is an assistant in a
baker's shop ; both of them were entire strangers to these ex
periments up to the time of our preliminary trials, and dis
claimed any knowledge of Reichenbach's work. In the first
instance they were not told what to look for, but merely to
note if they perceived anything amid the darkness, and if so,
what and where.
    For some time after entering the dark chamber nothing
was seen, though during this time the electromagnet was fre
quently excitecl. After about half an hour had elapsed, Wells
and subsequently Mr. Smith declared they saw a faintly
visible smoke in the room ; being asked where, each in turn
led me directly up to the magnetic poles as the seat of the
luminosity. One pole (the north-seeking pole) they said was
 brighter than the other. The luminosity was described as
 like two waving cones of light, with the apex of each cone on
the magnetic poles ; the breath was able to deflect but not to
 extinguish the glow*. It was not intercepted they said, by
a black velvet cloth nor by a deal board laid flat over the poles,
   * So far as I could judge, the appearance must have resembled the long
ascending stream of faintly lambent aqueous vapour which is to be seen
far above the flanio of pure hydrogen, when viewed in a well-darkened
room. I have referred to this luminosity in my paper on " Some Physical
Efiects produced by a Hydrogen-flame,'' Phil. Mag. November 1865.

               Luminosity of the Magnetic Field.             273
bat they declared it was at once obscured when these bodies
 were held between the eyes of the observers and the magnet,
 the absolute darkness being of course preserved continuously.
 When the current was cut off, both the observers simulta
 neously exclaimed that the light had disappeared.
   The current was now at irregular intervals made and broken,
 by means of the commutator in the "next room, and the excla
 mations of the observers in the dark chamber noted down by
 those who had charge of the commutator. The commutator
 worked noiselessly; and no indication whatever was given of
 the moment when the current was to be put on or taken off.
 During the experiments Mr. Smith stood near the magnet,
 touching one of us, and remote from the curtains which sepa
 rated the dark from the lighter room beyond.
   After a few preliminary trials to test the arrangements, a
 consecutive series of observations extending over an hour
 was then made by Mr. Smith. From time to time during this
period the observers in the next room silently and unexpec
tedly closed or interrupted the current, the intervals being
purposely varied from a few seconds to several minutes. In
this way fourteen consecutive trials were made ; and in every
case except one the exclamations made by Mr. Smith, such as
" Now I see it," " Now its gone," were absolutely simultaneous
with the movement of the commutator—according to the
unanimous report of the witnesses in the adjoining room. In
the one exception referred to, a delay of five seconds occurred
between the breaking of the current and the exclamation :
this, however, may easily have been due to a momentary
relaxation of attention on the part of Mr. Smith. The strain
on the attention was indeed so severe, that after the fourteenth
observation Mr. Smith complained of considerable pain in his
eyes and head and was obviously much exhausted. During a
succeeding half hour two or three further experiments were
made ; but the results were uncertain, and may, I think, be
fairly excluded. It may be noted that Mr. Smith and Wells
did not at any time appear to have unusual powers of vision
for the objects in the darkened room.
   It is obvious that a series of accidental coincidences be
tween the act of closing or opening of the circuit and the
exclamation of the observer cannot explain the facts here
noted. As there are 3600 seconds in an hour, to hit off any
one right moment by pure chance would be very improbable;
but the chances against success increase in geometric pro
gression when 14 right moments are successively hit off. The
probabilities against mere coincidence as an explanation are
therefore many millions to one.

  274     On the Alleged Luminosity of the Magnetic Field.
    More important was the possibility of indications being
 afforded by the act of magnetization and demagnetization,
 which might give notice to the observer and suggest to the
 imagination the conversion of an illusion into a fancied reality.
    Of these indications the so-called "magnetic tick" at once
 suggested itself. Knowing precisely what to listen for, and
 therefore more keenly alive to the sound than Mr. Smith,
  who presumably knew nothing of this molecular crepitation,
 I failed to detect the faintest sound on the " making " of the
 circuit ; and a barely audible tick on " breaking " contact
 was heard only when my ear was in close contact with the
 magnet or its support. This was due to the massive cha
 racter of the magnet and stand, which also prevented any
 other discernible movement when the magnet was excited.
 Further, I satisfied myself that, at the distance at which
 Mr. Smith stood from the magnet, it was impossible to
 discover when the circuit was completed or interrupted by
 the attraction of any magnetic substance about one's body*;
 as a precaution, however, Mr. Smith emptied his pockets
 beforehand. At the same time it is quite possible a skilful
 operator, bent upon deceiving us, might be able to detect the
 moment of magnetization and demagnetization by feeling the
 movement of a concealed compass-needle. Against this hy
 pothesis must be placed the fact that no information was given
 to Mr. Smith beforehand of the nature of the experiment; and
 he had no object to serve by professing to see what he reallv
 did not see. Ultimately all scientific observation rests upon
 the good faith of the observers; and there was nothing to
 arouse the smallest suspicion of the good faith of the observer
 in the present instance.
    Similar experiments were made on another evening with
 the boy Wells, with fairly satisfactory results. In the case
 of Wells the luminosity, from his description, must have
 appeared to be brighter and larger ; and on the interruption
 of the circuit it was not instantly extinguished, but rapidly
 died away * ; his frequent exclamation on breaking the cur
 rent was " Oh, you are spoiling it."
    Wells was also tried in the dark chamber with two permanent
 horseshoe magnets, and saw the luminosity clearly on both.
 Unknown to Wells, I silently changed the position of the two
 magnets; he at once detected where they were placed. Holding
 one of the magnets in my hand, Wells told me correctly
whether I moved the magnet up or down or held it stationary;
this was repeatedly tried with success. In this case the poles
   * There was a considerable amount of residual magnetism in the elec
tromagnet.

        On Self-regulating Dynamo-electric Machines.          275
of the horseshoe were very close together, so that there was a
small intense magnetic field ; from the juxtaposition of the
poles no effect could be produced on a small compass-needle
at one tenth of the distance at which I ascertained Wells
actually stood—supposing, which is highly improbable, that
the lad had the intention to deceive and knew how to attempt it.
   Numerous questions of interest suggest themselves, such as
the photographic and prismatic examination of the luminosity
and whether the light is polarized or capable of being pola
rized, or whether the rarefaction and removal of the air around
the poles affects the luminosity. The answer to these and
cognate questions, together with the examination of some
remarkable collateral phenomena that presented themselves
—such as the variation of the intensity of the light when
viewed in different azimuths, or along or across the magnetic
axis, and the effect of certain bodies on the light—will become
the subject of investigation by the Committee whenever the
testimony to the simple fact itself has been sufficiently well
established by various observers. The object of the pre
sent note is merely to demonstrate that there is a strong
prima facie case in favour of the existence of some peculiar
and unexplained luminosity, resembling phosphorescence, ex
cited in the region of the atmosphere immediately around th
magnetic poles, aud which can only be seen by certain indi
viduals.
     XLI. On Self-Regulating Dynamo-electric Machines.
                    By R. H.'M. Bosanquet*.
 DYNAMO-ELECTRIC machines consist mainly of two
        parts—the armature and the electromagnets ; and the
principle associated with the use of the term dynamo is, that
the current produced by the armature is, wholly or in part,
used to excite the electromagnets. Thus dynamo-electric
machines are to be distinguished from magneto-electric
machines, in which permanent magnets are used.
    Simple dynamo-electric machines are of two kinds—main-
circuit machines and shunt^circuit machines. In main-circuit
machines the whole of the main current is sent round the
 electromagnets ; in shunt-circuit machines a branch current
is diverted from the main current, and used to excite the
electromagnets.
    Both of these types fail under certain conditions of the
   * Communicated by the Author, being a Paper read before the Ash-
molean Society, March 6, 1883.

276         Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on Self-Regulating
external resistance ; and the conditions of failure are opposite
in the two cases.
   Main-circuit machines fail when the external resistance is
high ; for then the current produced is small, the excitation
of the magnets fails, and the action ceases.
    Shunt-circuit machines fail when the external resistance is
low, as when the carbons of an arc lamp accidentally touch,
and the resistance becomes very small ; for then the whole
current is diverted from the shunt to flow through the short
circuit, the excitation of the shunt magnets fails, and the
action ceases.
    It has been proposed by several persons, independently, to
get rid of these failures by combining the two modes of ex
citation. For this purpose the magnets are wound both with
main and shunt coils—the main coils carrying the main circuit,
and the shunt coils carrying a derived circuit. The main
coils are most strongly excited when the shunt coils fail ; and
the shunt coils are most strongly excited when the main coils
fail. Machines wound with both main and shunt coils have
been called compound machines, as opposed to the original
simple types with main coils only or shunt coils only.
   Compound machines are capable of being arranged so as
to fulfil certain conditions—for example, to give a constant
E.M.F. for varying values of the external resistance. When
arranged to satisfy any such requirement, they have been
called self-regulating machines.
   Several types of self-regulating machines are in the market ;
but their principles have not been made public.
   The first publication on the theory of this matter appears
to have been by Marcel Desprez, in ' La Lumiere electnque ;'
this publication is not accessible here. From the account*
that have been given of it, it does not appear to treat the
matter from my point of view.
   The first publication on the theory in England, so far as 1
know, was in a letter I wrote to the ' Electrician ' in December
1882, in which I gave the deduction of the form of compound
machines to produce constant E.M.F. at constant velocity,
based on the simplest theoretical assumptions.
   This letter produced numerous communications from in
ventors claiming thepriority in such machines—more especially
a general description by Mr. Paget Higgs, and a series of
papers by Mr. Gishert Kapp, in one of which a graphical
method was described for the examination by trial of different
forms of winding, no doubt a satisfactory means of arriving
at practical results. Attention has also been called to the
matter in various public lectures. These have been partly

                      Dynamo-electric Machines.                 277
   descriptive, and partly devoted to the introduction of new
   and ingenious arrangements. But, so far as can be judged
   from the reports available, nothing has been added to the
   theory, regarded from my point of view.
      I have not been able to experiment largely on the subject,
   as it would necessitate the abandonment of other work ; and
   there are other laboratories specially instituted for electrical
  work, where this may more properly be done. But I have
  made one successful experiment which is worth mentioning.
      My Gramme machine fails, as all main-circuit machines
  fail, when it is attempted to drive a current through a high
  external resistance. With any thing over 10 ohms the
  machine fails. Now it was obvious that a comparatively
  small shunt coil wound over the main coils would be well
  excited in the case of high external resistance, and would
  assist to start the action of the machine in these cases.
     The space available round the main coils was small ; but I
  succeeded in winding nearly 2000 coils of a small wire on
  pasteboard cylinders which fit over the main coils. The re
  sistance of the new coils is about 27 ohms. They are attached
  to the armature-brushes, and form a shunt. They make a
  great difference in the performance of the machine.
     Without joining up the main circuit at all, it is possible to
  obtain an E.M.F. of 70 or 80 volts with the shunt circuit
  alone.
     This is sufficient for all ordinary purposes, and is particu
  larly useful in charging accumulators ; for it obviates the
  necessity of all the troublesome arrangements for starting
  the charging which I have previously described to the
  Society*, besides obviating the chance of reversal so long as
 a reasonable amount of power is kept in action.
     It is no small experimental result that any Gramme machine
 can have its capacity for work so greatly increased at the
 small cost of time and material necessary to add to it shunt
 coils of this description.
     The velocity and conditions of motion of a dynamo driven
 bv a prime mover depend on the equality of the power supplied
by the prime mover and the power absorbed by the machine.
We have therefore, first, to examine the nature of the re
lation between the power supplied and the velocity, and,
secondly, the relation between the power absorbed and the
velochty.
    The relation between the power supplied by a prime mover
and the velocity is determined generally by a governor.
Whether this be the case or not, we can suppose the powers
                        • Phil. Mag. xiv. p. 250.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 94. April 1883.          X

278        Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on Self-regulating
set off as ordinates p, and the velocities as abscissae v. We
shall then obtain a curve corresponding to a relation between
p and v, which we may call the governing function of the
prime mover or engine.
   When the load is very great it will bring the engine to
rest ; then the velocity and power supplied are both zero.
Again, when the engine is running free from load it is supply
ing no work, and the velocity has its greatest value.
   The most general expression satisfying these conditions is
based upon the form
where P isthe maximum power
absorbed, V velocity of free
running.
   This law is illustrated in
fig. 1,
   By Fourier's theorem any                  /j=Psin£»r.
law whatever of this kind
may be represented by an equation of the form
            p = Pi sin =^7r + P2 sin 2^ir + P3 sin 3^7
                   +                ad infinitum
where Pt, P8, &c. are coefficients, positive or negative, to
be determined in accordance with the law to be represented.
The sharper the point of the curve, the more considerable the
higher terms of the series will be.
   These forms, however, are useless for simple purposes ; and
we have to consider the representation of governing relations
by simple approximate formulas.
   The simplest assumption for many purposes is that the
curve consists of two straight lines, forming a triangle whose
base is V, the velocity of free running. The altitude of the
vertex is P, the maximum power expended. If we suppose
the vertex a little rounded, this may De adjusted to represent
many cases.                                 Fig. 2.
   Along OP the law may
be written p=av.
   Along PV it may be
written p= — /3(u — V).
   The latter assumption
is not convenient for our
present purpose ; and we
shall prefer to represent                      P=-ftv-Y).
the falling part of the curve, which shows the cutting-off of the

                      Dynamo-electric Machines.              279
power at increasing speeds by the governor or otherwise, by a
hyperbolic curve.
   (1) Common rectangular hyperbola £w = Ka (fig. 3).
   (2)                    ^=K3 (fig. 4).
   (n)                    pvn = Kn+1.
                                           Fig. 4.
  p=av.                                              pv2 = K!.
          .•. at the vertex, where j9=v=K, = —1 ;
and at this point, on the bisector of the axes, the curve is
inclined downwards at 45°.
   (2)                     — 2^r= —2 at vertex ;
                     dv        v* '
        .*. curve at vertex is inclined downwards at 63£°.
   Similarly the inclination downwards at the vertex increases
rapidly ; and for
    , „               dp       K»+1
the tangent of the downward-pointing angle is n.
   We can approximately represent most governing relations
by a straight line meeting such a hyperbolic curve. The
part which represents the state of things where the governor
is in action is on the curve beyond the point of junction with
the straight line.
   Consider first the straight line from 0; p = aw. The
power is proportional to the velocity. This will be the case
so long as the steam is supplied at constant pressure. For
power is pressure on piston x velocity. But pressure on
Eiston is constant ; .\ power varies as velocity. The hyper-
 olic curves represent governors which are sharper and
sharper as n increases. In the case of an infinitely sharp
governor the governing function, or curve of supplied power,

 280         Mr. E. H. M. Bosanquet on Self-regulating
is a vertical straight line. The actual value of p is in this
 case indeterminate; it may vary
from zero up to the full height                            5"
of the straight line vp (fig. 5);
and the smallest variations of v
will cause it to oscillate between
these extreme values. Uniform
motion would not be practically
possible under an arrangement
  of this kind, and it does not
answer for the governor to be too sharp. A moderate incli
nation represents the case of all practical governors which
depend on variation of velocity*.
    These remarks do not apply to phase-governors such as
that of my uniform-rotation machine. In this machine the
average velocity is always that due to the connexion with the
 clock; and the governing action is produced by variations of
 the distance at which the machine follows the clock, so to
speak. I believe that governors of this type are in the
market. In these cases the power delivered is determined
by considerations other than the variation of velocity.
    If in such cases it is desired to impose conditions on the
 supply of power, the phase, or distance of following the stan
dard motion, must be used to control the governing action,
instead of any mechanism depending on absolute changes of
velocity.
    We have to deal, secondly, with the relation which re
presents the power absorbed by the machine at different velo
cities.
    Consider the case of machines wiih constant excitation—in
cluding magneto machines, machines with magnets separately
excited, and dynamo machines in which the magnets are
saturated. Let 58 be the constant field intensity at right
angles to the circumference of the armature, v the velocity,
I the effective length of the armature-wire, and E the E.M.F.
developed. Then
                            E = S3rZ in C.G.S. measure,
power absorbed                _ E2
                            P~ Ti + r
   * It has been said that gas-engine governors are of the infinitely sharp
type ; but this is not so. When the impulses are discontinuous and at
considerable intervals, the effect of their occasional suppression is distri
buted in the same way as their normal action. The effect of a governor
which shut off1 the steam from an ordinary engine completely on the least
rise of speed would be very different.

                     Dynamo-electric Machines.               281
 (R resistance of armature, r remaining resistance),
 r being constant ; this is a parabola. As r varies, the para
 meter of the parabola varies, and we have a series of curves
 such as those shown in fig. 6.
    Now draw any governing curve, or curve of supplied power
 (fig. 6); it intersects the curves of absorbed power in points
                               Fig. 6.
                                         \/ Alsorled
 which represent equality between supplied and absorbed
 power, and therefore defines the motion of the machine for
 the values of r concerned.
    If the governing curve be regarded as the assemblage of
 such points, it defines the motion of the machine under the
 action of a given engine as the resistance varies.
    We may invert and generalize the process.
    Take the function of absorbed power f(p.v.r) = 0. It is
 required to define the motion so as to satisfy a given con
 dition.
    Between f(p.v.r) = 0 and the given condition eliminate r.
 There results an equation of the form F(p.v)=0, which must
 hold for all points defining the motion. This, if embodied in
 a governor, will determine the motion so as to satisfy the con
 dition independently of r.
    There is one general condition which must be satisfied that
the motion may be stable. This is, the curve of absorbed
power must pass from below to above the curve of supplied
power at the intersection as v increases.
    For in this case, if the velocity be accidentally increased,
more power is absorbed than supplied, and the velocity is
checked. Similarly, if the velocity be accidentally diminished,
more power is supplied than absorbed, and the velocity is in
creased and the motion is stable.
   If the curves coincided, the equilibrium of the motion would
be neutral.
   If the curve of absorbed power passed from above to

282         Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on Self-regulating
below the curve of supplied power with increasing v, the
motion would be unstable.
   The condition of stability may be thus expressed: it pabe
power absorbed and p, power supplied,               —      must be
positive.
   I will now apply the above rules to the case already men
tioned of a constant field 93 normal to the armature [surface ;
this includes magneto machines, machines with separate exci
tation, and saturated magnets.
   (1) The equation of the machine is p= ^            •
   (2) Let the condition be E = constant.
                  .•. v= constant, since E = f&vl.
   This is already independent of r; so it is not necessary to
eliminate. And v— constant is the ideal governor. It cannot
 be realized by a function of t; and p.
    (3) Regarded as a line of great steepness directed down
 wards, this (« = const.) satisfies the condition of stable motion;
 but if the line be absolutely upright, the equilibrium is neutral;
 for if it were turned over in the least, the equilibrium would
 be unstable, except for the greatest value of p.
    I will now take the same case subject to the condition of
 constant current:—
       (1) is »= f5        , as before.
                   Jtt + r
       (2) C=const.,
       .*. p=C$$vl, the required governing function.
       (3) p=C23rZ is capable of governing p= =5— in stable
             motion.                                 a+r
     A governing arrangement of the typep = kv can be realized,
  as observed above. It is only necessary to supply steam at
  constant pressure, by means of a reducing-valve or otherwise.
  Then the power is pressure x velocity, and is proportional to
  the velocity when the pressure is constant.
      We hear of self-regulating arrangements of dynamo
  machines by which the current is supposed to be kept con
  stant under varying resistance. But since the electrical power
  absorbed is C'^R-fY), it is obvious that some arrangement
  must be made to supply a power proportional to the resist

                   Dynamo-electric Machines.                283
ance. And this must ultimately depend on the governing
function of the prime mover.
   The following example leads to an unstable solution.
   Same machine with constant field = 33. It is required to
keep the difference of potential between the armature-brushes
constant. This includes the case of constant potential between
the ends of leads.
   R is the resistance of armature (with leads),
   r external resistance;
       ~— B is to be kept
   e= R+r                  r constant.
            (2) -const.= s^E=^-3H
                          He
               R + r=R
             (o, dp._dp.__ 2rnMV_          8fc
             W dt>      dv ~ R(R + r) + R
                      Si/      2rE       \
                    = r(-rTt+V
           (since v= ")
                    ~    ~R 5
 and the governing function which satisfies the required condi
 tion gives rise to unstable motion.
    I will now consider the simplest assumption that can be
 made in connexion with the ordinary main-circuit machine.
 It is that, according to the law of electromagnets generally
 accepted, the excitation of the magnets is proportional to the
 number of coils and to the current circulating in them, or
                              33 = /fc«C;
 nC may be called current-turns.

284        Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on Self-regulating
   The equation E = 2M then becomes
                             E=knCvl.
                                   E
In main-circuit machines, C= T, , ,
                          , 1 _ knvl
                          '•*• 1_R+^'
and v can only have one value for a given value of r, which
does not correspond with fact.
    The same difficulty applies to dynamo machines ofall types.
The inference is that the assumption that the field-magnetism is
proportional to the number of current-turns is wrong.
    In fact, in the equation E=3W, ifE is not to strike out on
 both sides, S3 must be some other function of E than the
 simple first power. The point is most easily dealt with by
 assuming 93 proportional to a power 7 of the current-turns.
 7 may not be an absolute constant ; but its value can be easily
 obtained in the different parts of the range of the machine.
    Then we get an equation of the form
                             E = KJEy»,
 or
 for given resistance.
    Dividing by (R + r)1-1'
    Put
                1             .1             .1
                    = x, or l—7=_ or 7=1—-;
               —y                   x            x
 then
  a relation which can be easily examined experimentally.
     I have examined this relation with my Gramme machine,
  chiefly using the main circuit only. It is clear that the exci
  tation by a given number of current-turns cannot depend on
  their supply by shunt or main circuit; so that it is sufficient to
  examine the law in this simpler case.
     The result may be described by assigning approximate
  values. I consider 5 to 20 amperes the practical range of my
  machine. Without pretence to accuracy, I obtain

                    Dynamo-electric Machines                   285
            Current.
            amperes.            X.            y-
                5                3
              10                 2            I
               15 1
              20/ aVGrage        1-25         i
*=1, 7 = 0 correspond to the condition of saturation.
                        Theoretical Basis.
   I will now examine the effect of a small change of velocity
dv in a dynamo, first on the ordinary theory, and then accord
ing to the hypothesis above indicated.
   Let the equation of development of E be
                        E-=KNt;=K/Et;,                          (1)
and suppose that initially Erf=E=Eo,
                        v becomes v + dv.
An increase takes place in the E developed ;
or, dividing by (1),
                        d&_dv
                         E0~7                                   W
This increase develops in time an increase of magnetism, so
that E on the right of (1) becomes
                           = E0 + diE .
   The increased magnetism develops in turn on the left an
increase of E, = <22E; and the amount of the change is the
same as in the first case; and so on.
   Hence there are an infinite number of equal increments of
E.M.F. developed by a single change dv; and the total change
may be expressed,
                          AE        dv
                           E" =0° T
This being contrary to experience, we will introduce the
hypothesis that the change of magnetism falls short of the
change of exciting current in a ratio 7, which is less than unity.
   W e arrive as above at equation (2),
                          a\E_dv
                           E0 ~ t> '
An increase of magnetism is next developed; but by hypo
thesis, instead of being the full increase due to t/jE, it is dimi

286        Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on Self-regulating
nished in ratio 7. So that the next increment of E, developed
by the motion in the increased field, is defined by
                          djE_ dv
Similarly each successive term is derived from the preceding
by multiplication by 7. Whence
                     E-=(l+Y + 72 + ..-)7
                        _    1 dv
                           1 —7 v '
or, if we now write rfE for AE, since the total change is com
parable with dv,
                         dE_ 1 dv
                         K — 1— 7 v'
Integrating,
                loger = (l— y)log E+ constant,
or
                    v = E1~yx constant;
which is the form of equation above assumed.
   We will now consider the general case of a machine having
the magnets wound both with main and shunt coils.
                        Number of Coils.
              n main-magnet coils. v shunt coils.
                           Resistances.
      R armature, r external and magnets, p shunt coils.
            r resultant of r and p in parallel circuit.
                          Ul + I
                          r r p
   It is required to simplify      ¦
                               1

                Dynamo-electric Machines.            287
                            r
               R+r      R+ —         R(l+^)+J
                             l+£       V     "
                                    > + r(l+f)
                                       r
                                     R + rs'
            R and is a little greater than unity.
where s=l H—,
                          E.M.F.
     E = total E.M.F., e between armature terminals.
                              r
                        e=        E
                            R+r
                            R + r«
                          Current.
                                 e
            C in main coils =
                                 r
                                 E r
                                 7 R+r
                                    E
                                  R + ra'
                                 e
             c in shunt coils =
                                 P
                                 r E
                                 p R + rs
                     Current-turns =N.
                      nC + vc=N,
                         E
            X                 =FE,

 288       Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on Self-regulating
 where                                 v
                                  n+ -r
                           F=          £_
                                  R + r* "
                        Magnetic field = 33.
                           23 = XNy
                              = X(FE)y.
                  Equation of E.M.F. developed.
                              E = 23^.
      v= velocity of conductor of armature at right angles (o
          lines of force,
          effective length of conductor;
                .-. E    =l\v{FEy,
                   E    =(/Xv)7ryFT^'.
 Put                .1,11
              7=1
               '       x, 1—y=   ' x , =1— y = x;
                      E = (lX»)'F->,                         (I.)
where                        , v
          For main circuit only, p = <x> , v=0, s = l.
                                  R+r
                  For shunt circuit only, n = 0.
                               v r
                          F=
                               p R + rs
   - determines the wire of the shunt        It is the number of
   p
turns that has a resistance of 1 ohm.        Otherwise, ^ is the
                                                         v
resistance of one turn of the shunt coil.

                   Dynamo-electric Machines.                    289
          Dynamo with constant E.M.F. and Velocity.
  If r=0, or the main circuit is short-circuited,
                                 n
                                  R
   If r = » , or the main circuit is not joined up,
                        F=^ = v
                            ps R + p
   If E and v are to he the same in all cases, they must be the
same in the extreme cases when the main circuit is short-
circuited and not joined up. In fact, by (I.), F is constant if
x is constant. Whence, equating the above values,
                          R R+p'
which is the condition for machines of constant E.M.F. and
velocity, under circumstances for which x can be considered
constant.
    The same condition can be obtained more generally by
making F constant for all values of r.
                       F(R+rs) = «+ -r.
If this is true independently of r, the coefficient of r and the
constant terms must vanish separately;
and
                       F = -= "
                           R R+p'
as before. This only holds true so long as * is constant.
   This condition was first given in my letter to the ' Electrician ,'
but without having regard to s, or to the variation of x, which
is a much more serious thing, or to the stability, which is more
serious still.
    In order to take count of these matters, we must prepare
the general values of E, C, and p.
    From (I.) we have
                                   , v

290       Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on Self-regulating
Hence
       „      E      /     V y-w IXv y
            Ea        1         1_     _          r
       P~R + r> R + r~R+ r             "          p
                                1+-      Rfl+-)+r
                                    P       \    P/
                                              r
                                         1+
                                              P
                                         R + r«'
                                    r
                                  -r*
          v   '   (R+rs)3*-' V
   I will now assume the condition E = constant. We have
to eliminate r between this and the equation for p. The con
stants of the machine will then be at disposal for determining
the governing relation.
   (1) We have
                                1+T-
                                    P
                         r      R + rs
                 p(R+w)=E»(l+£),
   (2) Again,
                    1                  . *
                                      n+ -r
                          = K say =      P-
                K(R + r«) = n+ y,
               KR -n      = t(^-Ks).

                   Dynamo-electric Machines.                   291
Eliminating r,
                                  E3
                     j>R-W _ ~p~~P'
                      KR-n ~ v
                                   P
whence
                  /Rv      \ E3 .            _ .
               p\y~m)=j (v-,i-Kp)-
   The condition T.     — makes the coefficient of rp vanish: so
                   R = ps
that the power supplied must be independent of the velocity.
We have seen that in a similar case the equilibrium of the
motion is neutral, and the arrangement is not likely to be
of use.
   The value of v in this case will depend on E and on x, and
is determined by the condition
                         v-n-Kp = 0.
   (3) It remains to examine the stability.       Writing for K
its value, the governing relation becomes
              /Rv      \    EV                      \
   If we assume — fp > Ti>the
                        R'                     generally
                               motion will not o       j be stable.
For, using the general value of the power absorbed,
and
                                           i
             dp,_       Ea        x     E*-1      1
              dv    (Rv      \ x-1         _f_   -L
                 dp    dp
Both terms of -r-2
                 dv    dv are therefore rpositive in themselves.
As x comes to differ little from 1 the second term increases
indefinitely ; therefore anywhere near the point of saturation
of the magnets the motion would be unstable.
   We must therefore have
                              v    n

 202        Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on Self-regulating
 Then       becomes negative in itself, and              's "lwayi
positive, so that the motion is stable.
    The governing relation is therefore
                                            1
                      E2 /               E'-1    \
                   son-— Rv\
                P~ cpn
                                      (Ikv)*-1
    The practical deductions are as follows :—The ratio of
shunt and main coils is subject to a condition in order that
the required governing relation for constant E.M.F. may be
stable. This condition may be put in the form
                             R      n
                           R+p < v
This tells us therefore that the ratio of the number of main
 coils to shunt must be greater than that of armature resistance
to sum of armature and shunt resistance.
    A suitable value of R/p might be 1/100. Then, suppose
 there are 10,000 coils in the shunt, there must be more than
101 coils of the main circuit.
    Under these circumstances it would appear that there is
 another condition to be fulfilled in order that the expression
for the power may be positive, viz.
                                    i
                       v—n       E'-1
                             <        =-¦
                           E
But, remembering that ^l,y~^X          >      condition becomes
                       v—n         p
                         p ^R< + m'
and it can be shown that this reduces to the same condition as
that found above, viz.
                       R/       R \ n
                       sp \ R + pJ v'
So that it is only necessary to satisfy this one condition.
   This being so, the governing function assumes the form
                               A     B
                        p=-A+-j_.
                                   if-1

                  Dynamo-Electric Machines.                  293
A could be got rid of by making n = v, which satisfies the con-
                                                          X
ditions. Then there remains a hyperbolic governor, pvx~l = B.
This does not, however, appear to be a good solution in prac
tice. One would be disposed to have v at least three times as
great as n. In my Gramme machine as I have rewound it,
R/R + p is about 1/55, n/v about 1/2 : this is well within the
conditions, and yet past the point v= n. For practical purposes
the shunt excitation would bear to be much stronger. It is
difficult, however, to deal with practical applications at pre
sent, as we know nothing definite about the governing func
tions of the engines.
   As x approaches unity the sharpness of the governor re
quired is much increased. This seems to point to a control of
the governor by the current ; for this increases as x approaches
1, or as the magnets approach the point of saturation.
   An interesting resnlt is obtained in the case of main coils
only, where E is to be constant.
   Putting p = oo , v=0, «= 1, in the general formulae,
                                                             w
from (1),
                        R + r=nv     \— !
                                   E*-i
whence from (2),
                           P=         "i
                               n^v)*'1
For x = 2, this is of the form
                                  A
a hyperbolic governor of moderate sharpness.
   If.r=3,                    p = \,
                                  Vs
less sharp. If x diminish nearly to 1, the sharpness required
is greatly increased.
   These cases are interesting, since they explain the possi-
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 94. April 1883.             Y

294        Mr. It. H. M. Bosanquet on Self-regulating
bility of a self-regulation by main coils alone, which was
pointed out experimentally by me in a former paper (Phil,
Mag. xiv. p. 247).
   General case of constant current :
and                          E = C(R + r»);
                .-. p=Ca(R+r*)(l + p;
condition, c=constant,
The general elimination of r is hardly possible.
   But taking main coils only,
                      p = <x> , v=0,   «=1,
                     /> = Cs(R + r),
or
                    p& = C9n * tkv,
                             2r-\ t-l
                     p=C 1 W IXv,
a rectilinear governor as before, which can govern p=Ars* in
stable motion.
    There can be no donbt that the case of constant current is
 best dealt with by main coils only.
    The governing function supplying power proportional to
the velocity is probably the only example of a simple theo
 retical governing function which could be easily realized in a
 rigorous manner in practice. This would be done, as has been
 observed already, by a reducing valve, delivering steam in
 unlimited quantity at constant pressure.
    I will now apply the method up to a certain point to a par
ticular case of the general problem, in which the E.M.F.
between armature-brushes is required to be constant.
                        rE
                     fr—— =e = coustant.
                     K + ra

                  Dynamo-electric Machines.                     295
From                              ,   r
and the above vre get a quadratic in r,
                                              eJR=0.
Then from                                   v
                                      /n + -r.'
we have
In the general case this is intractable ; but for particular values
of x something can be made of it.
   Let a =2, which corresponds to a wide range somewhat
below the point of saturation of the magnets. Then we get
another quadratic in r,
The next step is to eliminate r between the two quadratics. I
have used the formula
for the eliminant of
                       a0r2 + 0^ + 02=0,
                       &0r2 + i,r + fts=0.
The computation is of great length, and I have not completed
it. It results in an equation of the 6th degree in » and v, of
which the terms of the 6th and 4th orders are as follows :—
      -pXtkvyf— (2v-3«) + neR2(n--)-4MesR2
                                                             }
           opV + bp* — cp2v2 + dv4 +                =0.
There can be no asymptotes except such as are parallel to the
axes.

296       On Self-regulating Dynamo-electric Machines.
   Equating to zero the coefficient of the highest power of
each variable, we find the following asymptotes :—
                    avl—c=0,              v2=0,
                    ap2 + d=0.
With respect to av1— c=0, it would seem that we cannot hare
an infinite value of p corresponding to a finite value of r;
.-. c=0.
   This gives the condition
g is the current which would be produced through the arma
ture, if not excited, by the given difference of potential.
R
— will generally be small. Neglecting its square, we have
                                           +P
                      n    U\1±2pJ         R
 a valuo very close upon the boundary of stable arrangements,
 as we see from the investigations under the head of E= con
 stant.
    Then all the asymptotes parallel to v=0 coincide with it.
    With respect to api + d=0) these asymptotes may have real
 values if they can ; then d is necessarily negative.
                   - '(»+?)>-H)'
        R
 or, as — is small, practically v> n, which is in conformity with
 practice and with the above condition.
    Then for high velocities p would require to have the con
 stant value V(d/a).
    The governing function of the type p= constant is stable
 for most cases. It is intermediate in character between p = h
 and pv = k. It obviously requires that the pressure on the
 piston should vary inversely as the velocity.
    In partially discussing these cases it has been more my
 object to throw light upon the general theory than to obtain
 {iractical results. The great value of theoretical investigation
  ies in the suggestion of new ideas ; and if the above only serves
 to point out the importance of the construction of governors
 in accordance with definite laws, it will not be without use.

                              [   297    ]
             XLII. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                        GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                         [Continued from p. 223.]
      February 21, 1883.—J. W. Hulke, Esq., F.R.S., President,
                              in the Chair.
^HE following communications were read :—
-*- 1. "On the Relation of the so-called 'Northampton Sand' of
North Oxfordshire to the Clypeus-Grit." By Edwin A. Walford,
Esq., F.G.S.
   The objects of the paper were said to be twofold :—in the first
place to show the existence of some hitherto unrecognized beds of
the Inferior Oolite in North Oxfordshire, and then to endeavour to
define their position by comparison with one of the uppermost of
the Cotteswold subdivisions, the Clypeus-grit. The 'area under
discussion was said to be for the most part embraced in quarter
sheet 45 N.W. of the Geological Survey, in the N.E. corner of
which is situate the town of Eanbury, whilst to the oxtreme S.W.
lies Chipping Norton. The author first called attention to some
remnants of a series of oolitic limestones at Coombe Hill, near
Deddington, which he considered to be the equivalent of the Oolite
Marl. He then pointed out near Bourton-on-the-Water the inter
vention of some sandy limestones and carbonaceous clays between
the Clypeus-grit and the Fuller's Earth ; he thought they might
 possibly represent beds found above the Clypeus-grit near Chipping
 Norton. The beds marked in the map 5' g T, hitherto termed
 Northampton Sand, he said were well shown in the new railway-
 cutting at Hook Norton, and wore capable of being split into
 several divisions:—the two thin base-beds containing Ammonites
 Iceviusculus and corals ; the next higher (series C) yielding a large
 fauna, amongst which were Rhynchonella spinosa, Trigonia signata,
 and a doubtful fragment of Ammonites Parlinsoni. These, with a
 higher series of sandy, marly, and siliceous limestones, designated
 I) and E, were proved to extend over the high lands to the S.W.
 It was shown that at one end of a ridge called Otley Hill the beds
  C rested on the Upper Lias, whilst on the S.W. flanks of the ridge
  the Clypeus-grit was to be seen also resting upon the Upper Lias.
 A road-eection near Over Norton, he said, showed beds similar in
  lithological character to C and D of Hook Norton, resting upon the
  Clypeus-grit and evidencing a fauna of a somewhat similar cha
  racter. The author thought that the almost unfossiliferous series
  E, which had been called the Chipping-Norton Limestone, might
 probably be found to be the equivalent in time of part of the
  Fuller's Earth, or of some of those beds of the Inferior Bathonian
  of the Cote d'Or described by M. Jules Martin.
    2. " Results of Observations in 1882 on the Positions of
 Boulders relatively to the Underlying and Surrounding Ground, in
 North Wales and North-west Yorkshire ; with Remarks on the
 Evidence they furnish of the Recency of the Close of the Glacial
 Period." By D. Mackintosh, Esq., F.G.S.
     The author began by showing how boulders may be regarded as

298                       Geological Society.
natural time-measurers by their protecting the rook-surface under
neath from the action of rain, which, around the boulders, denudes
the surface, especially on the leeward and windward sides, where
hollows resulting from pluvio-torrenrial action may generally be
seen. He then described and explained the origin of the different
forms of supports under boulders, which graduate from flat surfaces
to pedestals of various forms, which he divided into appropriated
(or preexisting), and those acquired through the boulders protect
ing the underlying rock from denudation. The author then de
scribed the positions of boulders on the high and uninhabited
Eglwyseg limestone plateau near Llangollen, where it is certain
they had never been disturbed by man. There he found that the
average vertical extent of denudation by pluvial action around the
boulders, since their arrival, was not more than six inches. After
endeavouring to account for the fractured and crushed conditioa of
the rocks under these boulders by precipitation from floating iee,
he gave an account of his discoveries on the high limestone plateau
north-east of Glapham (Yorkshire), where there is a "ghastly
array " of many hundreds of large Silurian grit and elate boulders,
nearly black in colour. From many facts and considerations the
author endeavoured to show that most of the pedestals of these
boulders must have existed before the arrival of the boulders, while
the pedestals acquired through the boulders protecting the under
lying rock from denudation, were generally imperfectly formed.
On the Clapham plateau he found that the average vertical eitent
of denudation around the boulders with acquired pedestals was not
more than on the Eglwysog plateau, or about six inches. In the
case of boulders which were not well adapted to concentrate rain
water, the extent of lowering of the surrounding rock-surface was
often inappreciable : and this accounted for the continuous extension
of flat limestone-rock surfaces under some of the boulders. The
author then described what he had found to be preglacial as well
as postglacial rain-grooves on limestone-rock surfaces, near Miners
and on Halkin mountain (North Wales), where he found the average
depth of those of the grooves which were probably postglacial to
be about six inches. In conclusion the author entered, into a con
sideration of the time which has elapsed since the close of the
glacial period, and stated the main results of his observations as
follows :—
   1. That the average vertical extent of the denudation of limestone
 rocks around boulders has not been more than six inches.
   2. That the average rate of the denudation has not been less than
 one inch in a thousand years.
   3. That a period of not more than six thousand years has elapsed
since the boulders were left in their present positions by land-ice,
floating ice, or both.
   3. " Notes on the Corals and Brvw.oans of the Wenlock Shales
 (Mr. Maw's Washings)." By Q. R. Vine, Esq.

                               [  299    ]
         XLIII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
   ON CENTRAL FORCES AND THE CONSERVATION OF ENERGY.
      To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
   Gentlemen,
"YTR. BBOWNE asserts that my criticism of his paper in the
        January number of the Philosophical Magazine was not jus
tified, on the ground that he had shown on page 38 that there could
not, consistently with the conservation of energy, be a component
at right angles to the straight line joining the two particles. Now
the assertion that such a component, if it exists, will produce a
rotation of B round A, which will increase B's kinetic energy,
and that this increase will go on for ever, is only necessarily true
if it can be shown that the component is not a function of 6 ; for
if it be a function of 0 it will not necessarily tend to cause rotation
continuously in the same direction. I did not allude to this in my
communication to the February number, because in the argument
which I criticised no mention was made of the fact that the non
existence of a component at right angles to the joining line must
be assumed before it can be shown that the component in that line
is a function of the distance only ; and therefore I could not tell
whether Mr. Browne considered this remark to justify his previous
argument, or to be justified by it. However, even if it be proved
that the component in the joining line is independent of H, it does
not appear to follow that the component at right angles, if it exist,
 is also independent of 0.       I have the honour to remain, &c,
                                             G. W. von Ttjnzelmann.
   ON THE REFRACTION-INDICES OF GASES AT HIGH PRESSURES.
                  BY 3. CHAPPUIS AND CH. RIVIERE.
    The constancy of the refractive power of gases, assumed by Biot
 and Arago after experiments in which the variation of the pressure
 did not exceed 1 atmosphere, has not hitherto been verified.
    Since that period the problems stated by Arago respecting the
 refraction-indices of gases have been the subject of important in
 vestigations ; but the physicists who have occupied themselves with
 these questions have regarded them chiefly as astronomical, and
 their aim has been to furnish the data which are indispensable for
 the calculation of atmospheric refraction ; hence their experiments
have been confined within the limits of atmospheric pressures.
    The remarkable experiments of Andrews on the liquefaction of
carbonic acid led him to the observation of some interesting phe
nomena produced in the gaseous mass at the moment of its change
of state. The well-known appearances described by him cannot
but be due to variations in the index of refraction of the gas.
Moreover the disappearance of the meniscus at what has been
called the critical temperature proves that at that instant the sub
 stance under experiment has only one index of refraction, while at
lower temperatures there are to be distinguished the index of the
liquid and the index of the gas.
    These facts appeared to us to give some interest to a study of
the indices of gases at high pressures.

300             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
    After various trials, the interference method employed by M.
Jamirj, and described in his classical memoirs on the variation of
the indices of air, water, and aqueous vapour, was selected by us
as being the most precise ; but it left us confronted by a difficulty
which it had not had to surmount: the apparatus employed in
previous experiments had only to support pressures, at the most,
equal to the atmospheric pressure, while we wished to reach 60 or
70 atmospheres. We decided the question by using an apparatus
already described and emploj'ed by one of us*, and which, a modi
fication in certain details sufficed to render suitable for the sort of
experiments we wished to attempt.
   This apparatus, constructed by M. Golaz, permits the compres
sion of the gas under examination to take place in a prismatic
cavity pierced in the interior of a block of steel of 20 centim.
length and closed at each end by a glass plate of 1 centim. thick
ness, firmly fixed. One of the interfering pencils furnished by M.
Jamin's first mirror traverses this cavity ; the other pursues, in free
air, a parallel path at a distance of 1 centim. Two glass plates
identical with the first were interposed in the path of this second
pencil. The two pencils afterwards pass through a compensator,
and are received upon the second mirror, where they interfere.
The fringes are observed horizontal and directed into a telescope
furnished with a reticule.
    In a first series of experiments we were able to follow the cen
tral fringe (white light) up to 65 atmospheres. Desiring to reserve
to ourselves the time necessary for making these measurement*
with all the care which they require, we shall at present give only
the result of measurements made between 24 and 36 atmospheres.
In the third column of the annexed table will be found the number
of the fringes (yellow \ of sodium) which pass under the reticule
of the telescope for a variation of pressure given by the difference
of the numbers in the first and second columns. Temperature 22°.
                      Pressure.        Number of
               Initial.       Final.    fringes.         n.
                24-5 atm. 28-5 atm. 335                0*550
                28-5 „          32-5 „    311          0-510
                32-5 „          36-5 „    338          0-555
   We have calculated the number n of the fringes which would
pass under the reticule for a variation of pressure of 1 millini. of
mercury in a tube of 1 metre length ; the results of the calculation
are indicated in the fourth column.
   The pressures were estimated with the aid of a metallic mano
meter which, unfortunately, had not sufficient precision to permit
more regular results to be obtained. Nevertheless the numbers in
the fourth column differ but little from the number 0'556, which is
calculated on adopting for the index of air at 22° the value 0-000271,
found by M. Jamin at the atmospheric pressure.— Comptes Rendu*
 dt VAcademic des Sciences, March 12, 1883, t. xcvi. pp. 699-701.
   * J. Chappuis, "Etude spectroscopique sur l'ozone," Annates Scien-
tifiques de Thcole Normate snpcrieure, 2' sene, t. xi. April 1862.

 THE        ANNALS AND                          MAGAZINE
                                      OF
        NATURAL                          HISTORY,
                                 INCLUDING
             ZOOLOGY, BOTANY, AND GEOLOGY.
                       MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. 6d.
   Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following
 prices:—
     The First Serial, in 20 volumes, from 1838 to 1847.    Price £10.
     The Second Series, in 20 volumes, from 1848 to 1857.     „ £10.
     The Third Series, in 20 volumes, from 1858 to 1867.      „ £12.
     The Fourth Series, in 20 volumes, from 1868 to 1877.     „ £12.
         Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.
         THE LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL                                MAGAZINE
                                    AND
             JOURNAL                 OF      SCIENCE.            *
k JOURNAL DEVOTED TO PHYSICS, ASTRONOMY, MECHANICS,
   CHEMISTRY, MINERALOGY, AND THE ALLIED SCIENCES.
                        MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. 6d.
  Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following
trices :—
  The First Series, in 68 volumes, from 1798 to 1826.     Price £15.
  The Second Series, in 11 volumes, from 1827 to 1832.      „ £2 4s.
  The Third Series, in 37 volumes, from 1832 to 1850.       „ £6.
  The Fourth Series, in 50 volumes, from 1851 to 1876.      „ £25.
        Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.

                CONTENTS of N° 94.—Fifth Series.
      XXXIII. On Maintained Vibrations. By Lord Raixeiqh,
   F.R.S., Professor of Experimental Physics in the University of
   Cambridge                                                             P°9e
     XXXIV. On a Measurement of Wave-lengths in the Ultra-red
   Region of the Spectrum of the Bun. By Ernst Phinqsheim ....
     XXXV. On Effects of Retcntiveness in the Magnetization of Iron
  and Steel. By Prof. E. Warbubo                                               241
     XXXVI. On the Meaning of " Force." By the Rev. Maxwell
  H. Close, M.A                                                                 24
     XXXVII. On the Number of Fractions contained in any " Farey
  Series " of which the Limiting Number is given. By Prof. J. J. Syl
  vester                                                                       25
     XXXVLII. On Permanent Magnetism. By R. H. M. Bosanqi kt,
  St. John's College, Oxford                                                   25
     XXXIX. On the Errors of our Sensations : a Contribution to the
  Study of Illusion and Hallucination. By Emile Tung, D.Sc. . .
     XL. Note on the Alleged Luminosity of the Magnetic Field. By
  W. F. Barrett, Professor of Experimental Physics in the Boj jI
  College of Science, Dublin                                                   27'
     XLI. On Self-Regulating Dynamo-electric Machines. By R. H.
 M. Bosanqcet                                                                  274
    XLU. Proceedings of Learned Societies :—
       Geological Society : — Mr. E. A. Walford on the Relation of
         the so-called " Northampton Sand '' of North Oxfordshire to
         the Clypeus-Grit ; Mr. D. Mackintosh on the Positions of
         Boulders relatively to the Underlying and Surrounding
         Ground, in North Wales and North-west Yorkshire
    XLIII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
       On Central Forces and the Conservation of Energy, by G. W.
         von Tunzelmann
       On the Refraction-Indices of Gases at High Pressures, by J.
         Chappuis and Ch. Riviere
 *,« It is requested that all Communications for this Work may be add
        fost-pnid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office, 1
         lion Court, Fleet Street, London.
i

                                    MAY 1883.                                    No. 9
            Published the First Day of every Month.— Price 2s. 6d.
                                    MAY 14 1883                                   \
                                           THE
                LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
     PHILOSOPHICAL                                     MAGAZINE,
                                           AND
                JOURNAL OF                          SCIENCE.
       Being a Continuation of Tilloclis 'Philosophical Magazine?
         Nicholson's 'Journal,' and Thomson's 'Annals of Philosophy.'
                                      CONDUCTED BY
           SIR ROBERT KANE, LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.A. F.C.S.
           SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, Knt. LL.D. F.RS. Ao.
                                           AND
           WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
                              FIFTH           SERIES.                     vv|^
                              N° 95.— MAY 1883.
                               WITH TWO PLATES.
     Illustrative of Mr. L. Weight's Paper on the Optical Combinations of
        Crystalline Films, and Mr. J. Band Capkon's on the Auroral Beam
       of November 17, 1882.
                                     LONDON:
          PRINTED BY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS, RED LION COURT, FLEET 8TRJCBT,
    Sold by Longmans, Green, Reader and Dyer ; Kent and Co. ; Simpkin, Marshall and
  ,   Co. ; and Whittaker and Co. ;— and by A. and C. Black, and Tliomas Clark, Edin
      burgh ; Smith and Son, Glasgow :^-Hodges, Foster and Co., Dublin :—Putnam,
      New York :—and Ashcr and Co., Berlin.
¦I

                      Errata in Vol. XIV. (October 1882).
                 Page 207, line 32, for A+u' is A+u'{&c.
                                   read A+u' is A+u'- {&c.
                    _ - line 33, for u'u" —(-?(B-A)
                                    read u'+u"- ? (B- A)
         TIME BY THE TRANSIT INSTRUMENT.
                            Cloth, 8vo, 5s., post free.
           A TEEATISE ON THE TRANSIT INSTRUMENT,
                            By LATIMER CLARK.
                                Cloth, 8vo, 2s. Gd.
                         TRANSIT TABLES,
Published annually ; giving the Transit of twenty of the principal Stars for every
   Evening in the year. Computed from the Nautical Almanac in ordinary time.
   Intended for Popular use in every part of the Globe.
                         ' By LATIMER CLARK.
                          TRANSIT INSTRUMENT
of Improved Form and of the Highest Quality, complete with Lamp &c. 12 inch,
£9 17s. 3d. ; 8 inch, £13 10s. These instruments will be sent on approval if
desired.
            A. J. FROST, 6 Westminster Chambers, London, S.W.
                     UNIVERSITY OF LONDON.
                    Now ready, price 4s. (post-free, 4s. Q^d.).
                   THE CALENDAR for the YEAR 1883.
  Containing the Regulations for each Examination, the Examination Papers set
         during the past year, Lists of Graduates, and other information.
               Taylor and Francis, Publishers to the University,
                        Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                        Royal 4to, cloth boards, price £1.
              FACTOR TABLE FOR THE FIFTH MILLION,
                                 CONTAINING THE
 LEAST FACTOR OF EVERY NUMBER NOT DIVISIBLE BY 2, 3, or 6.
                                     BETWEEN
                            4,000,000 and 5,000,000.
                         By JAMES GLAISHER, F.R.S.
                             Uniform with the above,
             FACTOR TABLE FOR THE FOURTH MILLION,
                                     Price fil.
           Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                               New Edition, price Is.
             TABLE OF CORRECTIONS FOR TEMPERATURE
 to Reduce Observations to 32° Fahrenheit for Barometers, with Brass Scale*
         extending from the Cistern to the top of the Mercurial Column.
                         By JAMES GLAISHER, F.R.S.
            Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                         [AD VERTISEMENTS continued on 3rd page of Coxm

             7HY141883           THE
           LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
   PHILOSOPHICAL                           MAGAZINE
                                 AND
        JOURNAL                  OF      SCIENCE.
                        [FIFTH SERIES.]
                            MAY 1883.
        XLIV. Optical Combinations of Crystalline Films.
                        By Lewis Wright*.
                              [Plate VL]
  THE object of the following experiments is to illustrate the
         facility with which simple combinations of mica-films,
  such as can be readily put together by any one with the aid
  of Canada balsam dissolved in benzol, may be made to demon
  strate not only the simpler chromatic phenomena of polarized
 light, but also the more beautiful and complicated appearances
 encountered at a more advanced stage of study. The colours
 obtainable from such mica-films are more delicate and intense
 than the usual selenite preparations, because while in selenite
 those films which produce the lower and more intense orders
 of Newton's colours are so thin as to be split with difficulty,
 in mica they can be obtained with the greatest facility. Some
 of the preparations are also, as demonstrations, superior in
 themselves.
    Let us take first the simplest case, of different retardations
produced by different thicknesses of crystal, counteracted or
not by opposite retardations caused by another crossed film.
It has been usual to demonstrate these by two selenite wedges,
rotating one over the other. A simpler and more effective
demonstration is given by two wedges, each built up of similar
mica-films superposed, and cemented together, like those on the
                  * Communicated by the Physical Society.
    Pldl. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 95. May 1883.            Z

302           Mr. L. Wright on Optical Combinations
screen (PI. VI. fig. 1). The series of flat steps or tints are
both more conspicuous and more readily understood; and if the
two wedges are properly matched, when crossed the diagonal
row of squares will be black when the Nicols are crossed.
When the thick edge of one is superposed over the thin edge
of the other, with the mica axes parallel, we have an even
tint ; and when the thick edge is superposed over the other
thick edge, with the mica axes crossed, the retardations or
colours produced by the first wedge are all destroyed by the
second, and the field is all black. I wish to remark here,
as I have done elsewhere, that the idea of wedges and other
designs, built up in this way of thin flat films, is not due to
me, but to my friend Mr. Fox, 'F.R.M.S., from whom both
this pair of wedges and the next one are simply copied.
    Here is another preparation of the same character, built up
of twenty-four films, each of a thickness causing exactly
of retardation for yellow light. Of course the thickness must
be very exact to bear multiplication twenty-four times without
sensible error. Now if we superpose on this wedge a flat
plate of mica with its axis* crossing that of the wedge, and of
a thickness equal to the middle stripe, that central stripe must
appear black when the Nicols are crossed (fig. 2), while New
ton's first order of colours and half the second order appear
symmetrically on both sides of the black stripe. On one side
of the stripe the wedge itself gives greater successive thick
nesses ; while on the other side the plate of mica does the
same.
    Such a wedge has further and real optical uses. It shows
at a glance the precise composition of every successively
increased £\ of retardation for the first three orders of New
ton's colours. When extinction is complete for yellow light,
we know that a little of both red and blue must be unextin
guished, the two giving us at the end of the first order the
opaque plum-colour known as the " tint of passage." As the
red at a given distance from the end of the spectrum is visu
ally more conspicuous than the blue, at the end of the second
and third orders this " tint of passage " must become more and
more red, as we see on the screen is the case. The precise
composition of the light destroyed and that remaining, we may
demonstrate by placing a slit across the wedge and throwing
its spectrum on the screen (fig. 3), when we see the shifting of
the bands in steps for each             ot retardation. The wedge
alone shows only the first three orders ; but it is obvious that
by superposing a plate of mica 1 \ in thickness, the spectrum
   * Throughout this paper the "axis " of the mica is supposed to be that
one of its two polarizing planes which passes through the two optic axes.

                       of Crystalline Films.                  303
would give us from the second to the fourth orders, and so
on. I have not here the plates to show this in detail ; but I
have brought a thick plate of selenite, not measured, but
hurriedly mounted for this afternoon. We throw its spectrum
on the screen first : from the seven or eight dark bands it
appears to be from eight to ten waves in thickness; it is at all
events so thick as to show no colour. But now superposing
the wedge, the shifting of the bands shows the precise compo
sition for every successive      of retardation even in this high
order of interferences. It is all rendered by spectrum analysis.
Another great use of such a wedge is for gauging the thick
ness of films in making other preparations, for which I use it
constantly: we only have to superpose the film to be gauged
with its axis crossing that of the wedge, and the stripe that is
nearest extinction when the Nicol is crossed gives the thickness.
   The rotatory colours of films are also beautifully shown by
mica preparations. We all know that if a film \\ thick (the
terms " thick " or " thickness " of course mean in retardation
of the slowest ray, throughout this paper) is adjusted with its
polarizing planes at 45° with the plane of polarization, we
obtain a single circular vibration. But if we adjust in this
position a film giving colour next the polarizer, and introduce
after that the \ \ plate, with its planes at an angle of 45° with
those of the colour-film, both the two rays which emerge
from the first film are converted into rays circularly polarized,
but in opposite directions ; and hence we get approximately
the rotatory colours of quartz as the analyzer is rotated; The
geometrical figure I now insert is thus circularly polarized,
and will illustrate not only the beautiful rotational phenomena
of the colours, but also that superior delicacy and intensity of
these lower-order colours which has been alluded to : it would
be exceedingly difficult to get colours like these in selenite.
Again, we take the 24-section wedge used just now, and su
perpose upon it a \\ plate made in two halves, one of which
has its planes reversed as compared with the other; on rota
ting the analyzer the colours appear to pass along the wedge in
opposite directions, as if it were made in two halves of right-
and left-handed quartz.
   My friend the Bev. P. B. Sleeman lately suggested to me
another preparation, which was in turn suggested to him by
a beautiful one in quartz belonging to the President of the
Boyal Society. This is a quarter-wave plate divided into
twelve sectors. In the position now on the screen the polari
zing planes are all perpendicular and horizontal; but the prin
cipal plane or " axis " is reversed (as in fig. 4) in every alter
nate sector. If we superpose this upon a mica-film giving

304          Mr. L. Wright on Optical Combinations
uniform colour, on rotating the analyzer we get, as yon see,
the contrary quartz rotations. But it lately occurred to me
that a still more beautiful demonstration of these rotational
colours would be obtained by another combination, which
deserves perhaps to be called an " optical chromatrope." We
place first in the stage next the polarizer a large even-tint
film in a rotating frame; next to that a concave selenite plate
showing Newton's rings; next to that again our quarter-wave
plate in sectors. As we rotate the analyzer, one set of alter
nate sectors of the rings approach the centre, while the inter
 mediate sectors recede from it ; and if we now at the same
time rotate the even-tint plate, we simultaneously vary the
colour phenomena in an exquisitely beautiful manner.
   A ± \ plate divided into four sectors or quadrant*, with their
planes alternately reversed in the same way (fig. 5), enahlcs
us to demonstrate the nature of the curious modifications of
the rings and brushes in a plate of crystal when circularly-
polarized convergent light is employed. Here, for example,
are the rings and cross of calcite: interposing a $ \ plate, the
black cross disappears into a grey nebulous one, and on oppo
site sides of each arm the quadrants of rings appear dislocated,
the dark rings of one quadrant opposing the light rings of its
neighbours. Interposing another $\ plate on the other side,
on rotating the analyzer one opposite pair of quadrants con
tracts while the intermediate ones expand, so that in two com
plementary positions we have unbroken circles. The same
phenomena precisely are exhibited by this disk of chilled glass
in parallel light, the gradually decreasing elasticity of the
glass as we recede from the centre having the same effect as
the increasing convergence of the rays has in the calcite.
Now it is pretty easy to explain this phenomenon to a student
by such a diagram as this (fig. 6) representing our crystal or
glass with the Nicols crossed. The circularly-polarized ray
we know is, on entering the glass, decomposed into its two
plane-polarized components, of which one (let us suppose that
denoted by the arrow-heads) is retarded a quarter of a wave.
But the calcite or glass, beside this, itself also retards either
the radial or the tangential vibration more than the other
component—in calcite the radial. Taking, then, any originallv-
circular ring caused by the calcite retardations alone, we see
that in two opposite quadrants the $ \ plate retards the radial
vibrations a further quarter-wave, while in the alternate
quadrants it accelerates them a quarter-wave. The result must
obviously be a half-wave dislocation. As I have just observed,
such a diagram sufficiently explains it all; but it seems to me
better actually to represent it optically, by introducing the

                         of Crystalline Films.                          305
composite quarter-wave plate, with its planes at 45° with the
plane of polarization, before a film ground concave to show
Newton's rings. Here we have, in an analogous way, in
opposite quadrants retarded one of the component vibrations
a quarter-wave before entering the selenite, while in the alter
nate quadrants we retard the other component ; and we get
similar dislocations. Again, letting the concave selenite come
first, and superposing a £X plate cut in quadrants with
their planes alternately horizontal and vertical, we now have
the contracting and expanding quadrants, with the perfect
circles in two positions, as in the calcite. We may make
the demonstration complete by reversing the process, and
superposing our last composite \\ plate on the disk of
chilled glass*. We now are applying in each quadrant all
the retardations equally to either the tangential or radial
vibrations ; and hence the rings remain perfectly concen
tric, while they expand or contract as the analyzer is ro
tated: there is no dislocation at all. Finally, either the
quadrant or 12-sector £\ plate superposed on this square oi
chilled glass gives us a very beautiful demonstration that the
dislocation of the crystal rings is entirely due to the \X plate
retarding one component ray in the crystal on one side of the
plane of polarization or that at right angles to it, and accele
rating the same component on the other side of those planes.
Here we have the square perpendicularly adjusted, with the
composite plate superposed. When the analyzer is rotated,
the reversal of the sectors on the lines of the black cross keeps
the figure symmetrical, as in the last experiment. But you
observe that the diagonals of the square are covered, each by
a single plate or sector; and a mere glance at the screen makes
it obvious that if, in this position, these diagonals were covered-
as the black cross now is, by the junction-line between two
contrary sectors, they would be dislocated, the colours on one
side of the line approaching the centre, and those on the other
receding when we rotate the analyzer. But we will now bring
these diagonals of the square into the planes of polarizer and
analyzer crossed, and superpose the sectors again upon the
glass, junction-lines now covering the diagonals. You observe
that the state of things is exactly reversed ; and the contrary
sectors now do keep the figure symmetrical on each side of the
diagonals, while, on the other hand, the single \\ plates which
now cover the bisecting diameters of the square preserve the
   * In private experiment we can of course do this with a plate of cal
cite; but in a projecting instrument it is rather difficult to ensure the
precise axial coincidence of all the arrangements with t he axis of the con
vergent light, without which the experiment fails.

306          Mr. L. Wright on Optical Combinations
symmetry there also. It is not necessary to add details of
explanation which will be familiar to all.
   Allow mo next to illustrate the beautiful phenomena of
crossed films of mica in highly convergent light, such as will
take in biaxial angles of, say, 50°. Our starting-point will be
Norremberg's beautiful discovery, worked out entirely from
theory, that by crossing films of biaxial mica of gradually
increasing number and proportionately diminished thickness,
there was a gradual approach to the rings and cross of a uni
axial crystal. He found three wave-lengths of retardation
the best approximate unit. Here is a single plate of mica—
the ordinary biaxial lemniscates; and here are two such plates
crossed at right angles—the ordinary figure of a " crossed "
crystal, in which we get the black cross. With four plates
crossed we get the first approach towards rings, each of the
"eyes " being now bisected by a straight fringe placed as a tan
gent to the figure. Norremberg's next preparation was eight
films crossed ; but I add one of six, which gives a single per
fect though nearly square ring, while eight films give two
rings. Twelve give three rings and signs of a fourth ; while
twenty-four, as you see, are absolutely undistinguishable from
a calcite. The whole series will be thus :—
              A a A A A I2 ?*
              3X' 3x' fx' £x' p.' |x' £x'
Now there is no necessity for an exact total thickness of three
wave-lengths in constructing this series ; bnt an approxima
tion to it is necessary, to preserve the gradation of the pheno
mena and the gradual passage to the uniaxial figure. So far
Norremberg ascertained; but he does not seem to have carried
his experiments with mica any further. Let us now do so.
The eight films gave us two rings, the outer one squarish in
figure. But if we combine eight very thin films (say
thick, as in this preparation), you observe that we get perfectly
circular rings at once ; and in fact even four very thin films
will give them ; and twelve thin films give us quite fine circles.
Now, on the other hand, let us employ four and eight thick
films—in this case over 1 X thick (we thus more than double
Norremberg's thicknesses); and observe that the rings now
have altogether disappeared, and the curved fringes are all
turned the reverse way, their convex sides to the centre. The
same thing is still more evident in this splendid figure, pro
duced by twelve crossed films f X in thickness. We see easily
enough that it must be so, if we follow in our minds the de
compositions and recom positions of the vibrations in traversing
the successive films ; but it is very interesting to notice how,

                        of Crystalline Films.                   307
with the same number of micas crossed in exactly the same
way, but of different thicknesses, the phenomena appear actu
ally reversed in character. Having seen this, we abandon
simply crossed films, and the following will be composed of
films superposed at angles of both 90° and 45°. Here another
cause of variety comes into play, since all films whose thickness
contains an odd          when superposed at 45° will circularly
polarize the light. Moreover we also know that if two such
films are superposed at an angle of 45°, the effect is to rotate
the plane of polarization itself (as shown for instance by the
rotation of a calcite cross) 45° from the original plane. Hence
the variety and scope for combination here are endless, the
phenomena always being beautiful; but I must only show you
a very few of such preparations. The first four are all com
posed of films £\ in thickness, and each contains the same
number of twelve films, and the lines show the successive
positions of the mica " axis." In the first they are
               I \ I -\- I \ I -\~
Thus all the diagonal axes lie the. same way. Now this second
 preparation has the very same individual films differently
 placed, thus:—
                I \- | \- | /- | /-
 You see the total difference in effect produced by the differ
ence in crossing.
    The next one is thus arranged:—
                      .11-11-1 = 1 =
This is an interesting combination, because the wave-decom
positions indicate that the light should be nearly extinguished
when the Nicols are crossed, not only in the original black
 cross, but also along the diagonals between. You see that it
 is so ; but this result is still more completely brought out by
 the next preparation,
                 | _ | _ |               | - | - |
 where we get a nearly perfectly black square crossed by nearly
 black diagonals as well as by the black cross. The next sot of
 five are all built of films one wave in thickness, as follows :—
             No. 1.     8 micas      | — | x | — |
                   2. 10 „         + + x + +
                   3. 12 „         + + x x + +
                   4.   8 „        + x + x
                   5.   8 „         | / — \ | / - \ (i. e.
                                          successively rotated 45°).

  308       On Optical Combinations of Crystalline Films.
  This last figure is interesting, because we can see that the
  result must be some polygonal or roughly circular central
  figure with some sort of a cross, surrounded by eight detached
  figures or eyes. I am sorry I cannot work this out mathema
  tically ; but with whole-wave and somewhat greater retarda
  tions it is pretty easy to trace it in one's own mind. It is so, as
  you perceive; and you also see that the preparation and figure
  can be rotated without very sensible change, which also fol
  lows from theory, and is a somewhat remarkable result, after
  what we saw at the commencement, with such thick films.
  And now, to show the effect of thickness, here is a precisely
  similar preparation of eight films superposed at a successively
  rotated angle of 45°, but built up of |\ films. Circular
  polarization here comes into play; and the effect is totally dif
  ferent in every way. The last of these crossed micas is built
  up of twelve |\ films, thus—
                          x + + + + x
 You see the total difference in figure from any thing before,
 and the scope for endless variety, which I must not further
 pursue.
     Still more beautiful, but perhaps less interesting, are the
 combinations of mica- and selenite-films discovered experi
 mentally by Norremberg. As he observes, if we call the three
 axes of elasticity in any crystal x, y, z, then selenite-films
 contain x and 2, while mica on the other hand contains y
 and z ; and it is easy to see that if preparations are built up
 of both elements, very fine coloured fringes must result, dif
 fering very greatly in character according to whether the x of
 the selenite is parallel to the z of the mica or crosses it. As
 far as I remember, however, Norremberg and Reusch seem to
 have said that the characters of the fringes defy all prediction.
 This is perhaps hardly true, even apart from mathematical
 analysis, which I am unable to give, and which the mere
 beauty of these combinations is scarcely worth. For it is
 easy to perceive that if a single selenite be placed between
 two thick micas, we must have very nearly the usual biaxial
 figure, with some little modification in the eyes or rings, but
chiefly distinguished from the simple mica by rich colour.
That is so here. But if we alternate several parallel selenites
between parallel micas of less thickness, so as to give the sele
nite functions of elasticity more comparative influence, then
it is evident that the modified lemniscate curves, or what is
still traceable of them, must be either brought nearer together
or more widely separated, and that we shall thus obtain
curved fringes having their approximate origin in the original

                    On Permanent Magnetism.                  309
optic axes of the mica, but reversed in character according as
the x of the selenite crosses or is parallel to the mica z. This
 is the simplest analysis I can give, and it follows on conside
 ration from Norremberg's data. Here are two such prepara
 tions, in each of which four selenites are alternated between
 five \\ micas. In the first the modified lemniscates are wider
 apart than in the mica, but the resulting fringes originate
 approximately in the mica axes. In the second the selenites
 are at right angles with their former position, and the fringes
 still centre in the axes, but the curves are reversed ; and the
 resulting " palm-tree " pattern is perhaps one of the most
 beautiful, both in colour and figure, which it is possible to
 behold.
    The few other preparations here are built up of either four
 or six ternary elements constructed on Norremberg's system,
 each consisting of two parallel micas, with a selenite between
 them either crossed or parallel. In the first you readily
 recognize the "palm-tree" character of the last figure,
 " crossed." It is needless to describe the others ; for here,
too, variety is boundless ; but I purposely reserve for the last,
two combinations composed of exactly the same arrangements
of both mica and selenite, and all the micas the same
thickness, but the selenite films in one slightly thicker than in
the other. The difference in effect is purposely not so great
as to prevent your recognizing the same general figure in
both, but is still conspicuous and interesting. Let me, in
conclusion, hope that the beauty of these preparations con
structed after Norremberg's method, and the facility with
which they can be prepared, may make them better known.
    [At the conclusion of the paper Mr. Wright described and
exhibited an adaptation to the microscope by Messrs. Swift
and Son, by the aid of which all the preparations and crystals
requiring highly convergent light could be shown on the stage
of any microscope constructed with a draw-tube.]
                XLV. On Permanent Magnetism.
                    By R. H. M. Bosanquet.
   To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
       Gentlemen,
IN a former paper I have proposed to follow out Faraday's
       analogy between magnetism and electricity; and the fol
lowing is a summary of the resulting point of view.
    Magnetic induction, or the number of lines of force through
tmit area, is the quotient of magnetomotive force by resistance,
in magnetic circuits.

310               Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on
   Magnetomotive force is a difference of magnetic potential.
For any circuit once linked with « spires of an electric cur
rent, the magnetomotive force is 4-n-Cn.
   Magnetic resistance is a linear quantity; for the dimensions
of magnetomotive force are
                          [I^ltfT*1];
and of magnetic induction,
                          [Lr^T-1].
   The idea of magnetizing force as the cause of magnetic
induction is abandoned.
                    .....     Magnetizing force• is regarded
                                                        *
simply as magnetic induction in space or air. Magnetic
induction is conceived of as arising directly from the action
of magnetomotive force on circuits of magnetic resistance.
   It was shown in my previous paper, that if a permanent
magnet of hard steel be divided into short lengths, the sum of
the moments is not the same as before, but is greatly reduced.
This contradicts the fundamental statement generally received.
The chief object of the present paper is the further discussion
of the experiment in question.
   It was suggested that, according to the Amperian analogy,
permanent magnets may be expected to have permanent mag
netomotive forces in their substance ; and these acting on the
magnetic resistance of the circuit would produce magnetic
induction, depending partly on the resistance of the steel, and
partly on that of the return through space or air. These
considerations not only explain the phenomenon in question,
but enabled me to foresee it.
   I will shortly recapitulate the experiment. A compound
magnet is constructed of eighteen cylindrical pieces, fitted,
hardened, and magnetized.              centiin.
           Whole length     . . . =28-50
           Length of each piece . = l-58
           Diameter                   = 1-97 = 2B/.
These are placed in a cradle hung in a bifilar suspension
arranged so that the plane of zero deflection is at right angles
to the magnetic meridian. Then, for weeks, there were ob
tained in the mean: —
      Deflection due to 18 pieces joined up . =13°"1
           „        „       „     separated . = l°-8
In the first instance the mean deflection of lO-05 was obtained
with the separated pieces, as stated in my first paper. I have
come to the conclusion that this was due to some error in
handling the apparatus. When it is at all disturbed the tor

                     Permanent Magnetism.                      311
sion of the wires changes rapidly, and affects the results. The
condition of the instrument can always be ascertained by
making observations in pairs, so as to give zeros. If these
agree, confidence may be felt. With bad wires I have had
two consecutive zeros differ by several degrees.
    As to the use of the bifilar for absolute measure, I will only
observe, with reference to a recent paper of Kohlrausch*, that
1 share his predilection for the method, though I do not
attempt to attain his degree of accuracy. But one part of his
work seems inadmissible for accurate purposes; and that is the
determination of the torsion by calculation, or by experiment
with a separate piece of the suspension wire. In my experi
ence wires differ. I determine the torsion of the wires in use
by balancing it against some approximately known magnetic
moment, the torsion just exceeding 180°. It must be deter
mined both ways (right and left). It is impossible to assume
 that the zero of torsion coincides with the zero position. If
 it did so once, it would not continue to do so after a weight
 had remained deflected in the bifilar for a day or two, unless
 with an exceptionally good wire. There is continual change
 in consequence of what the Germans call " elastiaclie Naclt-
 toirkung, which I may describe as " imperfect elasticity." I
 suspect that a change of this kind had something to do with
 the change noticed in the note at p. 215 of my previous paper.
    I may just mention that the magnetic meridian is most
 conveniently determined by hanging an electromagnet in the
bifilar, by the method subsequently described. When on
 reversing the current no change of position takes place, the
 axis is truly in the magnetic meridian. The moment of the
 electromagnet must be a little less than that of the bifilar.
    The difficulty in making any deduction from the observed
 ratio of the moments of the compound permanent magnet,
 when joined up and separated, consisted in our ignorance of
 the amount of the air-resistances of the magnetic circuits. I
 have succeeded in completely determining these by means of
 soft-iron electromagnets, having nearly the same dimensions
 as the steel, both joined up and separated. The pieces of soft
 iron only differ slightly in diameter from the steel. The dif
 ference was an oversight. The diameter of the soft iron is
 1-90 centim., that of the steel 1*97. Each length of 1*58 cen-
 tim., whether separate or forming part of a long bar, is wound    '
 with ten turns of wire.
     A mercury contact is arranged under the cradle, by which
 currents can be transmitted to the coils with little friction. It
  was found that semicircular channels, with dipping wires,
                 * Wiedemann's Annalen, xvii. p. 737.

312                Mr. E. H. M. Bosanquet on
caused so much friction that the cradle would rest in any
position within two or three degrees. Now there is a cen
tral cup or thimble with a central wire, and a circular channel
round it, of small diameter, in which an excentric wire dips.
The friction is not objectionable.
   The course of experiment is this:—The bifilar is set at
right angles to the magnetic meridian. A current is sent
through, and the deflection measured. Tbe current is mea
sured by a new standard galvanometer, just constructed. It
has ten turns, of which any number can be used, parallel or
in series.
   The current is reversed, and the mean of the deflections,
corrected for torsion, taken. The moment is then calculated
from the constants of the bifilar. The magnetic induction 93 is
then calculated, employing the observed distance between the
poles. The magnetomotive force, (47rO»), is calculated.
           . .       . magnetomotive force „.               ,
   Ihe resistance x is —-—-.—:—-      ,—-.
                         magnetic induction  . Ihe permeability
                                                     r          J
of the metal for the given value of 93 is then taken from Row
land's table for soft iron (previous paper, p. 209).          Tbe
length of bar divided by this permeability is the resistance of
the metal, and is subtracted from x.
   The remainder is the resistance of the air-circuit for the
shape in question. Assuming that this resistance can be ex
pressed in the form 2aR, we divide this remainder by R, and
obtain 2a, the air-resistance for unit radius.
   2«R', where R' is the radius of the steel, gives us the air-
resistance for the shape of the steel. This process is carried
out both for the whole bar and the separate pieces. These
air-resistances are then introduced into an equation which
states that the total resistances, joined up and separate, must
be inversely as the observed moments. Hence the resistance
of hard steel is found to be less than that of air in the propor
tion of about 1 : 31.
   The resistance was then determined directly, by sending a
current through a coil wound about the steel itself. As large
a current as was safe was used. It increased the permanent
magnetism a little at first, but afterwards there was no further
permanent change. The resistance thus determined by tem
porary change of moment was to that of air nearly as 1 : 32.
A former determination was rejected on account of a disturb
ance in the permanent magnetism. There is no further room
for doubt that the behaviour of permanent magnetism in hard
steel is completely explained by the assumption of magneto
motive force and resistance in the steel ; and if the resistance
be determined by division of the bar, the same numerical
result is obtained as by direct determination.

                         Permanent Magnetism.                        313
     The variation in the resistance of the steel under different
 values of the magnetic induction has not yet been regarded.
     The change in the air-resistance for unit radius, from about
•45 in the cise of the thick disks to *30 in the case of the long
 bar, shows that the length of the bar has some influence on
 this quantity. It is proposed to examine further the law of
 change.
      The temperature during the work was always high and
 tolerably constant. So far its variation has not been taken
 into account. In the early morning, before the room is warm,
 an increased moment is observed. The permanent magnet as
 it now stands in the bitilar has a deflection of about 14°, read
 ing during the day 73c,7 (zero 88° nearly). I have gone in
 early on several mornings and found the residing to be about
 72°-4. It returns to its former position as soon as the room
 is warm.
     Heat therefore diminishes the magnetism*. It remains to
 be determined whether the magnetomotive force or the resist
 ance is affected. In the latter case we should have a curious
 analogy to the behaviour of electrical conductors, the resist
 ance increasing with the temperature.
     So long as the permanent magnet was kept free from mag
 netic influences, its mean condition did not sensibly change.
 I wished to make it take a higher moment, and tried magne
 tizing it on the dynamo. It took a higher moment, but soon
 lost it again. I had reason subsequently to think that one of
 the pieces was reversed in this process, which threw doubt on
 the first direct determination of permeability. I then remag-
 netized it carefully on the dynamo. The moment soon fell
 again to about its original value; it was slightly increased by
 the first action of the currents used in the second determina
 tion of permeability, but did not change further during the
determination, and still remains the same.
                     Calculation of Experiments.
                                Constants.
    b~ J inch'} distance °f points of suspension.
                         /41\
    h had the values I 37 ) inches, height of suspension.
                         V34'
    m = 41 oz. = 1162-3 grm., )           ¦
     ff=98l,                        } wei8ht-
    * This conclusion is opposed to that of Mever (Wiedemann's Avnalen,
xyiii. p. 240). His conclusion is founded on the difference between expe
riments in September and January. I measure the difference directly, and
see the change repeat itself daily.

314               Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on
  H = "181, horizontal component.
  /=26 centim., distance of poles of bar.
  Length of bar = 28-50 centiin.
  Separate piece = 1-58.
   2W = 1-97 steel.
   2R = 1-90 soft iron.
                    Fundamental Equation*.
                    Moment = ^tt           6.
                        Moment „ .
                        — — = role.
             4ir Pole = 7rR223, or 4 Pole =R*$;
                  mJ^^ = 53, magnetic induction.
            M.M.F. = 47rC*i, magnetomotive force.
           x = M.M.F.
                —si— , total resistance.
                   50
          a?i= length resjg|;{ince 0f ^ar ^ founj from 33 jn
                           Rowland's table).
          xa = x— xi,, air resistance.
           2*=      air resistance for unit radius.
           2aR',    air resistance for radius R'.
                          Soft iron bar.
                           A =37 inches.
                             I.             II.
       Current             l-283           -83 ampere.
       Deflection          21a8            14°-0
       Moment              5405            3369
       23                    921             574
       *                   -31495          -32685
       M                   1100            842
        2a                 -30426          -30855
                   Mean value of 2a = -30640,
w hence
                         2aR' = -30181.

                     Permanent Magnetism.                       315
                      18 pieces of soft iron.
                           A = 37 inches.
                        I.         II.          III.
      Current          1*0        4*2          5 "36 amperes.
      Deflection ... 0°-7         3°-0         3°-75
      Moment           165-2       708         885-77
      SB                 28-1     120-74       151
      x                -44645     -43714       -44607 for one piece.
      H                410        460          480
      2u               -46590     -45654       -46610
           Mean value of 2a                        =-46285
           Corresponding value of 2aB/ ... =-45592
           From II. alone 2«R'                     =-44970
   I. has little weight, because of the smallness of the observed
deflection; III. because the current was too much for the coils
and the apparatus was heated. The value derived from II.
alone is therefore to be preferred. I adopt 13°-1 and l°-8 for
the deflections of the steel compound bar, joined up and sepa
rate. In deducing the moments from these, h must be taken
 = 41 inches. The condition was very permanent; but the
moments were lower than they are now.
   Then we have, if r be the resistance of one piece,
                         18r + -302 _
                       l8(r + -456)
Taking first the mean of I., II., III. for the soft iron; then
                    1-58 = aoW         M= 30-52.
   Taking II. alone for the soft iron,
                         18r + -302
                       18(r + -450)~ A0°'
 whence                       M= 31-06.
    Direct determination of permeability of the permanent
 magnet.
                             A =34 inches.
                                   Current           Reversed.
                                 1-33 ampere.
            Deflections              9°-9              21°-33
            Moments                  2566-7            5743-7
                  Diff. of moments            3177-0

 316         Mr. S. Bid well on a Method of Measuring
                            S3         503-7,
due to diff. of moments;
                            x          1-1944
                            x„           -3018
                                         •8926
which is the value of p thus obtained.
XLVI. On a Method of Measuring Electrical Resistances with a
   Constant Current. By Shelford Bidwell, M.A., LL.B*
IT sometimes happens that the resistance of a body appears
       to depend upon the strength of the current which
traverses it. Thus the resistance of the carbon filament of an
incandescent lamp may be several ohms lower when tested
with a strong current than it is with a weak one. In this
case there is little doubt that the difference is due only in
directly to the current itself, and is in fact caused by the
 heat which the stronger current develops, and which, even
when the circuit is closed only for a moment, may produce
considerable effect upon the conductivity of the filament.
Again Prof. Adams, at an early stage of his well-known
experiments with selenium, found that, on increasing the
strength of the current through the selenium, there was a
diminution in its resistance f. The same is the case with the
mixtures of sulphur and carbon which I described in a previous
communication %, and to a very much greater degree with
loose contacts of carbon or metal, such as are used in the
microphone. For example, a carbon pencil being arranged
so as to rest at right angles upon another with a pressure of
-05 grin., the resistance at the point of contact was found to
be 11-02 ohms with a current of -1 ampere, and 68 ohms
with -001 ampere ; and when cylinders of bismuth were sub
stituted for the carbon, the resistances with the same currents
as before were 5 ohms and 182 ohms respectively.
    Without assuming that the resistances in these and similar
cases are altogether true resistances, it is nevertheless some
times convenient to treat them as such ; and for purposes of
   * Communicated bv the Physical Society of London, having been
read at the Meeting of the Society on March 10th, 1883.
  t Phil. Trans, vol. clxvii. pp. 310, 342.
   i Proc. Phys. Soc. vol. v. p. 90.

         Electrical Resistances with a Constant Current.      317
 comparison it is "clearly necessary that currents of known or
constant strength should be used in their measurement.
 When the Wheatstone's bridge is employed in the usual
 manner, the current passing through the unknown resistance
will, of course, vary with the magnitude of this resistance,
being smaller when it is high than when it is low ; but by a
very simple modification of the common arrangement, which
 I have used extensively during the last year, it is easy to
ensure having currents of uniform strength throughout a
series of measurements.
   In the figure, x, nx, a, na are the four arms of a Wheat-
stone's bridge, S is the unknown resistance, and R is a box of
resistance coils which is inserted in the. same arm. If E
denote the electromotive force of the battery, B its internal
resistance, and C the current which passes through the arm
containing S, then, when there is a balance,
                     n+1     g       n(a + xy
                                 a + x + n(a + x)
                              wE
                   ~(n + l)B + n(a + x)-
From this expression we can find what value x must have in
order that the current through the unknown resistance may
be of any definite strength. Having determined this value,
we insert resistance equal to n times its amount in the arm
nx, and adjust the resistance in the box R until a balance is
obtained. We then know that the resistance of R + S is equal
to x; that the resistance required to be measured, S, is equal to
that of the arm x less the resistance employed in R; and that
a current of the desired strength, C, is passing through it.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 95. May 1883.          2A

318            Mr. J. Rand Capron on the Auroral
A second unknown resistance may now be substituted and
measured as before, simply by altering the resistance of R,
with the certainty that when there is a balance the current
is of the same strength as in the former case. The resistance
nx remains unchanged throughout. It is of course necessary
so to choose the values of a, n, and E that x may be greater
than the resistance to be measured ; and it is generally de
sirable that the resistance of the whole bridge should be made
as high as conveniently possible.
   The great advantage of this method over others that suggest
themselves lies in the fact that, since it is never necessary to
close the circuit for more than a moment, the electromotive
force and resistance of the battery remain sensibly constant
during a long course of experiments.
      XLVII. The Auroral Beam of November 17, 1882.
           By J. Rand Capron, F.R.A.S., F.M.S*
                            [Plate VII.]
NOVEMBER last (1882) was remarkable for the great
      auroral storm, or, rather, series of storms, which prevailed
over a considerable portion of the globe during the latter half
of that month.
   Accounts of brilliant displays from the Shetland Islands, at
Edinburgh, a great number of localities in England, Rome,
and Florence 60on made their appearance in the public prints;
and to these later on were added others from America, Cali
fornia, Spain, Sweden, Belgium, the Netherlands, and other
countries.
   Continuous aurora; were seen at Trondhjem from the 12th
to the 18th of the month ; and I traced almost incessant dis
plays in these latitudes from the 13th to the 24th at least—the
motions of the telegraph-needles acquainting us that auroras
were not only present when actually visible, but by day and
during clouded nights.
   Also accompanying these were considerable groups of solar
spots, one the largest ever seen at Greenwich, and a wide
spread disturbance by earth-currents of State telegraphic
communication in nearly all the countries above mentioned.
It was during one of these storms that, in the south of England
and the adjacent parts of France and Belgium, a phenomenon
was seen which, though apparently not without precedent in
the annals of aurora?, was at least of a rare and striking
character.
                 • Communicated by the Author.

                   Beam ofNovember 17, 1882.                    319
   About 6 p.m., while the aurora was fitfully blazing in the
north, north-east, and north-western sky, in the east there rose
from the horizon a long beam of detached bright light, which,
apparently lengthening as it advanced, crossed rapidly the
southern horizon in front of or near the moon, and then sank
in the west, shortening in length as it did so. The light
emitted from it was described by one observer as of a glowing
pearly white; and the general effect of this huge shining mass
sailing majestically across the sky, even upon those accustomed
to kindred phenomena, was at least one of wonder and sur
prise, while in the less experienced in such matters it created
a feeling of absolute awe. Indeed to such an extent in some
instances did this latter emotion prevail, that two labourers in
my neighbourhood, who separately witnessed it, thought "that
surely the world was coming to an end."
   In this general description of the "beam" of the 17th of
November, I may add I have advisedly preferred to use the
term "beam" (the "trabs" of Musschenbroeck, an oblong
track parallel to the horizon) as a definition of the object,
because in speaking of auroral rays and beams it is generally
understood that the former are the spreading fixed shafts
(sagitte) which shoot from the arches or horizon towards the
zenith, while the latter term is applied to the bright clouds
passing at right angles to the former. Good examples of
these were observed at Guildford on February 4, 1874, and
are figured in 'Aurorae,' plate 6. Having regard to the almost
unique nature of the phenomenon, it seemed to me a desirable
thing to gather together the published accounts of its appear
ance, and to endeavour to trace something of its history more
in detail and more precisely than they singly afford.
   In a few of the public prints (notably in ' Nature ') a num
ber of interesting (and doubtless accurate, so far as the sudden
ness of the apparition would admit of) observations are recorded ;
but, on the other hand, it is somewhat strange that the scien
tific journals in general contain but little, if any, notice of it ;
and as to newspapers, while the ' Standard ' and some few
others contain scattered accounts, the ' Times ' (probably from
a want of due appreciation of the importance of the subject)
published two letters only out of a " great number" it stated
it had received. Regretting this, and using to the best of my
ability the materials I have found at my command, I have
drawn up a schedule of twenty-six observations at home and
abroad, showing at one glance the prominent features in
each observation and giving the authorities, that those so dis
posed may consult them for further or more exact details.
They are as follows :—
                             2A2

Mr. J. Rand Capron on the Auroral
shwFishtueoatorrvlepre'.ds!o,southofAlRoboidteabalraon Nalid                                                                                                                                                                                                    slight,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                "dark
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      el owish before      bartreak passed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           where
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          sand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 omething"dark      Same
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    pitoas|sitionLeeds.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  atObservation below
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (arch                          mabout
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 eri;ondian much
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Rltaithuder paley
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AMoon.       22°         Terlaojwe-cwthiotrey. ho                                     oSbpsecrtvraotsiocnpic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 rizon, of
                                                        andat.Ps.amDe., of
                                                        along           Moon
                                                                        dis
                                                                        and                Moon.
                                                                                            face
                                                                                           the
                                                                                            Acros
                                                                                           of
                                                                                    ltair. Moon's
                                                                        faceacros Aappeared
                                                                                   W.
                                                                                   ill
                                                                                   under                                                                ra;coseros below
                                                                                                                                                     Exactly
                                                                                                                                                    the
                                                                                                                                                     Moon          Pvleritadceals,y sailing
                                                                                                                                                                   the                          disk
                                                                                                                                                                                                cloud
                                                                                                                                                                                                edge
                                                                                                                                                                                                Snowy M(diskaocoverruo's )
                                                                                                                                                                                                of                                                    of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ybar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Moon,                                                                                                                   paxis              Moon.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ltoeanrt;iacularelbelow
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 passed
                                                                                                          and
                                                                                                           babove
                                                                                                            deialmoewt.er                                                                                                  it).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           through
                                                                                                                                                                                                             uc;leus shining
                                                                                                                                                                                                            dark
                                                                                                                                                                                                            nwise
                                                                                                                                                                                                            3°X2°;          (moon
                                                                                                                                Passedacros
                                                                                                                                the
                                                                                                                                Moon.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 fslta rtse.r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 than
                                                                                                                                                                                    igaar-ship.
                                                                                                                                                                                   clike                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           eamers.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                strrosy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               22.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                 N.E.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 to                                                                                                                                                                             to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S.E.                                                         psoN.B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            only
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           alandgiven
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Where
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                anot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 entarergcoiarextoiunmduaedtse.s
                                                                                            toW.
                                                                                            E.                                                         to
                                                                                                                                                      E.
                                                                                                                                                      W.                                                                                               to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S.E.                                                         W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E.to
   W.E.to                                                                                                                                                                                                    S.W.                                                S.W.                                                                                                                            S.W.
    4°                                                                                                                                                5°                                         3°                                                                                                                  3°                                                         5°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Moon.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   sOto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   where
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     btspass
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   belowearvtaeiodns
    30°                                                                                                                                                40°                                        30°                                                                                                                 35°                                                       20°
                                                                                                                                                       About 1                                                                                          Less m4in.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       than                                                                                                                      About 6sec.
    SOBe.                                                                                    Less than ^                  uiin.                                        min.                                                                                                                                            80sec.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  30"
                                                                                                                                                                                                  lm
    ow.                                                                                      OW.                                  OW. 0E.                                                         0E.                                                   OW.                                                            0W.                                                       OW.
   308                                                                                       0
                                                                                             (5                                   0
                                                                                                                                  1 1                    20                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  35                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        43                                                              52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2                                                        207
   ON.
  51
  29                                                                                         ON.
                                                                                             31
                                                                                             51                                   51 32
                                                                                                                                  ON.
                                                                                                                                  30                      O6N.                                    51
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ON.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  23                                                     7N.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        O51                                                             26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ON.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        51                                                       7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ON.
 65                                                                                                                                                        7
                                                                                                                                                           6                                      6
                                                                                                                                                                                                  5                                                      Soon 0.   after                                                15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6                                                            6 5
                                                                                                                                  j
                                                                                             G
                                                                                             0
 Windsor.
 Old                                                                                          Lincoln's-In                        Broxbourne Wo dbridge.                                                                                                  Stre t,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Somer                                                          E.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Clevedon, Somerset.
                                                                                                                                             (Hertford).                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Hempston,Bedford.
                                                                                                                 Fields.                                                                          Chatha.m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    set
 Dob-
John
 J.                                                                                                                                 o druf . Hubert
                                                                                                                                  WJ.                      Airy.                                   MWm.unro.                                             Clark.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         oJseph                                                          H.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Saxby.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S.                                                            ET.lger. .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       G.
                                                                                              Pol oc.k
                                                                                              E.
                               son.
                                                                                                                                  St'andard.' Nature,                                             Ltoet er Astr.Rov.                                      Nature,
Idem,
87.p.                                                                                         Idem,                                                                                                                  Soe.                                                                                                Idem, 338. 85                                                  Idem.p.
                                                                                                                 141.p.                                                 87.p.                                                                                       84.p.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     100pp.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     80,
                                                                                                                                  7. 8.                                                           9.                                                      10.                                                            11.                                                            12.
5.                                                                                            6.

322        Mr. J. Band Capron on the Auroral
                                         ¦ £-c .2                             "8 i        Ik
                              tx. • '. c^ *** 5:£
                                         »
                              is " s § Ca. ^nrt
                cc                            » •                          **
                                                                          -a    —s J52 5» 11
                 -
                                              P!
                                             ,l2s III                                               s
                                                                         g-2 6J8"§ «              - 33
                                                                                                     1>"
                                          >~^ e                              5=3 I-Sl
                                      'E S h £                                            If
                                                                                           = nf
                                        B « ~ a 5 IE                                      ¦J..= - l
    2a J=-                                     E.
                                               to
                                               W
                                                              S.W.to                      &
                                                                                          2
                              OQ                                                          a              w
                    :              :           o                    :                          l:        0w
      -
      _=                      o                o                    i
        c           i 8                        S                    i                           !         6
                                                                                                           c
 —2                  ; 4                                                                                  £i
                                                                                                          *•I c-
                                a              Hi
    EH55
                                               O U5
                                               8 35
  -            oo ~                            IN o
                                                               «'
               SO o                            o t-            u-5
                cn o
               -n              3               <a >o
       <U+25BA>2      OH CO                           lO 1(5
                               -f              CO
         5
                               to              to
                 Ives,
                 Hun
                 St.                                            Co per's
                                                               Hill.
                       tingdon.Heworth, York.
                                               Bristol
                 Tlios. D.
                 Wood           H.
                                Taylor.         Wor- MH.
                                                M.
                                                A.
      U                                                thington. cLeod.
     C
      7.               ruff.
    c
                 J t"2(i, a.
                   g J 00 ;i p E
                                          C »— M
         o
       f5

              Justoveragreen S30°
              Moon,
              the                   tabove
                                    40°
                                     toaarctionary                      ajust
                                                                      Fecomet,
                                                                         throseer-like before
                                                                                        lSa
                                                                                         debaran, through
                                                                                       Aabove      quadand
                                                                                                   turn,
                                                                                                   Pegasus rant, When
                                                                                                           Eagle
                                                                                                           of
                                                                                                           S.
                                                                                                           three  tars. aand
                                                                                                                  length
                                                                                                                 S90°                    hori dzE.
                                                                                                                                         10°x£°;
                                                                                                                                        sion
                                                                                                                           epairnaedt,edformed
                                                                                                                         stdivi                   orto
                                                                                                                                                 i20°
                                                                                                                                                  N.enctiaoln         rizontal 20°
                                                                                                                                                                    HE.
                                                                                                                                                                     20°
                                                                                                                                                                     oN.
                                                                                                                                                                   bearing     to de
                                                                                                                                                                               S.,
                                                                                                                                                                               through
                                                                                                                                                                               W.
                                                                                                                                                                               Alde               uFsoeramu.e" Like
                                                                                                                                                                                                f"Passed                    darker
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tail.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             comet's the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Axis      zrensith. Abi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     than
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Across       andtweaernedTauri,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              passed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              little
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ofa zand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   peuriga                              Oopbhysicucrhei;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     dbesncteiwntedhdn, fi
                                                   Moon.
                                                   handorizon
                                                   above
                                                                                                                                                                                         baran
                                                                                                                                                                                         Pegasi.
                                                                                                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                                                                                         and
                                                                                                                                                                                                              zenearnith.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              the
                                                                                                                                                              20°
                                                                                                                                                              S.
                                                                                                                                                              W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         "noyau.
                            arch.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 to N.E.
                                                                                                                                                                                                N.E.                        to E.                                                                                 N.B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Where
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  saonot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 lthepetnciaregrtoiuxntdieumsdaets.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  only
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  given
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  and
              W.S.W. Eto.S.E. E.    W.
                                     to                               W.
                                                                      E.to                                                                                         N.
                                                                                                                                                                   E. S.W.
                                                                                                                                                                   of          to                             S.W. N.W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 toW.
                                                                                                                                                                                                4°-5° 4°-5°
              14°                                                     3°
                                                                                                                                                                                               80°-10 ° 30°-35°
              2°
 be*
     msorarc                                                                                                                                                                                                              than
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Less
              min.
              1                                                       2
                                                                      min.                                                                                                                     min.
                                                                                                                                                                                               1                                     min.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2
                                                              tions.
 of
 ben
other
             312 0W.
             0W.                  222                         obsero O5
                                                              •eign   6E.                                                                                         OE.
                                                                                                                                                                  56
                                                                                                                                                                  3                            35 0
                                                                                                                                                                                               OE.
                                                                                                                                                                                               3                          E13.3 OE.             240
Observations                                                  Foi
              N. 7
              0
              47
              53                   O54N.                              ON.
                                                                      6
                                                                      52                                                                                           42
                                                                                                                                                                   0.
                                                                                                                                                                  N51                           0. ON.
                                                                                                                                                                                                25
                                                                                                                                                                                               N50                          51 51
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12                   ON.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  50
             255 5                  C                                 23 (local) G.M.T.
                                                                      6                                                                                            260 (local). 6                30 (local).                                     20 (local).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                  3(i0
                                                                                                  2
                                                  Lancaster.                                                                                                       Zon emaire (Zierikre ) P<5ruwelz
                                                                                                                                                                                                              (Hainault).                        Bruxel c.s
                                  Clapham,                            Utrecht                                                                                                                                               Bruges
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Prigi,on M.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Prof.                     Tho ris.
              J.
             Clark.
              E. B.               Olap-
                                   J.                                 Oude-
                                                                      Prof.                                                                                          P.
                                                                                                                                                                     Ze in.an
                                                                                          mans.                                                                                                                                                   Editor
                                                   ham.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 del
                                                                                                                                                                                                  et no.20,p.46f
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Terre
              Idem, Idem,                                             Idem,                                                                                                                                                 Idem,
                            84.p. 141.p.                                               290.p.                                                                                                                                         466.p.
              22. 23.                                                  24.                                                                                           25.                          26. 27. 28.

324             Mr. J. Band Capron on the Auroral
   In the foregoing schedule of particulars I have not given
the dates of the ' Standard ' and ' Times ' newspapers ; but the
letters appeared within a few days of the 17tb.
    Mr. Munro's letter (obs. 9) was addressed to the Secretary
of the Royal Astronomical Society (to whom I am indebted for
its loan), and contains a good deal of interesting matter in
connexion with the " beam beyond the particulars abstracted.
     A primary question which presents itself in the subject
is, whether the " beam " was really and truly a part of the
auroral display, or a " meteor," " meteoroid," " cometary
body," or something allied to any of these in contradistinction
to an auroral beam. Independently of other considerations,
two spectroscopic observations which have been recorded put,
I think, this point well beyond a doubt. In my own case
(obs. 2) I was using the spectroscope (a large Browning
direct-vision one) upon the aurora northwards, but,accidentally
turning and seeing the beam, I at once applied the instrument
to it. The spectrum (not to be found on the adjacent sky)
was observed to consist of the well-known principal citron
auroral line (W.L. 55(i9), and a faint greenish-white conti
nuous spectrum extending from about D to F. No other
bright line than the principal one was visible ; and the con
tinuous spectrum showed no trace whatever of Fraunhofer
dark lines—indicating an absence of solar reflected light.
The second observation was made by Mr. F. W. Cory, of
 Buckhurst Hill, Essex, who in a letter to ' Knowledge '
(vol. iii. no. 62) says:—"I think there can be no doubt in regard
to the connexion between the torpedo-shaped body that was
seen on November ] 7 at 6h 5m p.m. and the aurora, as the
spectroscopic examination gave the same line for both ; and
this was situated between D and E in the spectrum, but nearer
the former." That the aurora of the 17th was of the same
 spectroscopic character with previously examined ones is
 shown by the observations of (1) Mr. Cory, as above men
 tioned; (2) my own, I finding in the brighter parts the citron
 line, and a few others indistinctly shown; (3) Mr. T. G. Elger's
 (obs. 12), who in the pink portions of the aurora found the
 usual red and green lines; (4) Dr. Win. Boxburgh, of Bourne
 mouth, who, in a letter to Prof. Piazzi Smyth, states he found
 five lines agreeing in position with those given by Prof. Smyth
 in his plate of the auroral spectrum figured in the ' Royal
 Observatory of Edinburgh Observations/ vol. xiii.; and (5) Mr.
 Henry Robinson (' Nature' p. 85), who saw the green line and
 some others less distinctly in the blue and violet.
    Having disposed of this preliminary point, we will now turn to
 the other incidents of the " beam " detailed in the twenty-six

                     Beam of November 17, 1882.               325
  observations. And, first, (column 4), time of its appearance.
  Owing no doubt to the sudden and unexpected advent of the
  object, the times recorded are evidently not very certain, and,
  with the exception perhaps of the Greenwich and some of the
  foreign observations, are doubtless neither chronometer nor
  clock time. Many do not profess to be exact; and we are not
  generally told whether they are Greenwich or local, though
  probably they are the former. I think, however, they are
  sufficiently near to enable us to identify observations 1 to 21
  and 24 to 28 as all applying to the same phenomenon. For any
  other purpose the recorded times do not seem of much prac
  tical use. Secondly, time occupied in transit (7th column).
  This is also involved in some obscurity. One observer (obs. 12)
  gives so short a time as " about 6 seconds," while another
  (obs. 10) extends the time to a length of " less than 4
  minutes and between these rates we get estimates mostly of
  1 and 2 minutes, accompanied by such qualifying expressions
  as " less," " about," &c. A mean of eighteen observations
  is found to be 1 minute 15 seconds. As to the longer periods,
  we know by the experience of counting beats by clock or
  chronometer that the estimate of time by observers not so
  accustomed is usually an overrate ; and I think we may con
  sider this to have been the case in these instances. Thirdly,
  as to apparent length and breadth of the object (columns 8
  and 9). These of course, as with the time occupied in transit,
  would vary with the position of the observer ; and at places
  situated more southward the object would have been seen of
  greater length and breadth than when seen from the north,
  while east and west positions would get foreshortened effects.
  Perspective would come into play with the position of the beam
  in the sky, most observers agreeing that it lengthened out as it
  neared the zenith, though one (Mr. Batson, obs. 4) thought it
  contracted as it passed across the moon. The observations,
  however, are really not conformable; and though three 30°
¦ make their appearance, the observers (obs. 5, 9, 14) differ in
   {>osition and in their time of transit estimates. The estimated
    engths, as might be expected, differ more than the breadths.
   Perhaps the two most inconsistent records are the Peruwelz
   (obs. 26) and the Bruges (obs. 27) observations with the same
   breadth but so great a difference in length. A mean of eleven
   observations for length (excluding the Rye and Peruwelz
   observations) and of nine observations for breadth gives 27° x
         as a general idea of the beam's apparent size.
      Column 10 brings us to the direction of flight. In this
   case we have more actually accordant observations, inasmuch
   as all agree in general terms upon a flight from an east to a

326            Mr. J. Band Capron on the Auroral
west quarter of the horizon. The exact direction, however, is
(doubtless for the same reasons which affected the time of ap
pearance, time of flight, and size) but rarely given. In some
instances qualifying words are used, such as (in my own obser
vation) " nearly." In others, degrees of deviation from the
cardinal points are given ; and generally there seems a ten
dency on the part of observers situated northwards to place the
rising and setting points southwards, and the reverse with the
southern observers; but beyond this the deviation from the E.
and W. points respectively, according to the observer's station,
is not very regularly indicated. The observers have not stated
whether astronomical or magnetic points are recorded; pro
bably in most cases the former are intended. The only
instances where precise figures are given are those of the
observations at Utrecht and Zonnemaire, in which, after sta
ting the direction of flight in a general way as E. to W. and
N. of E. to S. W., both observers agree in fixing upon E. 20° N.
to W. 20° S. as the horizontal direction. Having thus ascer
tained as nearly as we may the hour of appearance, time and
direction of flight, and size of the beam, its particulars may be
summed up as follows:—
     (a) Character, auroral.
     (b) Time of appearance, a little after 6 P.M.
     (c) Time of flight, about 75 seconds.
     (rf) Apparent approximate length and breadth, 27° x 3^°.
     (e) Direction of flight, magnetic E. to W.
   We will now gather from the observers some idea of its
general appearance to the eye. The descriptions recorded are
sometimes peculiar in expression ; but all fairly represent a
similar form. Among them are :—" spindle-shaped," " forme
defuseau," "torpedo or weaver's-shuttle," "cigar-ship," "len
ticular," and a " comet's-tail," while one observer not inaptly
compares it to the well-known fusiform nebula in Andromeda.
For descriptive colour, those selected seem to be "white,"
" pearty white," " greenish white," and " yellow white," it
being somewhat significant of the beam's specific character
that the last two combined will represent the locus of the prin
cipal aurora line indicated in Prof. Piazzi Smyth's beautiful
colour plate in ' Madeira Spectroscopic ' by the tint " citron."
The quality of the light is somewhat variously described in
such terms as " glowing,' " shining," and " phosphorescent ;"
and one observer (obs. 20) compared it to an electric glow in
vacuo ; and certainly to me it was not at all unlike the glow
of a carbon Geissler tube. The Utrecht observer (obs. 24)
speaks of it as " feathery;" but to me and most other English
observers the edges were fairly well defined. I thought, how

                   Beam of November 17, 1882.               327
ever, I detected a sort of broken and clouded structure, diffi
cult to describe except as being something like what certain
forms of cumulo-cirri would appear if illuminated by Balmain
paint. Mr. Worthington (obs. 15) noticed it had the ends of
a rough splintered appearance. Mr. Batson (obs. 4) says that
the object when nearest presented throughout its length (but
rather below than above) a remarkable " boiling " appearance
(as seeds in a capsule), while the edges appeared smooth and
quiet. I did not myself observe this. One curious feature
(noticed particularly abroad) was a sort of nucleus, or rather
central dulness.
   Prof. Oudemans (obs. 24) remarks that when 90° length
was obtained the beam separated and a division (longitudinal
I presume) was formed 10° x ^°; while in the Bruxelles ob
servation we find " Quand elle eu deja disparu en partie der-
riere l'horizon, elle pr^senta un noyau plus obscur, comme
elle l'avait fait a l'horizon oriental." Mr. Munro (obs. 9) is
the only English observer who appears to have noticed this
feature; and he speaks of a " dark nucleus " about 3° transverse
diameter and 2° conjugate—his position, it maybe noted, like
the foreign ones, being to the east of Greenwich. Mr.
Munro further describes the beam as like the edge view of
a luminous quoit, its diameter being parallel to the horizon.
   This definition is well supported by the circumstances of the
nucleus being mostly observed where the beam, as in Belgium,
passed overhead, and by the wider breadth (4° to 5°) assigned
to it there, at the same time that most English observers saw
no nucleus, and estimated, on the whole, the breadth as deci
dedly smaller. This would give a figure, as seen in the zenith,
of a ring much pulled out with a central opening (the nucleus
being described as a dark one or a division), while as viewed
at an angle the short diameter would be less and the central
nucleus lost. The form thus obtained (a pulled-out ring) is
what one might anticipate of an elastic gaseous or fluid-like
body flying at considerable speed through a resisting medium.
   Among the incidents mentioned exceptionally may be no
ticed Mr. Saxby's (obs. 11) observation of a second beam 70°
northward, which appeared as the principal one approached
the W. horizon; and also some observations reminding one of
the dark- shadow or contrast tint seen near the end of the tail
of the recent Great comet. These are as follows :—(1) Mr.
Joseph Clark (obs. 10) observed a " dark something" before
the " bar " which seemed to indicate the path it would take,
and also a dark streak where it passed. (2) Major J. Her-
schel (' Nature,' p. 87), in quoting from a correspondent's
letter to him, says " it left a black cloud of its own shape,

328            Mr. J. Band Capron on the Auroral
which disappeared in a few seconds." (3) Mr. Dobson (obs. 5)
says it was preceded and followed by " a strong black margin."
I saw nothing like any of these myself, though I had an impres
sion the beam was following some definite path. Other obser
vations (if made) would be interesting on the point whether
these appearances were real or subjective impressions.
   Turning our attention now to the combined questions of the
object's position, direction of flight, and height above the
earth's surface, we already find in print some opinions regard
ing these. Mr. Saxby (obs. 11) considers:—
   1st. The direction must have been S. 70° W., probably
71° 45', being the complement of magnetic declination.
   2nd. The proper motion to have been over a mile a minute.
   3rd. The path was vertically over a line on the earth's sur
face at a least distance from Greenwich of 72 miles, with a
height of 44 miles.
   4th. The object must have been in the zenith over North
Belgium, the Boulogne district, Cherbourg, and the north
coasts of Brittany.
   This was before the foreign observations were reported ;
and subsequently Mr. Saxby, after stating that the beam
passed in the zenith at Bruxelles (M. Moutigny), and at Laon
was seen to northward of the zenith gliding round the upper
edge of the great main arch of the aurora, puts the actual
elevation " without risk of error " as between 40 and 45 miles.
Mr. Taylor (obs. 14), using the observations at York and
Woodbridge, deduces a height of 212 miles ; and. using those
at Hungerford and York, finds 1 92 miles for height. He con
siders the beam must have passed overhead in the north of
Italy and south of France, and must have been 200 miles in
length. Subsequently (upon receipt of the foreign observa
tions) he makes it 70 miles in height when over Belgium,
but considers it must have been 150 miles high during the
latter part of its course. As to the York observation, it
seems desirable to notice that Mr. Taylor does not seem to
have much confidence in his own estimate of the beam's appa
rent distance below the moon ; and this estimate is dissented
from by a relative who was watching the phenomenon at the
same time. Mr. Backhouse (' Nature,' pp. 141 & 315) at first
considered the height very considerable; and both he and Mr.
Taylor thought Mr. Saxby's estimate of 44 miles too low,
probably from near stations being used in the calculations.
Later on Mr. Backhouse wrote me he thought 200 miles not
an improbable height.
   I may here mention that I have not heard of any observa
tions north of York. I made inquiries at Liverpool of the

                  Beam of November 17, 1882.                 329
Astronomical Society recently established there, but could not
hear of any ; and it is much to be regretted that one from
France is all we hear of from that country.
   Upon the foregoing points, Prof. Alexander S. Herschel
has very kindly communicated to me, and placed at my dis
posal, some remarks and calculations to the following effect.
He considers that the supplied data (the foreign observations
had not then been received) all corroborate each other very
fairly, the Hewarth (York) observation excepted, which can
not, he thinks, be usefully employed.
   The main body of descriptions serves to track very exactly
across the south of England what may be called the shadow-
line of the phenomenon thrown by the moon. This is so
clearly marked out running magnetic E. and W. from Wood-
bridge in Suffolk, across Hungerford in Berks, into Devonshire
and Cornwall, that the inclination of the beam's path to the geo
graphical meridian (or, rather, to a parallel of latitude) can be
assigned almost exactly. But this average result of the obser
vations will of course bear a little variation according to the
amount of confidence that we place, and the changes that we
think fit to introduce into the interpretation of some of the
descriptions. A line drawn subject to such slight variation
will be inclined 24° to the geographical east and west line,
which is not only a steeper pitch than the actual magnetic
variation (about 20° W.) in the part of England where the
 shadow-path lay, but, a fortiori, considerably steeper yet than
 the real slope of magnetic variation in the region of France
 (about 17° or 18° W.) where the beam really moved, and was
 shadowed into England. A line inclined at 18° to E. and W.
 geographical may, however, be drawn along the central eclipse
 track of the observations, which will do but little violence to
 them, and represent them nearly, if not quite, as well as the
 former line. Whichever shadow-route we adopt, persons
 placed north (and 10° W.) of it in the direction the moon
 shone to, would see it under the moon at a distance in degrees
 exactly in proportion to their distance in miles (in that direc
 tion) from the shadow-track, or, if placed south of it, over the
 moon in the same way. To ascertain how many miles of dis
 placement in station go to a degree of departure of the object's
 apparent sky-course above or below the moon, we have only,
 on the supposition that the same rate of displacement per
 degree belongs to each of the observations (that is, supposing
 that all parts of the object's course shadowed by the moon
 were at one and the same height above the earth, or that its
 course was really parallel to the earth's surface, or horizontal
 all the time that it was under observation), to collect all the

 330            Mr. J. Raixl Capron on the Auroral
 observers' distances from the shadow-line, and degrees of
 " above " or " below " view of the beam's centre relative to
 the moon's centre as they observed it, into two sums, and then
 to divide the mileage sum by the degree sum, and the result
will be the best average value of the rate that the observations
 can afford. Exact angular centre differences are onlygiven
at Bristol, Guildown, Chatham, St. Ives, and Hewarth (York);
and these agreeing very fairly (except the Hewarth one), and
the distances being taken from the first presumptive track, the
result is found to be a total of 280*5 miles for 14*1 degrees of
  ]) parallax, or an average rate of 5° to 100 miles. This,
projected with a protractor, would make the beam's height
215 miles over Bordeaux, but with a want of probability of
such a height and distance. Abandoning therefore the He
warth observation and accepting the other four, we get in
figures as follows:—
                 Bristol       23 miles = i"6
                 Guildown... 24-5 „         = 2-0
                 Chatham ... 33       „    = 2-0
                 St. Ives     _37_ „       = Jv5
                              117-5 „      = 11-1
                           /. 100 „        = 9-4
and this gives by projection a height of 92 miles 180 miles
south of the shadow-line. Prof. Herschel at this point remarks
that, as the result of his experience of the heights of the ray-
less milky auroral arches, obtained by good parallaxes of them,
he has found they constantly occur within a few miles of 100
high, and that possibly the St. Ives observer's parallax may
be a little excessive. Taking now a shadow-line inclined 18°
to the geographical E. and W. direction (for the moving beam
must have lain over a part of France where 18° was about the
extent of magnetic variation) , measuring the distances again,
and preferring this time to use 5° instead of a mean of 5° and
 6° as the St. Ives's parallax, we have as follows:—
                 Bristol       17 miles = 1'6
                 Guildown ... 24 „        =2-0
                 Chatham ... 27 „         =2*0
                 St. Ives      41-5 „     = 5-0
                              109-5,,     =10-0
                          .-. 100 „       = 9-65 = 9f°-
    Projected with the J 's altitude at Guildown (28^°), these
figures will give a height of 100 miles at a distance of 185 miles
south of the shadow-line (see PI. VII. fig. l);or if, instead of
using so large an angle as 9°*6 to protract with, we prefer to

                      Beam of November 17, 1882.                     331
used 100 miles station-distance on each side of the shadow-
track so as to get two heights, hl and h'1 (see fig. 2), the mean
of the two heights obtained, viz. 96 and 173 miles, will be as
accurate a result as the observations can be expected to afford,
and will = 133 miles.
   Upon referring this last projection to Prof. Herschel, after
alluding to its being after all only a rough procedure to resort
to a triangulation on one side or the other of the moon's appa
rent altitude with a converging angle so large as 10° to fix
the beam's intersection by, and after noticing that, if a 100-milo
base must be used, then it were better used on the north side
of the shadow-line away from the moon, he then continues:—
Supposing the rate of parallax close to the shadow-line to have
been 9*° per 100 miles (i.e. l°per                miles = 1° per 10-5
miles), then the best way would be to consider only a small
base of 105 miles, say, and a small converging angle of
1° corresponding with it (fig. 3), and to calculate A trigono-
metrically thus:—
         *=?0-5xsin28l                  * !E281
   ,          ,            . i                 sinl°      10-5 x sin 28°
and      x=d        x sin 1 r                       ^Q (
and      h=d        x sin 28J and ,\ A= ^9"?             X 10'5 miles.
                                                 sin 1
And then testing the above method's correctness by calcula
ting first for 10*5 miles north of the shadow-line, which gives
(with fig. 4)
          miles.         0
      o;=10-5x sin 27 or h ~ sin         28°
                                     sin 1° ~ 10 5 x sin 27°'
      x=d         x sin 1      m'
      h=d        x sin 28       , sin 27°. sin 28° in ,
                                h= ——:—    sin lu — x 10'5.
And next (by fig. 5) with the 10*5 mile base south instead of
north of the shadow-line, obtaining
         miles.       0
  j:= 10-5 x sin 291                  .      „ . „„
       .         • i       j     , sin 29° . sin 28° 1n .
  x=d       xsin 1 I and         h=          -.—^        X 10"5.
                     „ I                    sin 1
  h=d       xsin 28 J
The mean of these two should be close to
     , sin 28° x sin 28° 1A, ..                 , , (sin28)2 1A _
    h=            ;—ro      x 10"5 miles, or to h = —r^-X lO'o,
                sin 1                    '              sin 1          '

 332             Mr. J. Rand Capron on the Auroral
 as given in the first formula, of which the last two are the
 criteria to show how far such a mean differs from the use of
 the rule directly on each side of the shadow-line. The result
 ing figures are found to be:—
               Formula No. 1 h= 132*6 miles.
                   „     f „ 2 A= 128-2 „
                   „     \ „ 3 A=136-9 „
And the mean of Nos. 2 and 3 gives us
                          A=132 55 miles;
in curiously close accord with that obtained by actual projec
 tion (fig. 2), viz. 133 miles.
     The course the beam pursued would be, at 185 miles
from the shadow-line (fig. 1), passing from a little S. of
 Dresden to Frankfort, then between Bruxelles and Paris,
but nearer the latter place and a little N. of it, across Evrenx
to Quimper ; while at 244 miles (fig. 2) we should find it
 begin at Prague, then to. Worms, across Fontainebleau a little
 S. of Paris, to Nantes. In either case the line would be
slightly curved, from its getting into regions where the mag
netic variation becomes gradually greater towards the west.
As to the speed of motion, a path of between 800 and 900
miles long seems to have been traversed in some 80 or 90
seconds, giving a rate of 10 miles per second.
    Prof. Herschel concludes by remarking that he has seen
abortive bright streamers move along stationary milk-white
auroral bands; and this " shuttle phenomenon " was, he thinks,
a streamer-base, or " tendency to shoot up rays," travelling as
a nucleus or concentration of light along an arc or bow other
wise invisible, as streamer-bases, though more faintly visible,
frequently do along luminous sharp-edged phosphorescent-
looking arches. It will be noticed that this last remark of
Prof. Herschel's well accords with Mr. Joseph Clark's and
my own observations—that the beam seemed to be following
a definite and, as it were, " bespoken " track.
   It may here, too, be remarked that observers who did not
notice the " beam " do mention an arch or arches at about
5h 30m, which, except for the former's flying evanescent cha
racter, must have much resembled it.
   Two such observations by Mr. Clark and Mr. Clapham
(obs. 22 and 23) are comprised in the particulars scheduled.
Mr. Clark speaks of a " green " arch, a colour which seems to
have been particularly dominant in the 17th of November
aurora. Mr. Clapham describes a stationary arc formed of
two conical-shaped lights, with apices meeting about the
zenith. Dr. Roxburgh, in his letter to Prof. Smyth before

                    Beam of November 17, 1882.                  333
  referred to, speaks of a number of arches parallel to the usual
  one being seen at Bournemouth, one across the zenith which
  changed in position but slowly. Other observers speak of such
  arches asdistinguished from the usual forms of arch in the north;
  and the evidence generally tends to the probability that the
  beam itself may have been the transient lighting-up by a pass
 ing glow of an otherwise invisible arc. As regards the beam's
 apparent course among the stars the observations are not
 numerous. The Astronomer Royal (obs. 3) speaks of its
 passing " nearly along a parallel of declination." Mr. Dobson
  (obs. 5) states that it rose a little south of Aldebaran, slid
 along at the same N.P.D., and disappeared under Altair. Mr.
 Worthington (obs. 15) describes it as rising below and to the
 right of Saturn, but does not trace it further. Mr. Munro
 (obs. 9) mentions that it rose vertically below the Pleiades.
 Mr. Saxby (obs. 11) assigns to it a trajectory much flatter
 than the stars.
     For foreign positions we find Prof. Oudemans (obs. 24)
 at Utrecht giving a precise description, viz. that it rose just
 above Aldebaran, passed above Saturn, went through the
 Pegasus quadrant, and sank south of the three Eagle stars.
 Prof. Zeeman at Zonnemaire (obs. 25) traced it through Alde
 baran and a Pegasi. And, lastly, the Editor of del et Terre
 (obs. 28) at Bruxelles says it appeared between t Auriga? and
 a Tauri, and descended between /S and % Ophiuchi. In fig. 7
 I have constructed a star-map for the evening in question at
 Guildown ; and on this are traced two dotted lines showing
 the home and foreign apparent tracks of the " beam." It
 will be seen that these are in the main conformable to the
 general tenor of the descriptions, and are in fact portions of
 circles struck from the equivalent to the magnetic pole as then
situate. Circles struck from the magnetic pole on the terres
trial globe will in like manner be found fairly to correspond
with Prof. Herschel's assigned paths.
    In fig. 6 is found a diagram drawing (with the stars ap
proximately fixed in their apparent places) showing the
" beam " as it appeared from Guildown Observatory during
the culminating portion of its passage.
    Having thus traced the " beam ' to be truly part of the
aurora, and also having deduced as near as may be from the
collected observations the duration and direction of its flight
above the earth's surface and its approximate height, it re
mains to say something of its physical character.             This
question becomes interesting from the fact that several cor
respondents to scientific journals and papers have attributed
to the phenomenon some sort of " meteoric " character, while
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 95. May 1883.            2B

334             Mr. J. Hand Capron on the Auroral
others have, with more precision, claimed it to be a favourable
 specimen of " cosmic dust " display. The best known and
 most zealous advocate of this " cosmic dust " theory, which
 not only touches the character of our " beam " but that of
auroral displays in general, is Prof. Groneman, of the Ecole
 M. de l'Etat at Groningen (Pays-Bas).
    In my ' Aurorse ' (p. 64) I have briefly referred to the Pro
 fessor's theory, of which I had only then seen a condensed
 account ; but subsequently he very kindly sent me a fall print
 of his " Th^orie cosmique de Paurore polaire " {Estratto dull'
 Appendice alle Memorie della Societct degli Spettroscopixti
 Italiani, 1878, vol. vii.). In chapter ii. ("l'hypothese fonda-
 mentale ") of this work, the theory is expounded in connexion
 with Schiaparelli's discovery of " poudre cosmique " circula
 ting round the central star of our system in elliptic rings,
 meeting the earth in its orbit, occasioning shooting-stars,
 meteors, &c, and, amongst other phenomena, luminous appa
ritions such as auroras.
   This paper is worthy of attentive reading and consideration ;
for while in its twenty chapters main stress is laid upon the
general connexion of the " cosmic dust " with auroras, with
the zodiacal light, and with the " Gegenschein " or antisolar
light, the particular phenomena of auroras are fully and elabo
rately discussed in detail.
   Prof. Groneman has followed up this paper by letters in
' Nature/ vol. xxiii. p. 195, and vol. xxvii. p. 388, and by an
article in the same volume, p. 296. The article last referred
to is particularly valuable, not only as supplying us with the
observations at Utrecht and at Zonnemaire before cited, but
as giving a drawing of an auroral arch seen at Groningen,
Nov. 2, 1871, resembling the beam, as well as some accounts
of other similar phenomena seen during auroras, and some sta
tistics as to the heights of aurorse, including those of Heis and
Flogel, 10 to 100 geographical miles (46 to 461 English miles),
Tromholt, 17 geogr. miles, Galle, 40 to 60 geogr. miles, and
Prof. Groneman himself, 59 geogr. miles. He considers the
course of the beam to have been a great circle cutting the
horizon and also the equator in two opposite points. On the
cosmic theory we may at once remark that in some respects
it is quite possible that auroras and clouds of meteorites circu
lating within our atmosphere may resemble one another ; but
I confess I am not prepared to declare in favour of the " theorie
cosmique " as a satisfactory explanation of auroral pheno
mena. One adverse point urged by Mr. Backhouse (' Mature,1
p. 315) is the fact that meteors are mostly given to fly in all
directions, while auroral arches and beams (of which this one

                   Beam ofNovember 17, 1882.                   335
is an example) describe courses along parallels of magnetic
latitude ; and hence he does not consider its course to have
been a meteor-one.
   Another divergent point is the rate of motion. The " beam "
had, as the result of the observations I have recorded and in
 Prof. Herschel's opinion, a rate of some 10 miles per second ;
while in Guillemin's Le del, p. 235, we find the information
 that the rate of flight of bolides is considered to be 70 to 175
kilometres (40 to 130 English miles) per second.
   A third, and to my mind the strongest, objection to the Pro
fessor's theory is the well-known spectrum of the aurora. This
spectrum is unique of its kind, and has been long since disso
ciated from that of the zodiacal light (which light Prof. Grone-
 man connects with auroras and with the cosmic theory), Prof.
 Piazzi Smyth and Pingle having incontestably proved the
 latter to be a continuous one without any bright lines what
 ever. Nor does the auroral spectrum at all resemble that of
 meteors or bolides. The last, according to Konkoly, consists
 of rays (bright lines) of iron and other metals (probably nickel,
cobalt, and manganese, J. R. C). The aurora-spectrum does not
 give the idea of a metallic spectrum (with a possible exception
 of the red and citron lines), but rather that of a gaseous cha
 racter ; and certainly a positive coincidence of the red and
 citron lines with any known metal line is far from being
proved. Prof. Groneman has indeed quoted me in his Tkeorie
 Cosmigue (p. 13) as, in Phil. Mag. ser. 4, vol. xlix. p. 249
 (should be 265), remarking on an "exact concordance " be
tween the iron and aurora spectra. But this is certainly going
further than I intended ; for my expression, " close coinci
dences," is too strongly rendered by " concordance eaacte."
If, too, the plate of spectra accompanying that paper be ex
amined, the state of the matter in fact stands thus as to coin
cidences, thus:—
      W.L. Aurora lines.               W.L. Iron lines.
     6297, the red line                Not compared.
     5569, the citron line              5571, one of three close
     5390, in blue                     5370             [together.
     5233, do                          5231
     5189, do                          5192
     5004, ¦» do
     4694                                     1I no comparable
     4629' J ^°                        a Dan(^ T hnes-
    I have also very considerably qualified any such remark as
that above alluded to by pointing out (' Auroras,' pp. 118-170)
that the connexion between the two spectra, though it might be
suspected, cannot be considered as proved, the fine iron lines
                                2B2

336             Mr. J. Band Capron on the Auroral
being so numerous that a coincidence of some of these with
the coarser aurora lines may after all be purely accidental.
(In 'Photographed Spectra' I have given the spectrum of a
meteorite when burnt in the electric arc, which presents several
hundred lines in the portion of the spectrum lying between
F and H alone.)
    In regard to Prof. Groneman's height of aurorae as com
pared with Prof. Herschel's deductions, it may be desirable to
mention two recent authorities on the subject as giving heights
very close upon those assigned by Prof. Herschel : viz. Herr
Sophus Tromholt, in an article on Aurorae (' Nature,' vol. xxvii.
p. 295), speaks of an opinion
of the aurora, viz. 150 kilometres (90 miles) ; Baron Nor-
denskjold ('Nature,' vol. xxv. pp. 319-321), in the " Scientific
Work of the Vega Expedition," Part I. pp. 401-452, speaks of
our globe as being adorned with an auroral crown whose inner
edge was usually, during the winter of 1878-79, at a height
of about 0*03 radius of the earth above its surface (that is,
about 115 miles).
    While on this part of the subject, it may be useful to refer
to the vacuum experiments of Drs. De £a Bue and Miiller,
detailed by them in a paper on the height of the Aurora
Borealis read before the Boyal Society              Nature,' vol. xxii.
p. 33). Appended to this is a table of deductions from actual
observations, showing, amongst other particulars, a scale of
miles of auroral heights, and remarks on the character of the
electric glow at such heights. 1 1*58 miles gave a full red
glow, 27'42 a carmine, 32*87 a salmon-coloured, 37"67 maxi
mum brilliancy, 81*47 pale and faint, and at 124"15 miles "no
discharge could occur." A note appended to the table states
" it is conceivable that the aurora may occur at times at an
altitude of a few thousand feet"*.
    The experiments, however, are open to the remark that the
discharge was taken in hydrogen gas and not in air, and that
there was an absence of any observation of aurora-like lines or
spectrum in connexion with the discharge. Otherwise the
experiments would go to show that the auroral discharge
generally takes place at a lower level than most observers
have ascribed to it, and, if they could be depended on as
fulfilling all the conditions of the aurora, would place the beam
at a height of 133 miles within the region where no discharge
could take place. Possibly, however, the medium in which the
discharge was taken might affect the results obtained to the
extent of this discrepancy.
   * Dr. Ue La Rue acquaints me he lias further experiments in projjress.—
J. K. C.

                    Beam of November 17, 1882.                  337
     Two other recent matters in connexion with the aurora-
  spectrum seem to claim an attention before concluding this
  paper. The first is communicated to 1 Knowledge ' by Mr.
  Cory, of Buckhurst Hill (before mentioned). In a letter to
  that journal (vol. iii. no. 62), dated 30th of November last,
  after describing the spectrum of the beam, he says : —" Upon
  a previous occasion, when observing the aurora of October 2,
  I noticed a bright line in a similar position, and for a few
  minutes only three distinct bright lines in the red end of the
  spectrum" [the italics are mine]. In a letter to me subse
  quently, Mr. Cory states he is sure of the lines (in a Browning
  miniature spectroscope), though he could not give their exact
  positions—facts which he repeated in a personal interview,
  adding that by the red end of the spectrum he meant the
  region on the less-refrangible side of the D lines. Prof. Stokes,
  in the 'Arctic Manual/ 1875 (p. 26), says " and there are also
  one or more lines in the red in red auroras." I am not aware
  of the authorities upon which this statement is made. Although
  varying W.L. positions have been assigned by different od-
  servers to the red line, I have hitherto assumed them to refer to
  the same line, and did not think more than one had been seen.
    With Mr. Cory's uncertainty of positions, it is not easy to
 make much of his observation; but a circumstance to be noted
 in connexion with it is, that the single red line generally
 remarked falls within a group of nitrogen lines, and it would
 be interesting if the additional lines were found to do so too.
    The other matter to be referred to is the recent procuring of
 an "Artificial Aurora" (as it has been not very happily called)
 by Prof. Lemstrom, a name long known in iiuroral researches.
    At present our information on the subject is somewhat
 meagre. In ' Nature ' (vol. xxvii. p. 322) we find that a tele
 gram, dated December 1 1th last, had been received by the
 Finnish Academy of Science from Professor Lemstrom, as
 chief of the Finnish Meteorological Observatory at Sodankyla.
 This stated that, having placed a battery with conductors
covering an area of 900 square metres on the hill of Orantun-
turi, he found the cone to be generally surrounded by a halo
yellow-white in colour, which faintly but perfectly yielded the
spectrum of the aurora. This he considered formed a direct
proof of the electrical action of the aurora, and opened a new
field in the study of the physical condition of the earth.
    A further telegram stated that experiments with the aurora,
made December 29th in Enare near Kakala on the hill of Picta-
rintunturi, confirmed the results of those at Orantunturi. On
tbat date a straight beam of aurora was seen over the galvanic
apparatus. It was also stated that, from the magnetic observa

338        On the Auroral Beam of November 17, 1882.
tions, the terrestrial current ceases below the aurora arc; while
the atmospheric current rapidly increases, but depends on the
area of the galvanic apparatus, to which it seems proportional.
    In a letter to ' Nature ' (same volume, p. 389) Prof. Lein-
strom explains that the apparatus was constructed of uncovered
copper wire provided at each half metre with fine erected
points. The wire was led in slings to the top of the hill, aod
reposed on the usual telegraph insulators. From one end of
this wire was conducted a covered copper wire on insulators
to the foot of the hill 600 feet high, which there joined a plate
of zinc interred in the earth, and in the circuit was put a gal
vanometer (no battery is mentioned, J. R. C). This apparatus
produced the halo at Orantunturi and the straight beam at
Pictarintunturi as the positive current in the galvanometer
at both places. The terrestrial current diminishes (or ceases)
below the belt of maxima of the aurora.
   In the 'Daily Telegraph' newspaper of March 1st, 1883,
Prof. Foerster is stated to have given an account of these ex
periments, and to have added that the astounding result was
the formation of an aurora borealis rising above the mountain-
top to an elevation estimated at 300 feet. In a subsequent
number of the same paper (March 5th), under a heading "Arti
ficial Aurora," an article is found which alludes in detail to
several points in connexion with the phenomena involved,
but which to my mind are those really requiring further ex
planation. One of these is the direct comparison of the electric
glow in an exhausted receiver with the auroral discharge. It
may be conceded that the two look alike; but it is well known
that hero the comparison ceases, as every effort has been made
for years past, without success, to obtain the aurora-spectrum
from such a source. Next, the phenomena are attributed to
atmospheric electricity; but in point of fact it is strong mani
festations of earth-currents, and not of atmospheric electricity,
which have generally accompanied auroral displays, notably
that of November 17th last. Again, while Prof. Lemstrom s
 actual aurora and Plante's artificial aurone are alluded to in
the article in question as connected with the positive pole, it
was in the glow of the negative, or violet pole, that the late
Prof. Angstrom sought for, and considered he had obtained,
an aurora-spectrum.
   With regard to the spectrum obtained by Prof. Lemstrom,
if the instrumental resources were adequate for exact measure
ment, the observation obtained from such a source is doubtless
reliable ; but it should, by way of precaution, be remembered
that even scientists of such calibre as Angstrom and Eespighi

         On a new Form of Constant-Temperature Bath.              339
were on occasions deceived by the presence of a concealed
aurora, and thus the zodiacal light and the aurora spectra
were at first confounded. Seeing, also, how up to the present
time we have quite failed to produce in our laboratories
any form of electric discharge which by its spectrum can
fairly be pronounced as of an auroral character, it would seem
desirable to wait the result of later and fuller particulars from
the learned Professor before passing a definite judgment on
the matter. We do not at present hear of any compari
sons of the " artificial " aurora-spectrum with other spectra
which will explain its true and so long hidden character;
though doubtless, if we can succeed in establishing an aurora
" en permanence," good results may reasonably be expected
to follow, one principal cause of failure in explanation of the
Aurora mystery being the infrequency of the opportunities
afforded of examining its spectrum and comparing it directly
with others.
   Guildown, April 6, 1883.
XLVIII. A new Form of Constant-Temperature Bath. By
    W. W. J. Nicol, M.A., B.Sc, F.R.S.E., Lecturer on
    Chemistry, Mason College, Birmingham *.
THE want of a simple and, at the same time, reliable con
       stant-temperature bath has been felt by all who have
made specific-gravity determinations. The following ap
paratus, which has been found thoroughly efficient, was
devised by me during the course of my experiments on the
specific gravity of salt-solutions, the results of which have
been recently published f.
    The apparatus consists of three parts—the bath, the heating
arrangement, and the thermostat. The bath is of copper,
measuring 200 millim. in length, 200 millim. in depth, and
90 millim. in width—a size I found most convenient for use
with the Sprengel tubes described in the ' Chemical News '
(February 1883). Near one end is soldered a wide brass
tube (C, fig. 1) with a slot down one side: this is intended to
receive the thermostat and thermometer. The water in the
bath is agitated by means of a current of air supplied by a
Fletcher's blower. The air escapes from a perforated tube
lying on the bottom of the bath.
  * Communicated by the Author.
   t Proceedings Kov. Soc. Edin. 1881-82 ; Bar. dcut,. Chem. Get. 1882,
p. 1031 ; Phil. Mag. 1883, February; Chem. Soc. Juurn. 1883, March.

340      On a neic Form of Constant- Temperature Bath.
   The heating arrangement is as follows :—At the end of the
bath, where the tube C is placed, two holes are made close to
                      Fig. 1.               Fig. 2.
                                           J
the bottom ; through these passes the copper tube A, B. The
end A is coiled into a spiral of four or five turns about an
inch in diameter (not shown in the figure). The bath having
been placed on a stand in the required position, with the end
D away from the experimenter, the copper spiral is surrounded
by a roll of tin-plate, and the upper end of the tube connected
with the water-supply, which must not be direct from the
main. The end B is then furnished with a tube to convey away
the water. Below the spiral is placed a Bunseu, the supply of
gas to which is governed by the thermostat.
   The thermostat is shown in fig. 2. The reservoir A is made
of thin glass tube, 30 millim. wide and about 170 millim. long;
to the upper end is joined a small stopcock B ; to the lower
end the tube C (4 millim. internal diameter) is connected (the
length of C is about 230 millim.) ; to the upper end of C is
joined a T-piece D made of a tube 6 millim. in internal diameter
and 80 millim. long. Finally a thin tube E, 2"5 millim.
in external diameter, is bent in the form shown—the longer
limb slightly drawn out, and a small hole made at a. The
reservoir A and tube C are then filled with benzoline or
Earaffin oil, according to the temperature required for the
 ath; and a quantity of mercury is introduced sufficient to
occupy the whole of the tube C and a small part of A when
the desired temperature is attained. The tube E is then
inserted into D and fastened by a small cork, in such a way
that the end is just below the point of juncture of C and T).

        On the "Rotational Coefficients " of various Metals.       341
  The thermostat is next placed in position in the tube C
  (fig. 1), the thermometer placed beside it, and the bath filled
  up with water ; the air current is then turned on, and the gas-
  supply so arranged that it enters the thermostat by B and
  passes to the Bunsen by the side tube of D. A very slow
  stream of water is allowed to flow through the spiral, and the
  Bunsen is lighted. The stopcock B, at first closed, is opened
  from time to time, until, when the desired temperature is
  reached, the column of mercurj' in C just touches the end of
  E ; the flame of the Bunsen is thus lowered, and cold water
  flows through the spiral cooling the bath. As the temperature
  of the bath falls, the mercury falls below the end of E, and the
  water is heated before entering the bath ; after a few oscilla
  tions of temperature a state of equilibrium is reached, in which
   the size of the flame is so adjusted to the quantity of water
   flowing through the spiral that the temperature of the bath
  remains constant.
     I have found that the extreme variation of temperature does
  not exceed 0°-05 for a temperature of 20° C, and that on
• lighting the gas in the morning the constant temperature was
  attained in less than an hour, and never varied from day to day.
        XLIX. " Rotational Coefficients " of various Metals.
                        By Edwin H. Hall*.
  THE experiments described below were made at the labo
         ratory of Harvard College during the summer of 1882;
  and most of the results obtained were given at the Montreal
  meeting of the American Association.
     At the York meeting of the British Association, September
  1881, I gave a list of certain metals with an approximate
  value of the "rotational coefficient "f for each, as determined
  by my experiments. This list was published in the Report of
  the Association. Several of these metals bad, however, been
  examined in an extremely inaccurate manner, as was stated
  at the time, and the numbers assigned them were marked as
  doubtful. Thus a part of the list ran :—
                   Name of metal.      Rotational coefficient,
                                          arbitrary scale.
                   Zinc .                    + 15?
                   Aluminium                 -50?
                   Magnesium                 -50?
                   Copper .                  -10?
                   Brass . .                 - 1-3?
                   Lead . .                  No effect discovered.
           • From Silliman's American Journal for March 1883.
           t Phil. Mag. Sept. 1881, p. 102.

342       Mr. E. H. Hall on the "Rotational Coefficient* "
   Repeating, still in a hasty and rough manner but more care
fully than before, the experiments with all these metals except
magnesium, and using indeed the same pieces of metal as
before, I found:—
                  Name of»_
                  M           . ,
                           metal.         Rotational
                                          cocfficient.
                  Zinc                      + 10-5
                  Aluminium . . .           —37
                  Copper ....               — 6-5
                  Brass                     —1*4
                  Lead                      No effect discovered.
    It will be observed that the value obtained for brass, which
is small, is but little changed ; but those for zinc, aluminium,
and copper have each been reduced about 25 or 30 per cent.
We may perhaps by analogy, without actual determination,
write
                  Magnesium . . . —35
    All these values may still be subject to errors of 10 or 20
 per cent., but will nevertheless serve present purposes tolerably
 well if substituted for those given in the list previously pub
 lished. Such a list, though rough, may be compared with
 other lists in which the same metals are arranged relatively
 to various physical properties; and any analogies thus sug
 gested may be tested further by more accurate and detailed
 investigations. In fact, to go no further than the above table
 itself, the fact that the small rotational coefficient in brass lies
 between the positive coefficient in zinc and the negative in
 copper suggests the advisability of a careful study of the
 transverse effect in alloys.
     In the Philosophical Magazine for September 1881 1 stated
 that the transverse current obtained with a nickel strip is much
 increased, other conditions remaining unchanged, by rise of
 temperature. It was a question of much interest whether the
 transverso current in the non-magnetic metals would prove to
 be affected in a similar manner. It might be found indeed
 that the transverse current would increase at the sjime rate as
 the electrical resistance, in which case it would appear that the
 transverse effect depends upon the rate of fall of* electric po
 tential along the strip of metal rather than upon the strength
 of the direct current.
     Accordingly, from a sheet of No. 2 gold foil *, the thinnest
 foil used by dentists, a piece was cut in the form of a Greek
 cross. The extremity of each arm of this cross was soldered
 to a disk of brass. The four brass disks were screwed to a
                • " Standard," R. S. Williams and Co.

                           of various Metals.                    343
 plate of hard rubber in such a manner as to extend the arms
 of the cross, which was then fastened to the rubber plate by
 means of melted resin run between. Wires soldered to the
 disks served for the connexions.
• The very considerable difficulty of soldering so thin a strip
 of gold and then fastening it upon the plate has heretofore
 prevented my employing this method of making connexions
 with that metal, screw-clamps being used instead. The prac
 tical advantage of soldered connexions is of course consider
 able, though not so great as might at first appear. Resin,
 although very brittle, was used as a cement, for the reason
 that within the limits of temperature to be employed it is more
 rigid than any other cement I could hit upon, and therefore
 less liable to allow the gold strip to become distorted or strained
 by the stress it is subjected to while carrying a current across
 a powerful magnetic field.
    In order to control the temperature of the gold strip, it was
 placed in a narrow tank between the poles of the electro
 magnet, and water was made to flow slowly through the tank,
 from bottom to top, during the experiment. The lowest tem
 perature used was about 2° C, the highest about 30° C, as
 will be seen below.
    August 2, the following results were obtained in the order
 given :—
                                  Gold.
                   Temperature.          Numbers proportional
                        0                 to transverse eftect.
                     30-2 C                      1738
                       2-2                       1703
                       2-6                       1748
                     30-0                        1746
    No attempt was made to determine the absolute magnitude
 of the rotational coefficient in this specimen of gold ; so that
 the numbers given in the second column must not be used for
 comparison with numbers elsewhere given as proportional to
 the rotational coefficient in gold or other metals.
    The magnetic field in these experiments had an intensity of
 about 1900 C.G.S. The primary current was not measured
 in absolute units. It was such as a Bunsen cell yields in a
 circuit of a few ohms resistance.
    From the above table we get:—
               Temperature.              Numbers proportional
                 0                         to transverse effect.
                30-2)\ 30 1 ....
                30-0            .... 1738     1746/ 1 17/l0
                                                       1742
                 2-6 1 9.
                 2-21     24    ....
                                ... .         1748/ 179fl
                                              17031    1726

344       Mr. E. H. Hall on the "Rotational Coefficients"
   The mean of the numbers at low temperature is therefore
less than the mean for the higher temperature by rather less
than one per cent. The particularly small number 1703,
which causes this result, was obtained from a rather bad series
of observations, and is probably entitled to less weight than
the others. In fact, though the numbers as they stand seem
to indicate a decrease of about one per cent, in the value of
the transverse effect for a fall of about 30° C, I think it better
to say that we have here detected no certain effect of fall of
temperature.
   It is evident from these experiments that, if the value of the
transverse effect in gold varies at all with change of tempera
ture, it varies far less than the electrical conductivity. We
must conclude therefore, that this effect depends rather upon
the magnitude of the current through the gold than upon the
fall of potential per unit of length. This conclusion was long
ago reached * ; but doubt had been cast upon its correctness by
the experiments upon nickel above mentioned.
   Turning again to the magnetic metals and taking a strip of
thin iron, experiments were made similar to those with gold
as above described. The results obtained, though by no
means so accurate as those obtained with gold, show that in
iron the rotational coefficient is very strongly affected by
change of temperature, the effect being an increase of perhaps
two thirds of one per cent, for a rise of 1° C. Possibly a
comparison of the effect of change of temperature upon the
magnetic permeability of iron, nickel, and cobalt with the
effect of the same change upon the rotational coefficient, will
be of value when both effects shall have been more fully
studied.
    Leaving the matter of effect of change of temperature and
referring again to the article on nickel and cobalt (Phil. Mag.
Sept. 1881), we see that the rotational coefficient in nickel
decreases as we increase the strength of the magnetic field ;
i. e. the rotational effect, other things being equal, increases
less rapidly than the intensity of the magnetic field.
    Experiments were made for the purpose of determining
whether a similar relation would hold in iron. The iron was
tested in magnetic fields varying in intensity from about 1000
to about 7500 in absolute C.G.B. units. Judging from the
behaviour of the strip of nickel previously examined in this
manner, the E. C. of that metal would be about 20 per cent,
greater in a field of intensity 1000 than in one of intensity
7500. For certain reasons 1 do not feel perfect confidence in
            * Silliman's American Journal, September 1880.

                        of various Metals.                    345
the numerical results obtained with iron, and do not consider
them worth publishing. To myself, however, they moke it
seem probable that the rotational coefficient in iron is less in
a field of intensity 1000 than in a field of intensity 7500; and
I expect to prove this when I am able to take up the matter
again. Cobalt should of course be examined in the same way;
nor must it be forgotten that it is by no means proved, as yet,
that the non-magnetic metals will show a constant rotational
coefficient when tested between wide limits of magnetic force.
    The object of another experiment was to determine, if pos
sible, whether any part of the rotational effect could be made
permanent under favourable conditions. For this purpose a
piece of clock-spring was taken, tempered very hard, and then
reduced by action of nitric acid to a thickness of about "06
millim. This piece of steel was firmly imbedded upon a plate
of glass in a layer of cement made of melted bees-wax and
 resin. This plate, with the usual electrical connexions, and
 with a current flowing through it, was placed in the usual
 position between the poles of the electromagnet ; the magnet
 current was turned on, then off, and the plate removed from
 between the poles in order to avoid the action of the very con
 siderable residual magnetism of the electromagnet. A reading
 of the Thomson galvanometer in the transverse circuit was now
 made ; then the plate was replaced between the poles and the
 current turned on again, but in the opposite direction. The
 magnet-current being again interrupted, the plate was again
 removed from the field, and another reading of the Thomson
 galvanometer was made. The two readings differed by several
 centimetres on the galvanometer-scale. The experiment was
 repeated, and always with a like result.
     There was no room for doubt that the direction of the equi-
 potential lines in the steel was permanently changed by the
 action of the magnet. This change was in the same direction
 as the temporary change produced by the magnet's action, and
 perhaps equal to 2 per cent, of the temporary change.
     This result was of course not unexpected". The hardened
 steel must have become permanently magnetized transversely;
 and this magnetization should produce an effect similar to
 that of temporary magnetization. The experiment is of inter
 est, however, as indicating that the rotational effect is not due
 to the mere mechanical stress to which the metal is subjected
 in the magnetic field ; for though no one has ever pointed out
 how any such stress could produce the effect observed, many
 have no doubt questioned whether it might not after all be due
  in some obscure way to such stress.
     It may be stated incidentally that the transverse effect

34G            Professors Ayrton and Perry on the
appears to be much greater in steel of bine temper than in soft
iron, and, again, much greater in steel of very hard temper than
in steel of blue temper. If we call the effect in soft iron 1, the
effect in blue steel is perhaps 2, and that in very hard steel 4.
              L. The Resistance of the Electric A rc.
By Professors W. E. Ayrton, F.R.S.,and John Perry, M.E.*
ONE of the results of the elaborate set of experiments on
        the Electric Light conducted in 1878 by the late Mr.
Schwendler was the conclusion to which he came, that the
supposition that the resistance of an arc of constant length
was inversely proportional to the current which passed
through it was highly probable. His experiments, however,
were not sufficient to absolutely determine this point ; and it
has therefore appeared to us important to obtain further in
formation on the subject, which, with the assistance of the
students working in our laboratory, we have from time to time
done with the following results.
    1. The method employed by us in the first instance was as
follows :—A number of Grove cells, G, were arranged in
series (fig. 1); and one pole
P was connected through an
ammeter A with one carbon
of the electric light L, the
other carbon of which was
attached to a mercury trough G
T, which, by means of a me
tallic bridge-piece, could be
connected with any one of
the mercury-cups jB, C, D,
each of which was perma
nently electrically connected
with the terminal of a differ
ent number of cells. The two carbons were also connected
with the terminals of a voltmeter V, by means of which the
difference of potentials between the carbons at any moment
 could be determined. The experiment was made thus :—
 The bridge-piece was put into l), and the carbons by means
 of a rack adjustment separated until a good steady light was
 obtained, when readings of the ammeter and voltmeter were
 taken. A second bridge-piece was now put into C and that
 in 1) quickly withdrawn, the effect being to suddenly increase
   * Communicated by the Physical Society of London ; read December 0,
1882.

                  Resistance of the Electric Arc.                 347
the number of cells in circuit producing the light, increasing
therefore the current without interrupting it, and without
changing the distance between the carbons, as the lamp
had no automatic adjusting arrangement. Readings of A
and V were then quickly taken and the operation reversed—
that is, the bridge-piece put into D and that in C quickly
withdrawn, which had the effect of again reducing the
current ; and if the change back again were effected not long
after the first, the carbons were not sufficiently burnt away
by the stronger current to make the light go out when the
current was reduced, so that a third set of readings of A and
V could be taken. In this way, for the same distance between
the carbons two readings of the lower current and its corre
sponding carbon difference of potentials, and one intermediate
reading of the higher current with its carbon difference of
potentials, were obtained. The whole experiment was now
repeated with the cells P C and P B instead of P D and P C.
The following is a sample of the results obtained from a
number of tests with 30, 40 and 50 Grove cells :—
                                     Difference of    Work in foot-
 Number of             Current, in potentials between pounds per
    cells.              amperes.    carbon, in volts, second in arc.
      30                   6-52           304            146-2
      40                 10-16            30-4           227-8
      50                 11-92            30-4           267-2
   The last current is therefore nearly double the first, but the
difference of potentials between the carbons is not materially
altered by the increase of the current and the light.
   Subsequently a large number of experiments were made
using a Brush dynamo in place of the Grove cells, and in
creasing and diminishing the current by suddenly increasing
and diminishing the resistance in circuit without stopping the
current.
   In the earlier experiments for each current its value was
read on the ammeter as well as the difference of potentials
between the carbons on the voltmeter; but since even with a
very dead-beat ammeter some little time must elapse when
the currents are alternately doubled and halved by taking
out and inserting resistance in circuit, and since even with
a slight delay the stronger current burns away the carbon
points very rapidly, and so makes the distance between them
for the stronger currents greater than for the weaker, it
was thought better in the later experiments merely to take
readings .of the voltmeter when the resistance was altered
backwards and forwards sufficiently to alternately treble and
diminish to one third the current as shown by the earlier ex

 318             Professors Ayrton and Perry on the
 periments. The following are samples of the readings of the
 voltmeter, the distance between the carbons in each case
 being fixed and the current alternately trebled and diminished
 to one third.
                                     Difference of
           Current                potentials between
        approximately.             carbons, in volts.
               1                          265
              3                           26-5
              1                           245
              3                           25-5
              1                           26-5 Distance between
              3                           26*5        carbons re-
              1                           255         adjusted.
              3                          265
              3                           32      A somewhat
              1                           30          greater dis-
              3                           39-5        tance between
              1             •             30          the carbons.
              3                           34
              1                           34
              3                           36
              1                          38
              3                          30
              1                          28
              3                          30
              3                          30 Distance between
              1                          28        carbons re-
              3                          30        adjusted.
              1                          28
              3                          30
   It would appear therefore that for a fixed distance between
the carbons the difference of potentials necessary to maintain
Ihe arc is nearly but not quite independent of the current,
the electromotive force requiring to be slightly increased when
the current is very much increased.
   2. The second part of the investigation was for the purpose
of ascertaining in what way the differences of potentials
between the carbons varied with the length of the arc when
the current was kept constant. For this purpose the arc was
projected on a distant scale by means of a lens, the inagnifying-
power of the arrangement being calculated, first, by comparing
the distance between the scale and the lens with the distance
between the arc and the lens, secondly by putting close to
the arc a piece of carbon of known thickness and measuring

                  Resistance of the Electric Arc.              349
quickly the thickness of its image as projected on the distant
screen, before the piece of carbon had time to burn.
    For each set of experiments a particular current was de
cided on : the carbons were put successively at different
distances apart and the resistance in the circuit varied until
the prearranged current was flowing through the arc, when
instantly the actual projected distance between the carbons on
the screen was read off and the difference of potentials between
the carbons in volts ; or the resistance in the circuit external
to the lamp could be left fixed, and the carbons gradually
withdrawn until the prearranged current was flowing through
the arc, when, as before, the projected length of arc and the
difference of potentials between the carbons was read off. A
 large number of experiments were made in this way with a
 Brush machine for currents varying between 5*5 and 10*4
amperes, the distances between the carbon points from 0 to one
and a quarter inch, and the difference of potential varying
from 0 to 140 volts, the carbons being 0-24 inch thick. The
 result when plotted gave a curve similar to that shown in fig. 2
 (p. 350), horizontal distances representing distances between
 the carbon points, and vertical distances the difference of poten
 tials between the carbons. For all the currents approximately
 the same curve was obtained—a result to be expected, seeing
 that the first investigation showed that the difference of
 potentials between two carbons necessary to produce an arc
 depended almost entirely on the distance between them, and
 hardly at all on the strength of the current. The equation to
 the curve we find to be approximately as follows :—
                    E = 63+55a-63x 10-""»,
 where E is the difference of potentials in volts between the
 carbons, and a the distance between their points in inches.
 It will be seen that at first the difference of potentials
 necessary to maintain the arc increases rapidly with the
 distance, and that at a distance of about one tenth of an inch
 it is about 60 volts. From this the curve bends rapidly up
 to a point corresponding with a distance between the carbons
 of about one quarter of an inch ; and for greater distances
 between the carbons than one quarter of an inch, the increase
 of difference of potentials becomes nearly proportional to the
 increase of distance, being about 54 volte per inch increase.
    This law is very like that found by Mr. C. F. Varley for
 the discharge through a vacuum-tube, which was that the
 current was proportional to the difference of potentials
 minus a constant; for this is equivalent to saying that, cceteris
paribitSjthe difference of potentials necessary to produce a fixed
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 95. May 1883.            2C


                      Resistance of the Electric Arc.                351
  current is proportional to the length of the tube plus a con
  stant. The curve we have obtained is also strikingly like that
  obtained by Drs. W. De La Hue and Hugo Miiller for the
  connexion between the electromotive force and the distance
  across which it would send a spark*. These gentlemen also
  made experiments on the electric arc with their large battery ;
  but we do not find recorded any results with carbon points.
  On page 185 of the reprint from the ' Philosophical Transac
  tions ' of the account of their researches, the result of an
  experiment in air between two brass points is given ; but
  according to that, when the arc was half an inch in length the
  difference of potentials between the brass points was that of
  657 of their cells, or about 700 volts. How far the very high
  electromotive force found by Drs. W. De La Rue and Hugo
   Miiller, to be necessary in this case, arose from a combination
  of the material employed for the electrodes and the smallness
  of the diameter of the brass electrodes, or whether the law that
   " the electromotive force necessary to maintain an arc depends
   mainly on the length of the arc and hardly at all on the
  strength of the current " fails when the current is below a cer-
         small limit, we are unable to say ; but of course both the
      ameter of the brass electrodes they employed and the
   strength of the current that was passing (0'025 ampere)
   in the arc was very much less than that used in any
   ordinary electric light, and to which the experiments of Mr.
   Schwendler and ourselves especially refer. It is very pro
   bable that the difference in the material of the electrodes has
          ly to do with the difference between their results and
     inrs; and we think it veiy probable that with very soft carbons
   an arc of a given length could be maintained with a much less
   difference of potentials than that found by us, since it would
   be more easy for a shower of carbon particles to be main
   tained between the ends of the carbons.
       We have used as the title of this short communication the
   Resistance of the Electric Arc ; but we are perfectly aware of
   the objections to this expression. How far the opposition to
   the passage of the currents in an electric arc is due to pure
   resistance, and how far to an opposing electromotive force, is
   up to the present time by no means certain. That there is
      me opposing electromotive force, seeing that mechanical
       " itegration of the carbon and transporting of its particles
         rs, is, as was pointed out some years ago by Edlund,
        ost certain ; but seeing that this opposing electromotive
            ceases to exist with the extinction of the arc, and
      * Page 32 ofthe Reprint of" Experimental Researches on the Electric
  TDischarge," Phil. Trans, part i. vol. 169.
                                       2C2
r

352                 Mr. R. T. Glazebrook on
probably varies as the pure resistance varies, and further
remembering that an opposing electromotive force which has
no existence apart from a combined resistance acts in any
electrical test exactly as a resistance, it must be always very
difficult experimentally to separate them. All of course that we
can measure electrically is the difference of potential between
the carbons and the current passing between them ; and this
is what we have been measuring all through these two inves
tigations.
    It may be here noted that in all probability the conduction
from particle to particle in a microphone is of the nature of a
small electric arc, or, rather, perhaps a convective discbarge,
seeing that the resistance in a microphone varies with the
current used to measure it ; indeed it is probable, when the
pieces of carbon or other material employed, are so pressed
together that close intimacy of contact of the particles makes
the resistance tolerably independent of the current, that then
the pieces of carbon will not act as a microphone at all.
    We have to thank Messrs. W. Atkinson and Lt. B. Atkinson,
two of our students, for much assistance rendered us in these
experiments.
LI. On Polarizing Prismt. By R. T. Glazebrook, M.A.,
   F.R.S., Fellow and Lecturer of Trinity College, Demonstrator
   in the Cavendish Laboratory, Cambridge *.
IN a paper on Nicol's prism (Phil. Mag. vol. x. 1880)
       I have considered some of the defects of Nicol's prism
as a means of producing plane-polarized light. In the present
paper I propose to describe a form of polarizing prism free
from most of these. For many purposes, one of the great
objections to Nicol's prism is the lateral displacement pro
duced by it in the image of an object viewed through it. If
we place a Nicol before the object-glass of a telescope, on
turning the Nicol round its axis the image moves across the
field. This has been remedied somewhat by cutting prisms
with their ends at right angles to their length, and making
the angle between the normal to the face on which the incident
light falls and the plane of Canada balsam such that the
ordinary ray is totally reflected there while the extraordinary
ray passes through. But this is not entirely successful; for let
A B C D (fig. 1) be a section of such a prism by a plane parallel
to the edge B C and at right angles to the Canada balsam.
   * Communicated by the Physical Society of London ; read 14th April,
1883.

                        Polarizing Prhmi.                     353
Let PQ be the trace of the balsam. In an ordinary Nicol's
prism A B would be inclined at about 74° to A D, and P Q
                              Fig. 1.
would be at right angles to A B, AD and B C being
parallel to edges of the rhomb of spar. In the case now
being considered, A B is at right angles to B C, B C being
still parallel to a rhombic edge.
    Consider a ray R S incident normally on A B. The ordinary
ray S T enters the spar without deviation, but is reflected by
the balsam at T in direction T K ; the extraordinary ray is
refracted at the face A B in direction T U, and turned from
its original path in virtue of the extraordinary refraction. It
emerges along U V parallel to its original direction, but dis
placed to one side, so that the extraordinary image of the
object seen is displaced to one side by the passage of the
light through the spar.
    In the prism considered in fig. 1, the optic axis lies in the
plane of the paper, making an angle of 57° 30 with B C.
    Suppose now we cut a rectangular parallelepipedon from a
piece of spar, in such a way that two of its faces are at right
angles to the optic axis while the other four are parallel to it.
   Let A B 0 D (fig. 2) be a section of the solid by a plane also
at right angles to the optic axis, and therefore parallel to two
faces and at right angles to the other four ; and suppose that
                               Fig. 2.
B C is about three times A B. Let P Q be inclined at
about 20° to B C, and suppose the prism cut in two by a
plane at right angles to the paper and passing through to
P Q. Then let the faces of section be polished, and cemented
together with Canada basam. The optic axis will be at right

354                Mr. R. T. Glazebrook on
angles to the plane of the paper, and the section of the wave-
surface by that plane will be two circles of radii A and C,
these being the ordinary and extraordinary wave-velocities
respectively. Hence a ray falling on the face AB in any
direction in the plane of the paper will be divided into two,
which will both undergo ordinary refraction, so that if the
incident ray be normal to the face A B, the extraordinary and
ordinary rays in the prism will coincide in direction, both
being normal to the same face. The extraordinary ray is not
deviated by the refraction ; so that no lateral displacement of
the extraordinary image is produced by the prism. The
ordinary ray is incident at about 70° on the face P Q ; it is
therefore totally reflected, and the emergent light is plane-
polarized. The prism differs from one described by Prof. S.
P. Thompson (Phil. Mag. Nov. 1881) only in the fact that
its ends are normal to its length instead of being inclined
obliquely to it. But this form of prism has other and more
important advantages.
   Let 0 M, 0 N (fig. 3) be two extraordinary wave-normals^
and 0 A the optic axis. Pass a plane                ™ 3
M 0 A through 0 M and 0 A, and in
this plane draw OP at right angles
to 0 M ; then 0 P is the direction of
vibration in the wave which travels
along 0 M. Similarly, if N 0 A be a
plane through 0 N and 0 A, and 0 Q
a line in it at right angles to ON,
0 Q is the direction of vibration for
the wave along O N ; and it may
happen, clearly, that 0 P and 0 Q are
inclined to one another at a large
angle even when OM and ON are
close together. Suppose, then, that the
 extraordinary pencil of wave-normals
which is traversing the spar is slightly conical, and that 0 N,
 0 M are two of the wave-normals ; the planes of polarization
are inclined to each other at an angle equal to P 0 Q ; and this
 may be considerable. Or, again, suppose that we have a
 polarized pencil of parallel wave-normals incident on the
 prism. We determine the position of their plane of polariza
 tion by turning the prism until no light passes through. Sup
 pose that, when this is the case, the incident light is parallel to
 0 M. Now let the plane of polarization of the incident light
 be rotated, and suppose we wish to measure this rotation ; we
 turn the prism until the light is again quenched. Theoretically
 the axis round which the prism has been turned should be

                         Polarizing Prisms.                     355
parallel to 0 M. In practice it is difficult to ensure this; and
in general the direction of the wave-normal relatively to the
optic axis will be changed, and may now be 0 N say. But
since the planes of polarization of the waves along 0 M and
 0 N are different, the angle through which the prism has been
 turned will not be the angle through which the plane of pola
rization of the incident light has moved.
   Now Nicol's prism is so cut that the angle between the
planes of polarization of two waves inclined to each other at
but a small angle as they traverse the crystal is considerable.
If, then, a slightly conical pencil traverse the prism, the angles
between the planes of polarization of the different waves are
considerable; or if a parallel pencil traverse the prism inclined
at but a small angle to the axis of rotation, and the plane of
polarization of this beam be rotated, that rotation will differ
considerably from the angle through which the prism has to
be turned to reestablish blackness.
   In our figure the wave along 0 M is polarized in a plane
at right angles to 0 P, that along 0 N in a plane at right
angles to 0 Q. Consider now a conical pencil of wave-nor
mals in air: it is clearly impossible for it to be plane-polarized,
if by plane polarization we mean that the directions of vibra
tion are parallel to the same line; for we cannot have a series
of lines touching a sphere all parallel to the same line. Such
a pencil, however, may be said to be most nearly plane-pola
rized when all the directions of vibration are parallel to the
same plane ; and this plane will be that which passes through
the axis of the pencil and the direction of vibration for the
wave-normal which coincides with the axis. For if this be
the case, the whole of the pencil can pass unaltered either as
an ordinary or extraordinary wave through a piece of spar on
which its axis falls normally, provided that the optic axis of
the spar be respectively either at right angles to or parallel
to the plane in question. Using "plane polarization" in this
sense, we proceed to consider when a conical pencil of given
vertical angle travelling in a piece of uniaxal crystal is most
nearly plane-polarized.
   Now let 0 M (fig. 3) be the axis of the pencil, and 0 P the
direction of vibration for the light travelling along 0 M, and
let 0 N be any other wave-normal. According to the above
statement, the conical pencil will be most nearly plane-pola
rized if the vibration travelling along 0 N is parallel to the
plane POM. If, however, the pencil be travelling in a
crystal, it is clearly impossible in general for the displacement
along 0 N to be parallel to this plane. For let 0 A be the
optic axis ; 0 A lies in the plane MOP. Pass a plane through

356                   Mr. R. T. Glazebrook on
OA, ON, and in it draw 0 Q at right angles to 0 N ; 0 Q is
the direction of displacement which travels along 0 N, and
0 Q is not parallel to the plane POM.
   We can resolve the displacement along 0 Q into two, in and
perpendicular to the plane POM. The light then will be
most nearly plane-polarized when the average intensity of the
vibrations normal to this plane is least ; and it remains to find
the condition for this.
   In fig. 3 let QR be perpendicular to AP. Let AM=«,
NM=0, AN = 0, AMN=<£. Let p be the amplitude of the
displacement along OQ. The displacement normal to the
plane PAM is p sin QR, and the intensity of the wave is pro
portional to p2 sin2 QR.
   We are to consider a hollow conical pencil with OM as axis.
An element of such a pencil at N will be sin 8d<f> ; and the
total energy in the pencil, so far as it depends on the dis
placement normal to the plane PAM, is
                      2jVsin£sinsQR#.
Now
                    sin QK= sin AQ sin RAQ
                             = cos 6 sin NAM,
                  • -KT i u sin d> sin 8
                sin NAM=           : ,,    ;
                                  sin a
               .'. sinQR= cot 0 sin ^ sin $                        (1)
Also           cos 6= cos a cos 8 + sin a. sin 8 cos           . . (2)
 Substituting in the value of sin QR, we find for the energy
required the expression
  2 2 sin3 8 ^ S'n' ^C08 a cos & — 8*p a 8'n — 008 ffidfp
    "       J0 1 — (cos*cos)9+ sin a sin /3 cos 0)2                " '
 And we require to evaluate this integral.
   Let
                 cos«cos/8=a, sin«sin/S=£>.
Then
         ^' sin2 (f> (cos a cos 8 + sin a sin 8 cos <f>)2 d<j>
               1 — (cos a cos 8 + sin a sin /3 cos </>)2
                 _ f»sin2<ft(a + 6cos</>)2<ty
                 "J,         l-(a + &cos£)2

                         Polarizing Prisms.                          357
The first term
          . f'/         sin" ft               sin2 <ft    1    ,
          •J, 1 1 - (a + 6 cos <ft) + 1 + (a + b cos <ft) J
But
            C' sin2(ftrf(ft _ f'(l- cos2(ft)<Aft
            J0 c + dcos(ft J0           c + dcos^
                     _r*( c _ cos <ft _           c2— d?       1
                     ~J, \a^~~d               ^(c + dcos^) J *
                     _ 7TC      C2 — cP     2    7T
                              if c is > d,
Hence
 for we can easily show that c is > din this case.           And
                                ? <HW(l + 2a + «2-62)}.                (5)
 And the required integral is
 ^{2-v/(l-2a + a2-i2)-v/(l + 2a + a2-62)-62}. . (6)
 But
      a2— 62= cos2acos2/3 — sin2 « sin2 (3 = cos2 a + oosJj3— 1.
 Hence, since the positive sign is to be attached to the roots, we
 have, if j3 be < a,
    Intensity required
  =            { 2 — (cos /3 — cos a) — (cos /S + cos «) — sin2 /3 sin2 a £
  = Vsin/H1-cos0){sln^-(1+ cos0)}
  = 47rp2 sin /3 sin2 1 1 cosec2 a — cos2^ >                           (7)

358                  Mr. It. T. Glazebrook on
    And if « be < (3,
Intensity
= 7rp2sin/3{TT|^a-sin^ j =V^{sec^-sin^}. (8)
In the first case the intensity is clearly least when a is ^, its
value then being
                        V shi 0(1- cos /8)2;
and in the second case it is least when a is 0, and its value is
                        wp1 sin (3 cos2 /3.
This second minimum will be greater than the other if
                      cos /3 is > 1 — cos /3,
i. e. if              cos /3 is >
t. e. if              /3 is < 60°.
    If, then, a conical pencil whose semi- vertical angle is less
than 60° be passing through the spar, the pencil will be most
nearly plane-polarized if the axis of the pencil is at right
angles to that of the spar.
    Now if the axis of a conical pencil pass normally through a
 prism cut as already described, it will be at right angles to the
optic axis; and hence the pencil, if its semi- vertical angle be
less than 60°, will be more nearly plane-polarized than it would
be if the axis occupied any other position. This constitutes a
second advantage in favour of the new prism.
    Again, suppose we have a parallel pencil of wave-normals
in direction ON, and that the axis round which the prism
rotates is OX (fig. 4). In our observations we suppose that
 these two coincide, and work as if the plane of polarization of
 the emergent light coincided with that of light travelling along
 OX, thus introducing an error. The amount of this error will
depend of course partly on the angle NX (/3 say), and partly
 on the angle NXA (<f> say), OA being the optic axis. If we
 know /3 and <f> we can calculate the error, and could determine
 the value to be given to XA or « to make it the least possible.
    But in practice <f> may be anything between 0 and 2-ir, and
/3 anything between 0 and a not very large angle /3X ; and
 the question arises, what value must we assign to a in order
that the error produced by any chance values of /3 and <f> may
most probably be as small as possible ? To answer this we
require to determine, between these limits for 0 and <f>, the

                        Polarizing Prisms.                        359
                                                       Fig. 4.
mean of the values, irrespective
of sign, of the amplitudes of the
vibrations normal to the plane
OAX.
    Let 0 Q be the direction of
vibration for the wave-normal
0 N, and Q R perpendicular on
the plane AX. Then the dis
 placement normal to the plane
 AOX is p sin QR ; and, with the
 same notation as before, the ave
 rage displacement
                     = £- \ sin /3 sin <f> cot 6 d<j>                (9)
  Also       sin 0d0= sin a sin /3 sin <f> d<f>.
  Hence average displacement
                        2ir sin aJ(cos Odd
                     = h—^—                                        s
                                                                   (10)
      We must consider now the limits between which the inte
  gral is to be taken.                                Fig. 5-
      Describe a circle (fig. 5) pass
  ing through N with X as centre,
   and cutting A X in L and M,
   and if possible let Nj be a point
   on this circle such that
               NlA=f.
   Suppose we treat displacements
   to the right of AX as positive.
   When N coincides with L,
   If N lies between L and Nj, Q is to the right of AX, as in
    figure, and the displacement is positive. We must therefore
    integrate for 9 from a — /3 to ^ .      But if a lie between Nj and
    M, Q will be to the left of AX, and the displacement will be
    negative. Thus, to get the whole average displacement, irre
    spective of sign, we have to subtract the value of the integral
     from 5 to « + /3.  If, however, a + 18 is < 5, no position such
    as Nx can be found, and we have to integrate straight from

 360                 Mr. R. T. Glazebrook on
 a— /3 to a + /3. The same is true for positions of N on the
 other side of AX.
     Hence, in the first case, the average displacement normal to
 the plane is
       5-^- ( f'cos Odd- f^COS 0dO\
                      —?— a-sin(«-/3)
                    = wsina     1                 + l-sin(«  v + /3U
                       7r t sin «          J
                   = — |cosec«— cos/3 j                            (11)
And in the second case it is
       5 2p. f°+"cos0d0= —£— 4sin(« + |8)-sin(«-/3)}
       27rsm »Ja_p                irsina1 v           '      v     "
                               = ~cot«sin^                        (12)
                                  IT
                                        It
The first is clearly least when « is ^ ; the second decreases as
a increases, but has no minimum ; for after a time we should
                                                      7T
reach a point at which « + /S became equal to s> and then the
limits would require changing : for this value, of course, the
two integrals are the same.
    Thus the average displacement normal to the plane OAX
is least when OX is at right angles to the optic axis, and hence
the average error in the position of the plane of polarization
is least also. The average displacement just calculated is of
course that for a given value of /3. If we require the average
for any value of /3 between 0 and /31? we must multiply our
expressions (11) and (12) by d(i, and, integrating from 0 to
fSj, divide the result by /3j.
    To show the difference in this respect between the new prism
and Nicol's, let us calculate the displacement normal to the
plane AOX in the two cases, supposing the value of /3 is 5°.
In Nicol's prism, « = 63°           so that a + /3 is less than 5, and
                                                                2
the second formula (12) must be taken. The ratio of the two
displacements is therefore
                 1— cos/3                           2

                       Polarizing Pri»ms.                     361
and substituting the value /3=5°, this conies to 434 : 39, or
about 11 to 1. Thus the average error in the position of the
plane of polarization as determined by the new prism will be
about one eleventh of that which would be produced by the
same errors of adjustment with a Nicol's prism; while the
amount of light polarized out of the proper plane will be less
than one per cent, of that which would be produced by a Nicol.
   Again, suppose the prism is turned through an angle a>
about OX (fig. 6), and let                  Fig. 6.
us inquire what is the angle
through which the plane of
polarization of the emer
gent light is rotated. Let
OA' be the new position
of the optic axis. Join
MA, MA', and in them m
take points P, P' such that
MP=MP'=|. OP, OP'
are the directions of vibration for the waves travelling along
0 M in the two positions of the prism respectively. The
angle through which the plane of polarization has been turned
is P P' or P M P', that through which the prism has been
turned is A X A'; and we require to investigate the conditions
under which the average difference between these two for all
possible positions of M within a certain distance, say, of X.
   Now we have seen already that if the axis of rotation be at
right angles to the optic axis, the average error produced in
the determination of the position of the plane of polarization
for each of the two positions of the prism will be a minimum;
and hence it follows that the average error in the angle be
tween these two positions is a minimum also.
   All these results, of course, hold only for the position of the
plane of polarization of the light when in the crystal, and will
be modified by the refraction that takes place as the waves
emerge into the air. But since the ends of the prism are
normal to its length, for all the waves considered the inci
dence is very nearly direct, and the change produced by
refraction in the position of the plane of polarization is very
small indeed.
   Thus a prism cut as described possesses the following advan
tages over Nicol's prism :—
   1. There is no lateral dispacement in the apparent position
of an object viewed through it.
   2. A conical pencil whose axis passes directly through is
more nearlyplane-polarized than would be the case if the axis of
the prism were related to that of the spar in any other manner.

 362               Notices respecting New Books.
    3. If the direction of the wave-normal within the prism
 does not quite coincide with the axis of rotation, the average
 error in the position of the plane of polarization is less than
 for any other method of cutting.
    I hope shortly to have some prisms cut by Mr. Hilger in
 this manner, and to test by means of them the theoretical
 conclusions arrived at in the paper.
                       Note added April 26th.
    If the plane of section PQ be inclined to BC at an angle
 of 20°, as in fig. 2, the angular aperture of the field will be
 small, only about 10°, and it will be necessary that all the
light traversing the prism should be very nearly parallel to
BC. The aperture may be increased up to about 20° by
lengthening the prism considerably and decreasing the angle
between PQ and BC. If this be reduced to 11°, the aperture
will have its maximum value of 22°.
   The aperture may be somewhat increased, and the length
of the prism shortened, by using as the separating medium
balsam of copaiba, as was suggested at the meeting of the
Physical Society at which this paper was read.
   The mean index of refraction for this substance is about
1*52, as determined by Brewster. The angle of total reflexion
therefore for the ordinary ray is sin-1 (1*52/1*66), or about
66°, while for Canada balsam this angle is about 68°. The
possible aperture, using the balsam of copaiba, thus is about
24°.
   Professor Thomson's prism, mentioned already, will have a
wider field. But it must be remembered that the new prism
was not designed for microscopic work, but to obviate the
displacement in the image referred to at the commencement
of the paper, and to produce a field in which the plane-polari
zation should be as nearly as possible complete.
               LIL Notices respecting New Books.
Physical Optics (Text-books of Science). By ~R. T. Glazebbook,
    M.A. $c. (London: Longmans, Green & Co. Pp. 434+riv.)
T^HIS is an important elementary work, chiefly on "physical optics ;"
     but it contains also much of what is commonly termed " geome
trical optics." It is on the whole most lucidly written, and gives
a capital idea of the subject to those who wish to grasp a sound
knowledge of it without going into the higher mathematical
analysis. The work purports to be adapted for " artisans and
students in public and science schools : " it is, however, partly from
the general difficulty of parts of the subject and partly from the

                          Geological Society.                       363
mathematical knowledge required, really only adapted for quite
advanced classes. The explanation of the rectilinear propagation
and of the reflexion and refraction of light as a consequence of the
undulatory theory is remarkably clear ; and the difficult subjects of
diffraction and double refraction are well put. A discussion of
Fresnel's and McCullagh's theories of polarized light is given : the
discussion is difficult, and the results doubtful and discrepant, so
that it seems rather beyond the scope of a " Text-book." The first
chapter treats of the wave-motion of light as a form of energy ; and
the fifteenth chapter discusses the probable relations of light,
electricity, and magnetism as vibrations of the same material ether :
these chapters are most important in a theoretical view.
    The work is well got up, and contains few misprints for the
amount of matter. The expression " wave-surface centre A "
occurs frequently as short for " wave-surface whose centre is A ; "
a preliminary explanation would have been useful. The innovation
 in fractional notation sin ^/sin <p' is occasionally used (without
 explanation) ; having been thus to some extent adopted, it might
have been used much more frequently with considerable gain in
conciseness.                        Allan Cunningham, Major R.E.
 Transit Tables for 1883 for Popular Use. By Latimeb Claek,
  M.I.C.E. (London, A. J. Frost, 1883 : pp. 15 + 103 of Tables.)
 These may be looked on as a sort of small Nautical Almanac
 for amateurs for taking time with a small transit, and are suffi
 cient for the purpose when taken in conjunction with the same
 author's ' Treatise on the Transit Instrument &c. for the use of
 Country Gentlemen,' reviewed in No. 88 of this Magazine. As an
 aid to popularizing the use of the portable transit their publication
 may be welcomed.                   Allan Cunningham, Major R.E.
              LIII. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                        GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                         [Continued from p. 208.]
          March 7, 1883.—J. W. Hulke, Esq., F.R.S., President,
                              in the Chair.
 THE following communications were read :—
      1. " On Gray and Milne's Seismographic Apparatus." By Thomas
  Gray, Esq., B.Sc., F.R.S.E. Communicated by the President.
     This apparatus was stated to have for its object the registration of
 the time of occurrence, the duration, and the nature, magnitude, and
  period of the motions of the earth during an earthquake. The in
  strument was made by Mr. James White, Glasgow, and is to be
  used by Prof. John Milne in his investigations in Japan.
     In this apparatus two mutually rectangular components of the
  horizontal motion of the earth are recorded on a sheet of smoked
  paper wound round a drum, kept continuously in motion by clock

364                      Geological Society:—
work, by means of two conical pendulum-seismographs. The ver
tical motion is recorded on the same sheet of paper by means of
a compensated-spring seismograph. In details these instruments
differ considerably from those described in the Philosophical Maga
zine for September 1881 ; but the principle is the same.
   The time of occurrence of an earthquake is determined by causing
the circuit of two electromagnets to be closed by the shaking. One
of these magnets relieves a mechanism, forming part of a time
keeper, which causes the dial of the timepiece to come suddenly
forward on the hands and then move back to its original position.
The hands are provided with ink-pads, which mark their positions
on the dial, thus indicating the hour, minute, and second when the
circuit was closed. The seoond electromagnet causes a pointer to
make a mark on the paper receiving the record of the motion.
This mark indicates the part of the earthquake at which the circuit
was closed.
   The duration of the earthqnake 'is estimated from the length of
the record on the smoked paper and the rate of motion of the drum.
The nature and period of the different movements are obtained
from the curves drawn on the paper.
   2. "Notes on some Fossils, ohiefly Mollusca, from the Inferior
Oolite." By the Rev. G. F. Whidborne, M.A., F.G.S.
   3. " On some Fossil Sponges from the Inferior Oolite." By
Prof. W. J. Sollas, M.A., F.G.S.
   4. " On the Dinosaurs from the Maastricht Beds." By Prof.
H. G. Seeley, F.R.S., F.G.S.
         March 21     J. W. Hulke, Esq., F.R.8., President,
                              in the Chair.
   The following communication was read:—
   " On the supposed Pre-Cambrian Rocks of St. David's." By
Archibald Geikie, Esq., LL.D., F.R.S. (Part I.)
   The author began by briefly narrating the circumstances under
which he had been led to study the geology of St. David's. He had
visited the district twice, first in company with Mr. B. N. Peach,
with whose cooperation nearly all the field-work was done, and
again in conjunction with Mr. \V. Topley. The paper was divided
into two parts, the first being mainly controversial, and the second
descriptive. Only the first part was read.
                                 Paet I.
   According to Dr. Hicks there are at St. David's three distinct Pre-
Cambrian formations :—the " Dimetian," consisting of crystalline,
gncissic, and granitoid rocks; the "Arvonian," formed of felsites,
quartz-porphyries, halleflintas, and other highly silicated rocks ; and
the "Pebidian," composed of tuffs, volcanic breccias, and basic
lavas. He regards the " Arvonian " as later than, and unconform
able to the " Dimetian," and the Pebidian as younger than, and

     On tlxe supposed Pre-Cambrian Rocks of St. David's.           365
unconformable to both ; and he asserts that the basement conglo
 merate of the Cambrian system lies quite unconformably on all
 these rocks, and is in great part made up out of their waste.
   Taking up each of these groups in the order of sequence assigned
 to them, the author maintained that the " Dimetian group " is an
 eruptive granite, which has disrupted and altered the Cambrian
strata, even above the horizon of the supposed basal conglomerate.
He described a series of natural sections where this rolation is
exposed, particularly one on the coast at Ogof-Llesugn, where the
conglomerate has been torn off and involved in the granite, and has
been intensely indurated, so as to becomo a kind of pebbly quartzite.
No other rock occurs within the granito mass except dykes of
diabase, which rise through all the rocks of the district, but are
especially abundant in the granite. The veins of finer granite, so
general in granite areas, are conspicuous here. In short, whether
studied in hand-specimens or on the ground, the rock is so unmis
takably an eruptive mass that the author could not understand how
this view, which was that expressed on the Geological Survey maps,
should ever have been called in question. The manner in which it
has risen across the bedding of successive horizons in the Cambrian
series proves that, instead of being a Pro-Cambrian gneiss, it must
be much younger than all the Cambrian rocks of the district.
   The "Arvonian group" consists of quartziferous porphyries, or
elvans, associated with the granite, and of the metamorphosed strata
in their vicinity. Reference was made to natural sections where
the actual intrusion of the elvans across the bedding of the rocks
could be seen.
   The " Pebidiati group " comprises a series of volcanic tuffs and
breccias, with interstratified and intrusive lavas. The author main
tained that this group forms an integral part of the Cambrian system
as developed at St. David's. It has been broken through by the granite
and porphyries, and is therefore of older date. Instead of being
covered unconformably by the Cambrian conglomerate, as asserted by
Dr. Hicks, the volcanic group is covered quite conformably by that
rock ; and seams of tuff are interstratified with the conglomerate and
occur on various horizons above it. The conglomerate, instead of
being mainly composed of fragments of the rocks beneath it, consists
almost entirely of quartz and quartzite, only four per cent, of frag
ments having been found to have been derived from some of the
projecting lava-islands underneath it.
   From the evidence now brought forward, the author contended
that as the names " Dimetian," " Arvonian," and " Pebidian " had
been founded on error of observation, they ought to be dropped out
of geological literature.
  April 11'.—J. W. Hulke, Esq., F.R.S., President, in the Chair.
   The following communication was read :—
   " On the supposed Pre-Cambrian Rocks of St. David's." By
Archibald Geikie, Esq., LI.D., F.R.S., F.G.S.
                                Part II.
   In this second part of his paper the author gave the results of the
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 95. May 1883.                  2D

366                     Geological Society:—
survey which he had made of the district with Messrs. Peach and
Topley, and of his study of a series of more than 100 thin slices of
the rocks collected at St. David's. He found that he could corro
borate generally the descriptions of previous writers on the micro
scopic structure of the rocks, and that investigation with tho micro
scope amply confirmed the deductions he had drawn from observa
tions in the field.
   1. Order of Succession of the Rocks.—The following rock-groups
in the Lower Cambrian series are recognizable at St. David's, and
are given in descending order :—
           4. Purplo and greenish grits, sandstones, and shales.
           3. Green and red shales and sandstones, with true tuffs
                 (LingvleUa primceva).
           2. Quartz conglomerate.
           1. Volcanic group (tuffs, schists, lavas).
   The volcanic group forms the oldest part of the Cambrian series
at this locality. The bottom is not reached ; but about 1800 feet
are visible. It consists mainly of purplish-red, green, grey, and pale
tuffs, with occasional breccias and bands of olivine-diabase. Analyses
of some of these rocks had been made for the author by M. Renard,
of Brussels, and Mr. J. S. Grant Wilson, of the Geological Survey
of Scotland. The tuffs are partly basic, derived from the disruption
of diabase lavas (48 per cent, of silica), partly acid, from the destruc
tion of fine felsites (72-80 per cent, of silica). The microscopic
structure of the tuffs was described, and slides and drawings were
exhibited. The lavas are varieties of olivine-diabase. Their augite
is remarkably abundant and fresh ; and they contain scattered larger,
well-formed, as well as imperfect crystals of olivine, generally in the
form of hsomatitic pseudomorphs. No instance was observed of a
siliceous luva having been erupted at tho surface. The felsitic frag
ments in the tuffs must have been derived from the explosion of
lavas that do not seem to have flowed out above ground. It was
pointed out that this fact is exactly paralleled in the case of the
volcanic group of the Lower Old Red Sandstone in the Fentland
Hills.
   In relation to the quartz-conglomerate, allusion was made to the
constant recurrence of such conglomerates in the series of geological
formations, and to the fact that they do not necessarily mark uncon-
formability or the natural base of groups of sedimentary rocks.
   2. Geological Structure of the District.—It was shown that the
rocks have been folded into an isocline or inverted anticline, so that
in one half of the plication the dip of the strata is reversed.
   The groups above mentioned are found in their proper order on
both sides of the axis which runs through the volcanic gcoup. The
granite has risen irregularly through the eastern limb of the iso
cline. Small faults may occur here and there along the edge of the
granite, but they do not in any way affect the general structure.
   3. Tlie Foliation of the District.—Thero has been extensively
developed at St. David's a fine foliation of particular kinds of rock,

     On the supposed Pre- Cambrian Rocks of St. David's.            367
more esjwcially of certain fine tuffs and shales, which have passed into
the condition of fine silky unctuous hydro-mica-schists or sericite-
schists. A series of microscopic slices was described which showed
that the original clastic structure of the beds remains quite distinct,
though an abundant development of fine flakes of a hydrous mica
has taken place. This structure more particularly characterizes tho
fine parts of the volcanic group ; but it occurs also on various hori
zons in the groups above the conglomerate, thus linking the whole
as one great continuous series of deposits. The author connected it
with the plication of tho district, and pointed out the great interest
attaching to these fine schistose bands as revealing some of the
incipient stages of the same process that had changed wide regions
of sedimentary strata into crystalline schists.
   4. The Granite, Quartz-Porphyries, and accompanying Meta
morphism.—The petrographies! characters of these eruptive rocks
were described, and their perfect analogy to the familiar granites
and elvans of other districts was pointed out. Specimens were
shown illustrating the gradation from a true granite into spherulitic
quartz-porphyry. The quartz-porphyries of St. David's (described
by Mr. Davies, Dr. Hicks, and others) exhibit spherulitic structure
in an exceptionally perfect manner. Between the felso-spherulites
the base is thoroughly micro-crystalline, and not felsitic. The
rocks belong to a group intermediate between granites and felsites.
They occur in bosses, elvans, or dykes round the granite, cutting
through all horizons of the volcanic group, and approaching, if they do
not actually intersect, the quartz-conglomerate. The metamorphism
associated with the granites and porphyries is best seen near the
latter. It consists chiefly in the intense induration of certain bands
of rock which have been converted into flinty aggregates (adinole).
The alteration takes place usually along the bedding, which is
 nearly vertical ; but veins of the same siliceous material ramify
 across the stratification of the shales. Examined microscopically,
 the adinole is found to have acquired a microcrystalline structure,
 nests of quartz and orthoclase and porphyritic crystals and plagioclase
 having been developed, together with fine veins and filaments of
 crystalline quartz. These veins are here and there crowded with
 approximately parallel partitions of liquid inclusions showing freely
 moving bubbles. An analysis of a portion of the adinole, made for
 the author by M. Rcnard, shows the percentage of silica to be 78'62
 with 5-80 of soda, indicating possibly the formation of albite. The
 author deferred generalizing on the question of the metamorphism
 he described, but pointed out that a further study of the St.-David's
 rockB could hardly fail to throw important light on the theory of
 metamorphism.
    5. The Diabase Dylces and Sheets.—These are the latest rocks at
 St. David's, as they traverse all the others. Their macroscopic and
 microscopic characters were described ; and allusion was made to the
 perfect fluxion-structure found in many of the dykes.
    The paper closed with a summary of the geological history of St.
 David's. The earliest records are those of the Volcanic group, which

3G8            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
show the existence of volcanic vents in that region in an early part of
the Lower Cambrian period. The volcanic accumulations were
covered conformably by the Conglomerate and succeeding Cambrian
groups ; but the same kind of tuffs continued to be ejected after the
 deposition of the Conglomerate. At a later time this thick con
 formable succession of beds was plicated, and underwent a partial
 metamorphism, whereby some of the fine tuffs and shales were con
verted into sericite-schists. Subsequently a mass of granite rose
through one side of the fold, accompanied by elvans of spheru-
 litic quartz-porphyry, whereby a second, different and feebler
kind of metamorphism was induced. The last episode was that of
the diabase dykes, which, crowded together in the granite, sug
gest that the granite boss stands on an old line of weakness and
of escape for eruptive material from the interior.
            LIV. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                 ON THE USE OF THE TERM " FORCE."
      To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
Gentlemen,
THE anomalies and confusions which Mr. Close points out in the
      use of the term "Force " (Phil. Mag. April, p. 24S) appear to
me mainly to arise from the very unfortunate definition which he,
in common with other modern physicists, insists on applying to the
word. Force proper, he says, is " the rate of change of momentum :"
and this he would substitute for the old definition, common to all
text-books on Mechanics, that a force is a cause of motion. Now
if there is one thing which seems clear, in the framing of termino
logy, it is that where a well-known word receives a scientific defi
nition, that definition should be in as close accordance as possible
with its ordinary use. In the light of this rule, the new definition
of force is perhaps one of the worst ever constructed. For, on
that definition, force belongs to the science of Dynamics alone.
There is no force acting between a weight and the table it lies
upon ; no force acting between the rim of a fly-wheel and its boss ;
no force acting between a locomotive and a train, if the speed is
uniform ; and so on. It is clear that we must either give up the
new definition, or re-construct all our old ideas on the subject ;
with a certainty of importing that confusion to which Mr. Close's
letter bears such striking witness *.
    Following the old definition, the mode of generation of the new
is obvious enough. The effect of a force, where it acts freely, is to
increase momentum ; and as causes are measured by their effects,
it follows that we may measure forces by calculating the rate of
   * Mr. Close contributes something of his own to this confusion when,
in p. 251, lie speaks of F as measured in pounds. How a rate of in
crease of momentum can be expressed in pounds it does not seem easy to
discover.

               Intelligence and Miscellaneovs Articles.              369
increase of momentum in a given time : in other words, forces will be
proportional to mg^. From this it is but a step (though it may be
a false step) to say that the force ii the rate of increase of momentum,
and nothing else, and respectfully to demand that we shall re
construct the whole of Mechanics in accordance with that definition.
Mr. Close takes an illustration from the rate of mortality ; and I
will follow him. Disease causes death, and the strength of
different diseases, or of the same disease at different times and
places, may fairly be measured by the rat« of mortality (say the
number of deaths per 1000 per diem) which they induce. Mr.
 Close, if consistent with himself, would therefore define disease as
being the rate of mortality—that and nothing else ; and would re
quire all our medical literature to be rewritten, because its language
does not square with the new definition.
    I think it is time that the advocates of the new view should
 themselves bring out a book, showing that the ordinary laws and
 propositions of Mechanics can be worked out on their principles in
 a way intelligible to the ordinary student. Prof. Tait, in a recent
 communication to the Boyal Society of Edinburgh, made a sort of
 commencement of such a work : I should be glad to hear of any
 ordinary student who has derived much comfort and clearness of
 thought from a study of the result. For an attempt of the kind
 I refer to, but on the opposite lines, I may perhaps be allowed to
point to a recent work of my own, entitled ' The Student's Me
chanics : an Introduction to the Study of Force and Motion.'
   May I be allowed to conclude with one word in reply to Mr. von
Tunzelmann's letter on the Conservation of Energy : it is simply
to point out that a periodic function is not the same thing as a
constant.                                        Walter E. Bbowne.
             ON A MODIFICATION IN THE PYCNOMETER.
                       BY EILHARD WIEDEMANN.
   Since determinations of the specific gravity of solids for the
purpose of discovering relations between it and their chemical
constitution are now more and more frequently made, the improve
ment of the pycnometer communicated in what follows may not
be without interest. By means of it results as exact can be ob
tained with powders as when larger bodies are employed.
   As is well known, in the former method the pycnometer is first
weighed empty, then filled with water, then with the substance in
question, and finally with water and the substance. If the weights
in these cases are P, II, p and jt, the specific gravity of the sub
stance is
                          .        P~F           .
                              Ln+Cp-P)]-*
   But air is always contained between the particles of the 6olid,

370           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
and can only be expelled by well boiling, and not always even then.
Hence to substances that are decomposed or fused by heating, this
method, in the form hitherto used, is not applicable, or at any
rate gives extremely inexact results. Also with substances that
are easily held in suspension by water or remain on its surface, as
finely divided sulphate of barium, the results obtained are inexact,
as these substances do not after the boiling sink again to the
bottom, and consequently are in part squeezed out with the surplus
water on the insertion of the stopper.
   Por the filling of the pycnometer I have used a method already
described by me*, in which the disturbing effect of the air is com
pletely excluded. A is the pycnometer, into which the ground
stopper a fits ; this is passed through by a glass tube, which is
bent back at b and ends at c inside a slip, of which the outer part
is attached to the piece dg consisting of narrow glass tubes ;/and
e are cocks, h a small funnel, and g
the inner part of a slip whose outer
part is connected with a good mer
cury air-pump such as should now
be found in every laboratory.
    First the pycnometer and the
slightly greased stopper are now
weighed by themselves ; in doing
this it is best to suspend the latter
on its hook b by means of a wire.
They are then to be connected with
the part dg; close e, its cavity
having been previously filled with a
drop of water ; open /, and exhaust
to vacuum ; then let the previoasly
well boiled water flow in from h ;
disconnect the pycnometer at c, wipe off the grease from it and
weigh it. Then dry it, introduce the powder, and repeat the same
procedure. The tube is bent back at b in order that the powder
may not be too much stirred up when the liquid flows in. If the
pycnometer, A, selected is a small one and we first exhaust com
pletely all the space between the cock /and the pump, a three or
four times repeated action of the pump suffices to make the space
in A a vacuum. In the time required for this, even salts containing
water, of which the vapour does not possess at all too high a tension,
as, for example, the double sulphates of zinc and magnesium with
 potassium and ammonium, lose only so small a quantity of their
 water of crystallization that for them sufficiently accurate results
are obtained.
    As illustrations of the precision of the method, in the following
 are communicated two series of measurements, made on powdered
 glass and precipitated sulphate of barium. They were carried out
                    * Wied. Ann. xvii. p. 561 (1882).

             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.            371
with great care by E. Schulze. For each single measurement from
about a half to three quarters of an hour was required.
                            I. Glass Powder.
         p         n            P        7T     Temp.       s
                                                  O
      9-2554    19-4095     14-3788   22-4468    15-7    2-4559
      9-2554    19-4095     10-5368   20-1689    16-4    2-4547
      9-2554    19-4095     13-608    21-9894    151     2-4553
      9-2554    19-4095     13-271    21-7895    16-4    2-4551
                        II. Sulphate of Barium.
         P         n            P        w      Temp.       •
      9-2554    19-4095     10-5962   20-445    14°9     4-3958
      9-2554    19-4095      11-7652  21-3484   149      4-3962
      9-2554    19-4095     14-333    23-3323   14-6     4-3969
      9-2554    19-4095     13 0445   22-3368   14-5     4-3967
   The specific gravities differ from one another by not quite a
unit in the third decimal place, a result which may be regarded
as extremely satisfactory.
   If a greater number of determinations of specific gravity have to
be effected, it would be advisable to employ several pyenometers,
attached to different arms connected with the air-pump and ex
hausted simultaneously. This would effect a pretty considerable
saving of time.—Wiedemann's Annalen, 1882, xvii. pp. 983-985.
    ON THE UPPER LIMIT OF THE PERCEPTIBILITY OF SOUNDS.
                             BY E. PAUCHON.
   I have the honour of communicating to the Academy the results
of some researches on the determination of the upper limit of per
ceptibility of sounds, a portion of which were made in conjunction
with M. L. Bertrand.
   I proposed to ascertain if, as several physicists have alleged
(although they have not brought forward any experiment proving
their assertion), this limit varies, for one and the same ear, with
the intensity of the sound. For this purpose I employ a powerful
Caignard-Latour siren, modified in some of its parts, and set in
action by a jet of steam. Various arrangements, described in a

372             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 special memoir, give the possibility of varying the pressure of the
steam in the box and the intensity of a sound of a given pitch.
    I thus prove that, when the pressure of the steam inside the
 box varies from 0-5 to 1*5 atmosphere, the limit of perceptibility
 corresponds to sounds the pitches of which are comprised between
48,000 and (50,000 simple vibrations. When the siren is furnished
 with a' counterplate, the ratio between the pressure of the steam
 and the velocity of rotation is constantly too high, and, under the
 conditions of the experiment, the limit of perceptibility can no
 longer be attained, not even for the sound of 72,000 vibrations,
 the shrillest which I have been able to produce. Under these con
 ditions the pressure of the steam in the box of the siren reaches
 2-5 atmospheres, the velocity of rotation of the disks amounts to
 COO turns, and their circumferential velocity to 113 metres, per
second. The supply of steam is considerable, about equivalent to
to that of an engine of 8 horse-powers.
    I afterwards caused metal rods fixed at one end to vibrate longi
tudinally, by rubbing them with cloth sprinkled with rosin. By
gradually lessening the length of the vibrating rod the extinction
of the sharp sound is easily produced. I remark that
   (1) The length of the rod that gives the limiting sound is, for one
and the same metal, independent of the diameter.
   (2) For steel, copper, and silver, the lengths are to one another
in ratios sensibly equal to those of the velocity of propagation of
sound in those metals.
   Thus, taking the ratio belonging to copper as unit, we get :—
                    For copper                 l'OOO
                    For steel                  1-002
                    For silver                 0-995
   These two observations cannot accord with the results furnished
by the siren unless, for these three metals and for the length
corresponding to the limiting sound, the lengthening due to the
vibration is the same. I have not been able to value with sufficient
certainty these minute lengthenings ; but, on the other hand, I
have ascertained that—
   (1) If a hearing-horn be applied to the ear, the limit of percep
tibility is slightly extended.
   (2) If the rods are excited with different substances—rosin, oil
of turpentine, alcohol, ether (which evidently has the effect of
modifying the amplitude of the vibration), the limiting length
changes, and may vary from a single to a double length : it is the
minimum with rosin, which produces the most energetic friction.
    (3) The excessively sharp sound that has ceased to be perceptible
to the ear, still acts powerfully on the sensitive flame.—Compter
Rendus de TAcademie des Sciences, April 9, 1883, t. xcvi. pp. 1041-
1043.

            Phil Mag. S. 5 .Vol.15 .Pl.VI.
                      Fig. 6.
Mmtern Bros lith

!>
i

se of Aurora


1.
  HE ANNALS AND                                MAGAZINE
                                     or
       NATURAL                          HISTORY,
                                INCLUDING
             ZOOLOGY, BOTANY, AND GEOLOGY.
                       MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. 6d.
 Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following
rices :—
    The First Series, in 20 volumes, from 1838 to 1847.    Price £10.
    The Second Series, in 20 volumes, from 1848 to 1857.     „ £10.
    The Third Series, in 20 volumes, from 1858 to 1867.      „ £12.
    The Fourth Series, in 20 volumes, from 1868 to 1877.     „ £12.
        Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.
         THE LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
 PHILOSOPHICAL                                MAGAZINE
                                   AND
             JOURNAL                OF      SCIENCE.
L JOURNAL DEVOTED TO PHYSICS, ASTRONOMY, MECHANICS,
  CHEMISTRY, MINERALOG-Y, AND THE ALLIED SCIENCES
                       MONTHLY, PEIGE 2s. 6d.
  Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following
)rices :—
  The First Series, in 68 volumes, from 1798 to 1826.    Price £16.
  The Second Series, in 11 volumes, from 1827 to 1832.     „ £2 4s.
  The Third Series, in 37 volumes, from 1832 to 1850.      „ £6.
  The Fourth Series, in 50 volumes, from 1851 to 1876.     „ £25.
        Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.

               CONTENTS of N° 95.— Fifth Series.
   XLTV. Optical Combinations of Crystalline Films. By Lewis
Weight. (Plate VI.)                                                     page 301
   XLV. On Permanent Magnetism. By E. H. M. Bos-lnqitet .
   XLVI. On a Method of Measuring Electrical Eesistauces with
a Constant Current. By Shelfobd Bidwell, M.A., LL.B                          316
   XLVII. The Auroral Beam of November 17, 1882. By J. Raxd
Capbon, F.R.A.S., F.M.S. (Plate VII.)                                         3fl
   XLVLU. A new Form of Constant-Temperature Bath. By W.
 W.J. Nicol, M.A., B.Sc, F.B.S.E., Lecturer on Chemistry, Mason
College, Birmingham                                                          2
   XLIX. " Eotational Coefficients " of various Metals. By Edwhj
H. Hall                                                                      341
   L. The Eesistance of the Electric Arc. By Professors W. E.
Ayrton, F.E.8., and John Peebt, M.E                                          346
   LI. On Polarizing Prisms. By E. T. Glazebbook, M.A., F.B.S..
Fellow and Lecturer of Trinity College, Demonstrator in the Caven
dish Laboratory, Cambridge                                                   352
   LIT. Notices respecting New Books :—Mr. E. T. Glazebbookt's
Physical Optics.—Mr. Latimeb Clark's Transit Tables for 1883
for Popular Use                                                         362. 381
   LIII. Proceedings of Learned Societies :—
      Geological Society : —Mr. T. Gray on Gray and Milne's
         Seismographic Apparatus ; Dr. A. Geieje on the supposed
         Pre-Cambrian Bocks of St. David's                              363-341
   LIV. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
      On the Use of the Term " Force," by Walter E. Browne . . 9
      On a Modification in the Pycnometer, by Prof. E. Wiedemann '
      On the Upper Limit of the Perceptibility of Sounds, by E.
         Pauchon
     It is requested that all Communications for this Work may be
        post-paid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing O
        Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

Vol. 15.                         JUNE 1883.                                    No. 96.
           Published the First Day of every Month.— Price 2s. Qd.
                                          THE
               LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
   PHILOSOPHICAL                                       MAGAZINE,
                                           AND
               JOURNAL OF                          SCIENCE.
      Being a Continuation of Tilloclis 'Philosophical Magazine]
       Nicholson's 1Journal] and Thomson s 'Annals of Philosophy?
                                      CONDUCTED BY
         SIR ROBERT KANE, LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.A. F.C.S.
          SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, Knt. LL.D. F.RS. Ac.
                                           AND
          WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
                             FIFTH            SERIES.
                             N° 96.—JUNE 1883.
                              WITH TWO PLATES.
    Illustrative of Professors Ayeton and Peeey's Paper on winding Elec
                                      tromagnets.
                                     LONDON:
        PRINTED BY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS, RED LION COURT, FLEET 8TREET,
   Sold by Longmans, Green, Reader and Dyer ; Kent and Co. ; Simpkin, Marshall and
     Co. ; and Whittaker and Co. ; — and by A. and C. Black, and Thomas Clark, Edin
     burgh ; Smith and Son, Glasgow :—Hodges, Foster and Co., Dublin :—Putnam,
     New York :—and Asher and Co., Berlin.

          TIME BY THE TRANSIT INSTRUMENT.
                             Cloth, 8vo, 5s., post free.
            A TREATISE ON THE TRANSIT INSTRUMENT,
                            By LATIMER CLARK.
                                Cloth, 8vo, 2s. (id.
                        TRANSIT TABLES,
Published annually ; giving the Transit of twenty of the principal Stars for every
   Evening in the year. Computed from the Nautical Almanac in ordinary time.
   Intended for Popular use in every part of the Globe.
                            By LATLMER CLARK.
                          TRANSIT INSTRUMENT
of Improved Form and of the Highest Quality, complete with Lamp &c. 12 inch,
£9 17a. 6d. ; 8 inch, £13 10s. These instruments will be sent on approval if
desired.
             A. J. FROST, 6 Westminster Chambers, London, S.W.
                       Royal 4to, cloth boards, price £1.
               FACTOR TABLE FOR THE FIFTH MILLION,
                                 CONTAINING THE
 LEAST FACTOR OF EVERY NUMBER NOT DIVISIBLE BY 2, 3, or 6,
                                    BETWEEN
                            4,000,000 and 5,000,000.
                       By JAMES GLAISHER, F.R.S.
                             Uniform with the above,
              FACTOR TABLE FOR THE FOURTH MILLION,
                                     Price £1.
           Taylob and Fbancis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                              New Edition, price 1*.
             TABLE OF CORRECTIONS FOR TEMPERATURE
to Reduce Observations to 32° Fahrenheit for Barometers, with Brass Scales
         extending from the Cistern to the top of the Mercurial Column.
                       By JAMES GLAISHER, F.R.S.
            Taylob and Fbancis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
     Demy 8vo, cloth, price 15s., to Members of the Physical Society lis. 3d.
                       THE SCIENTIFIC PAPERS OF
                                      THE LATE
             SIR CHARLES WHEATST0NE, D.C.L., F.R.S., &c.
                  Published by the Physical Society of London.
            Taylob and Fbancis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, ii.C.
                     UNIVERSITY OF LONDON.
                    Now ready, price 4s. (post-free, 4s. 6£rf.).
                   THE CALENDAR for the YEAR 1883.
  Containing the Regulations for each Examination, the Examination Papers set
         during the past year, Lists of Graduates, and other information.
               Taylob and Fbancis, Publishers to the University,
                       Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                       [.ADVERTISEMENTS continued on 3rd page of Cover.

                                 THE
        LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
 PHILOSOPHICAL                              MAGAZINE
                                  AND
      JOURNAL                    OF       SCIENCE.
                              —¦*—
                        [FIFTH SERIES.]
                            JUNE 1883.
       LV. Colour-Sensation.          By H. R. Droop, M.A.*
THE generally received theory of colour-sensation is that
       there are three colour-senses in the eye, and that all the
different impressions of colour received by the brain are due
to those three colour-senses being affected in different propor
tions by the light entering the eye. This theory was origi
nally propounded by Young, and was revived by Helmholtz
and Maxwell, who established experimentally certain laws of
colour-sensation, from which laws the theory of three colour-
sensations was a probable, but (as I shall show further on) not
a necessary, inference.
   Maxwell proved experimentallyf that a linear equation of
the form
                          X=vY + cC + uU
could always be found, expressing any colour and shade of
colour perceived by the normally constituted eye in the terms
of any three given colours (whether pigments—e. g. vermilion,
chrome yellow, and ultramarine—or selected rays of the spec
trum) as seen by the same eye. This equation, when the
coefficients v, c, and u are all positive (t. e. when the three given
colours are sufficiently intense and distinct from each other),
means that the colour X could be produced by combining
together (i. e. presenting to the eye simultaneously) certain
proportions of the three given colours. From this it obviously
  * Communicated by the Physical Society ; read April 28, 1883.
  t See Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, vol. xxi. ;
Philosophical Transactions, 1860, p. 57.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 96. June 1883.              2E

374                   Mr. H. R. Droop on
followed that every such colour and shade could be produced
by three colour-sensations, each of which, when excited, con
veyed to the brain the impression of a homogeneous colour.
    Helmholtz arrived at the same conclusion by proving (see
Handbuch der physioloffischen Optik, p. 282, ed. 18G7) that
any given colour could be produced by combining a certain
quantity of white with some particular colour of the spectrum.
 From which he deduced that every colour and shade of colour
 depended on only three independent variables, viz. the quan
 tity of the spectrum-colour, the quantity of white, and the
 length of wave of the spectrum-colour. But though the theory
 of three colour-sensations was the simplest and most obvious
 explanation of the experimental facts thus established, it is
 not (as has been commonly assumed) the only theory capable
 of explaining them. They would be equally well explained
 by supposing that there are four, five, or more colour-sensa
 tions connected by a sufficient number of linear equations of
 condition to reduce the number of independent variables to
 three. Obviously this will satisfy all that Helmholtz estab
 lished. That it will also explain the law established by Max
 well may be shown as follows.
    Suppose that there are four colour-sensations, R, Y, G,
 and B (the red, yellow, green, and blue sensations), and that
 each of them is expressed as a linear function of the three
 standard colours, V, 0, and U, as every colour seen by a
 normal human eye can be expressed.
    Then we shall have four equations of the form
                   R=rrV + crC+urU, -
                   Y=t),V + ^0+«,U, I
                   B = r4V+c4C+M6U. ^
 And when we eliminate V, C, and U between these four
 equations we shall get a linear relation between R, Y, G, and
  B, which is the condition that these four colour-sensations
 should be capable of being expressed as linear functions of V,
 C, and IT, t. e. should be colour-sensations coexisting in a
 normal eye.
    If we supposed five colour-sensations, we should have five
 equations (A) between which to eliminate V, C, and U, and
 should get two linear equations between the five colour-
 sensations.
    The proposition that four colour-sensations with a linear
 relation between them will satisfy Maxwell's law may also be
 tested in another way, viz. by assuming that there are four
 colour-sensations connected bv a linear equation
                    rR+i/Y+ffG+bB=0,                         (1)

                         Colour-Sensation.                     375
 and that V, C, and U, the three standard colours, are known
 to result from these colour-sensations being effected in certain
 proportions.
    E. g. V is known to result from R, the red colour-sensation,
 being effected to an extent rv, Y to an extent y„, G to an
 extent gv, and B to an extent bv; and may therefore be repre
 sented by the equation
                   V = r.R+y.Y+0,G + 6,B; .... (2)
 and similarly C and U may be represented by
                   C=rcR+ycY-f ffcQ+bcB, .... (3)
                  Usr.R+y.Y+^.G + i.B                         (4)
 Then from these four equations we can express R, Y, G, and
 B as linear functions of V, C, U. But every possible colour
 X must be produced by exciting all or some of the four colour-
sensations, and therefore must be capable of being expressed
by an equation
                  X=r,R+y,Y + (7,G + kB.
 Consequently, if R, Y, G, and B be replaced in this equation
by the linear functions of V, C, and U which represent them,
every such colour X can be expressed as a linear function of
V, C, and U; t. e. every such colour will conform to the law,
which Maxwell and Helmholtz established, of being capable of
being made up of any three standard colours.
   The same reasoning might obviously be applied in like
manner to five colour-sensations connected by two linear equa
tions of condition, or to n colour-sensations connected by
n— 3 linear equations of condition.
   I have taken up this question and endeavoured to show that
what Maxwell and Helmholtz established is not inconsistent
with the existence of four or more colour-sensations (provided
certain relations exist between them), because a certain recent
discovery seems to me to have given a particular hypothesis,
involving four colour-sensations, a strong claim to be accepted
as, in the main, true. This discovery relates to the colours
actually seen by colour-blind persons. Two persons have
been discovered who, being each colour-blind of only one eye-,
can explain how far the colours seen by their colour-blind
eyes agree with, or differ from, those seen by their normal eyes.
It has been found that each of these persons has two colour-
sensations complementary to each other. One sees yellow and
blue, and is blind to red and green; while the other sees red
and bluish green, and is blind to blue and yellow; and with each
of them the combination of his two colour-sensations in proper
proportions produces white or grey. Professor Holmgren, of
Upsala, has given an account of both these cases in the ' Pro
ceedings of the Royal Society,' vol. xxxi. p. 302; and Pro-
                              2E2

376                     Mr. H. R. Droop on
fessor Hippel, of Giessen, has given an account (diftering in
some respects) of the first or blue-yellow case in Grafs Archiv
far Ophthalmologic, vol. xxvi. p. 176, vol. xxvii. pt. 3, p. 47.
    These two cases suggested to Professor Preyer of Jena a
 theory (which he propounded in 1881 in Pfliiger's Archiv,
 vol. xxv.) that ordinary eyes have two. pairs of colour-sensa
 tions—(1) yellow and blue, and (2; red and bluish green,
 and that the colour-blindness which consists in confusing red
 and green, or, as the case may be, blue and yellow, is due to
 the absence of one pair of these sensations. But Professor
 Preyer does not deal with the difficulty that Helmholtz and
 Maxwell are supposed to have proved, that there cannot be more
 than three colour-sensations, although that view is treated as
 unquestionable by other recent writers, e. g. by Professor Don-
 ders (Grafs Archiv filr Ophthalmologic, vol. xxvii.), and by
 Professor v. Kries, of Freiburg im Breisgau {Die Ge&ichts-
 empfindungen rind ihre Analyse, Leipzig 1882, p. 33); and it
 is naturally a serious obstacle to the fair consideration of
 Professor Preyer's theory.
    But inasmuch as Professor Preyer supposes that in each
 pair of his colour-sensations the one sensation is complemen
 tary to the other, we have the equation
                       lt + G = White = Y + B,
a linear relation between the four colour-sensations ; and
 therefore it follows, from what I have already proved, that
 this hypothesis of two pairs of complementary colour-sensa
 tions is quite consistent with what Maxwell and Helmholtz
established.
    This theory of Professor Preyer's explains the leading
 facts of colour-blindness, viz. that a colour-blind eye only per
 ceives two homogeneous colours, and that it is unable to dis
 tinguish between red and green, or, as the case may be,
 between blue and yellow. It is impossible to ascertain with
 absolute certainty that persons who are colour-blind with
 both eyes see the samo colours as the two persons who
have been discovered colour-blind of only one eye; but it is
noteworthy that when Dr. Pole made that minute examina
tion of his colour-blindijess, the results of which he gave in
 the ' Philosophical Transactions ' for 1859, he came to the
conclusion that the colours he saw were yellow and blue and,
 as the result of their mixture, white; and he only gave up this
 view in deference to the three-sensation theory then supposed
 to be conclusively established.
    The following facts, not connected with colour-blindness,
 seem to me to give considerable support to the hypothesis of
 two pairs of complementary colour-sensations:—
    (1) Observations have been made as to the sensibility of

                          Colon r-Sensat ion .                        377
different parts of the retina to different colours, and also as to
the effect of diminishing the angles subtended at the eye by
small coloured objects; and in both eases red and green
colours are found to comport themselves alike, and differently
from blue and yellow. When an object is viewed more and
more indirectly, so that its image moves from the yellow spot
towards the circumference of the retina, sensibility to yellow
and blue lasts longer than sensibility to red and green; while,
on the other hand, if the angular magnitude of the object be
diminished, sensibility to red and green lasts longer than sen
sibility to blue and yellow (von Kries, Gesichtsemp/indungen,
pp. 93, 95).
   (2) In cases where the colour-senses become affected by
disease of the eye, the order in which different colours are
found to disappear agrees with the theory of four colour-sen
sations. In cases of atrophy of the optic nerve, it seems
pretty clearly established that green becomes invisible first,
then red, then yellow, while the perception of blue remains
the longest (see Leber, Archiv filr Ophthalmologie, vol. xv.;
Leber, Handbnch der Augenheilkitnde, vol. v. p. 1039; Schon,
Lehre vom Gesichtsfelde rtnd seine Anomalten).
   In cases where the sight is affected by excess in alcohol or
tobacco, Nuel found that green and red became invisible simul
taneously, and blue and yellow later (Annates de V Oculiste,
80, p. 1 10, as cited in von Kries, Gesichtsempjindungen, p. 156).
    On the other hand, the received hypothesis of three colour-
sensations does not readily explain how it is that one colour
blind eye sees blue, yellow, and white, and another red, green,
and white, as Professors Holmgren and Hippel have found to
be the case. If there are only three colour-sensations, it is
generally agreed that they must be red, green, and violet. If
one of these three sensations were wanting, we should natu
rally expect that the defective eye would have the other two
sensations of a normal eye. For instance, if the red sensa
tion were missing, we should expect that the eye would
see green and violet, and white would appear of a bluish
green complementary to the missing red. Similarly if green
 were missing, we should expect that the defective eye would
 see red and violet ; while if violet were missing, it would
 see red and green, and white would appear yellowish comple
 mentary to violet.
    The only attempted explanation * I have seen of this pro-
   * Professor Holmgren, when communicating the two cases of one
sided colour-blindness to the Royal Society, states that he considers these
phenomena quite consistent with the theory of three colour-sensations ;
but he does not explain how he reconciles them with it, except by refer
ring to works which I have not been able to get access to.

378                   Mr. H. R. Droop on
ceeds from Professor Donders, who suggests that where one
of the three colour-sensations has been wanting from birth,
its absence may have modified the development of the other
two sensations. He says:—" The retina is not an instrument
with three strings of which one has suddenly snapped. It is
a living instrument whose three differently toned strings have
been developed in conjunction with each other " (Grafs Archiv
far Ophthalmologic, vol. xxvii. p. 212).
    This explanation is ingenious; but it assumes that all cases
 of colour-blindness to red and green are from birth, whereas,
though this is usually so, there are several alleged cases of
acquired colour-blindness to red and green. Dr. Joy Jeffries,
?p. 50-52, gives two cases, one discovered by Professor
  yndall, the other by Mr. Haynes Walton; and M. Nuel has
also described one, Annates de V Oculiste, 80, 82, as quoted by
v. Kries, Gesichtsempfendungen, p. 154.
   Moreover Professor Cohn (Deutsche medicinische Wochen-
schrift, 1880, No. 16, cited by von Kries, p. 158) claims
to have temporarily restored to normal colour-vision a person
affected with red-green colour-blindness from birth. If this
be so, there cannot well have been any such abnormal deve
lopment of his other colour-sensations as Professor Donders
supposes. Such a development could hardly have been sud
denly cured by artificial means.
   Those colour-blind persons who cannot distinguish between
red and green have been divided into two classes, according as
they can perceive rays towards the end of the spectrum or
are unable to do so. According to many adherents of the
theory of three colour-sensations, those who can perceive ravs
at the red end want the green-colour sense, while those who
cannot do so want the red sense. It seems to be established
that rays at the green part of the spectrum do not make as
much impression on the so-called green-blind as on the so-
called red-blind; and Professor Donders has lately ascertained
by careful measurements with two cases, one of so-called red-
blindness, and the other of so-called green-blindness, that
throughout the red and orange parts of the spectrum the red-
blind eye perceives less light than the green-blind eye, and
that the opposite is the case in the green portion of the spec
trum (Graf's Archiv fur Opht/talmologie, vol. xxvii.; Transac
tions of the International Medical Congress for 1881, vol. i.
p. 277).
   But there seem to me to be several serious objections to ex
plaining the difference between so-called green-blind and so-
called red-blind by the hypothesis of three colour-sensations:—
   (A) If there are only three colour-senses, the green sense

                        Colour-Sensation.                       371)
must be of a yellowish green capable of producing yellow and
orange when combined with the red sense, and very different
from the bluish green which is complementary to red. There
fore if one class of colour-blind persons have lost the red sense
and the other the green sense, there ought to be considerable
differences in all the colour equations obtained from the two
classes of eyes, and especially in the proportions of blue and
yellow which will neutralize each other. But I have not met
with any trace of such differences having attracted attention,
except in equations between red and green, and it is clear
that in the spectrum the neutral point where the blue or violet
colour-sense neutralizes the other colour-sense is very nearly
the same for red-blind and green-blind persons. Professor
Donders fixes it for his red-blind case at a wave-length of
494*85 millionths of a millimetre, and for his green-blind case
at 502*3 millionths, the difference 7*5 being not one fiftieth part
of the difference between the greatest and least wave-lengths
in the visible spectrum; while Professor Preyer, in another
case, found that doubling the amount of light altered the
neutral point from 512*8 to 506*6, i. e. nearly as much (Pfliiger's
Arclriv, vol. xxv.).
    (B) If blindness to the red end of the spectrum were due
to the absence of the red sense, it would be the same in extent
in different red- blind persons, whereas in fact it differs con
siderably. (Donders, Graf's Archiv, vol. xxvii.)
    (C) The extent to which the violet end of the spectrum
is obscured to violet- or blue-blind eyes also varies very much.
Professor Stilling (Klinische MonatMatter fur Augenheil-
kunde, 1875, Beilage 2) met with three cases in which the
green thallium-line between E and D formed the boundary of
the visible spectrum ; while in another case ( Centralblatt far
praktische Augenheilkunde, 1878, p. 99) the same observer
found that nearly the whole of the spectral green was per
ceived, and grey or, in a faint spectrum, red beyond it. In
the case of one-eyed violet- or blue-blindness described by
Professor Holmgren (' Proceedings of the Royal Society,'
 vol. xxxii. p. 305) " the spectrum is continued over the place
 where we see green, greenish blue, cyan-blue, and indigo to
the commencement of the violet, where it absolutely ended
with a sharp limit about Fraunhofer's line G."
    (D) As is well known, inability to distinguish between red
and green has in many cases been found to exist among dif
ferent members of the same family, and especially among
brothers; and therefore when such colour-blindness is found
to exist among relations, there is a very strong probability
that they have inherited the same affection of the eyes. There

380                   Mr. H. R. Droop on
fore if red-blindness and green-blindness be distinct things,
due to the absence of different colour-senses, we should expect
that the colour-blind members of the same family would be
either all red-blind or all green-blind. But this is "not the
case. Among the colour-blind cases examined by Professor
Stilling (Klinische Monatshlatter far Augenheilkun.de, 1875,
Beilage 1 and 2) there were two pairs of brothers both unable
to distinguish between red and green; and in each case one
brother was able to perceive light at the red end of the spec
trum, while the other was not.
   All these reasons lead me to believe that the difference
between so-called red-blind and so-called green-blind is not
duo to their having lost different colour-senses, but rather
to the loss of one pair of colour-senses, those for red and
green being, in the case of the so-called red-blind, accom
panied by some disturbance of the other pair of colour-senses
—a disturbance varying in character and degree in different
cases, and similar to what is found to exist in different cases
of blue- or violet-blindness.
   The shapes of the curves Professor Bonders has published
(Trans. International Medical Congress, 1881, vol. i. p. 280) to
represent the respective intensities of the light perceived by a
red-blind and a green-blind eye have suggested to me a pos
sible explanation of the difference between these two eyes.
The curves representing the less-refrangible sensation of each
eye correspond very nearly in shape and dimensions; but that
for the red-blind eye is shifted some way further from the red
end of the spectrum. On the other hand, the curves repre
senting the more-refrangible sensation of the two eyes are
almost identical in position as well as in shape and size. This
effect would be produced if the organization producing the
less-refrangible (or yellow) colour-sensation in the green-blind
eye were so modified in the red-blind eye as to make shorter
waves produce the same effects which longer waves pro
duced in a green-blind eye. The change supposed would be
equivalent to shifting the tone of a musical instrument an
octave higher.
   But I do not suppose that all cases of shortened spectrum
could be thus accounted for.
   In order to show more in detail what my views of colour-
sensation are, 1 have prepared a diagram representing roughly
how the two pairs of colour-senses are affected by the dif
ferent rays of the spectrum. The upper half of the dia
gram represents the effects produced by the different rays
on the yellow- and blue colour-senses, and the lower part
those they produce on the red and green colour-senses.


382                     Mr. H. R. Droop on
The portion with crossed vertical and horizontal lines repre
sents the extent to which the same rays operate on both
the yellow and the blue colour-senses, and thus produce
white light, which (combining with the colour produced by
the colour-sense which is most affected) produces a whitish
yellow or a whitish blue. Similarly the portion crossed by
diagonal lines in the lower half of the diagram represents the
extent to which the same rays operate on both the red and the
green colour-senses.
    I have represented the complementary colour-sensations
as thus overlapping*, because Professors Preyer and Hippel
have found that, for red-green blind eyes, the neutral point
in the spectrum which appears white or grey varies in posi
tion according to the intensity of the light (Pfliiger's Archiv,
vol. xxv. ; Graf's Archiv filr Ophthalmologic, vol. xxvii.
pt. 3). Professor Preyer found that enlarging the aperture
through which the light was admitted from "250 millim. to
•370 millim. shifted the neutral point, where the spectrum
appeared grey, from where the wave-length was 512*8
millionths of a millimetre to where it was 506'6 millionths.
This is readily intelligible, if the rays in this part of the spec
trum affect both the yellow and the blue colour-senses, while
the intensity of the light alters the proportions in which they
are respectively affected by it.
    It will be observed that a narrow strip of yellow extends
nearly to the red end of the spectrum. Professor Holmgren
(' Proceedings of the Royal Society ') states that the red seen
by the violet-blind eye, in his case of one-sided violet-blindness,
is not quite identical with the common spectral red of the
normal eye, but rather a clearer red having a shade of carmine,
about the same as the red towards the end of the subjective
spectrum of the normal-eyed. This colour would obviously
require a slight admixture of yellow to reduce it to the common
spectral red of the normal-eyed. Moreover the extension of
the yellow nearly to the red end of the spectrum explains how
it is that a great many persons who are red-green colour-blind
can see almost to the red end of the spectrum.
    The strip of red at the violet end of the spectrum also re
quires explanation. The colours seen by the red-green blind
eye in the case of one-sided red-green blindness are not yellow
and violet, but yellow and indigo with only a faint shade of
   * The extent to which the colour-sensations are represented as over
lapping rests on conjecture. Observations on colour-blind persons, i. e.
persons with only two colour-sensations, give readily the neutral points
where the sensations counterbalance each other and produce white ; but
the extent to which they overlap could only be inferred from observing
when the colours cease to have any admixture of white.

                         Colour-Sensation.                    383
violet in it. Indeed, while Professor Holmgren speaks to the
faint shade of violet (' Proceedings of the Royal Society Pro
fessor Hippel, who discovered this case and had more oppor
tunities of examining it, states that the blue lines of indium
and cassium (which are indigo, not violet) appeared the
same to both eyes (Grafs Archiv, vol. xxvii.). Therefore
some addition is necessary to produce the deeper violet tints
of the spectrum; and this can only be obtained by supposing
that the violet rays affect the red colour-sense as well as the
blue one.
   This hypothesis, that violet results from combining the blue
and red colour-sensations, is part of Professor Preyer's theorj'
(see Sect. 38 of his paper in Pfliiger's Archiv), and seems to
me to be supported by several other facts.
   (1) As I have already mentioned, when an object is viewed
more and more indirectly, so that its image moves from the
yellow spot towards the circumference of the retina, sensi
bility to yellow and blue lasts longer than the sensibility to
red and green. On the other hand, if the angular magnitude
of a coloured object be diminished, sensibility to red and green
lasts longer than sensibility to blue and yellow. In each case
violet behaves like a compound of blue and red. As the
image moves towards the circumference of the retina, the
violet object passes through blue into white, the red fading
first; while, as the angular magnitude of a violet object is
diminished, it becomes reddish (v. Kries, Ge8ichtse?npfindungen,
p. 93).
   (2) Again, Nuel (Annales de VOculiste, 80, 82, cited by
v. Kries, p. 154) describes how in a certain case of acquired
colour-blindness "violet appears blue, red and green white."
Similarly Schon states that in cases of atrophy of the optic
nerve, when green, red, and yellow are no longer recognized,
blue alone is correctly designated, and violet is distinguished
as dark hlue (Lehre vom Gesic/Usfelde, p. 23, cited by von Kries,
p. 155).
   (3) I have already mentioned a case of yellow-blue blind
ness described by Stilling, in which blue and violet were, in
a faint spectrum, designated as red, though in a brighter
spectrum they seem to have appeared grey.
   All these facts seem to me to point to violet being the
result of affecting at once the blue and red colour-senses.
   I am moreover disposed to think that, in addition to the two
pairs of complementary colour-senses, there is a fifth colour-
sense for white.
   Inasmuch as
                    R + G=Y + B=White,

384                    On Colour-Sensation.
we have the two linear equations between five colour-sensa
tions which are required to satisfy the laws which Maxwell
and Helmholtz established. Therefore the hypothesis of a fifth,
white, colour-sense is admissible.
   That the eye does perceive white separately from any other
colour is rendered at least probable by considering some par
ticular cases in which this seems to occur.
   (1) When an object is viewed indirectly, so that the image
falls upon a part of the retina at a sufficient distance from the
yellow spot, it will appear white or grey, whatever its actual
colour may be (von Kries, pp. 91-95).
   (2) If the angular dimensions of a coloured object be dimi
nished, it will ultimately appear white or grey (von Kries,
pp. 87, 94).
   The more probable explanation in both these cases seems to
be that the other colour-senses are no longer affected hy the
object, and only the white colour-sense remains affected
by it.
   (3) Every colour when intensely lighted up appears white
(von Kries, p. 81). A not improbable explanation of thi?
seems to be that the other colour-sens?s are only capable of
being affected by light to a limited extent as compared with the
white colour-sense.
   (4) In cases of atrophy of the optic nerve the perceptions of
different colours are gradually lost, until at length every colour
appears grey (von Kries, p 154).
   (5) There are also cases of total colour-blindness from birth,
when every thing appears of the same colour with only dif
ferent degrees of light and darkness. When this affects both
eyes completely, it is of course impossible to predicate with
absolute certainty what colour is perceived. But Becker
(Grafs Arcliiv, vol. xxv.) describes a case where only one
eye was so affected, the other having normal vision; and
I have seen {mother case described in which one half of each eye
was completely colour-blind, the other half being normal. In
each of these cases the colour-blind vision was of white. This
white vision must have been arrived at either through the
other colour-senses having been lost, leaving a white colour-
sense behind, or through their having been modified into
white.

                             [  385    ]
LVI. On the Vibrations of a Cylindrical Vessel containing
   Liquid. By Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S., Professor of Expe
   rimental Physics in the University of Cambridge*.
THE problem of a uniform cylinder vibrating in two dimen
        sions is considered in my book on the Theory of Sound,
§ 233. If the displacements at any point a, 8 of the circum
ference be Br, a$6, then for a single component
               6>=aA»cosn#, B6= —n~1Ans'mnff. . . (1)
If d be the thickness, and a the volume-density of the ma
terial, the kinetic energy of the motion for a length z measured
parallel to the axis is
                  T=^d<ra8(l + n-2)(-^)2                      (2)
The corresponding potential energy is
in which B is a constant depending upon the material and
upon the thickness. As a function of thickness B oc d3; so
that we may write B = B0d3, in which B0 depends upon the
material only. Thus
                      v=7rBo^i
                            2a K         ' "      .... (3)
If the cylinder be empty, these expressions suffice to determine
the periods of vibration. Thus, if A„ oc cospot,
                          B^(n^-ip
                     Po~ o-a* 1 + n-* '                       W
showing that for a given material the frequency is proportional
to the thickness and inversely as the square of the radius.
    If the cylinder contain frictionless fluid, the motion of the
 fluid will depend upon a velocity-potential <f> which satisfies
the equation
            /#       i d   i d?      <p      \
            \d^ + rdr+r^W + d?+^r=0' • ' ' (5)
 in which
                                                              (6)
 a! being the velocity of propagation of sound within the fluid.
 If the fluid can be treated as incompressible, we may put *=0.
 For the present purpose we will retain k, but we will assume
                    * Communicated by the Author.

 386            Lord Rayleigh on the Vibrations of a
 that the motion is strictly in two dimensions. Introducing
 the further assumption that <f> occos nff, we get in place of (5),
                 (d2 , 1 d        n3    A
                   ^ + i^-?+*7*=0' ' • • ' W
 of which the solution is
                 $ = aBcosp<cosn0 J»(«r)                        (8)
The relation between a„ and A„ of (1) is readily found by
equating the value of d(f>/dr, when r=a, to dSr/dt, both of
which represent the normal velocity at the circumference.
We get
                                    a    dAn                    /0.
                     a*C0*Pt=^J^)-dT                            (9)
 The kinetic energy of the fluid motion is given by
   = & |^jV dyad0+ **JJJV dx dy
   = \irpza * cob2 pt^Ka . JB(/ca)J'„(«o) + /^J* J*(*»") rdr}*(10)
For the potential energy of the liquid, if compressible, we
have
        V=lpa'->ffi(^)dxd},dz
          = \npz a\ sinV *»       JJ(*r) r dr                 (11)
The sum of the potential and kinetic energies for the solid and
liquid together must be independent of the time. The unin-
tegrated terms in (10) and (11) cancel, and we find
        W-^ =                             pa J^ca) ^
In the application of (12) *a is a small quantity.        From the
ascending series for J„(«ca) we find
             «j^) = «7                        +\        .  .  (13)
              /cj'n(/ca)   n\       n.2n + 2       /'         v '
so that approximately
   M^)!^(1+„-,+„^(1 + _^)..(14)

              Cylindrical Vessel containing Liquid.            387
If p0 be the value of p when p=0,
From (14) or (15) we see that the effect of a finite as com
pared with an infinitely small compressibility is to increase the
depression of pitch due to the fluid. As the velocity of sound
is greater in liquids than in air, it would seem that ^j^a2
would generally be negligible. In this case, for the principal
mode of vibration corresponding to n = 2, (15) becomes simply
                         £-i+is                               <ie>
    In Auerbach's recent paper upon this subject* various ob
servations upon the depression of pitch due to the action of
liquid are given. In his notation p0/p — Q. From (15) we
see that if G0 be the value of G for water, the same vessel
 being used in both cases,
                              7531=*'                         (17>
                                o
 if 8 denote the specific gravity of the liquid, referred as usual
 to water as a standard. Auerbach's observations are fairly
 accordant with (17); and there seems to be scarcely sufficient
 warrant for attributing the discrepancies to the influence of
 compressibility.
    In observations with different vessels of the same material
 and filled with the same fluid, difficulty was experienced in
 obtaining by direct measurement a sufficiently accurate value
 of d. To meet this, d was determined indirectly from the
 pitch. By (4) we have
                   i?=1+(^T7*<rl^'                  * • • '   (18>
 from which it appears that G2— 1 is inversely proportional to
 the pitch (before filling), as well as inversely proportional to
 the radius of the cylinder. In Auerbach's notation a constant
 C is employed, whose value for the case n=2 would be by (18)
                           C=-^                               (19)
                                0*7T a?a
     In actual experiment the two-dimensional character of the
 fluid motion is disturbed by the existence of a free surface at
                     * Wied. Ann. Bd. xvii. p. 964.

388      Vibrations of a Cylindrical Vemtel containing Liquid.
which a special condition must be satisfied. Hence arises a
vertical motion of the surface, which is the proximate cause of
the " crispations " usually to be observed under these circum
stances. In considering this question we may leave the force
of gravity out of account, inasmuch as the period of free waves
of length comparable with the diameter of the cylinder is much
greater than that of the actual motion.
   In accordance with (5), if the fluid be treated as incom
pressible, we may take
  <f> = allcosp<cosn0r" + 2Altcos/><cos7i(?e-'ur J»(*r), . (20)
in which z is measured downwards from the surface, and k
denotes a root of
                           J'»(*a) = 0                        (21)
The coefficients A„ are to be determined by the condition at
the surface, which is simply 0=0. Thus for each value of *
          ^rV+'JnC/er^r + A.fj^rdrsO.                   .   . (22)
           Jo                     Jo
Now (see ' Theory of Sound,' §§ 203, 332)
              r"+1 J»(Acr)dr= ~ J„(/ea),
           Jo
            £ JS(*r)rdr=£a'(l- ^) Jtf*.),
so that
                        f                e-"J (kt)      1
   0 = *. cos pt cos n6 1 f-2na-S (gV _ nVjj^ } ¦ ¦ (23)
   To calculate the kinetic energy we have to integrate 0 d<f>/dn
over the whole boundary of the fluid. Now at the free sur
face 0=0, and at a great depth the motion becomes two-
dimensional. We have therefore only to consider the cylin
drical surface. By supposition J„'(/co)=0, and thus
                d<f>   d<b
                 -r- = dr                        a
                       -rm =n«.a" 1 cos rpt cosnff.
                an
We get therefore
   T= \p*lnd» ^VjJ{ 1 -2n S i/cP-n* } C0S* ^ ^
      =i7rp«W»cosV{^-2n2/?^^}.                      . .   .   (24)
The value of T is less than if the motion were strictly two-

         On the Amount of Magnetism of a Magnetic Circle.         389
 dimensional by a quantity corresponding to the length
 For n=2, the values of ica from (21) are 3-054, 6-705, 9-965,
 13*1, 16- 3, &c; and thus (25) becomes -2674 a.
    March 1883.
 LVII. A Method of Calculating the Amount of Magnetism of
     a Maqnetic Circle for each Strength of Current acting on it.
    By W. Moon*.
 IN unmagnetized iron the magnetic axes of the molecules
        lie indifferently in every direction; and this is equivalent
 to their forming small closed circuits, the axes of the two op
posite molecules being opposed in direction. An electric
                                 or
 current acting upon a group of molecules tends to direct them
to a certain position with respect to the current. The current
exerts an equal force upon all molecules at the same distance
from it ; but since the molecules in their normal positions
form different angles varying from 0° to 180° with current,
some of the molecules would be deflected through a greater
distance than others.
   Direction in
which magnetic
axis is deflected.
                                    Section                  Section
                                    of wire.                 of wire.
                    * Communicated by the Author.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 96. June 1883.           2F

390      On tlie Amount of Magnetism of a Magnetic Circle.
   Let 8 equal the angle the molecule normally forms with the
current, and let a equal the angle to which the current de
flects the molecule. Then the power of the current to deflect
the molecule will be equal to sin a, and the force tending to
draw the molecule back to its normal position will be equal to
               versin « — versin 8= cos 8 — cos a;
but since the action of the current on each molecule is equal,
therefore C°S .—C°Sa will be the same with every molecule,
                sin a                                        '         '
whatever may be the value of 8.
    Since the action of the current on the iron is proportional
to the current-strength,
                                     cos 8— cos a
                         .". a=a          :       )
                                         sin a
where a is current in amperes and fj. a constant.
   The amount of magnetism of the group of molecules is equal
to the summation of the different distances through which the
molecules are deflected
                    =n 1            (cos 8 — cos a)dS.
                           J{=180°
   The values of cos a corresponding to the different values of
cos 8 from 0° to 180° in each value of C°S .—003 - may be
                                                       sin«        J
calculated by the following series :—
   ~.            cos 8— cos a
   oince a = u         ;          ,
               ^      sin a
   .•. cos « = cos o a sin    . a.
   :. cosa= cos 8— --s/l — cos2 a,
                          M
   .•. cos a = cos 8—            1— 2*^cos8—                a{cos8...,
and the magnetism of a molecule
    = cos8— cos«=a\/ 1— 2< cos 8— -y/l— 3{cos8... ;
and this series, integrated for all values of 8 between 0° and
180°, would give the amount of magnetism (for any current-
strength a) of a group of molecules that would in their normal
position form a closed magnetic circle.
   If the constant p. is made equal to unity, and a number of

              On Dissymmetry in the Electrolytic Discharge.                391
    values of 1i          cos 8 — cos « corresponding to each value
                   = 180'
               «/f=180°
        cos 8 — cos a
    of                      were calculated, until each increment of
            sin a
     ¦«=o°
           cos 8— cos a became very small as compared with each
                       cos 8— cos« .,
   increment of                       -, it would bo found that the differ
                              sin a
                          — fi°
   ent values of )              c os 8— cos a form the ordinates of a curve
   which approaches towards an asymptote,—the abscissa? repre
   senting the current^strengths, and the ordinates the amount
                                                                cos 8— cos*.
  of magnetism of a magnetic circle of molecules—that is, the
  intensity of magnetism of the iron.
 LVIII. Dissymmetry in the Electrolytic Discharge. By Alfred
     Tribe, F.Inst. C, Lecturer on Chemistry in Dulwich College*.
 IN the Philosophical Magazine for June 1881, p. 446, I
        gave the results of some experiments, from which it was
 concluded that the electrical discharge through an electrolyte
 whose transverse section was greater than the width of the
 electrodes was accompanied by dissymmetry in opposite but
 corresponding parts of the field of electrolytic action. The
evidence consisted in the very different superficial magnitudes
of the electrifications registered on similar plates of silver in
corresponding positions near the + and — electrodes respec
tively. The silver plates, which I have called analyzers, were
immersed in a solution of copper sulphate undergoing electro
lysis. It was likewise shown that the dissymmetry was con
nected with the spreading-out of the lines of force; for as this
was prevented, so the dissymmetry was less and less marked;
                       * Communicated by the Author.
                                       2F2

392               Mr. A. Tribe on Dissymmetry
and when the lines crossed the field parallel to one another,
what I have regarded as evidence of dissymmetry was no longer
observed.
   I had hoped to work at several questions suggested by these
results ; but as I am unable at present to proceed with the
experimental development of the investigation, I propose in
this communication to record without further delay my un
published observations bearing more especially on the subject
of dissymmetry. This is the more advisable, in view of the
interesting observations of Prof. Roiti (iVuot'o Cimento, s. 3.
vol. x.), and of the recent experimental and theoretical studies
of Drs. Pasquilini and Volterra (A dell' Accad. Sc. Torino,
vol. xviii.).
   In the first set of experiments to be described I employed a
trough 305 x 305 millim. and 128 millim. deep, a 5-per-cent.
solution of copper sulphate filling the trough to within 8 millim.
of the top ; copper electrodes about 7-5 millim. wide, placed in
grooves running down the centre of two opposite sides of the
vessel ; analyzers of fine silver, 67 x 7 millim. (weighing
about -75 gram), placed lengthwise, midway between the sur
face of the solution and the bottom of the cell, and parallel
with a vertical plane joining the electrodes. The analyzers
were supported by means of a small wedge of the metal pro
jecting from the lower edge at the centre of the plates, this
being fixed into a small stand of paraffined wood. In each
experiment one analyzer was employed and a current of two
amperes for six minutes.
   The numerical results of twelve experiments are given in
the annexed horizontal section (fig. 1), showing the position
occupied by the several analyzers. It will be remembered
that the + ion (copper) and the peroxide of silver form per
manent images of the — and + electrifications respectively,
so that after the completion of an experiment the magnitudes
of these electrifications can be measured. It will also be
remembered that the + ion is deposited on that end of the
analyzer nearest the + electrode, or the side of the cell in
which this electrode is fixed, and that the grey silver per
oxide is formed on that part of the analyzer nearest the —
electrode, the two effects being separated by a part of the
plate on which no visible action has taken place. The num
bers give the lengths of the electrifications in millimetres.
   In the cases where they were the same on the two sides of
the analyzer, numbers are placed on the one side only in the
diagram. Of course the numbers at the ends nearest the ¦+-
electrode show — , while those at the ends nearest the — elec
trode refer to + electrifications.

                     in the Electrolytic Discharge.            393
                                    Fig. 1.
                              (0 18      13       (»)
                             if) 18               (.0 ¦
         27                              21
         16   41            (*) 18       26
       I Ti 625              (0 18       28
    Tho electrochemical actions on the analyzers a, b were too
small to allow of a definite opinion being formed as to dissym
metry in the parts of the field surrounding them ; but in the
parts of the field c, d, e,f, and g, h, dissymmetry was most
distinctly indicated by differences in the magnitudes of the
 electrification of the same sign on the several analyzers in
opposite but corresponding positions. Taking the correspond
ing parts of the field where the greatest dissymmetry would
appear to exist, the negative electrifications on g and h were in
the proportion of 1 : 3'6, while the + on the same plates were
as 1-9 : 1.
    In connexion with these experiments, I would note one or
two other observations not directly connected with dissym
metry. The relation which I have already shown to exist
(Proc. Roy. Soc. 1881, p. 435) between the shape of the
boundaries of the electrochemical deposits (t. e. where the
chemical effects of the electrifications meet the unaffected
surface of the analyzer) enables the directions of the lines of
force to be determined in the several parts of an electrolytic
field, unless it is very small in intensity. The lines across the
field cut by the analyzers g, I, h were thus shown to be parallel
with the longer edges or sides of the silver plates; and in the
immediate neighbourhood of i, j, and k the lines were approxi
mately in the same direction; but surrounding the plates c, d, «,

  394              Mr. A. Tribe on Dissymmetry
  and / the curvilinear character of the lines was most distinctly
  shown to exist.
     I would also direct attention to the magnitudes of the elec
  trifications on the analyzers        k. It will be observed that
  the — was the same on each of the plates, while the + varied
  from a lineal distribution of 13 to 26 millim. This would
  appear to show that the magnitudes at least of the — electri
  fications bear little or no relation to the intensity of the field,
  as it is obvious considerable variations in this respect existed
  in the several parts of the field. Any generalization, how
  ever, to be of real value would require many more observa
  tions on this branch of the subject.
     Another point is the variations in the relative magnitudes
  of the opposite electrifications. In eight of the cases w^here
  the effects of both electrifications were sufficiently marked to
  allow of measurement, the + were greater on both or one side
  of the analyzer than were the — on the same side or sides ;
 but in four cases the — were greater than the + .
     Figs. 2 and 3 are diagrams of the plates g and e (fig. 1).
 The dotted lines indicate the shape of the boundaries, and the
 spaces enclosed between one of these lines and the correspond
 ing end of the analyzer the magnitudes of the respective
 electrifications; « to /3 be'ng the — , /9 to y the part of non-
 electrification, and 7 to 8 the + .
 Fig. 2. ,   I _ [                                               Identical
                                                                  on both
                       ———r~
                         \                                      Side opposed
                                )                                  to current
                                   ¦v
Fig. 8.
                                                                Reverie
    II. Dissymmetry by Interferenee.—I now describe some ex
periments made in the hope of throwing light on the subject
of this paper. The results I do not offer as an explanation.
 I record them in this place, first, for the interest which belongs
to them apart from other considerations ; secondly, they may
perhaps serve as the starting-point for fresh inquiry.
    A trough was employed 305 millim. long, 120 broad, and
128 deep ; and copper electrodes of the breadth and depth of
the cell placed at its respective ends. The strength of copper-

                   in the Electrolytic Discharge.           395
sulphate solution, dimensions &c. of analyzer, were the same
as used in the previous experiments; but a current of one
ampere was employed.
    An ebonite plate 76 x 76 millim., about 1£ millim. in thick
ness, was placed parallel to the electrodes and in the centre of
the liquid. In the position A shown in the vertical section
 (fig. 4) it was midway between the electrodes ; in B, 71 mil
lim. from the + electrode; and in C, 71 millim. from the —
electrode. Analyzers a, b, c, d, e, f were successively placed
lengthwise 2 millim. from, and perpendicular to, the centre of
 the plates.
    The numbers in the diagram refer, as before, to the electri
 fications on the several analyzers.
                              Fig. 4.
      +                                                 -

396       On Dissymmetry in the Electrolytic Discharge.
   I might be allowed to point out that in a simple uniform
field, such as would obtain were the ebonite plates absent, the
magnitudes of like electrifications on analyzers in the positions
indicated would have been absolutely identical. It will be
observed, therefore, that the ebonite plates exerted an appre
ciable disturbing influence. It was of course to be foreseen
that the direction of the lines of force would be changed, and
the quantity of current flowing in the immediate neighbour
hood of the analyzers would be diminished by the interposition
of such a nonconducting plate ; but the dissimilarity in the
magnitudes of like electrifications, on the analyzers in the
corresponding parts of the field relatively to the respective
electrodes and sides of the plate, would appear to point to
the existence of dissymmetry in those particular parts of the
field, and, moreover, to show that this dissymmetry was pro
duced by interference with the transmission of electricity by
the electrolyte.
   It was to be anticipated that, on reducing the amount of
this interference, the dissymmetry would be reduced. Such
was found to be the case. On taking a smaller nonconducting
plate the dissymmetry became less marked.
   I would now point out, first, that the general effect of inter
posing a nonconducting plate as regards symmetry would
appear to be similar to that produced by the spreading-out of
the lines of force ; secondly, that the same extent of dissym
metry existed near the sides of the plate in very different
parts of the field. This last fact shows that the phenomenon
is independent of any direct action of the electrodes, attractive
or otherwise.
   In conclusion, I would remark that the'dissymmetry pointed
out in this paper is probably but a fresh example of the dis
symmetry so common in ordinary electric discharges, and
that the electrolytic field appears to possess advantages for the
more complete examination of this very important subject.
That tho dissymmetry was real and primary, and not an appa
rent difference brought about by secondary action of the plates,
would appear from the observations that the differences in the
magnitudes of the like electrifications were found in corre
sponding parts of the field only when the lines of force were
thrown out of their more direct course, and also from the obser
vations that differences were found immediately the current
passed into the electrolyte, when plates were used singly or
together, when copper analyzers were employed and when
the analyzers were of platinum (though in this case the —
electrifications only could be observed).
  April 80, 1883.

                            [   397   ]
  LIX. On winding Electromagnets. By Professors W. E.
          Aykton, F.R.S., and John Perry, M.E.*
                        [Plates VIH. & IX.]
THE following experiments were made to determine which
       mode of winding a given length of wire on an iron bar
gave the strongest electromagnet for the same current. Four
bars of iron, each 12 inches long, were cut from the same
rod | inch thick ; and an exactly equal length of wire was
wound on the four bars respectively, in the following way :—
   1. Wire wound equally over the whole length (Pi. VIII.
fig. 1).
   2. Wire coned towards each end (fig. 2).
   3. Wire wound equally over half the iron bar, leaving the
other end bare (fig. 3).
   4. Wire wound on one half but coned towards the end
(fig. 4).
   Electromagnet No. 1 was put so that its axis was at right
angles to the axis of a small magnetic needle and passed through
the point of suspension of the needle, which was suspended so as
to move freely in a horizontal plane, and far enough away that
the magnetic field due to the electromagnet No. 1, when magne
tized by passing a current through it, was nearly constant
over that portion of the field in which the little suspended
needle moved when deflected. A constant current was now
passed through the coil on No. 1, and the deflection of the
little needle observed when No. 1 was placed at different dis
tances from the centre of the test-needle, the axis of No. 1,
however, always remaining in the same line. Under these
circumstances it is well known that the strength of the field
produced by No. 1 at the centre of the test-needle is approxi
mately proportional to the tangent of its deflection. Experi
ments were now made in a similar way with electromagnet
No. 2, and with each end of No. 3 and of No. 4, the same
current as was employed with electromagnet No. 1 being used
in all cases, and which was much below the saturating current.
    The results obtained are given in the accompanying table,
 and are shown plotted in the accompanying curves (fig. 5),
 vertical distances representing the distance between the near
 end of the electromagnet and the centre of the test-needle,
 and horizontal distances the tangents of the deflection of tho
 test-needle : A A A A is that for No. 1 ; BBBB for No. 2;
 C C C C for the covered end of No. 3 ; DDDD for the
 uncovered end of No. 3 ; E E E E for the covered end of
 No. 4 ; and F F F F for the uncovered end of No. 4.
   * Communicated by the Physical Society of London ; read December 0,
 1882.

 398               Professors Ayrton and Perry on
    Distance in                             No. 3.               No. 4.
  inches between No. 1. No. 2.
  the near end of                    Covered Bare Covered Bare
  the bar and the                      end.       end.      end.       end.
   centre of the
    test-needle. Def. Tan. Def.Tan. Def.lTan. Def. Tan. Def. Tan. Def. Tun.
   »t             79° 5-14 77°' 4-33 82° 7-12 57° 1-54 G7° 230 27c 057
   4              77 4-33 71 1 2-9 77 4-33 53 1-33 02 1-88 21 033
   5              69J 207 58 1-6 GG 2-24 46 104 52 1-28 14 0-2S
   G              59 1-66 47 1-07 56 1-48 39 081 4.'] 0-93 11 019
   7              60 119 37 0-76 46 104 32 0-62, 3G 073 9 016
   8              42 09 30 |0-58 37 J 0-79 27 i 0-52 •>•> 29 0f)(i 7 0-12
   9              35 07 24 0-4G 30 0-58             0-32      0-48 4 007
  10              30 0-58 20 |0-36| 25 0-47 13            17 0-31 3 005
                                                    0-23j
    To ascertain the distribution of the lines of force, iron
filings wore sprinkled on paraffined paper, and the positions
the tilings took up fixed by the paraffin being softened by a
heated piece of copper being passed over the paper at a short
distance above it. These fields of force are shown in the
diagrams 6, 7, 8, and 9(P1. IX.). From the curves in fig. 5 and
from the iron-filing curves it is seen that the effect of coning
the wire is to produce a strong field very near the pole, but
that the force falls off very rapidly as the distance from the
pole increases. With No. 2 magnet, for instance, the field
between the poles is so weak that scarcely any definite arrange
ment of filings is traceable in the diagram 7 corresponding
with it.
    From the curves in fig. 5 it is seen that, at considerable
distances from the end of the electromagnet, the uniformly
coiled magnet No. 1 produces the most powerful field, while
for points nearer the magnet, but still at a distance of about
3 inches from it, the covered end of No. 3 magnet, corre
sponding with the curve C C C, produces the strongest field,
the next strongest being produced by the magnet No. 2 with
the wire coned towards each end, since obviously the curve
BBB cuts the curve AAA at a point corresponding with
a distance of about 3 inches from the end of the magnet. For
distances very close to the magnet, this method of experiment
ing cannot, of course, be employed to measure the resultant
force accurately; and hence observations by this method at
distances of less than 3$ inches from the end of the magnet
to the centre of the oscillating needle were not made, and
conclusions as to the resultant magnetic force very close to
the poles must, of course, not be drawn from the curves in
fig. 4.
   Returning to the curves taken up by the iron filings, we
see that No. 1 magnet gives an arrangement similar to that

                      winding Electromagnets.                       399
of an ordinary regularly magnetized bar-magnet. With No.
2 the lines around the poles are similar to those of No. 1, but
the field between the poles is very weak. Magnets Nos. 3
and 4 give very similar figures, showing a very peculiar
distribution of force. There is a great concentration of the
lines at the pole corresponding to the half of the iron which
is covered with wire ; but the unwound end seems to form a
 long weak pole, with its maximum force near the centre of the
bar, i. e. at the inner end of the coil,—the differences between
these two being, that with No. 4 magnet there is, compara
tively, a greater concentration of force at the wound polo, and
that the opposite pole is longer and extends a little way into
the coil—the result of the coning of the wire. In these two
 cases the unwound end of the iron seems to act like an arma
ture.
   To ascertain the force which each magnet would exert
on an armature, experiments were made and the following
results obtained, the current flowing through the coil in each
case being exactly the same, as well as the armature em
ployed :—
           vra%De . '        Weight     coveredto end
                                     required
                               from the            detach themagnet.
                                                      of the  armature
            No. 1                         45 ounces.
                 2                        57        „
                 3                        57        „
                 4                        77        „
   These results confirm those previously obtained, that the
field produced by the covered ends of the electromagnets
numbers 2 or 3 at distances near the pole is much stronger
than that produced by No. 1. But they show something else,
viz. that for very small distances it is the covered end of
No. 4 that produces the strongest field. In other words,
returning to fig. 5, the curve EE, although much below the
curves A A, BB, and C C, must rise rapidly and cut the others,
just as the curve C C cuts the curve A A, at a point corre
sponding with a distance of about 4'2 inches from the end of
the magnet, and just as, again, the curve B B cuts A A at a
point corresponding with a distance of about 3*2 inches from
the end of the magnet. The curves of iron-filings (fig. 9)
indeed give indication of the great strength and concentration
of field there is produced close to the iron by the wire coned
at the end, as employed in the magnet No. 4.
    With, then, a definite iron core, a definite length of wire to
 be coiled on it, and to be traversed with a definite current, the
 mode of coiling to produce the largest field depends entirely
 on the distance from the end of the electromagnet at which

 400             Mr. E. H. Cook on the Regenerative
 the field is to be produced. With the particular magnet we
 have employed we see that, at distances from the end of the
 magnet very small compared with the length of the core, the
 wire should all be coiled up at the near end of the core, as in
 fig. 4 ; to create a field at a distance from the end of the mag
 net equal to about a third of the length of the magnet, it is
 better to coil the wire uniformly over one half of the core, as
 in fig. 2, than to cone it up at the near end as in 4 ; while
 for distances from the end of the magnet equal to, or greater
 than, about ^ of the length of the core, the uniform mode of
 winding is the best.
    We have to thank two of our students, Messrs. Sayers and
 Pink, for most cordial, assistance rendered us in this investi
gation.
 LX. The Regenerative Theory of Solar Action. ZfyERKEST
    H. Cook, B.Sc. (Lond.), A.R.C.S., Trade and Mining
    School, Bristol*.
 I HAVE ventured thus to name the theory recently pro
      pounded by Dr. (now Sir Wm.) C. W. Siemens, in a paper
read before the Royal Society in March 1882, because of the
essential feature which it possesses. Solar heat is kept up, on
this theory, by supposing reciprocal actions to go on using only
the same materials but under different conditions. The diffe
rent conditions are those which obtain in or near the sun and
those of interplanetary space—in the first case subjecting the
matter to intense heat and pressure, in the second to intense
cold and rarefaction. The theory has received considerable
discussion, more especially by MM. Faye and Hirn (Comptes
Rendus, Oct. 9 and Nov. 6, 1882) ; but there are some points
which, so far as lam aware, have not been raised. As the theory
possesses a very high scientific value, and as Dr. Siemens, in
enunciating it, states that he submits it " to the touchstone of
scientific criticism," I venture to point out what appears one
or two difficulties connected with it. If another reason for
presenting these points for consideration be wanted, it is in
the hope that it will give Dr. Siemens the opportunity of
making some such interesting communication as he has done
in his reply to the criticism of M. Faye ( Comptes Rendus,
Oct. 30, 1882)f.
   * Communicated bv the Author.
   t The original paper and the whole of the published criticisms which
it has called forth, together with the replies of Dr. Siemens and other
matter, are contained in a volume recently published by Macmillan & Co.,
entitled ' The Conservation of Solar Energy.'

                     Theory of Solar Action.                      401
   The fundamental assumption of the existence of a universal
atmosphere, to which M. Faye so strongly objects, is one
which, it seems to us, both theoretical and experimental evi
dence supports. But the deductions which are drawn from
this we do not think can be supported. It is supposed that
the atmospheres attracted by the planets would consist for the
most part of the " heavier and less diffusible gases—nitrogen,
oxygen, and carbonic anhydride ; whilst hydrogen and its
compounds would predominate in space." But if such a
partial separation takes place, we should expect that the
heaviest constituent of the universal atmosphere (viz. the car
bonic anhydride) would exist in larger quantity in the plane
tary atmospheres. More especially should we do this when
we remember the great difference in the relative density of
 C02 and 0 and N. Also, if such a selective attraction takes
place, we ought to find a slight difference in the composition
 of the air at high altitudes and at low ones. • Saussure, who
has investigated this point, states that at high altitudes the
proportion of dioxide is generally greater than at lower levels
 (Pogg. Ann. xix. p. 3£tl). Among other investigators we
 may mention "Gay Lussac and Thenard, who collected air
 in a balloon at an elevation of 7000 metres, and found it to
 contain exactly the same proportional quantity of oxygen as
 that collected at the same time in Paris and analyzed in the
 same way. Their results have since been corroborated by the
 more exact investigations of Brunner, who analyzed the air
 collected at the top and at the bottom of the Faulhorn, and
 found in each case exactly the same proportion between the
 oxygen and the nitrogen"*. Also Frankland (Chem. Soc.
 Journ. xiii. p. 22) has found that the composition of the air
 up to altitudes of 14,000 feet is constant. We may thus con
 clude that, so far as terrestrial observation goes, there is abso
 lutely no evidence supporting the partial separation of the
 constituents of the atmosphere supposed to take place.
    Dr. Siemens cites the composition of the gases found oc
 cluded in meteorites as supporting his view of the existence
 of an atmosphere very rich in hydrogen existing in space.
 There is also a general belief that the presence of these gases
 under pressure proves that they have passed through a region
 where hydrogen exists under a much greater pressure than
 that of our own atmosphere. According to this view the gas
 contained in the body is really a portion of the interplanetary
 atmosphere; it ought therefore to consist largely of hydrogen,
 while the proportion of the heavier gases should be much
 smaller than that existing in the air. But we find, on the
          * Roscoe and Schorlemmer, ' Chemistry,' vol. i. p. 440.

  402            Mr. E. H. Cook on the Regenerative
  contrary, that in the analysis quoted* there is no less than
 four times as much carbon dioxide as in ordinary atmospheric
  air. This particular analysis is moreover somewhat favour
  able than otherwise, inasmuch as some meteors contain a ranch
  larger quantity of CO2. . Thus Dr. A. W. Wright (Amer.
  Journ. of Sci. ix. p. 459) found as much as 35 per cent.,
  and J. L. Smith (Chemical News, xxxii. p. 221) found 13-03
  per cent, of this gas. If, therefore, these bodies derive their
  gaseous constituents from the interplanetary atmosphere, it
  must be one very rich in the heavy gas carbon dioxide. But
  I imagine that a very much easier explanation of the presence
  of hydrogen and the lighter gases can be given. As I am not
 aware that such an explanation has been given before, it will
 be necessary to state it rather fully.
     In a very full and complete memoir by F. Mohr (Liebig's
 Annalen, clxxix. pp. 257-282), in which the author discusses
 the origin of meteorites, it is proved that they possess a porous
  structure. By heating in a stream of dry carbonic-acid gas
 and collecting the water in anhydrous cupric sulphate, it is
  proved that in the pores of these bodies water is contained.
  Out of seven meteorites examined an average quantity of
 water of •856' per cent f "285 to 1*43) was found. Also the
 author concludes from experiment that organic substances
 analogous to ozokerite exist in them. Lawrence Smith
 (Comptes Iiendus, lxxxii. pp. 1041 & 1507) has also shown the
 presence of carbonaceous bodies in meteoric masses. It is also
 well known how largely iron enters into the composition of
 these substances. Such bodies come into contact with our
 atmosphere and are immediately raised to a high temperature—
 a temperature sufficient to melt their outer surface, and which
 Mohr {loc. cit.) has been enabled to imitate by exposing them to
 the oxyhydrogen-flame. The first effect of this heat will be to
 decompose the organic materials, which will really be subject
 to a process of destructive distillation, one result of such de
 composition being the production of marsh-gas. The carbon
 will either be set free or will combine with oxygen to form
 carbonic anhydride or carbonic oxide according to the amount
of the latter element present. This oxygen would be obtained
in this way :—if an oxide of iron is present, the organic matter
would probably reduce some of it to either the ferrous condi
tion or to the metallic state; and it is in these conditions that
we find the iron to exist. But the larger portiou of the oxygen
and the greater part of the hydrogen (some of this would pro
bably be obtained by the decomposition of the organic matter,
just as we find it thus produced in coal-gas) would be pro-
                             * Dr. Flight's.

                      Theory of Solar Action.                403
duced from the decomposition of the water. When heated in
contact with iron, water is readily decomposed, the whole of
its hydrogen being set free and the oxygen combining to form
magnetic oxide. Magnetic oxide is accordingly found exist
ing in meteoric bodies. Some of this oxide would, however,
be reduced in the way before mentioned, and thus tho major
part would consist of iron. The fused shell of material sur
rounding the body would prevent the escape of these gases,
which would thus exist under a state of pressure. There can
be no doubt that the volume of hydrogen thus produced would
be many times greater than the volume of the body ; for,
taking Mohr's figures and assuming the average specific gra
vity to be only 3, we find that the volume of hydrogen would
be more than thirty times that of the meteor containing it. An
objection to this theory is, that the time during which the
 meteor is heated is so short that the changes indicated would
 not be likely to occur. This is simply a matter for experi
 ment. It may, however, be mentioned that, supposing the
 body to fall from rest through the atmosphere (supposed for
 the present purpose to be 50 miles high) to the earth, it would
 take about 2 minutes in the descent. But tho meteor which
 falls to the earth today may have on some previous occasion
 passed through the atmosphere of our own or some other
 planet, and been heated by the passage. The evidence there
 fore afforded by these bodies may not really be of much im
 portance ; in fact, if the above view be accepted, it must be
 admitted that they afford us no insight into the composition
 of the supposed interplanetary atmosphere.
    The prime cause of the movement of the cosmical atmo
 sphere is the rotation of the sun upon its axis. But all the
 planets rotate also; and as they are all immersed in the same
 atmosphere we shall have the same action occurring in their
 case—i. e. a drawing-in towards the poles and a propulsion
 at the equator. Thus we ought to find an aerial current flow
 ing constantly in the northern hemisphere from the north-east
  (allowing for the gradually increasing velocity of rotation),
 and in the southern hemisphere from the south-east. As
 these currents would occur in the higher regions of the atmo
 sphere, they would be exactly opposed to the "return trades"
 which are prevalent there. This is a consequence of the
  theory which may have been overlooked.
     If there is one fact more than another upon which scientific
  men are agreed, it is upon the existence in the sun of metallic
  vapours. These Dr. <U+25BA>Siemens considers to form an inner
  atmosphere surrounding the nucleus (?). Supposing this
  theory of solar action to be a correct one, and that dissocia

404            Mr. E. H. Cook on the Regenerative
tion of the C02 and H2 0 does not occur, we have at the
 bounding surfaces at any rate, and, as is admitted, sometimes
 far down into this inner atmosphere, a large mass of water-
vapour and carbon dioxide in contact with metallic vapours.
 Here, then, surely combination will occur between the metals
 and the oxygen of water, setting free the hydrogen. Large
 quantities of the oxides of sodium, potassium, calcium, mag
 nesium, which it is impossible to decompose at any terrestrial
temperature, would thus be produced. Most of the oxygen
would thus be retained in the sun itself; and thus the consti
tution of the gases projected into space would be very differ
 ent from that supposed by Dr. Siemens. The comparison of the
 solar spectrum with the spectra of theso metals seems to con
 clusively prove that the bodies existing in the sun are the
elements themselves and not any compound of them. This
being so, it shows that the temperature is higher than that of
the dissociation of these oxides ; but if higher than this, surely
it must be very much higher than that at which such bodies
as carbon dioxide and water can exist.
    Referring to the metallic vapours revealed to us by the
spectroscope, Dr. Siemens says:—"These form a lower and
denser solar atmosphere, not participating in the fan-like
action which is supposed to affect the light outer atmosphere
only, in which hydrogen is the principal factor." This
assumption is difficult of acceptance, inasmuch as any force
which affects one body will also affect another, oven though
they differ in density. It is simply a question of degree; and
if, owing to centrifugal force, hydrogen is projected x miles
into space, then sodium-vapour, which is 23 times as heavy,
                    x
will be projected     miles. Again, we are told carbon dioxide
and water are formed and projected into space, but in conse
quence of the greater density of the materials composing the
inner atmosphere they do not suffer propulsion. But here
we are in error. A large number of the metallic vapours have
densities which are very little greater than the density of (J02 ;
and some are absolutely less. Thus the specific gravity of
carbon dioxide compared with hydrogen is 22, that of lithium-
vapour is only 7, of beryllium 9'2, of sodium 23, magne
sium 24, and aluminium 27. All these have been proved to
exist in the sun. Since they are specifically lighter than the
supposed products of combustion, and are also exposed to the
samo heat, and therefore expanded just as much, it is unreason
able to suppose they are not affected in the same way by the
action of the centrifugal force. If, however, we imagine these
metals to combine with oxygen, we are in no way better off ;
for here again the products are very little heavier than the

                     Theory of Solar Action.                  405
C03. The specific gravity of the vapour of lithic oxide would
he 15, that of beryllia probably 12'6, of magnesia 20, of sodic
oxide 31. According to these considerations the various sub
stances would be projected to the following proportional
distances:—
                                     Metal.        Oxide.
        Aqueous vapour          . . 100             100
        Carbon dioxide . . . .          41           41
                                      129            60
                                        98           71
                                        39           211
                                        37           45
                                        33           18
        Calcium .... . .                22           32
   It would thus appear that the composition of the stellar
atmosphere must be far more complicated than is supposed,
and the possible existence of an inner atmosphere seems prob
lematical.
   There is only one other point to refer to. The researches
of spectroscopy and the revelations of the telescope have
revealed to us the fact that our sun is only one of an innu
merable number of similar bodies. A theory, then, to be
complete, ought to account for the action of all. Moreover
Dr. Huggins has shown that the fixed stars may be divided
into classes according to the spectra which they emit. Thus
we have every gradation, from the spectrum of a white or
bluish-white star like Sirius, passing through a yellowish one
like our sun, up to a reddish one like Arcturus. Now, since
we have the same atmosphere supplying all and the same
cause producing motion, it is difficult to see how these differ
ences are to be accounted for. Dr. Huggins has supposed
these observations to show that the stars are of different ages—
some being in the height of their energy and thus producing
spectra in which the shorter waves predominate, while others
have passed this stage and are yielding radiations of longer
period. Dr. Siemens mentions that, as the whole solar system
is moving through space at a very great velocity, the nature of
the solar fuel may vary at different times, and thus a difference
in the energy of the action may be caused. But any difference
which may exist would be rapidly removed by the action of
gaseous diffusion, which would rapidly cause the universal
atmosphere to become practically homogeneous. Again, if the
fuel varies from time to time, how is it that we find the spectra
of the various stars to be constant? They would under these
circumstances, we are inclined to imagine, present none of
those constant characters which Dr. Huggins has established.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 96. June 1883.           2G

                              [  406  ]
LXI. Experiments on the Viscosity of a Solution of Saponins.
   By W. H. Stables and A. E. "Wilson, Yorkshire College,
   Leeds *.
M PLATEAU has shown (Statique des Liquides, t. 2,
      • ch. vii.) that a body placed in a liquid and wetted on
one side only, experiences in many cases a greater resistance
to its motion than if it were completely immersed. Some
controversy has arisen between Marangoni and himself as to
the cause of this phenomenon, which M. Plateau explains by
the assumption that the liquids in question possess a surface
viscosity greater than that of the interior. The liquid in
which the surface resistance is in most striking contrast to
that of the interior is a solution of saponine in water.
   Oberbeck (Wiedemann's Annalen, Bd. 11, S. 634) has
repeated and extended Plateau's experiments, using an oscil
lating disk instead of a magnetic needle. He made no
observations upon saponine solution. The object, therefore,
of the following investigation is to study the movements of
a disk when oscillating in or near the surface of a solution of
this substance.
    Oberbeck found that the resistance of a water-surface
increased largely with exposure to the air ; but he also proved
that even with fresh distilled water the resistance is con
siderable. As he points out, we are therefore led to one of
two conclusions—namely, that either water has a surface
viscosity different from that of the interior, or else that a
pure water surface cannot be obtained.
    The apparatus used in our experiments was similar to that
 employed by Grotrian (Pogg. Ann. Bd. 157, S. 237).
    It is fully described by him ; and it is there-     Fig. I.
 fore unnecessary to figure here the connexions
 of the different parts. The diagrammatic re
presentation in fig. I. may, however, conduce
 to clearness.
    It consists of a circular disk A of nickel-
 plated brass 76*25 millim. in diameter and o*2           |D
 millim. thick. In the centre is screwed
 brass rod, to which a concave mirror B and a          ¦—1=¦
 small iron bar C (used to set the apparatus     as       Ob
 in motion by means of a magnet) are attached.
 A wire (119*8 centim. long), employed to put
 the appciratus in motion by torsion, is firmly
 gripped between two small plates at D.
   * Communicated by the Physical Society, having been read at th«
Meeting held on April 14, 1883."

            On tlie Viscosity of a Solution of Saponine.      407
   The brass rod by which the plate was suspended could be
unscrewed and replaced by others of different sizes.
   The plate was suspended in the centre of a circular glass
dish 15"5 centim. in diameter and 8 centim. deep. This was
fitted with a wooden cover, through which a thermometer was
introduced. The whole was surrounded by a case having glass
sides, which served to ward off air-currents. The time of the
oscillations was measured by a stop-watch indicating quarter-
seconds.
   Three rods were used in turn to suspend the plate. They
were of the same length, but of different radii.
              The radius of (1) was '1337 centim.
                              (2) „ -2360 „
                              (3) „ -3362 „
    The scale on which the beam of light was reflected was
 about 2*5 metres from the mirror ; the maximum half-amplitude
 was about 200 millim. ; so that the half-oscillation was
 about 2°-3.
    The moment of inertia of the apparatus was determined by
 means of a brass ring of the same external diameter as the
 plate, and was found to be 753*09 (C.G.S.).
    The plate was first carefully levelled, and distilled water
 poured into the vessel to within a few millimetres of the bot-
 torn of the plate. Water was then added with a pipette until
 the bottom of the plate and the surface of the water touched.
    By a simple calculation the difference in height caused by
 the addition of a measured quantity of water was determined.
 An addition of 2 cubic centim. of water was found to cause a
 rise of *1 millim. in the level.
     The elevation was of course increased when the disk was
 in the surface ; but the change is allowed for in the calcu
 lations.
     The temperatures of the air and of the water were carefully
  noted at the commencement of each observation, and were
  found to remain nearly constant.          To attain this end the
  experiments were conducted in a cellar, and special pre
  cautions were taken to prevent any marked variations in
  temperature. The variations therefore did not exceed 1° C;
  and the small corrections thus rendered necessary were made
  by means of the table of the values of the coefficient of
  viscosity of water at different temperatures given by Grotrian
  (Pogg. Ann. Bd. 157, S. 242). All the observations were
  thus reduced to 16° as a standard temperature. The time of
  oscillation was ascertained by observing the time of 10 swings.
                                2G2

408             Messrs. Stables and Wilson on the
This operation was repeated a number of times and the mean
taken. The logarithmic decrement was calculated from the
readings obtained from the graduated scale.
   The plate was suspended by each of the three rods in turn
immersed to a depth exceeding 1 centim., and the logarithmic
decrement and mean time of oscillation determined for each.
The following table shows the results obtained with the
saponine solution and with water:—
                                 Table I.
                      Water.                      Saponine.
            Rod.     Time of                Time of
                    oscillation. Log. dec. oscillation. Log. dec.
                       sec.                  sec.         •0785
          1             519         0477      524
         2              520         0479       526        •1424
         3              5-22       •0483       5-26       •2045
   The great difference between the surface-properties of
saponine and those of water is here made very evident. The
alterations in the dimensions of the rod which produced a
slight effect only in the case of water increased the logarithmic
decrement in the case of saponine two and a half times, a result
which could only have been due to the increase of the section
in contact with the surface.
   If we assume that the disk oscillated under the influence
of two forces, one of which (that of torsion) is proportional to
the angular displacement from the position of rest, while the
other, due to the viscosity of the liquid, is proportional to the
velocity, the latter is measured by MX/T, where M is the
moment of inertia, X the logarithmic decrement, and T the
time of an oscillation. If, as in the case of a saponine
solution, the surface resistance be so great that the friction
between the surface layer and the interior may be neglected
with regard to it, MX/T would be approximately of the form
o + tr2, where r is the radius of the rod and a and 6 are con
stants.
   The values of these, determined from the above equations by
the method of least squares, are a=8'42, 6 = 191"6.
   Using these coefficients to calculate the value of MX/T
from the observations on the saponine solution, we obtain the
following results :—

                 Viscosity of a Solution of Saponine.                  409
                                  Table II.
                    r.                           MA/T.
                                    Observed.          Calculated.
                    0                                       842
                   1337               11-27                1185
                  '2360               20-37                1907
                 •3362                29-36               3007
   The numbers are perhaps in as good agreement as could be
expected, if we remember that the theory on which they are
calculated is only approximate. If in the case of water we
neglect b, the value of a is 6-92.
   After the above preliminary observations a careful series of
experiments was made in which the plate was gradually im
mersed to a greater depth in water.
   The following are the results obtained :—
         Position of plate.         Time ofoscillation. Log. decrement
     Upper edge of plate 7 mm. 1          sec.
                                            6-06               ¦0258
                                            510                ¦0259
                                            510                0260
           14                               611                ¦0262
     Top of plate level with sur- 1         610                •0266
                                            512                ¦0272
               •2                           511                •0272
               •8                           513                 0285
               •4                           517                •0298
               •6                           618                 0329
               •7                           5-20                0366
               ¦9                           5-20               •0415
              1-8 „                         5-20                0479
              1-7                           5-20               •0488
   In the above results, the level of the liquid is corrected for
the displacement of the liquid by the plate.
   Similar experiments were next made on the saponine solu
tion ; but it was at once seen that the apparatus used in the
previous experiment with the water was quite unsuitable on
account of the great resistance offered by the surface. Cer

410             Messrs. Stables and Wilson on the
tain modifications were therefore introduced. In this second
•form (fig. II.) a steel piano-
 wire was used, the length of
 which was 98-35 centim. and
 the diameter 1-025 millim.
 Suspended by this wire was
a stout brass rod, E, termi
nating in a disk, F, upon which
 rested a similar movable disk,
 G ; and between the two disks
could be fi tted a brass plate, H,
carrying heavy brass rings,!.
To the bottom of the lower
disk an (unmagnetized) steel
bar K was attached, by means
of which the apparatus was set
in oscillation by the use of a „
magnet. The apparatus used                             k
in the water experiment was
attached to the centre of this bar by a strip of metal attached
to D (fig. I.) and soldered to the bar. Great care was taken
to render the junction perfectly firm, so that no torsion could
possibly take place at this point. The moment of inertia was
determined as before, and found to be 186653 (C.G.S.).
   The first fact which was evident from the experiments was
that, although the apparatus when suspended in water oscil
lated isochronously, it did not do so when suspended in the
saponine solution. The following table gives the results of a
number of experiments on the time of two long and two short
swings respectively in that solution :—
            Large amplitude.          Small amplitude.
               10-90 sec.                10-28 sec.
               10-70                     10-28
               10-75 »                   10-35
               10-52                     10-35
With a thicker rod:—
               10-42 sec.                 9-85 sec.
               10-52 »                    9-73
               10-33                      9-90
   Similar experiments in the case of water gave for two long
oscillations, 10-25; for two short, 10-30; for three long oscil
lations, 15-5 and 15'75 ; and for three short, 15'6 and 15-75
seconds.
   The amplitudes denoted long and short are not all of equal

                    Viscosity of a Solution of Saponine.              411
size; and as those called " large " are much larger than those
actually used in the experiments, the correction which might
 otherwise have been necessary has been neglected.
   The following are the results of the experiments on saponine
 solution:—
        Position of plate. Upper Time of oscillation. Log. decrement.
                  surface
         •14 millim. above liquid...  951 sec.              •1960
                                      9-50 „                •2520
                                      9-55 „               •0067
         •2                           9-60 ,„               0045
         •3                           9 63 „               •0039
         •4                           9-58 „               •0034
         •6                           9-55 „                0030
       i-o                            9 62 „               •0025
       14                             9-63 „                0022
       2-4                            9 62 „               •0020
      3 65                            9-59  „              •0019
   These results are shown on the accompanying curve (p. 412).
   With regard to the first two observations, in which the plate
was oscillating in the surface of the liquid, only two complete
oscillations were obtainable for each determination ; and as
the logarithmic decrement was found to diminish considerably
as the amplitude increased, a number of observations at dif
ferent amplitudes were taken. These were plotted down in
the form of a curve, showing the amplitudes and logarithmic
decrement; and from these curves the logarithmic decrement
for an arbitrary standard initial amplitude of 500 divisions
was taken. The slope of these curves was so considerable that
our observations can only be considered as giving an inferior
limit to the resistance of the surface of the saponine solution.
When the plate was once immersed below the surface, it was
found that twenty or more oscillations were readily obtained,
and that the magnitude of the original amplitude had little
or no effect. The variations of temperature were small (the
difference being only 0°"7 C); and as their effect on the surface-
viscosity is unknown, no correction was made for them. The
error thus introduced would, however, as the regularity of the
curve shows, be small.
   These observations, then, enable us to compare the resistance
offered to a disk when oscilating in, or just below, the surface
of a saponine solution and of water.
   Thus we get for the surface of saponine,
                   MX       186653 x -252      JftC1

4] 2 Messrs. Stnbta Wilson on the
               Viscosity of a Solution of Saponive.          413
and for the surface of water,
                MX 753 x -0266 „ qo7
                T = —5-1
At *1 millim. below the surface these numbers change to 131
and 4 respectively. At the surface, therefore, the ratio of the
resistances is 1261 ; and at "1 millim. below it is 33; while in
                                        8-42
the interior it is, as has been shown,        or 1*2. Although,
therefore, these numbers can only be taken as approximations
to the trnth, we think that they enable ns to make an esti
mate of the magnitude of the resistance offered to a body
oscillating in the surface of saponine solution, for which no
previous experiments afforded the required data.
   They show that whereas the resistance offered to an oscilla
ting disk, 2 millim. thick, in the surface of water is only
about half what it is in the interior, at the surface of a 2-per
cent, saponine solution it is at least 600 times greater than in
the interior, but that this ratio is reduced to 16 by immersing
the upper surface of the disk to a depth of 0*1 millim.
   Special experiments proved that the logarithmic decrement
in air was so small that the resistance of the air might safely
be neglected when the .comparisons of the various resistances
were made as above described.
                    Explanation of the Curves.
   Fig. III. is the curve given by the logarithmic decrements
obtained from the experiments on water. The abscissa? are
expressed in terms of hundredths of a millimetre ; they repre
sent the distance of the upper edge of the plate from the sur
face, and are negative when it is above it. The ordinates
represent the logarithmic decrement in terms of "0001, the
lowest horizontal line corresponding to the value of '0250.
   The gradual increase in the value of the logarithmic decre
ment as the plate is more deeply immersed is clearly shown.
   Fig. IV. refers to the observations made on the saponine
solution. In this case the values of the ordinates are to be
taken from the small figures. The positions corresponding
to the numbers obtained when the disk was in the surface
cannot be shown on the scale of the diagram. Fig. V. there
fore has been drawn on one tenth of the scale of fig. IV.
To avoid confusion it has been displaced to a convenient dis
tance along the line of abscissae. The enormous increase of
resistance as soon as the disk touches the surface is very stri
kingly shown; and it must be remembered that the increase
for a very small oscillation would be very much greater.

414                  Mr. R. T. Glazebrook on
   The conclusion may be drawn from figs. III. and IV., that
both in water and in the saponine solution the effect of the
surface disappears when the edge of the disk is about a milli
metre and a half below it.
   We cannot conclude without expressing our sincere thanks
to Prof. Riicker for his kind assistance in our experiments.
LXII. On Curved Diffraction-gratings. By R. T. Glaze-
   BROOK, M.A., F.R.S., Fellow and Lecturer of Trinity Col
   lege, Demonstrator at the Cavendish Laboratory, Cambridge* .
PROF. ROWLAND has described the appearances pre
         sented when a beam of light, after passing through a
slit, falls on a grating ruled on a cylindrical surface, and has
given a very elegant construction for determining the position
of the diffracted foci in the case in which the principal section
of the grating is a circle and the source of light is placed at
its centre of curvature. The mathematics of the subject have
been dealt with still more recently by M. Mascart {Journal de
Physique, January 1883) and Mr". W. Baily (Phil. Mag.
March 1883). The object of the present paper is to carry the
discussion somewhat further.
   Prof. Rowland claims for his gratings that they enable him
to form a pure spectrum without the use of lenses, and hence
have an immense advantage over those hitherto employed. It
must, however, be remembered that the formula? obtained to
give the position of the diffracted spectra are only true to a
first approximation, that the spectra formed and the source of
light are to one another in the relation of the conjugate geo
metrical foci of a lens or mirror. All the waves which arrive
at any one point of the spectrum are not in exactly the same
phase. Aberration effects are produced, and have to be con
sidered just as in the ordinary theory of lenses or mirrors. Now,
if a plane wave of light fall on a plane grating, and the effects
be observed on a screen at an infinite distance behind the gra
ting, the spectrum formed is perfectly pure ; all the red light,
after passing the grating, is definitely brought to a focus at
one point ; there is no aberration, so far at least as the gra
ting is concerned. Of course the difficulty is to obtain the
plane wave and the screen at an infinite distance. If the
source of light be placed at the principal focus of a col-
limating lens, the emergent wave differs from a plane by
quantities depending on the aberration of the lens ; while if
the diffracted beam is received on a second lens and a screen
    * Communicated by the Physical Society; read April 14, 1883.

                    Curved Diffraction-gratings.           415
be placed in the focal plane of that lens, the screen would
practically be at an infinite distance from the grating but for
the aberration produced by the lens.
   So far, then, as definition merely is concerned, we have to
compare the aberration effects produced by these lenses with
those caused by the curvature of the grating. Of course a
reflexion grating used without lenses has an immense advan
tage for experiments on the violet or ultra-violet rays which
are absorbed by glass.
   In considering the aberration, then, we shall follow the
method adopted by Lord Rayleigh in his paper on " Investi
gations in Optics, with special reference to the Spectroscope.
Aberration of Lenses and Prisms " (Phil. Mag. January 1880).
Let QA, QP be two
adjacent rays diverging                      Fig. 1.
from a point Q and fall
ing on the concave side
of a circle A P, centre
0.    Let QAO = </>,
AOP = a, QA = m,
0A = a. Then
   AP = 2a sin g •
Hence
       QP2 = w2 + 4a2 sin2^ —4a«sin^sin            —<p); ¦  (1)
and, expanding as far as <o3, we find
        QP=M + a<BSin <p         (7- ^cos^ — - cos'9 1
                   aa>3s'm<t> (I     a        a2      2 \
                                                            (2)
Again, let Qj be another point on the other side of the normal
OA, and let Q^u', Q,A0 =¦«/>•. Then
     Q,P = u' — awsin i/r— '—-^cos^— ^cos2'^
               aa)3sin\ir/l        a         a2      ,  \   ...
Suppose now that A is a point on one line of the grating, and

416                    Mr. R. T. Glazebrook on
 P a corresponding point on some other line. Then waves
 from Q diffracted at A and P respectively will reach Q2 in the
same phase if QP + Q1P = QA + Q1A + n\, \ being the wave
length. That is, if
   ao>(sin d> — sin yji)
            tuff         , ,      .     /cosJd> , cos'^M
         - T I cos <f> + cos it- a(-^ +                  |
            aa>3 f . , /l a            , a* , ,\
         - -j- 1 sin $f g - - cos + -2 cos3 d>J
         -sinVrQ-^cosVr+^iCoss^)} = ±»5L                     •  (*)
   This is equivalent to Mr. Baily's formula carried to the next
degree of approximation; and his results are obtained by neg
lecting the term in <os and taking <f> and           to satisfy the
equation                                    n^
                        sin d> — siniir= H                      (5)
                                          — aa>
and then u and v! to satisfy
                                 /COS* <A C08S\Ir\ n
           cos<ft+ cosifr -al             + v,Y\ = 0. . . (6)
   To consider the aberration we have two cases before us.
Let us suppose (1) that equation (5) holds, and determine the
value u\, say of «', considering the terms in to3 in equation (4).
This will give us what we may call the longitudinal aberration.
   In the second case we shall suppose equation (6) to hold,
and determine the value for tfr which satisfies (4) to the same
approximation. This will give us the lateral aberration.
   In the general case equation (4), as it stands, really deter
mines the locus of the image of Q formed by diffraction at the
two lines A and P; and this locus is clearly an hyperbola,
with A and P as foci. Waves diffracted at A and P respec
tively will arrive in the same phase at any point of this hyper
bola. For every point such as P on the grating an hyperbola
possessing similar properties can be drawn. If all these hy
perbolas meet in a point, then that point is really a focus for
waves diverging from Q; they all are in the same phase when
they meet there. This is the case if the grating be plane and
Q and Qt infinitely distant. If, however, the hyperbolas do
not all meet in a point, there is really no focus in its strict
sense, only a geometrical focus. If we neglect o>3 and higher
terms, then the point given by (5) and (6) is to this approxi
mation common to all the hyperbolas : it is the geometrical
focus.

                    Curved Diffraction-gratings.                       417
  To discuss, then, the aberration in this case. hetu'i = u' 4- 6V,
where v! satisfies (6), and suppose we neglect oV|2, atoSV, and
such terms. Then
                         ,     fcOS2<£ , COS2^/.. Su'\\
                  +a4+^-asin*cos*(l-«co8(fr)
                         t — 6aa>             u       \     U         I
                     asin-vl' cosi/r/..     a       ,\1 -
Thus
           „ ,=
           6u        m"©n ¦(f +r , n\           . 0. cos mil
                                            a sin         ./,   acos<p)  ,\
                   a cos Y1 (. oaa>         «            r\     u       */
                  + J sin ^ cos ^(l- Jcos$)j.                 .   .     (7)
   Equation (7) determines the aberration in the general case.
To determine the effect of this in practice, let us suppose that
we are considering the spectrum of the first order, so that the
retardation of the light coming from two consecutive lines is
just one wave-length ; and hence, if P be on the £th line from
A, and a the distance between two lines, then the arc AP =
ka = aa>, and n=k.
    Let us suppose, further, that the origin of light is at the
 centre of curvature of the grating, so that u = a, $ = 0, and
hence, taking the — ve sign in (6),
  sin yfr = ^ COS^r = \J ^1— ^ , u' = a cos^r = aA^J^1 —
Thus
                        Su'= +aa>J~~ =                      .       .   (8)
    Let Qi (fig. 2) be the point on the line given by sin yfr=^>
which is determined by w'=acos^r, Q' being the point on
                                    Fig. 2.
                           R                          Vp
 that line at which light arrives in exactly the same phase from
 A and P. Then QiQ' = i/fcX. And the angle PQaA differs by

418                 Mr. R. T. Glazebrook on
only a small quantity from to; while, since Q'Qi is small com
pared with PQ', the angle Q)PQ' is small compared with ta.
Hence, if Q'R be drawn at right angles to PQi, the light from
P arrives at R in the same phase as at Q', and the difference
in phase at Q, between the waves coming from A and P is
QiQ' — QiR= QiQ'(l — cos w) ; and to the same approximation
this is equal to ^£Xo>2. So that if we consider as well the light
coming from a point H lines below A, the extreme difference
of phase in the various waves which reach the point Q( is
\(k + k')\<oi; k + k1 will be the total number of lines in the
grating.
   Thus in one of Prof. Rowland's gratings we have
                        o=213 centim.,
                             37
                        w=2l3Uab0Ut'
                    k+U= 14250;
and hence the difference in phase is about 7X/10. Hence the
aperture of the grating is too large to give the best defini
tion : for that purpose the difference of phase in the various
 secondary waves arriving at the point in question should not
 be greater than X/4.
   We may conveniently express this difference of phase in
 terms »f the number of lines, the radius of the grating, and
 the distance between the lines. Let a be the distance between
 the lines; then
 and the difference of phase is
 For good definition this difference of phase must not be greater
 than X/4. Since in the case above the difference of phase is
 7X/10, we must reduce the number of lines, keeping the
 distance between them the same, in the ratio of ^10 to $/'2&, or
 rather more than 2 to 3. Hence by covering up rather less
 than one third of the grating we should expect to produce
 better definition.
    In another grating of Rowland's, <7 = j-j-j^ centim., a=520
 centim., k + £'=160,000 ; and in this case the difference of
 phase comes out to be about 4-8 x X. The grating is much too

                        Curved Diffraction-gratings.            .        4] 9
wide ; it will require reducing in the ratio of 1 : v/l9*2, or
about 3 : 8.
   To consider now the lateral                         Fig. 3.
aberration, using the same
notation, describe a circle
(fig. 3) through Q, with A
as centre. Light from A
arrives in the same phase at
all points on this circle. Let
Q' be the point on the circle
at which the light arriving
from P is in the same phase
as that from A, and let
ifr + B-^r be the angle OAQ',
 and let i|r, <f>, u, and u' satisfy      -q
 (5) and (6). Our funda
 mental equation (4) becomes, neglecting terms like a>28i/r,
     aw [sin <f> — sin yfr — Bifr cos a|t
                   0) (     , ,       .       /cos50       cos2V\
              -sinW(l-^)}
              -j{sin<t>(b-;lC0S(l>+ J0032^)
              - sinf ^-^cos-f + ~ cos2ifr) j] = ±n\. (9)
 Hence
         | cos yfr - 1 sin yfr ^1 -                  j
               + »- [sin 0 1 i - %os ^(l - ^ cos tf>) J
               -sin^li-Jcos^l- ^ cos^) }] = 0 ;
  and, to the approximation adopted in considering the longitu
  dinal effect,
      e\Ir = — — sec y < + I                  sin <p cos <p | 1         i )
                  2         (. - 0 aa>      n     T      ^\         u    J
                    + ^ sin i/r cos     ^1 — ^ cos yjr^ \ .       .   .    (10)
  If, as before, Q coincide with 0, then m = 0, <j>=0, «'=ocosf ;

 420                  Mr. R. T. Glazebrook on
 and taking the negative sign, so that sinifr = — >
 and                   Q,QWS*=!*!!\
                                        b
   Thus, carrying our approximation as far as terms in a>* in
equation (4), we find that the position of the image formed,
considering only two of the lines as producing diffraction
effects, is not at Q! but Q', where QiQ'= -g—.        Hence, if we
consider the whole grating, using the same notation as before,
the breadth in a direction normal to AQt of the image formed
will be comparable with          g        ® being the whole semi-
aperture. Expressing this in terms of the radius of the gra
ting a and the distance between the lines a, we find the value
^(k + k'y —.      Thus the breadth of the image will depend on
the square of the number of lines. In the grating first con
sidered this quantity, ^(k + k')\tD, is about      of a centimetre
for yellow light, while the distance between the D lines is about
    centim., or ten times as much; while in the second grating
this lateral aberration is ^ centim., the distance between the
D lines being about seven times as great. If the size of this
last grating be reduced to % of what it actually is, the extreme
lateral aberration will be reduced to ^ or about \ of its
actual value, thus becoming about ^J^j of a centimetre, and
the extreme difference of phase in the light of a given wave
length A. reaching any point of the diffracted spectrum will never
exceed X/4, the dispersion will remain unaltered, the defini
tion and the brightness of the spectrum will both be increased.
   It is clear that in both cases the outer portion of the grating
not merely impairs the definition, but actually renders it less
bright than before. For
consider two points P1; P3
(fig. 4) equidistant from
A, such thatthe difference
in phase in the waves
coming from P, and Ps to
Qi is g (since the differ
ence of phase for the ex
treme rays is in both cases
greater than ^,these points
can be found).     Then the light reaching Q, from above P! is

                       Curved Diffraction-gratings.               421
   opposite in phase to some of that which reaches Q{ from be
  tween P2 and A, and tends to neutralize the effect of this; while
  similar results hold for light coming respectively from below Ps
  and between A and Pj . Thus a large aperture does not ne
  cessarily mean that there is a large quantity of light at the
  focus. Exactly the same may happen in the case of a lens.
  Lord Rayleigh has shown that if a. be the angular semi-aperture
  of the lens as viewed from the focus, and the curvatures of the
  lens be adjusted to reduce the longitudinal aberration to a
  minimum, a4 should not exceed X/f. A similar course of rea
  soning shows us that if a4 is greater than 2X/f, the light from
  the outer annulus of the lens will be opposite in phase to that
  from the central portions.
      To compare, finally, the definition of the curved grating
  with that produced by a plane grating, and two lenses of equal
  focal length used as a collimator, and the object-glass of a
 telescope respectively, we can show (Parkinson, ' Optics/
  § 130), that if a. is the semi angular aperture of either of these
 lenses seen from its principal focus, / its focal length, and the
 curvatures are adjusted to make the aberration of each lens a
 minimum, then the aberration is, for light of refractive index
        15
 1*5, -=- fa2; but, as quoted above, Lord Rayleigh has shown
 that the aberration should not be greater than X/a1.      Hence a4
                                7 X
must not be greater than jgy?"
     In the case of the first of Prof. Rowland's gratings discussed '
above, the slit and eyepiece are at a distance of about 200 cen
tim. from the grating. Let us suppose we are using two lenses
of 200 centim. focal length, and inquire what their aperture
may be to allow the condition above given to bo satisfied. If
y be the radius of the lens, we have
                                     7 x8xl06x6
                  y not > than —^
Thus y must not be greater than 3-8 centim. A lens of this
aperture would just about admit the light from the whole of
the actual grating 5 centim. x 7 centim. in area if it were
plane; whereas, without the lens, to obtain the best definition
we are restricted to the use of about two thirds of the grating.
   In the case of the other grating, we may, without increasing
the size of the apparatus, use a lens of 500 centim. focal length;
for good definition its aperture should not be more than
                            x 125 x 10s x 6
                               15 x 10s
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 96. June 1883.          2H

422                On Curved Diffraction-gratings.
or about 7*6 centim. A leas of this aperture would enable us
to use with the best advantage the whole of the grating if it
were plane ; whereas in the concave grating, for good defini
tion we should only use about three eighths of the whole. It
would seem, then, that in cases in which there is no objection
to the use of glass (because of its absorbing qualities), a large
grating may be used to greater advantage if it be ruled on a
flat surface and properly chosen lenses be employed with it,
than if the grating be carved.
    It may be instructive to consider the subject briefly in an
other manner. Let Q, Q, (fig. 5) be any two points, and
                                  Fig. 5.
 with Q and Qi as foci describe a series of confocal ellipses; let
 the major axes of these ellipses increase in arithmetical progres
 sion, and let the common difference be \. Consider a sphe
 rical wave diverging from Q and reflected at any point of any
 one of these ellipses ; all the reflected light will reach   in the
 same phase. Take any surface P,, P2, &c. cutting the ellipses
 in Pj, P2 &c, and suppose it capable of reflecting Tight at these
 points and incapable of so doing elsewhere. All the light from
  Q which falls on this surface at these points will be reflected
  to Qi, and the various waves will reach Qt in the same phase.
  If now Q be the section of a slit normal to the paper, P, P8
  •See. that of a polished cylindrical surface whose generators are
  normal to the paper, and lines be ruled on this surface to block
  out the spaces P, P2, P2 P3, &c., the lines also being normal to
  the paper, we shall obtain a diffraction-grating which will give
  an image of Q without aberration at Qt.
      We can thus determine the law according to which lines
  must be ruled on any cylindrical surface to give an aplanatic
  diffraction-image of a slit ; for we require only to write down
  the equations to the ellipses and the surface and determine the
  points of intersection. We will solve the simple case when
  the curve Px P2 &c. is a straight line parallel to Q Qx. Take
  Q Qi as axis of x ; let a and b be the semi-axes of one of the
  ellipses, suppose that which touches the line Px P2 . . . ; then

              Sir John Conroy on a new Photometer.                423
the semi major axes of the other ellipses are
                 a+ ^,    a + S. ,.a +
while to find bn) the semi minor axis of the (n + l)th ellipse,
we have
           a+ yj -bl=a¦^-b¦1.Abl=b1 + na\+,^. . (12)
Let QQ1=2c, then we have
                           a2=i2 + c2,                           (13)
and the equation to the (n+l)th ellipse is
                    —^ +               ^-W=1-             •  '   <14)
                          4                   4
Let tf„ be the abscissa of the point in which this is cut by the
line y=b, then
                    a2 + ?taX H—r- | ( naX + —— )
                                  AA^,           W.      •   •    d5)
                                        4
 Substituting for a and giving n the values 0, 1, 2, 3, &c. in
 order, we can obtain values for x0, xu x3 &c, and determine
 thus the position of the lines. A plane grating ruled in this
 manner would form at Qt without aberration an image of Q for
 light of the given wave-length X. Of course it would be open
 to the objection which holds against all such aplanatic arrange
 ments, viz. that they are only good for light of one definite
 wave-length. If the grating were used for light of a different
 refrangibility, the image formed would suffer from aberration.
                     LX1II. A new Photometer.
                By Sir John Conroy, Bart., M.A.*
  HAVING recently made a considerable number of photo
           metric observations, and learnt by experience the
  difficulty which attends all such determinations, I venture to
  bring before the Society the description of a new form of
  photometer which appears to possess certain advantages over
  those in use. All such instruments, with the exception of the
  wedge-photometer, are essentially arrangements for comparing
  the illuminating-power of two lights, and therefore do not
      * Communicated by the Physical Society ; read April 28, 1883.
                                 2H2

424         Sir John Conroy on a new Photometer.
give absolute measures ; the one I propose describing is no
exception to this goneral rule.
   I had intended to use, in some experiments on the amount
of light reflected by metallic surfaces, the ordinary Bunsen's
disk ; but I found that, owing to the small size of the beam of
reflected light, it was impossible to make any satisfactory
measurements with the disks in common use, and after trying
various photometric arrangements I finally adopted a modifi
cation of Ritchie's photometer.
   The various forms of shadow-photometers work well ; but
as the accuracy of the determination depends on the edge of
the two shadows coinciding and yet not overlapping, it is
necessary to have some arrangement for altering the distance
between the screen and the shadow-producer, which adds to
the complexity of the apparatus, except indeed when, as in
Mr. Harcourt's photometer for gas-work, the variation in the
relative intensities of the two lights is caused by the size of
one of the flames being altered, and not, as in those arrange
ments heretofore in use, by altering the distance of the flame
from the screen whilst the size is kept constant.
   Ritchie's photometer, as is well known, consists of two
pieces of white paper fastened to the adjacent sides of a trian
gular block of wood, each being illuminated by one only of
the lights which arc to bo compared. Finding it impossible
so to arrange the apparatus that the illuminated surfaces should
be actually in contact, the bend in the paper along the edge
of the block separating the two illuminated areas, and therefore
interfering with the accuracy of the determination, I placed
one of the pieces of paper slightly in front of the other, and
overlapping it to a small extent, so that, whilst both were
visible to the observer, each was illuminated by one only of
the sources of light ; when equally illuminated, the edge of the
 front paper vanished.
    It was originally intended that the light should be incident
 upon the surfaces of the paper at an angle of 45°; but it was
 found that when the light regularly reflected by the paper
 reached the observer (t. e. when the lino of sight and the
 direction of the incident light formed equal angles with the
 normal to the paper) it was not possible to make satisfactory
 measurements.
    After various positions had been tried, it was found that the
 best results were obtained when the light was incident upon
 the paper at an angle of about 30° and the line of sight
 formed an angle of 60° with the normal.
    Two triangular blocks of wood, 4 centim. high, were screwed
 to a rectangular board about 15 centim. by 10 centim., in the

              Sir John Conroy on a new Photometer.             425
position shown in the figure, and pieces
of white paper, 3 centim. by 8 centim.
(filter-paper was tried ; but ordinary
white writing-paper not too highly
glazed seemed most suitable), held
against the hypotenuse of each of the
triangular prisms by india-rubber
bands.
   It is of course essential that the light
should be incident upon both papers
at equal angles, and that the papers
should be so placed that no light can
be reflected from one to the other. It
is desirable that both papers should
be cut from the same sheet, and that the surfaces on which
the light is incident should originally have formed one side of
that sheet.
   A rectangular board, similar to that to which tho prisms
were fixed, was fastened to the top of the prisms by two
screws; and to the edges of this board four strips of card, in
three of which square apertures had been cut, were fixed, and
the whole arrangement painted both externally and internally
a dead black.
   In order to adjust tho papers, or replace them by new ones,
it is merely necessary to withdraw the two screws in the top
board and lift it off, together with the sides of the box.
   The edge of the front paper coinciding with the middle line
of the box, the photometer could be used with either side
uppermost; and in order to be certain that the illumination of
both papers was entirely due to light incident directly upon
them, measurements of the relative intensity of two similar
paraffin- lamps were made with the photometer in both posi
tions; and it was found that the readings were identical.
   The photometer was compared with a Bunsen's disk by
placing it at the end of a horizontal board furnished with a
scale, and along which a paraffin-lamp was arranged to slide.
A Bunsen's disk, in an ordinary form of support with two
inclined looking-glasses, could be screwed to the end of the
board, to which three stops were so fixed that, when the disk
was removed and the new photometer placed against the stops,
the middle line of the box was in the same vertical plane as       ,
the disk had been.
   A paraffin-lamp was placed on either side of the photo
meter, the position of one remaining constant, whilst that of
the other was altered until the illumination was equal, and the
distance of the latter read off, in centimetres, on tho scale.

426          Sir John Conroy on a nerc Photometer.
   The table gives the results of eight observations made with
both photometers, the differences of each observation from the
mean, and also the squares of these differences.
                          Bunsen's Disk.
                             Differences from      Squares of the
            centim.             the mean.            differences.
              85-7 ,               + -6                  -36
              84-6                 - -5                  -25
              84- 9                - -2                  -04
              85-4                  + -3                 -09
               86- 2                +1-1               1-21
               84-8                - -3                  -09
               84-3                - -8                  -64
               85- 2                + -1                 -01
   Moan . . 85-1                           Sum . . 2-69
                         New Photometer.
              85-0                 --4                   -16
               85-7                 +-3                  -09
               85-0                —4                    -16
               85-3                --1                   -01
               85-2                 --2                  -04
               85-4                --0                   -0
               85-8                +-4                   -16
               85-7                 +-3                  -09
   Mean . . 85-4                            Sum . . 0-71
   The probable error of the mean result and the probable error
of a single observation were found by the ordinary formulae,
n-fi7^*Aul" of the squares of the difference! ^ ^- x ^
         V                  n(n — l)
probable error of the mean result, n being the number of
observations.
                                            Bunsen's              New
                                              disk.          photometer,
                                            centim.            centim.
 Probable error of mean result             +OJ48              + 0-076
      „       „      single observation +0-418                +0215
    The new photometer therefore appears        to be twice as accu
 rate as the Bunsen's disk : it is only fair    to add that, had the
 measurements been made by an observer          accustomed to work
 with the disk, the result might have been      different.

                           [   427   ]
LXIV. On a Theory of the Electric Discharge in Gases. By
J. J. Thomson, M.A., Felloic of Trinity College, Cambridge4'.
THE aim of the following article is to give an account of
       a theory which seems to explain some of the more pro
minent phenomena of the electric discharge in gases, and
which also indicates the presence in the electric field of
stresses consisting of tension along the lines of force combined
with pressures at right angles to them. Maxwell, as is well
known, showed that stresses of this character would explain
the mechanical actions between electrified bodies.
   I shall take the vortex-atom theory of gases as the basis of
the following remarks, as it possesses for this purpose advan
tages over the ordinary solid-particle theory; though much
of the reasoning will hold whichever theory of gases be as
sumed. As the vortex-atom theory of gases is not very gene
rally known, I shall begin by quoting the more important
consequences of this theory which are required in this article.
According to this theory, the atoms of gases consist of ap
proximately circular vortex rings. When two vortex rings
of equal strength, with (as we shall suppose for simplicity)
their planes approximately parallel to each other and approxi
mately perpendicular to the line joining their centres, are
moving in the same direction, and the circumstances are
such that the hinder ring overtakes the one in front, then if,
when it overtakes it, the shortest distance between the circular
axes of the rings be small compared with the radius of either
ring, the rings will not separate, the shortest distance between
their circular axes will remain approximately constant, and
these circular axes will rotate round another circle midway
between them, while this circle moves forward with a velocity
of translation which is small compared with the linear velocity
of the vortex rings round it. We can prove that in this case
the product of the momentum and velocity of the rings is
greater than the sum of the products of the same quantities
for the rings when they were separated by a distance great
compared with the radius of either. We may suppose that
the union or pairing in this way of two vortex rings of dif
ferent kinds is what takes place when two elements of which
these vortex rings are atoms combine chemically; while, if the
vortex rings are of the same kind, this process is what occurs
when the atoms combine to form molecules. If two vortex
rings paired in the way we have described are subjected to
any disturbing influence, such as the action due to other
vortex rings in their neighbourhood, their radii will be changed
                   * Communicated by the Author.

428            Mr. J. J. Thomson on a Theory of
by different amounts; thus their velocities of translation will
become different, and they will separate. We are thus led to
take the view of chemical combination put forward by Clausius
and Williamson, according to which the molecules of a com
pound gas are supposed not to alwaj^s consist of the same
atoms of the elementary gases, but that these atoms are conti
nually changing partners. In order, however, that the com
pound gas should be something more than a mechanical mix
ture of the elementary gases of which it is composed, it is
evidently necessary that the mean time during which an atom
is paired with another of a different kind, which we shall call
the paired time, should be large compared with the time
during which it is alone and free from other atoms, which
time we shall call the free time. If we suppose that the gas
is subjected to any disturbance, then this will have the effect
of breaking up the molecules of the compound gas sooner than
would otherwise be the case. It will thus diminish the ratio of
the paired to the free time; and if the disturbance be great,
enough, the value of this ratio will be so much reduced that
the substance will no longer exhibit the properties of a che
mical compound, but those of its constituent elements: we
should thus have the phenomenon of dissociation or decom
position.
   The pressure of a gas in any direction is, according to
the vortex-atom theory of gases, proportional to the mean
value of the product of the momentum and velocity in that
direction, just as in the ordinary solid-particle theory.
   Let us now suppose that we have a quantity of gas in an
electric field. We shall suppose, as the most general assump
tion that we can make, that the electric field consists of a dis
tribution of velocity in the medium whose vortex-motion
constitutes the atoms of the gas; the disturbance due to this
distribution of velocity will cause the molecules of the gas to
break up sooner than they otherwise would do. Thus the
ratio of the paired time to the free time will be diminished.
Now, when the atoms are paired, the product of the mo
mentum and velocity for the compound molecule is greater
than the sum of the products of the same quantities for the
constituent atoms when free, but the pressure in any direc
tion is proportional to the mean value of the product of the
momentum and velocity in that direction. Thus each atom
will contribute more to the pressure when it is paired than
when it is free; and thus, if the ratio of the paired to the free
time be diminished, the pressure will be diminished. Now,
according to any conception which can be formed of the dis
tribution in the medium of the velocity due to the electric
field, the variation in the velocity will be greater along the

                  the Electric Discharge in Gases.             429
lines of force than at right angles to them; and thus those
molecules which are moving along the lines of force will he
split up into atoms sooner than those moving at right angles
to them. Thus the ratio of the paired to the free time will he
less for those molecules which are moving along the lines of
force than for those moving at right angles to them; and
therefore the pressure will be less along the lines of force than
at right angles to them. Maxwell, in his ' Treatise on Elec
tricity and Magnetism,' has shown that a distribution of stress
 of this character will account for the mechanical actions between
electrified bodies.
    To show that it is conceivable that this cause should pro
 duce effects sufficiently large to account for electrostatic
 attractions and repulsions, it may be useful to point out that
 the electric tension along the lines of force is very small when
 compared with the atmospheric pressure; for air at the atmo
 spheric pressure the maximum electric tension is only about
 So'oo °f 'uc atmospheric pressure. The theory that electro
 static attractions and repulsions are due to stresses in the
 gaseous dielectric admits of an experimental test; for it is
 evident that, according to this theory, the tension along the
 lines of force cannot exceed the pressure of the gas. Thus, if
 we have a gas sufficiently rare to support an electric field
 so intense that the pressure of the gas does not greatly exceed
 the electric tension along the lines of force when calcu
 lated by the ordinary expression, viz. KHS / 87r (where K is
 the specific inductive capacity of the gas, and H the electro
 motive force), then, if the theory of stress in the gas be correct,
 the tension along the lines of force will soon reach a maximum
 value, and will not increase with an increase in the electro
 motive force. Thus the attraction between the two electrodes
 in this case would reach a maximum, and would not after
 wards increase with an increase in the difference of potential
 between them. I may point out that, for this to happen, the
  density of the gas would have to be much less than the density
  for which the electric strength is a minimum, which the re
 searches of Dr. Do La Hue and others have shown to be at a
 pressure about '6 millimetre. For down to this pressure the
 electric force necessary to produce discharge is, speaking very
 roughly, proportional to the pressure, but the electric tension
 is proportional to the square of the electromotive force. Thus,
  down to the pressure of minimum strength, the ratio of the
  greatest electric tension to the pressure of the gas diminishes
  with the pressure; and it would be no use seeking for any
  effect such as is described above, except at pressures very much
  less than this. Taking the formula given by Dr. Macfarlane
  in the Philosophical Magazine for December 1880, for calcu

430             Mr. J. J. Thomson on a Theory of
lating the electromotive force necessary to produce discharge
from the pressure when this is less than that giving the mini
mum electrical strength, viz. V = *67/v/'/) (where V is the dif
ference of potential per centimetre, and p the pressure in
millimetres of mercury), I find that at a pressure of about
•0001 of a millimetre of mercury the electric tension just
before discharge would equal the pressure of the gas; so that
it is at pressures comparable with this that the experiment
ought to be tried.
   Let us now pass on to the case where the intensity of the
electric field is so great that the dielectric can no longer insu
late, and the electricity is discharged.
   It will be instructive to consider for a moment what hap
pens when a compound gas is raised to such a temperature
that it is dissociated, or an elementary one until its molecules
are split up into atoms. If the gas is at a low temperature,
say 0° C, when heat is first applied, so far as we can tell the
whole of the heat is employed in raising the temperature and
increasing the radiation, and no heat is rendered latent ; in
other words, the alteration in the molecular structure of the
gas absorbs no work. This state of things continues until we
approach the temperature at which the gas begins to be dis
 sociated ; then a large fraction of the heat supplied to the gas
is used up in altering the molecular structure, and only a part
of it is spent in raising the temperature and increasing the
radiation.
   If we look on this from the point of view of chemical com
bination which we took before, we may regard it as showing
that, if any energy be supplied to the gas when the ratio of the
paired to the free time is so large that the gas exhibits none
of the phenomena of dissociation, the consequent diminu
tion in the ratio of the paired to the free time does not
absorb any of the energy; but if the ratio of the paired to the
free time be so small that the gas exhibits some of the phe
nomena of dissociation, then a diminution in the ratio of
the paired to the free time will absorb a considerable .amount
of energy. The same statements will apply to an elementary
gas, except that in this case the change of structure consists
in splitting the molecules up into atoms of the same kind,
while in the compound gas they were split up into atoms of
different kinds.
   Let us now apply these considerations to the case of the
electric discharge. The disturbance to which the gas in an
electric field is subjected makes the molecules break up sooner
into atoms than they otherwise would do, and thus diminishes
the ratio of the paired to the free times of the atoms of the
gas; as the intensity of the electric field increases, the dis

                the Electric Discharge in Gases.              431
turbance in some places may become so violent that in these
regions the ratio of the paired to the free times approaches
the value it has when the gas is about to be dissociated.
At this point any diminution of this ratio consequent upon
an increase in the intensity of the field will absorb a large
amount of energy; this energy must come from the electric
field; and we should thus get the phenomenon of the electric
discharge. The disturbance to which the gas is subjected
might veiy well account for the luminosity of the discharge;
whilst the heat produced by the recombination of the disso
ciated gas, which would occur as soon as the disturbance due
to the electric field was withdrawn, would account for the heat
produced by the discharge. Only a very small amount of gas
would have to bo decomposed in order to absorb the electrical
energy of the field. Taking the values of the electric force
necessary to produce discharge given by Dr. A. Macfarlane
(Phil. Mag. Dec. 1880), we find that if the dielectric be
hydrochloric-acid gas and the gaseous layer be a centimetre
thick or more, the electric energy per cubic centimetre will be
less than 1000 in G.Gr.S. units; while the amount of energy
necessary to decompose 1 cub. centim. of hydrochloric-acid
gas is more than 4 x 109 in the same units. Thus only about
one four-millionth part of the gas would have to be decom
posed in order to exhaust the energy of the electric field. This
quantity, though so small, is yet probably much larger than
would in reality be required, as the work which absorbs the
energy of the electric field is the splitting- up of the molecules
of the hydrochloric-acid gas into hydrogen and chlorine
atoms. These atoms will combine with each other to form
molecules of hydrogen and chlorine respectively, and will give
out heat in so doing, which will heat the gas, but will not
restore the electric energy. Now the heat of combination of
hydrogen and chlorine when they form hydrochloric acid is
not the same as the heat required to split up hydrochloric acid
into atoms of hydrogen and chlorine, but is equal to the latter
quantity minus the heat given out when the atoms of hydro
gen and chlorine combine to form molecules of hydrogen and
chlorine respectively. The determinations by Prof. E. Wiede
mann of the heat given out when hydrogen atoms combine to
form molecules, and by Prof. Thomsen of the same quantity
 for carbon atoms, seem to show that these quantities are greater
than the heat given out in ordinary chemical reactions, and
 thus that these latter quantities are the differences of quanti
 ties each much greater than themselves. Thus to decompose
 hydrochloric acid into hydrogen and chlorine would require
 much more energy than the mechanical equivalent of the heat
 of combination of hydrogen and chlorine.

 432            Mr. J. J. Thomson on a Theory of
    Tliis view of the electric discharge indicates a relation
 between the electric strength of a gas and its chemical pro
 perties; for in order to make the spark pass through an ele
 mentary gas we have to decompose the molecules into atoms:
 thus the stronger the connexion between the atoms in the
 molecule, the greater the electric strength. Thus, for example,
 we should expect that the atoms of nitrogen are much more
 firmly connected together in the molecule than the atoms
 of hydrogen, as the electric strength of nitrogen is much
 greater than that of hydrogen. Unfortunately we seem to
 know very little about the strength of connexion between the
atoms in the molecule; it would, however, be interesting to
try whether a gas whose molecules, like those of iodine vapour,
are easily dissociated into atoms would be electrically weak.
In many cases, of course, the decomposition of the gas on the
passage of the spark is very evident ; a common way of decom
posing a gas being to pass sparks through it. We might,
however, have chemical decomposition without being able to
detect the products of it ; for these might recombine as soon
as the disturbance produced by the electric field was removed.
In the case of an elementary gas, the splitting-up of the mo
lecules into atoms will effect the same purpose as the decom
position of the compound gas—t. e. the exhaustion of the
electric field. Thus, according to the view wc are now dis
cussing, chemical decomposition is not to be considered merely
as an accidental attendant on the electrical discharge, but as
an essential feature of the discharge, without which it could
not occur.
   Let us now consider what effect rarefying the gas would
have upon its electrical strength. In a rare gas the mean
distance between the molecules is greater than in a dense one;
and if the temperature be the same in both cases, and conse
quent!j' the mean velocity of the molecules the same, the ratio
of the free to the paired time will be greater for the rare than
 for the dense gas; for the free atoms will, on an average, be
 longer in meeting with fresh partners. Thus the rare gas will
be nearer the state in which it begins to suffer dissociation
 than the dense gas, and thus it will not require to be disturbed
so violently as the dense gas in order to increase the ratio of
 the free to the paired time to its dissociation value ; and thus
the intensity of the field necessary to produce discharge
 would be less for the rare gas than for the denser one:
in other wrords, the electric strength would diminish with the
density; and this we know is the case. It is now generally
admitted that rare gases are more easily dissociated than
denser ones. In fact Sir C. W. Siemens takes this as the basis
of his theory of the Conservation of Solar Radiation, as he

                 the Electric Discharge in Gases.             433
supposes that the rays of the sun are able to dissociate the
compound gases, chiefly hydrocarbons, which in a very rare
state he supposes distributed throughout the universe; while,
when these gases exist at pressures comparable with that of
the atmosphere, they are able to transmit the sun's rays with
out suffering dissociation. These considerations would seem
at first sight to indicate that the electric strength of gases
would continually decrease with the density ; whereas we
know that it only does so to a certain point, and that after
wards the electric strength increases as the density decreases.
    We have in the above reasoning, however, supposed that
whenever we got chemical decomposition at all we had always
sufficient energy absorbed to exhaust the electric field. In
consequence of the great absorption of energy in chemical
decomposition, this is legitimate, unless the gas be very rare ;
but for a very rare gas it will be necessary to decompose a
larger proportion of the molecules of the gas, and it will
require a more intense electric field to do this. If the gas
were very rare, it might be that the energy required to decom
pose all the gas was not sufficient to exhaust the energy of the
electric field. In this case all the electricity could not be dis
 charged at once; while in an absolute vacuum there would be
no chemical decomposition to lessen the energy of the electric
 field, and there would be no electrical discharge at all. Thus
there are two causes at work which produce opposite effects
on the electric strength as we rarefy a gas. The first is that
the gas is more easily dissociated as we rarefy it ; this dimi
 nishes the electric strength of the gas. The second is that, as
there are fewer molecules, a larger proportion of them must
be decomposed in order to exhaust the same amount of energy,
 and it will require a more intense electric field to separate tfie
larger proportion ; this will tend to increase the electric
 strength of a gas as we rarefy it. The second of these consi
 derations is not important at pressures comparable with that
 of the atmosphere, as in this case the percentage of the gas
 which has to be dissociated in order to exhaust the energy of
 the electric field is extremely small; so that, starting from the
 atmospheric pressure, we should expect the gas te get electri
 cally weaker as it gets rarer. With very rare gases, on the
 other hand, the second consideration, as the extreme case of a
 perfect vacuum shows, is the more important; and thus with
 very rare gases the electric strength should increase as the
 gas gets rarer. Both of these results agree with the results
 of experience.
    It may be worth while to point out that, according to the
 view taken in this paper, a perfect vacuum possesses infinite
 electric strength ; and thus it is in opposition to the theories

434         On a new Form of Horse-power Indicator.
put forward by Prof. Edlund and Dr. Goldstein, in both of
which a vacuum is regarded as a perfect conductor.
   In a future paper I hope to explain other phenomena of the
electric discharge by means of this theory, and also to apply
it to the case of conduction through metals.
          LXV. A new Form of Horse-power Indicator.
              By Frederick John Smith, B.A.*
IN transmission-dynamometers and other instruments used
       to measure, say, engine-power, it is very convenient (in
addition to taking the final result by an integrating apparatus,
such as that shown at page 87, Phil. Mag. Feb. 1883, by the
author of these lines) to be able to see on a dial at a glance
without any calculation the rate at which at any instant energy
in foot-pounds is being transmitted. In the communication
just cited it was shown how the velocity at any instant could
be determined. Now, supposing that the velocity could be
kept uniform, then the tension of the belt, as shown by the
dynamometer spring, would only have to be read and multi
plied by the velocity of the belt in feet per second; and thus
after a trial lasting, it might be, for two minutes the horse
power could be determined. The object of the instrument
now to be described is to do away with making different obser
vations and calculations, and to enable the observer to see at
a glance the rate at which horse-power is being transmitted at
any instant. The instrument in its most simple form is shown
at fig. 1, where K P is a square dial divided into little squares
(not shown); in each little square the product of the numbers
at the top and side appear. A B C D and EFGH are two
frames carrying the wires A D and HE. K L is the line of
velocities; K M the line of tensions. Now, by means of a cen
trifugal speed-indicator, such as that of Young, and the intro
duction of certain mechanism, the wire H E is caused, by its
movement across the dial, to indicate the velocity, in feet per
second, at any instant; at the same time A D indicates the
tension of the belt transmiting the energy, in pounds; and at
the point of intersection of the two wires we find these two
quantities multiplied together; and thus at a glance we can
see what is going on in the dynamometer. E. g. suppose the
wire H E cuts 80, it then indicates the rate of 80 feet per
second; if at the same moment A D cuts 40, it shows that the
tension of the belt is 40 pounds; if, then, we look at the point
of intersection of the two wires, wo find 3200, i. e. the rate of
3200 foot-pounds per second at the instant when the observa
tion was made. Pig. 2 shows another form of the same
                   * Communicated by the Author.

          Prof. S. P. Thompson on Polarizing Prisms.       435
instrument; in it we have the dial in a cylindrical shape. This
cylindrical dial is mounted on a speed-indicator N; and the
                  Fig. 1.                  Fig. 2.
 pointer M is controlled by the tension spring-rod P Q; and
 thus M points directly to the figures indicating the rate
 at which energy, in foot-pounds per second, is being trans
 mitted. In order that the speed-indicators may be calibrated
 with great accuracy, they are attached to wheelwork driven by
  a water-wheel of large power in comparison with that required
  to drive the indicator ; if the water-wheel be well balanced
  and fed by a constant head, very good results can be obtained.
  The velocity of the water-wheel is measured by means of a
  counter read after short periods of time.
    Taunton, May 18, 1883.
                   LXVI. On Polarizing Prisms.
     To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
        Gentlemen,
   IN the very able paper of Mr. R. T. G-Iazebrook, F.R.S.,
        which appears in your May issue, a polarizing prism is
   described which, according to the description, " differs from
   the one described by Professor S. P. Thompson (Phil. Mag.
   Nov. 1881) only in the fact that its ends are normal to its
   length instead of being inclined obliquely to it." *"
      I was not aware that in my paper " On a New Polarizing
   Prism," which you did me the honour to print in the Philo
   sophical Magazine for November 1881, I had anywhere
   limited myself to any one special angle for terminal faces to
   the prism. I did discuss in general terms what the result

43(5                       Geological Society.
 would bo if the terminal pianos were inclined at angles the
 same as those of a Nicol prism, or if more oblique. And, as a
 matter of fact, I have had prisms constructed with faces both
 more oblique and less oblique than those of the ordinary Nicol,
 and some also with end-faces normal to the axis as in the flat-
 ended Nicol prisms. My suggestion, of which the main point
 was the orientation of the reflecting Kim in a principal piano
 of section of the crystal, included the particular case which
 has claimed Mr. Glazebrook's attention. And in the conclu
 ding paragraph of my paper of 1881 I claimed, for the con
 struction which I suggested, one of the two further advantages
 which Mr. Glazebrook has so skilfully worked out, viz. " the
 advantage of producing a field in which the rectilinear polari
 zation approximates more uniformly and symmetrically to a
 polarization in one plane than is the case in the ordinary
 Nicol." As this was a point to which Mr. Glazebrook took
exception on the occasion when my paper was read to the
British Association, I am the more gratified to find his ele
gant analytical demonstration of this very feature.
    I have only to add that, thanks to a small grant from the
Wollaston fund of the Royal Society, I have been able to pro
secute some further investigations on polarizing prisms, which
will, I trust, be shortly ready for publication.
                     I am, Gentlemen,
   University College, Bristol,    Your obedient sorvant,
         May H>, 1883.                      SlLVANUS P. THOMPSON.
            LXVII. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                         GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                        [Continued from p. 3t>8.]
April 25, 1883. J. W. Hulke, Esq., F.R.S., President, in the Chair.
rPHE following communications were road:—
       1. " On tin; Skull of Meyalosauins." By Prof. R. Owen, C.B.,
F.R.S., F.G.S.
   ± " Notes on tho Bagshot Sands." By H.W.Monckton, Esq., F.G.S.
   The author explained that his paper related to the series of
Bagshot Sands on and around Bagshot Heath, which forms what is
tinned " the main mass " of the Bagshot beds in the memoirs of the
Geological Survey.
   The railway-cutting at Goldsworthy Hill, described in 1847 by
Prof. Prostwich, is still the best type section of the Middle Bagshot
Sands : and the succession of strata seen there was illustrated by
reference to newer sections near Ascot and Wellington College. It
was pointed out that the most marked feature in this part of the
series is very pure gieensaud, containing casts of shells of Bracklos-
ham species, that a pebble-bed is found at nearly the same relative
level over a large area, and that this pebble-bed forms the most

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.           437
convenient and natural line of division between the Upper and
Middle Bagshot.
   The Upper Bagshot Sands were then described, and attention was
drawn to the abundance of fossils in some of the higher beds.
   The author then referred to the correlation of the Bagshot beds
with the Hampshire series, and stated his conclusion that the Middle
Bagshot beds are of Middle Bracklesham age, whilst the Upper
Bagshot Sands are nearly equivalent to the Lower Barton of Hamp
shire, and are in no way equivalent to the so-called Upper Bagshot
Sands of Long Mead End.
   3. "Additional Note on Boulders of Hornblende Pierito near the
western coast of Anglesey." By Prof. T. Gr. Bonuey, M.A., F.R.S.,
Sec. G.S.
   In the 37th volume of the ' Quarterly Journal ' the author de
scribed a large boulder of Hornblende picrite which he had dis
covered near Pen-y-carnisiog. During an excursion last summer to
Porth-nobla he had found in that neighbourhood at least eight
more. The rock then clearly was not very rare in this part of
Anglesey. These exhibited some varietal differences. The author
gave some details of thoir microscopic structure, and an analysis of
one identical with the Pen-y-carnisiog rock, kindly made for him by
Mr. J. A. Phillips, F.R.S., from which it appeared that this British
picrite corresponds fairly well with the picrite of Schriesheim in the
Odenwald, to which in other respects it bears so close a resemblance.
Mr. J. J. H. Teall recently called the author's attention to a rock
 which he had collected on Littlo Knott, east of Bassenthwaite, which
 appeared to him to resemble the description of the Anglesey picrite.
 The author had examined a series of specimens from that locality,
 and found that macroscopically and microscopically there was a
 marked resemblance, while the percentages of silica and magnesia
 were not very different. He thought, then, it was very probable
 that the Anglesey boulders came from the Little-Knott district.
          LXVIII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
              MICA FILMS FOR POLARIZING-PURPOSES.
       To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
    Gentlemen,
 IT may be worth while to mention, in connexion with Mr.
      "Wright's paper on Crystalline Films published in the Philoso
 phical Magazine for this month, that very good, clear, uniform
 mica films may be found among the thin sheets of mica used by
 photographers for protecting prints, and sold under the name of
 " crystal medium."
    The very best and clearest mica (chiefly, I believe, from Italy
 and America) is sought for by those who prepare these sheets ; and
 the accuracy and uniformity of the splitting is very great.
    Out of a dozen films, 10x6 centim. (carte-de-visite size), I have
 found at least four which are approximately |-wave films, uniform
 in thickness throughout ; and most of the others were so even and
 clear that they were worth the trouble of splitting into thinner ones.
     Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 15. No. 96. June 1883.              2I

 438           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
    For splitting the films I know of no better plan than the old
 device for splitting a sheet of paper in two, viz. to glue the mica
 between two pieces of fine cambric and (when they are dry) tear them
 asunder ; a film remains attached to each, and can be separated by
 immersing the whole in hot water.
    It is easy in this way to get films so thin that they only give two
 " Talbofs bands " between the Fraunbofer lines D and F, when
 the light reflected from them at an angle of 45° is examined in the
 spectroscope ; and I have obtained many (but not very large) films
 thinner than this, showing brilliant colours of Newton's first order.
 Such films are, of course, very fragile ; but they can with care be
 floated upon a glass plate immersed in the water, and then lifted
 out and dried.                                          H. G. Madait.
   Eton College, May 16, 1883.
      TO CUT A MILLIMETRE-SCREW. BY CHARLES K. WEAD.
       To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
Gentlemen,
    The simple method that Mr. Bosanquet has used in his " Ar
rangement for dividing Inch- and Metre-Scales," described in the
March number of this Magazine, seems to me of so much value
that I send you a brief description (communicated to kSilliman's
Journal, March 1882) of another application of the same principle,
i. e. of the use of a wheel of 127 teeth or divisions.
   In this connexion two points may be worthy of record here :—
First, that Rogers's measurements, reported at the Montreal Meeting
of the American Association, aud confirmed in a general way by
E. S. Pierce, make the metre=39-37015 inches; this is longer
than what I have called the "mechanical" metre ( _ 100Q0 incnes"N
                                                   V 2 x 127          /
by only 1 part in 560,000. Secondly, the absolute error of some
fine screws is many hundred times this theoretical error: the
screw of my dividing-engine is too short by 1 part in 700 ; of a
screw from Perreaux at Johns Hopkins University, Rowland states
that the " thread is ^ millim., aud the head has 250 divisions ; 501
divisions give 1 millim. almost exactly." The screw of the engine
on which Rutherford's well-known gratings were cut furnishes
17,296 lines tothe inch instead of 17,280 ( = 48 x 360); so the error
here is about 1 part in 1100. In all these cases, and in some others
that I have noticed, the screw is too fine. From the details given
about the Rutherford screw in the article " Spectrum " in ' The
American Cyclopedia,' it would seem that the shortening here was
due to the hardening of the taps and dies used in making the screw.
In the mechanical journals methods have been described for giving
to a lathe feed-screw a slow longitudinal motion to correct for any
error of pitch ; but such methods could hardly prove useful on phy
sical apparatus.                       I am, yours respectfully,
   Ann Arbor, Mich.,                                     C. K.'Wead.
     April 14, 1883.
   The increasing attention paid to the metric system renders it

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.         439
more and more desirable to put the relations between this and the
English system of weights and measures in as simple a light as
possible. If a screw is to be cut on an ordinary lathe with its
pitch a convenient number of teeth to the millimetre, centimetre,
or metre, the change-wheels are not adapted to the purpose. The
only reference I have ever found to the subject is in Chambers's
' Encyclopaedia,' article " Wheelwork," where the problem is given
to compute the gears needed to cut a screw of 200 threads to
1 metre on a lathe whose feed-screw has 4 threads to the inch. By
continued fractions the number of teeth, beginning with the spindle,
is found to be 50, 48, 89, 73; i. «., if x = number of threads to
              50 x 89 4=5-08, or in 1 metre are 5-08x39-37=200
1 inch, a:=|g^ygX
threads. This requires two gears with a prime number of teeth.
   A simpler method than this I suggested four years ago to Messrs.
Buff and Berger, of Boston ; and by it they cut me some very satis
factory screws with 1 thread to the millimetre, using their new
lathe with two dead centres. As it was new to them and to all my
friends familiar with mechanical work to whom I have spoken of
it, I venture to publish it, though it seems too simple to have
escaped previous notice.
    The method is based on the fact that 1 inch equals very nearly
 25-4 millimetres ; it would equal it exactly
                  If 1 metre equalled . 39-37008 inches.
                  Clarke's value equals 39-37043 „
                  Kater's „         „     39-37079 „
    This " mechanical " metre differs from the best determination
 yet made (Clarke's) by no more than that differs from the next best
 one, viz. one 110,000th part, though in the opposite direction. The
 form in which the direction was given to Buff and Berger was :—
 " Gear the lathe so as to cut a screw with 20 threads to the inch
 with a gear of 100 teeth on the feed-screw ; replace the 100 by
      ( 254\
        = — J, and the pitch will be 1 millimetre, the theoretical
 error being much less than the mechanical error of cutting. Thus,
 on the lathe above referred to, x= 127 _ x 4 = 25-4 to the inch, or
 1 to the millimetre ; again,       127 x4 -4-25-4=4, i. e. 1 thread
 to 5 millimetres.
    On small lathes it may often be necessary to put the 127 gear on
 the arm (because the screw and spindle are too near together), and
 perhaps to get a longer arm than usual : but neither this nor the
 calculation for any whole number of threads to the millimetre,
 centimetre, or decimetre will present any great difficulty to any
  one familiar with the principle.
             Laboratory, University of Michigan,
                December 16, 1881.

440           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
         ON THE CONDENSATION OF FLUIDS ON SOLID BODIES.
                       BY EILHARD WIEDEMANN.
     Wilhelmy*, from experiments on capillarity, concluded that
 upon glass surfaces which dip into water the latter is condensed
 in large quantity. Later experiments, however, by Rontgenf,
 Schleiermacheri, and Volkmann§, who ascertained the specific
 gravity of the same body first in whole pieces and then in a state
 of fine division, showed that the weight of the condensed layer is
 extremely slight, and not determinable. The latter result is also in
 perfect accordance with what the newer investigations of Van der
  Waalsll on the magnitude of the molecular forces have taught us,
 as I intend, in what follows, to show.
     The condensation of the liquid upon the side is owing to this—
 that the forces emanating from the side, and rapidly diminishing
 with the distance from it, compress the fluid within a layer the
 thickness a of which is equal to the sphere of action of the mole
 cular forces. We can conceive the layer in question resolved into
 thinner ones, each of the thickness d.v, within which the molecular
 force k can be regarded as constant. If we further assume that
 the coefficient « of compressibility is independent of the pressure,
 if s is the specific gravity of the fluid, upon the unit of surface
a quantity                        ro
                            d= I kuscLv
is condensed.
     If we put the force k exerted by the side upon the fluid
 equal to the pull K exerted by a fluid, in consequence of the mole
 cular forces, upon its superficial parts, we assume a force at any
 rate of the same order of magnitude as that which acts between
 the fluid and the side at the surface of contact. But if in the
above expression we substitute K for k, we obtain much too high
a value for the amount d condensed, since k diminishes very quickly
with increasing distance from the wall. Consequently we have
                                d< Kasn.
For water, K = 10000 atmospheres, a=about 5 x 10~5, and, accord
ing to Quinckef, a = O0000005 centim. ; so that d< 10000 x
0-00005 . 0 0000005g.=2o x 10~8g. Accordingly even Kusa, and
therefore more certainly d, is a completely inappreciable quantity.
    Volkmanu's ** value for the thickness of the bounding layer, on
the assumption of which the laws of the heights to which fluids
ascend in capillary tubes and on solid plane sides are valid, cannot
be applied to these reasonings, because the real existence of so thick
a boundary layer different in constitution from that of the free
fluid has not actually been verified.—Wiedemann's Annalen, vol. xvii.
pp. 988-990 (1882).
   * Pogg. Ann. cxix. p. 117 (1863), exxii. p. 1 (1864).
   t Wied. Ann. iii. p. 321 (1878).
   J Wied. Ann. viii. p. 52 (1879).
   § Wied. Ann. xi. p. 182 (1880).
   || ' The Continuity of the Gaseous and Liquid States,' German trans
lation by F. Roth.
   H Pogg. Ann. exxxvii. p. 402 (1869).
   ** Wied. Ann. xi. p. 117 (1880).

                                      441
                    INDEX to VOL. XV.
Am, on the electrification of the, 70.      scales, 217 ; on permanent magne
Atmosphere, on the amount of car            tism, 257, 309; on self-regulating
  bon dioxide in the, 46, 161.              dynamo-electric machines, 275.
Atomic weights, on the relation be       Browne (W. R.) on certral forces
  tween the heats of combination of         and the conservation of energy,
  the elements and their, 42.               35, 228 ; on the use of the term
Auroral beam of November 17, 1882,          " force," 368.
  on the, 318.                           Capillarity, on the theories of, 47,
Ayrton (Prof. W. E.) on the resist          191, 198.
  ance of the electric arc, 346; on      Capron (J. R.) on the auroral beam
   winding electromagnets, 397.             of November 17, 1882, 318.
Bail}' (H.) on the spectra formed by     Central forces and the conservation
  curved diffraction-gratings, 183.         of energy, on, 35, 152, 228, 209.
Barrett (Prof. W. F.) on the alleged     Chappuis (J.) on the refraction-
  luminosity of the magnetic field,         indices of gases at high pressures,
  270.                                      299.
Bath, on a new form of constant-          Clausius (Prof. R.) on the connexion
  temperature, 339.                         between the units of magnetism
Becquerel (H.) on the phosphoro-            and electricity, 79.
  graphy of the infra-red region of      Close (Rev. M. H.) on the meaning
  the solar spectrum, 223.                  of "force," 248.
Bidwell (S.) on the electrical resist    Colour-sensation, on, 373.
  ance of selenium cells, 31 ; on a      Conroy (Sir J.) on a new photo
  method of measuring electrical            meter, 423.
  resistances, 316.                      Cook (E. H.) on the amount of car
Bolometer, description of the, 174.         bon dioxide in the atmosphere,
Boltzmann (Prof.) on the direct pho         151; on the regenerative theory of
   tography of sound-vibrations, 161.       solar action, 400.
Books, new :—Fisher's Physics of the     Crafts (J. M.) on the exactness of
  Earth's Crust, 56; Ballard's Solu         the measurements made with mer
  tion of the Pyramid Problem, 69 ;         curial thermometers, 66.
   Peacock's Saturated Steam the         Crystalline films, on optical combi
  Motive Power in Volcanoes and             nations of, 301.
  Earthquakes, 60; Piazzi Smyth's        David (T. W. E.) on glacial action
  Madeira Spectroscopic, 144 ;              in South Brecknockshire, 62.
  Routh's Dynamics of a System of        Diffraction-gratings, on the spectra
  Rigid Bodies, 218.                        formed by curved, 183; on curved,
Bosanquet (R. H. M.) on magneto             414.
  motive force, 205 ; on an arrange      Dissociation, on Lockyer's theory of,
   ment for dividing inch- and metre-

   442                                  INDEX.
   Droop (H. R.) on colour-sensation,            prisms, 352; on curved difFraction-
      373.                                       gratings, 414.
    Dynamo-electric machines, on self-        Gray (T.) on seismographic appa
      regulating, 275.                           ratus, 303.
   Edlund (Prof. E.) on the passage of        Hall (E. H.) on the " rotational coeffi
       electricity through rare fied air, 1.     cients '' of various metals, 341.
   Electric accumulator, on a high-           Heats of combination of the elements,
      pressure, 203.                             on the relations between the, and
          arc, on the resistance of the,S46.     their atomic weights, 42.
          discharge, on a theory of the,      Hicks (Dr. H.) on tho metamorphic
      in gases, 4'27.                            rocks in parts of Ross and Inver
           forces, on the change in the          ness shires, 221.
      double refraction of quartz pro         Horse-power indicator, on a new
       duced by, 132.                            form of, 434.
          motor, on the graphic represen      Hydrogen, on the photometric inten
      tation of the law of efficiency of        sity of the spectral lines of, 226.
      an, 124.                               Inch- and metre-scales, on an arrange
           sparks, on the displacements          ment for dividing, 217.
      and deformations of, 72.               Don, on effects of retentiveness in
   Electrical resistances, on a method          the magnetization of, 246.
      of measuring-. 316; of selenium        Irving (Rev. A.) on the mechanics of
      cells, on the, 31.                        glaciers, 03; on the origin of val
   Electricity, on the passage of, through      ley-lakes, 65.
      rarefied air, 1 ; on the connexion be  Lagarde (H.) on the measurement
      tween the units of magnetism and,         of the photometric intensity of the
      79.                                       spectral lines of hydrogen, 226.
   Electrolytic discharge, on dissym         Lamb (Prof. H.) on the basis of sta
      metry in the, 391.                        tics, 187.
   Electromagnets, on winding, 397.          Langley (S. P.) on the selective ab
  Elements, on the relations between            sorption of solar energy, 153.
      the heats of combination of the,       Laurie (A. P.) on the relations be
      and their atomic weights, 42.             tween the heats of combination of
  Energy, on the conservation of, 35,           the elements and their atomic
      162," 228, 299.                           weights, 42.
   Ergometer, on a new form of, 87.          LeConte (J.) on the amount of car
   Everett (Prof. J. D.) on forced vi           bon dioxide in the atmosphere, 46 ;
      brations, with applications to the        on apparent attractions and repul
      tides and to controlled pendulums,        sions of small floating bodies, 47.
     73.                                     Lippmann (G.) on the determination
  Farey series, on the number of frac           ot the ohm, 149.
     tions contained in any, 261.            Liquid, on the vibrations of a cylin
  Fluids, on the condensation of, on            drical vessel containing, 385.
      solid bodies, 440.                     Lockyer's theory of dissociation, on,
  Force, on the meaning of the term,            28.
     248, 368.                               Mackintosh (D.) on the recency of
  Gardner (J. S.) on tho Lower Eocene           the close of the Glacial Period,
     section between Reculvers and              297.
     Heme Bay, 219.                          Madan (II. G.) on mica films for
  Gases, on the refraction-indices of, at       polarizing purposes, 437.
     high pressures, 299 ; on a theory       Magnetic circle, on a method of cal
     of the electric discharge in, 427.         culating the amount of magnetism
  Ueikie (Dr. A.) on the pre-Cambrian          of a, 389.
     rocks of St. David's, 304.                     field, on the alleged luminosity
  Geological Society, proceedings of           of the, 270.
     the, 60, 219, 297, 4S&                  Magnetism, on the connexion between
• Glaciers, on the mechanics of, 63.           the units of electricity and, 79;
  Glazebrook (R. T.) on polarizing              on permanent, 257, 309.

                                 INDEX.                                    443
Magnetization of iron and steel, on     Refraction-indices of gases at high
  effects of retentiveness in the, 246.    pressures, on the, 299.
Magnetomotive force, on, 205.,          Righi (A.) on the displacements and
Mascart (Prof.) on the electrification     deformations of electric sparks by
  of the air, 70.                          electrostatic actions, 72.
Metals, on the " rotational coeffi      Riley (J. T.) on capillary pheno
  cients " of various, 341.                mena, 191.
Metre- and inch-scales, on an arrange   Riviere (C.) on the refraction-indices
  ment for dividing, 217.                  of gases at high pressures, 299.
Mica-films for polarizing purposes,     Rontgen (Prof. W. C.) on the change
  437.                                     in the double refraction of quartz
Michelson (A. A.) on a method for          produced by electric forces, 132.
  determining the rate of tuning-       Sabine (It.) on n wedtre-and-dia-
  forks, 84.                               phragm photometer, 22.
Millimetre-screw, on a simple method    Saponine, on the viscosity of a solu
  of cutting a, 438.                       tion of, 406.
Moon (W.) on a method of calcula        Seismographic apparatus, on, 363.
  ting the amounts of magnetism of      Selenium cells, on the electrical re
  a magnetic circle, 389.                  sistance of, 31.
Nicol (W. W. J.) on the nature of       Sensations, on the errors of our,
  solution, 91 ; on a new form of          259.
  constant-temperature bath, 339.       Smith (F. J.) on a new form ofergo-
Oats (F.) on the diamond-fields of         meter, 87 ; on a high-pressure
  South Africa, 220.                       accumulator, 203 ; on a new form
Ohm, on the determination of the,          of horse-power indicator, 434.
   149.                                 Solar action, on the regenerative
Oil, on a theoretic interpretation of      theory of, 400.
   the calming effect of, on the surges        energy, on the selective absorp
   of the sea, 08.                         tion of, 153.
Optical combinations of crystalline            spectrum, phosphorography of
  films, on, 301.                          the mlra-red region of the, 223 ;
Pauchou (E.) on the upper limit of         on the ultra-red region of the,
  the perceptibility of sounds, 371.       235.
Pendulums, on the control of, 78.       Solution, on the nature of, 91.
Perry (Prof. J.) on the resistance of   Sounds, on the upper limit of the
  the electric arc, 346 ; on winding       perceptibility of, 371.
   electromagnets, 397.                 Sound-vibrations, on the direct pho
Photometer, on a now, 423 ; on a           tography of, 151.
  wedge-and-diaphragm, 22.              Spectra formed by curved diffraction-
Polarizing prisms, on, 352, 435, 437.      gratings, on the, 183.
Pringsheim (E.) on the radiometer,      Speed-indicator, on a, 90.
  101 ; on a measurement of wave        Stables (W. II.) on the viscosity of
  lengths in the ultra-red region of       a solution of saponine, 406.
  the spectrum of the sun, 235.         Statics, on the basis of, 187.
Pycnometer, on a modification in the,   Steel, on effects of retentiveness in
   369.                                    the magnetization of, 246.
Quartz, on the change in the double      Sun, on the measurement of wave
  refraction of, produced by electric      lengths in the ultra-red region of
  forces, 132.                             the spectrum of the, 235.
Radiometer, on the, 101.                 Sun-spots, ou the absorption-spectra
Rayleigh (Lord) on maintained vi           of, 29.
  brations, 229 ; on the vibrations of  Sylvester (Prof. J. J.) on the num
  a cylindrical vessel containing          ber of fractions contained in any
  liquid, 385.                             " Farey series," 251.
Reade (T. M.) on the drift-beds of      Thermometers, on the exactness of
  the north-east of England and            the measurements made with mer
  North Wales, 60.                         curial, 66.

444                                 INDEX.
Thomson (J. J.) on a theory of the          the " Northampton Sand " to the
   electric discharge in gases, 427.        Clypeus-grit, 297.
Thompson (Prof. S. P.) on the gra         Warburg (Prof. E.) on effects of re-
   phic representation of the law of        tentiveness in the magnetization of
   efficiency of an electric motor, 124 ;   iron and steel, 246.
   on polarizing prisms, 435.             Wead (C. K.) on a simple method
Tides, researches on the, 75.               of cutting a millimetre-screw,
Tribe (A.) on dissymmetry in the            438.
   electric discharge, 391.               Wethered(E.)onthe Lower Carboni
Tuning-forks, method for determin           ferous rocks in the Forest of Dean,
  ing the rate of, 84.                      223.
Tunzelmann (G. W. von) on central         Wiedemann (Prof. E.) on a modifi
  forces and the conservation of            cation in the pycnometer, 360 ; on
  energy, 152, 299.                         the condensation of fluids on solid
Van der Mensbruggho (M.) on a               bodies, 440.
   theoretic interpretation of the        Wilson (A. E.) on the viscosity of a
  calming effect of oil on the surges       solution of saponine, 406.
  of the sea, 68.                         Worthington (A. M.) on the hori
Vibrations, investigations relating to      zontal motion of floating bodies
  forced, 73 ; on maintained, 229 ;         under the action of capillary
  of a cylindrical vessel containing        forces, 198.
  liquid, on the, 385.                    Wright (10 on optical combinations
Vogel (H. W.) on Lockyer's theory           of crystalline films, 301.
  of dissociation, 28.                    Yung (Dr. E.) on the errors of our
Walford (E. A.) on the relation of          sensations, 259.
                 END OF THE FIFTEENTH VOLUME.
           Printed by Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.

                                                            Phil. Mag. S 5 .Vol.15.?: W
                                             Fig. 1
                                             Fig. 2.
                                             Fi g      3.
                                              Pi g. 4-.
                               "winding Electromagnets"
                                        CURVES BETWEEN
                            TANCENT OF DEFLECTION OF NEEDLE AND
                                DISTANCE OF CORE FROM NEEDLE
                                                                           —
            .
                             1
       til
                                                                                  -
        n ¦V1— v
       -H—  \\                                                                         —
              TVn V
aa?        —'  \ \ \i—   c                                                           —
mI ulz
                  *-      ¦s
                  -V                                                                   —
                     •                                           *—
          ¦ -----      \
       '—            L             . -,                        4    S  • 5 1 -¦ (   -
                                               Fig. 5
                                            Mmt -n. T3t-.i* l.th


                                  Phil.1
      "WINDING ELECTROMAGh
LINES OF FORCE AS SHOWN BY IROI
                       N« 6
        WOUND REGULARLY OVER WHOLE LEN(
                       N' 7.
        WOUND CONED TOWARDS EACH EN
                       N' 8.
       WOUND REGULARLY OVER HALF LENG
                       N? 9.
     . WOUND CONED OVER HALF LENC1

I
THE ANNALS AND                                 MAGAZINE
                                     OF
       NATURAL                          HISTORY,
                                INCLUDING
            ZOOLOGY, BOTANY, AND GEOLOGY.
                       MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. 6d.
  Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at tbe following
prices:—
    The First Series, in 20 volumes, from 1838 to 1847.    Price £10.
    The Second Series, in 20 volumes, from 1848 to 1857.     „ £10.
    The Third Series, in 20 volumes, from 1858 to 1867.      „ £12.
    The Fourth Series, in 20 volumes, from 1868 to 1877.     „ £12.
        Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.
         THE LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
 PHILOSOPHICAL                                MAGAZINE
                                   AND
            JOURNAL                 OF      SCIENCE.
A JOURNAL DEVOTED TO PHYSICS, ASTRONOMY, MECHANICS.
   CHEMISTRY, MINERALOGY, AND THE ALLIED SCIENCES
                       MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. 6d.
  Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following
prices :—
  The First Series, in 68 volumes, from 1798 to 1826.    Price £16.
  The Second Series, in 11 volumes, from 1827 to 1832.     „ £2 4m.
  The Third Series, iu 37 volumes, from 1832 to 1850.      „ £6.
  The Fourth Series, in 50 volumes, from 1851 to 1876.     „ £25.
        Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.

              CONTENTS of N° 96.—Fifth Series.
   LV. Colour-Sensation. By H. E. Deoop, M.A                           page   373
   LVI. On the Vibrations of a Cylindrical Vessel containing Liquid.
 By Loed Eayleigh, F.E.S., Professor of Experimental Physics in
the University of Cambridge                                                   385
   LVII. A Method of Calculating the Amount of Magnetism of
a Magnetic Circle for each Strength of Current acting on it. By W.
Moon                                                                          389
   LVIII. Dissymmetry in the Electrolytic Discharge. By Alfred
Tbibe, F. Inst. O, Lecturer on Chemistry in Duhvich College                  391
   LIX. On winding Electromagnets. By Professors W. E. Aybton,
F.E.S., and John Peeex, M.E. (Plates VUI. & IX.)                              397
   LX. The Eegenerative Theory of Solar Action. By Ernest H.
Cook, B.Sc (Lond.), A.E.C.S., Trade and Miuing School, Bristol . .            400
   LXI. Experiments on the Viscosity of a Solution of Saponine. By
W. H. Stables and A. E. Wilson, Yorkshire College, Leeds                      406
   LXII. On Curved Diffraction-gratings. By E. T. Glazebeook,
M.A., F.B.S., Fellow and Lecturer of Trinity College, Demonstrator
at the Cavendish Laboratory, Cambridge                                        414
   LXIII. A new Photometer. By Sir John Coneot, Bart., M.A.                   423
   LXIV. On a Theory of the Electric Discharge in Gases. By J. J.
Thomson, M.A., Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge                          427
   LXV. A new Form of Horse-power Indicator. By Fbedebick
John Smith, B.A.                                                              434
   LXVI. On Polarizing Prisms. By Silvanus P. Thompson ....                  435
   LXVII. Proceedings of Learned Societies :—
     Geolosical Society :—Mr. H. W. Monckton on the Bagshot
        Sands ; Prof. T. G. Bonney on Boulders of Hornblende
        Picrite near the Western Coast of Anglesey                     43G,  437
   LXVIII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
     Mica Films for Polarizing Purposes, by H. G. Madan                       437
     To Cut a Millimetre-Screw, by Charles K. Wead                            438
     On the Condensation of Fluids on Solid Bodies, by Eilhard
        Wiedemann                                                             440
   Index                                                                      441
     With Titlepage, Contents, &c.
    It is requested that nil Communications for this Work may be addressed,
       post-pnid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office, Red
       Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.







